1 Isavia ohf. Annual and CSR Report 2016 2 3 Isavia ohf. 2016 Annual Report 4 5 Isavia ohf. 2016 Annual Report CONTENTS A B O U T I S AV I A 4 SOCIETY I S AV I A I N T H E S O C I E T Y 22 I S AV I A A N D T H E E N V I R O N M E N T 44 ECONOMY AND FINANCIALS 56 IT’S IN O U R N AT U R E ENVI MY RO NO N O E M E N C T Layout and design: Hvíta húsið Photographs of airports: Mats Wibe Lund The electronic version of this annual report is available at www.isavia.is/annualreport 6 4 21 7 Isavia ohf. 2016 Annual Report A B O U T I S AV I A 6 — I S AV I A’ S O P E R AT I O N S 8 — ADDRESS BY THE MANAGING DIRECTOR 10 — ADDRESS OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 16 — GOVERNANCE 18 — EXECUTIVE BOARD Isavia is issuing its first Annual and Sustainability Report. The goal is to provide a more in-depth view of the company’s activities and its effects on society at large. The report follows the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4) together with Airport Operators Sector Disclosures. Over the next few years, further work will be carried out on further strengthening the company’s sustainability. The information in the report is based on operations in 2016. 8 9 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report I S AV I A’ S O P E R AT I O N S K E F L AV Í K A I R P O R T H A S T W O R U N W AY S , WHICH ARE 3,054 AND 3,065 METRES. R E Y K J AV Í K A I R P O R T H A S T W O R U N W AY S , W H I C H A R E 1,567 AND 1,230 METRES. AKUREYRI AIRPORT HAS O N E 2 , 4 0 0 M R U N W AY, A N D E G I L S S TA Ð I R A I R P O R T H A S O N E 2 , 0 0 0 M R U N W AY. OTHER AIRPORTS AND L A N D I N G S I T E S H AV E 6 3 4 M T O 1 , 8 8 7 M R U N W AY S . Isavia is a publicly owned company company’s agreement with the Ministry responsible for the operation, mainof the Interior which determines their tenance and development of airports level of service, operation and mainM I S SI O N for scheduled flights and landing sites tenance. State contributions amount Isavia is a service company in Iceland. In addition, the company to approximately 70% of their income. in airport operations and air provides air navigation services The operation of air navigation services navigation and forms the for domestic and international flights in the upper airspace over the North foundation for Iceland’s civil over the northern part of the North Atlantic Ocean is based on agreements Isavia operates four aviation. Atlantic Ocean. with 24 countries for services and international airports: financing, which is based on fee Keflavik Airport, We work together to be a The core operations of the company are collection on a cost basis. Reykjavik Airport, part of a good journey both divided into three: the operation of Akureyri Airport in Iceland and abroad. Keflavík Airport, air navigation services Isavia owns four subsidiaries, each of and Egilsstaðir Airport. and the operation of other Icelandic which have their own object. The Duty In addition, there are VA L U E S airports. The operating structure of Free Store sells duty-free goods at ten landing sites for • Safety the three core operations is, by their Keflavík Airport. Tern Systems manuregular scheduled • Co-operation nature, very dissimilar. Keflavík Airport factures software for air navigation, flights in Iceland. • Service is wholly operated on business terms, Domavia manages some of the real The company is also which means that it is sustainable. The property owned by Isavia and Suluk responsible for 36 operation of other Icelandic airports manages the operation of air navigation other landing sites is not sustainable and is based on the in Greenland. throughout Iceland. 10 11 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report ADDRESS BY THE MANAGING DIRECTOR 2 0 1 6 WA S I S AV I A’ S B E S T Y E A R S I N C E I T S E S TA B L I S H M E N T. the renewal of the runway system. Investments Isavia strives to support the Icelandic authorities in THE ACHIEVEMENT CAN BE TRACED TO MANY INTERACTIVE have been in tune with the airport’s master plan, making domestic flights a realistic public transport and keeping the effects of construction on option for Icelanders. During the year, the company, FAC TO R S , A N D A L L C O R E O P E R AT I O N S O F T H E C O M PA N Y passengers to a minimum has been successful, along with the Ministry of the Interior, endeavoured SHOWED A BETTER PERFORMANCE THAN THE YEAR BEFORE. as can be seen from surveys conducted by Airports to find solutions for the future operational form of Council International (ACI). The increase in the the domestic airports, and there are hopes that the number of passengers has led to fast-paced growth results of this work will be presented later this year. in tourism services. It is, however, important that there is general acceptance in society on the effects Air navigation services of the increase in the number of foreign travellers Considerable increases in traffic have also characto Iceland and the number of transit passengers at terised the air navigation services of Isavia in recent Keflavík Airport. One must not forget, however, that years. The increase can be traced to both traffic the growth of the tourist industry is one of the main to and from Iceland and over the North Atlantic reasons that economic growth in Iceland was one of Ocean. This has led to an increased work load for the highest in the world in 2016. the staff of air traffic control. The response to this has been the training of new air traffic controllers, and there have never been as “THE INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF many trainees as there are at PA SSENG ER S H A S L ED T O FA S TPA C E D present. GROWTH IN TOURISM SERVICES. IT IS, The company moved into H O W E V E R , I M P O R TA N T T H AT T H E R E I S an outstanding addition to G E N E R A L A C C E P TA N C E I N S O C I E T Y O N the Reykjavik Area Control Centre, and the plan is to THE EFFECTS OF THE INCREASE IN THE move the entire air traffic N U M B E R O F F O R E I G N T R AV E L L E R S .” control operation for the Early this year we reached a significant milestone, in the number of travellers, both as regards those North Atlantic Ocean into the when we unified our brand identy with a single logo. who come into Iceland and those who merely Domestic airports building in the future. Prior to this, the operation of Isavia has been under transit through on their way between continents. The financing and operation of domestic airports two logos: Isavia and Keflavík International Airport. The policy must also specify manpower requirehas been difficult in recent years. The ownership Part of a pleasant journey The advantages of a shared image are numerous, ments, education and investments in infraand responsibility of the infrastructure lies with Isavia is a service company involved in the operation and it is now, for instance, easier to market structure for passenger flights, flight academies the state, which entrusts Isavia with the operation of airports and air navigation services that are the the international airports – Keflavík, Akureyri and private pilots. As a contribution to the on the basis of a service agreement applicable basis for Iceland’s air travel. Employees are responsand Egilsstaðir Airports – together. Thus, the discourse, Isavia had a report prepared this year for one year at a time. Approximately 70% of the ible for ensuring a pleasant journey for customers considerable and successful marketing work that to assess the future effects of the enlargement system’s income is from the Treasury, and the rest of the company while at the same time being part has been carried out for Keflavík Airport over the of Keflavík Airport. is from users. Comparisons have shown that the of each other’s enjoyable journey. past few years will also be useful for the marketing operation of the domestic airports in Iceland is of the other international airports. Keflavik International Airport considerably more economical than that of other I would like to thank all these fantastic employees The number of passengers through Keflavík Airport comparable airport systems in Europe. The share of for the pleasant journey and look forward to taking Björn Óli In conjunction with this task, work was carried increased by 40% in 2016, or by almost two million. the state, however, has barely been enough to cover on the demanding tasks ahead with them. Hauksson on sharpening the definition of the mission and The increase corresponds to the total number of the operation, and it is clear that airport staff have vision of the company. The objectives are lofty, as passengers passing through the airport in 2010. moved mountains to keep the system operational. can be seen by the company’s vision ofstrengthening Iceland as a central hub for flights in the North As in recent years, there were considerable The company has focused on high-quality technical Atlantic region. In order to realise this future vision, improvements made to the airport. The focus has equipment in airports and has invested ISK 664m it is important that clear policies on air travel are been on new construction to meet the increase in renewing equipment in recent years. This has made formulated by the authorities. Questions need to the number of passengers and bigger aircraft. In all the difference in the operation of domestic be answered as regards policies on the increase addition, there have been large projects involving airports. 12 13 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report CHAIRMAN’S S TAT E M E N T 20 16 WA S , FO R M A N Y R E A SO N S , A N E V EN T F U L Y E A R F O R I S AV I A . T H E R E WA S A C O N S I D E R A B L E I N C R E A S E IN INCOM E IN A L L T H E COM PA NY ’ S COR E FIEL DS , WHICH C O N S I S T O F A I R N AV I G AT I O N S E R V I C E S , T H E A I R P O R T S D I V I S I O N A N D K E F L AV Í K I N T E R N AT I O N A L A I R P O R T. of supporting the development of the domestic airports, which is an important aspect in the strength– ening of Iceland’s transport system. The significant recent increase in the number of tourists and the anticipated further increase over the next few years call for considerable and expensive development of airport structures in coming years. This is linked to an important decision on financing that is important to assess in light of the ownership of the company and risk. Corporate Social Responsibility Isavia established for itself during the year a policy of corporate social responsibility aimed toward promoting a profitable operation focusing on ensuring a balance between economy, environment and society. At the same time, the company became The company’s operating income amounted to a member of the UN Global Compact, ISK 33bn in 2016, increasing by around 26.99%, an international projectrun by the United Nations. or ISK 7bn between years. The growth in income In doing so,the company joined over nine thousand was, for the most part, due to the increased scope companies in 168 countries that are already of operations. At the same time, it could be said that members. By participating, Isavia undertakes to the growth was profitable, as the results before formulate polices and take up work practices in depreciation and financial items increased as pro– accordance with ten basic principles of the United portion of turnover in all core operations. The year’s Nations on human rights, labour, environment profits amounted to ISK 6.9bn, whereof exchange and anti-corruption. The company will annually rate gains amounted to just under ISK 2.8bn. submit a report to the United Nations describing the company’s goals and achievements in the ten Policy formulation categories specified. The report will be submitted Numerous issues were addressed by the Board in for the first time in 2017. In addition, the company 2016, many of which form the basis of the company’s has become a member of Festa, the Icelandic Centre future policy formulation. Various issues relating to for Corporate Social Responsibility, and is one of the work on the zoning plans and master plan of Keflavík companies that have signed the joint declaration on Airport were specifically addressed, as was the responsible tourism. The company, moreover, is one future organisation of air navigation services of the seven companies that are the sponsors of the for the North Atlantic Ocean area and the necessity project. 14 15 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report Equal rights programme a model has been set up that measures The company’s defined risks are reguand equal pay and assesses air quality at Keflavík larly reviewed in light of the seriousThe Board of Directors of Isavia has Airport based on various criteria. In addiness of each risk aspect and the likeapproved an equal rights programme tion,a schedule has been created for lihood of events taking place. for the company with the aim of ensuring monitoring the quality of groundwater at equal pay for both genders, increasing and near Keflavík Airport. The company, The development of general work satisfaction and improving moreover, is a participant in the Græn Keflavík Airport morale. The company negotiated with skref (Green steps) project under the The company’s Board has recently been PwC on the implementation of the equal auspices of the Environmental Agency examining various aspects in the plans pay assessment during the year. of Iceland (EAI). This project has been for the development of Keflavík Airport. An assessment was made of wage used to make efforts in environmental Extensive investment plans have been payments to all employees, which issues more outwardly visible. approved which aim to make the airport were examined based on age, length able to receive the large numbers of of service, total working hours and Governance passengers passing through it. education. The company fulfilled the The Board has established detailed Large amounts have been spent, and the requirements of the assessment and rules of procedure defining its scope Board of Directors of the company has received, therefore, the gold badge of of authority and the divisions of tasks approved additional extensive funds to PwC’s equal pay assessment in 2016 in between it and the Managing Director. continue developments. These decisions confirmation that the company upholds In addition, the company has established are based on the company’s longterm wage equality. a comprehensive risk policy for the plans, which indicate that Isavia is well able to tackle the continued developComputer drawing the closure of airports in the next few Co-ordinated team “ T H E COM PA NY SE T ITSEL F A N ments, seeing that the company’s posof the annex to years if no extra funds are allocated The high increase in the number E N V I R O N M E N TA L P O L I C Y F O R T H E P U R P O S E ition at the end of 2016 was quite strong. the south building to the most urgent needs. of travellers, far in excess of annual of Keflavík Airport. forecasts, and the resulting extensive O F M I N I M I S I N G T H E E F F E C T S O F N E G AT I V E Inadequate development and Estimated work Good year in air navigation services construction work was extremely E N V I R O N M E N TA L A S P E C T S I N I T S O P E R AT I O N . ” maintenance of domestic airports completion date 2017. Isavia’s air navigation services have demanding on the management and Airports within Iceland are the property grown considerably in recent years, staff of Isavia in 2016. Such increases Environmental issues company, a code of ethics and focus of the Icelandic state and are under their a development that can be traced to cannot be easily met except with In environmental matters, Isavia has points as regards CSR. The rules of jurisdiction when it comes to decisions increases in the number of flights to good co-operation, co-ordination endeavoured to meet generally accepted procedure provide for thecompany’s on the funding of their development and and from Iceland as well as increased and organisation. It is fair to say that views and was one of the companies that Board following the guidelines on maintenance. The role of Isavia is defined services to international flights bethe unusual situation was resolved signed the statement issued by Festa Corporate Governance which are in a service agreement with the Ministry tween Asia and Europe on the one hand successfully, and there is good reason, and the City of Reykjavík on climate published by the Iceland Chamber of the Interior. The agreement is effectand between North America and Europe therefore, to thank, as ever, on behalf change goals. The company set itself of Commerce, Nasdaq OMX Iceland hf. ive for a term of one year at a time, with on the other. The company has been of the Board of Isavia, the Managing an environmental policy for the purpose and the Confederation of Icelandic the Ministry, as the service purchaser, hard at work developing and adopting Director, the executive management of minimising the effects of negative Employers. The company’s corporate determining the level of service. The 2017 technical innovations that have beneand all the employees of the company environmental aspects in its operation governance statement was renewed Budget does not provide for funds for fited aircraft operators in the form of for their excellent work under the Ingimundur and making sure that environmental in February 2017. the maintenance of domestic airports, economisation and flexibility. There are unusual conditions during the past year. Sigurpálsson issues are taken into account in all decis– while at the same time, the need for extensive projects ahead that will make ions. At present, work is underway Risk management maintenance is significant and growing. the company even more capable of pro– on setting up real-time sound measureThe company has established a risk There is reason to make special note viding aircraft operators with continued ments at Keflavík Airport, the proportion management policy and closely follows of the fact that a lack of maintenance good services. of recycled waste will be increased and a pre-defined risk overview. funds to domestic airports will mean 16 17 Isavia ohf. YEAR 2016 2016 Annual Report Airport at Þórshöfn 66° 13’ 13.5948’’ N 15° 19’ 51.1068’’ W 18 19 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report GOVERNANCE procedures and minutes for meetings, rules Board of Directors on confidentiality, the obligation to provide inforIngimundur Sigurpálsson, born 1951, Business mation to the Board and the decision making Administrator. Chairman of the Board power of the Board. from 2014. The Board of Directors shall constitute the supreme Matthías Imsland, born 1974, Political authority of the company from one shareholders’ Scientist. Vice-Chairman of the Board meeting to the next, in accordance with laws and from 2014. the company’s Articles of Association. The Board’s main role is to manage the company and ensure Theódóra Þorsteinsdóttir, born 1969, adequate supervision of the accounts and use Attorney. Member of the Board from 2015. of funds, as well as to confirm the operating budget and investment plans and ensure compliance with Ragnar Óskarsson, born 1948, BA in History, them. The Board takes all major decisions in the Icelandic and Philosophy. Vice-Chairman of company’s operations and makes sure that the the Board 2010–2014, member of the Board company is operated in accordance with the relevant from 2014. laws and regulations. Furthermore, the Board has the goal of promoting the company’s growth and Sigrún Traustadóttir, born 1962, Business results in the long term by formulating company Administrator. Member of the Board policy in consultation with company management. from 2014. Performance assessment Alternates The Board evaluates its performance regularly, Friðbjörg Matthíasdóttir, born in 1969, its practices and rules of procedure, development Business Administrator. Alternate of the company, performance of the Managing Structure and composition currently operational, such as an audit committee, since 2014. Director and the efficiency of sub-committees, Isavia is a publicly owned company owned by the selection committee or wage committee. A policy if present.The performance assessment is intended, Icelandic state. The operations of the company are on corporate social responsibility has been set. No Jens Garðar Helgason, born in 1976, Managing among other things, to evaluate the strengths in accordance with Act No. 153/2009 on the Merger court rulings have been issued in which the company Director. Alternate since 2014. and weaknesses of the Board’s work and practices of the Government Owned Limited Companies is believed to have broken any laws or regulations. and take into consideration the components which Flugstoðir and Keflavík Airport, Act No. 76/2008 Jón Norðfjörð, born in 1947, President/CEO. the Board believes may be improved. The most on Establishing a Government Owned Limited Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors 2010– recent performance assessment was carried out Company for the Running of Keflavík Airport, Act The Board of Directors of Isavia consists of five 2014. Alternate since 2014. in December 2016. No. 102/2006 on the Establishment of a Public members and five alternates, all of whom are Limited Company for Air Navigation Services and elected at the Annual General Meeting for a term Sigurbjörn Trausti Vilhjálmsson, born in 1943, Managing Director Airport Operations by the Icelandic Civil Aviation of one year. Board members are nominated by the Electrician. Alternate since 2010. The Managing Director is responsible for the manAuthority, and the Aviation Act No. 60/1998. Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs on behalf agement of all day-to-day operations in accorof the owner, the Icelandic state. The gender ratio Tryggvi Haraldsson, born in 1981, dance with the policies and instructions of the The company’s corporate governance is prescribed in Isavia’s Board is 40% women and 60% men. Political Scientist and Europe Expert. Board. Day-to-day operations do not include by Act No. 2/1995 on Public Limited Companies, Alternate since 2014. measures which are unusual or extraordinary. the authorities' general ownership policies from Board’s activities and rules of procedure He has decision-making powers regarding all the August 2012, the company’s Articles of Association The Board has established detailed Rules operational and financial issues of the company and Rules of Procedure of the Board. of Procedure defining its scope of authority and manages its assets. He submits an account and the divisions of tasks between it and the of the company’s operations and performance The company’s Board refers to the “Guidelines Managing Director. The Rules of Procedure were at Board meetings and answers to the Board of Corporate Governance” and complies with them approved at a meeting of the Board of Directors Further information on the Board of for all day-to-day operations and compliance in all major respects, although not legally bound on 11 May 2016. They include the division of tasks Directors of Isavia can be obtained from the with the company’s Articles of Association, laws to do so. No formal Board sub-committees are between Board members, rules on the eligibility website isavia.is/um-isavia/stjorn. and regulations. of politicians to take part in processing matters, 20 21 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report EXECUTIVE BOARD The operation of the company is based on five operating divisions which are responsible for the core operations of the company: Air Navigation Services, Airports and Infrastructure, Keflavík Airport Operations, Keflavík Airport Technological and Assets Division and Keflavík Airport Commercial Operations. Isavia has three support divisions: Development and Administration, Human Resources and Performance and Finance. In addition, Standards and Quality Management form a separate support unit. The Executive Board addresses and determines the issues that relate to the operation of the company as a whole as well as handles matters that overlap divisions and departments. In addition, the Executive Board is responsible for future development and the implementation of the safety and quality management system. The Directors of the operations and support units form the Executive Board together with the Managing Director. 1 6 8 7 2 3 9 1. Ásgeir Pálsson 2. Guðmundur Daði Rúnarsson 5 3. Björn Óli Hauksson 4. Helga Eyjólfsdóttir 5. Jón Karl Ólafsson 6. Sveinbjörn Indriðason 7. Elín Árnadóttir 8. Þröstur V. Söring 9. Hlynur Sigurðsson 4 10 10. Sigurður Ólafsson 22 23 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A EXECUTIVE BOARD 2016 Annual Report Core Support Subsidiaries Board of Directors Operations Operations Managing Director Development and Administration • Business development Air Navigation Airport Keflavik International Airport • Marketing Services Operations • Organisation and Development KEF Division Division • Coordination of Airports and Aviation Security • Air Traffic • Airports and Operations Airport Commercial SUBSIDIARIES • Project Management Office Control Centre Landing Sites Division KEF Technology Operations KEF (Airport and Property • Legal • Air Traffic Services, Division KEF Duty-Free Store ltd. Tern Systems ltd. Domavia ltd. Service for • Aviation • B2C Human Resources and Performance Aviation The Duty-Free Store operates five outTern Systems develops and manuDomavia hosts some of Isavia’s property Domavia ltd. / Suluk ApS Airports Security Commercial • Career Development, Trainings Security and Duty Free Store ltd. • Engineering Division lets in the Leifur Eiríksson Air Terminal, factures software for air navigation assets. Sveinbjörn Indriðason, Director Tern Systems ltd. and Education • AIS Real Estate • Airport and Larger • Wages and Wage Processing Services • B2B and four for departure passengers and one services. These are solutions that are of Finance at Isavia, holds powers of • Flight • Project Construction • Internal Marketing and Events Development CommunicaManagement • Technology Projects for arrivals. The shops are open whenused in the operation of air traffic procuration for the company. • Policy Implementation Route tions Services • Performance Evaluation • Management • Environmental ever flights are scheduled through the control centres, flight control towers • Car Parking • Technology of Special Issues Finance Division Service Projects (Transportation) airport. The Duty-Free Store focuses on and in training flight controllers. Systems Suluk ApS • Accounting and Settlement • Maintenance • Finances (Flight Testing) and Operation offering a wide range of goods from both from Tern Systems are used in Iceland, Suluk is a private limited company • Economics • Development of Real Estate Icelandic and international brands at reIreland, South Korea, Spain, Morocco in Greenland owned by Isavia. • Procurement Monitoring of Air • Baggage Navigation asonable prices. The airport has approxand Indonesia. The company is responsible for Handling Equipment and imately 210 permanent employees. This managing air navigation services Standards and Quality Research • Security and Quality number increases to around 310 during The company employs 50 employees in Greenland. Sveinbjörn Indriðason, • Environmental Issues • Training and Procedure the summer. The Duty Free Store was in its main offices in Iceland. Director of Finance at Isavia, holds • Airport Security Control chosen as the best duty-free shop The Managing Director of Tern Systems powers of procuration for the company. in Europe in 2013 and 2014 by the interis Magnús Þórðarson. national magazine Business Destinations. The Managing Director of the Duty-Free Air Navigation Services Division and the operation of real property at Isavia since 2010, Director of Develop Store is Þorgerður Þráinsdóttir. The Air Navigation Services Division and baggage handling systems. ment and Administration since 2013. is responsible for air navigation services The Director is Guðmundur Daði for domestic flights and international Rúnarsson, born 1979, Business Human Resources and Performance flights over a large area of the North Engineer. Director since 2016. Human Resources and Performance Atlantic Ocean. The Director is Ásgeir is a support division that manages Pálsson, born 1951, Air Traffic Controller. Keflavík Airport HR functions, including professional COMMUNICAINTERNAL CONTROLS Commercial Operations Director at Isavia since 2010. The Commercial Operations Division development, training and education, payroll processing, wage agreements, TIONS BETWEEN AND RISK MANAGEMENT Airport Operations Division is responsible for passenger services, internal communications, strategy SHAREHOLDERS With the exception of Keflavík Airport, the operation of retail and catering implementation and performance The Board has submitted a comprehensive risk policy for the company the Airport Operations Division is reand handles all negotiations with operevaluation. The Director is Sigurður AND THE BOARD and defined the major operational risks. The main financial risks for the sponsible for the operation and mainators at Keflavík Airport as well as the Ólafsson, born 1962, Business Group are exchange rate risk, interest risk and indexing risk. A special Risk tenance of all the airports in Iceland. operation of car park services and the Economist. Director since 2013. One shareholder, the State Treasury, Committee is active and is authorised by the Board to determine the scope The Director is Jón Karl Ólafsson, born development of new flight routes. The holds all shares, and the Minister for and nature of risks and profit analysis for projects and ventures that could 1958, Business Administrator. Director Director is HlynurSigurðsson, born 1974, Finance Finance has all shareholder rights. have significant effects on operations and financial position. The Risk since 2015. Business Engineer. Director at Isavia The Finance Division is a support division Notices of shareholder meetings are sent Committee sends reports to the Board on a regular basis. The company since 2010, in the Keflavík Airport Comresponsible for accounting, treasury, to a contact at the Ministry of Finance does not employ an internal auditor, but the company’s auditors carry out Keflavík Airport Operations mercial Operations Division since 2016. risk management, economics, financing and Economic Affairs. The meeting is the limited audits of company processes. Division operations and the monitoring of main venue for providing information to The Keflavík Airport Operations Division Development and Administration purchases. The Director is Sveinbjörn the shareholder who holds the supreme is responsible for airport security, The Development and Administration Indriðason, born 1972, Economist. authority of the company. The Chairman airport services and technical services Division is a support division providing Director since 2013. and Managing Director have met with for the airport. The Director is Þröstur V. assistance to the Managing Director the Minister or a representative from Söring, born 1968, Engineer. Director at and the Board. The employees of the Standards and Quality Management the Ministry. The Board conducts itself CODE OF ETHICS Isavia since 2014, in the Keflavík Airport Division are responsible for marketing The Standards and Quality Management in accordance with “The general policy Operations Division since 2016. and public relations, business developDivision is a support division that on state ownership of limited liability Isavia’s code of ethics applies to all employees and management ment,project management office, policy manages the organisation and harmonand partnership companies.” of the company and is an integral part of all employment contracts. Keflavík Airport Technology formulation, legal, Keflavík Airport isation of safety and quality issues The company releases press releases The code is accessible to all employees on the intranet of the company and Property Division zoning, corporate governance and the together with the management of on the company’s performance and other and on the website isavia.is/um-isavia. In addition, there is a separate The Keflavík Technology and Property co-ordination of airports and airport environmental issues. The Safety and matters pertaining to its operation, and section on disqualification in the Board’s Rules of Procedure and in the Division manages larger construction security.The Director is Elín Árnadóttir, Quality Manager is Helga Eyjólfsdóttir, the annual financial statements and six2017 Corporate Governance Statement. The documents can be accessed projects, environmental issues born 1971, Business Administrator. born 1964, Chemical Engineer. Standards month interim statement are published on the website isavia.is/um-isavia/stjorn. at Keflavík Airport, maintenance Deputy Managing Director and Director and Quality Manager since 2010. on the website of the company. 24 22 43 25 Isavia ohf. 2016 Annual Report I S AV I A I N T H E SOCIETY 2 4 — C O R P O R A T E S O C I A L RESPONSIBILITY POLICY 2 6 — S TA K E H O L D E R S 36 — INCREASED SCOPE O F O P E R AT I O N S 39 — PA SSENG ER A N D TRAFFIC FORECASTS 40 — HUMAN RESOURCES Isavia is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure that is the basis for aviation services in Iceland, connections to the wider world and flights between three continents in a large international area. The operation is of considerable national interest. The employees, moreover, make every effort to conduct their work in a safe and efficient manner in harmony with the community. 26 27 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y 2016 Annual Report C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E SP ONSIBILIT Y (CSR) P OLIC Y T H E C O M PA N Y ’ S C S R P O L I C Y I S G R O U N D E D I N E X P E C TAT I O N S O N C S R A S S TAT E D I N T H E G E N E R A L S TAT E O W N E R S H I P P O L I C Y, THE ACT ON ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND THE NEW ACT ON PUBLIC P ROCU REM ENT (120/2016), TO M ENTION A FE W SOU RCES. TH E C O M PA N Y H A S E S TA B L I S H E D T H E F O L L O W I N G P O L I C Y A N D G O A L FOR ITSELF AS REGARDS CSR: U N G LOBAL COM PAC T Isavia became a member of the UN Global Compact and UN Global Compact Nordic in 2016. By participating, Isavia undertakes to ensure that its polices and work practices are in accordance with the ten basic principles of the United Nations on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The company will submit its first progress report to the United Nations in 2017. I S AV I A U N D E R TA K E S T O P U B L I S H I N F O R M AT I O N O N T H E C O M PA N Y ’ S S O C I A L R E S P O N S I BILITY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CRITERIA OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI. RESPONSIBLE TOURISM Isavia is a sponsor in an promotional Policy: Objectives: project on responsible tourism. Isavia promotes equilibrium between Isavia works actively and consistently towards the following: The project includes more than 260 the economy, environment and society companies in tourism and is intended with sustainability as a guiding light. • Ensure good aviation services in Iceland and perform its role to promote environmental protection in society in a safe and efficient manner. and social responsibility. The sector has joined hands to show solidarity • Promote employee satisfaction and a good working and responsibility in developing environment. a strong industry for the future. • Develop an operation that is sustainable in the long term in co-operation and consultation with customers and other stakeholders. F E S TA • Treat the environment in a responsible and sustainable manner, reduce the company’s carbon footprint and thereby Isavia is a member of Festa, the Icelandic Centre for Corporate contribute to the reduction of its environmental impact. Social Responsibility (CSR). The goal of Festa is to raise awareness of CSR in Icelandic companies and in the community • To publish information on CSR in accordance with the UN and encourage research in this field. Global Compact principles and GRI. 28 29 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y 2016 Annual Report S TA K E H O L D E R S of the flight navigation services as regards operations and investments. Consultation meetings with users of other aspects of flight navigation services also take place under the auspices of the ICAO Planning Group (NAT-SPG) for the North Atlantic. Regular meetings are held with users, as are communications with individual users or representatives of user groups if considered necessary. Isavia’s partner, the Icelandic Meteorological Office, has a role to play in such user consultation as regards weather information and is the monitoring body as regards volcanic eruptions and other natural disasters. Operators at Keflavík Airport Communications with operators at Keflavík Airport are carried out during joint meetings or with each operator. Fixed group meetings are held with retail I S AV I A F O C U S E S O N E X T E N S I V E C O L L A B O R AT I O N W I T H operators and caterers four times a year, perforT H E S T A K E H O L D E R S W H O R E LY O N T H E S E R V I C E S O F T H E mance meetings with each operator are held 3–4 times a year and store manager coffee meetings C O M PA N Y A N D W H O A R E A F F E C T E D B Y T H E O P E R AT I O N . are held ten times a year. Larger user meetings for T H E O P E R AT I O N H A S A N I M PA C T T H R O U G H O U T T H E all stakeholders and service providers at and near C O U N T R Y A N D O N A L L I T S I N H A B I TA N T S . I S AV I A H A S the airport are, at present, held in public. Two such meetings were held in 2016. I D E N T I F I E D O V E R A H U N D R E D S TA K E H O L D E R S T H AT CAN BE CL A SSIFIED A S CUSTOMERS, EMPLOYEES, Passengers T H E S O C I E T Y, T H E A U T H O R I T I E S A N D S U P P L I E R S . Communications with passengers are first and foremost with the help of various media where enquiries are received and responded to. Isavia Aircraft operators regularly performs marketing and service surveys CUSTOMERS Communications with airlines that operate at Isavia at its airports. Standardised service surveys have airports take place during regular user committee been carried out at Keflavík Airport for the past The company’s main customers are aircraft opemeetings to which all users are invited, as well as 12 years. The survey in question is an international rators that use airports and flight navigation areas; during private meetings with each of them survey created by the Airports Council International operators at the airports, such as flight services enas needed. The airport user committees operate (ACI) and measures passenger satisfaction at more tities, shops, caterers, car rentals and coach service in accordance with the provisions of the Aviation than 250 airports worldwide and provides a good companies; and last but not least, passengers. Act and regulations. These consist of represencomparison. Data on 34 service aspects in the airtatives from all the airlines that use the airport port are collected throughout the year. The results Communications with users and operators occur regularly and their agents. The meetings are an are published on a quarterly basis, which allows first and foremost during regular meetings. opportunity for users to discuss their views before a swift response if anything is found that needs Communications with passengers are the direct making important decisions on operations, quality remedial action. Passenger satisfaction is measured interactions of the company’s employees of service, fee collection, new construction, tower on a scale of 0–5. Keflavik International Airport at airports and using all main communication services or other issues that have an impact on has generally improved its position in recent years. formats: telephone, e-mails, websites and social their important interests. The Keflavík Airport User There have been, however, limited periods where the media and through regular customer surveys. Committee meets as often as necessary but never overall satisfaction has fallen, and these can usually less than once a year. As a rule, the user committee be traced to disruptions due to renovations of the of the domestic airports meets once a year. Consulterminal. Other surveys are carried out as needed tation meetings are held once a year with the users in addition to these regular surveys. 30 31 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y S TA K E H O L D E R S 2016 Annual Report SNAPSHOTS FROM EVENTS 1 1. Isavia’s cycling day Amabadama performed in Reykjavík at the Isavia Annual 2. Christmas display Celebration in 2016. at Keflavík Airport The new logo was also 3 Advancement days at adopted on the same Reykjavík University occasion. 4. Isavia employees at the Reykjavík Marathon 5. Team Isavia participated EMPLOYEES registrations of events, training courses and 2 in WOW Cyclothon. entertainment in the company. It should be noted Communications with and between employees that Flugan was selected as the best intraweb is first and foremost through regular staff meetings during the Icelandic Web Awards in 2015 and was with the Managing Director, the company's intraweb nominated for the same award in 2016. The staff and events held by the staff association. In order association of Isavia and its subsidiaries, Staffið to further increase information flows to employees (the Staff), is responsible for a diverse and dynamic and provide them with the opportunity to talk about social life and organises numerous events for its their work and exchange ideas, a new intraweb was members, such a family outing during the summer, launched in 2015 under the name of Flugan (the Fly). a Christmas buffet, trips to the cinema and bowling. The intraweb is designed as a social media service In addition, the association has negotiated discounts in various companies for its members. All employees are eligible for membership 3 S TA F F I Ð IS RESPONSIBLE FOR A DIVERSE in the staff. A N D DYN A MIC SOCIA L LIFE A N D ORGA NISES The company focuses on providing a good NUMEROUS EVENTS FOR ITS MEMBERS. and family friendly working environment, effective education and training and posiconnecting employees. Everyone can make entries tive morale. Systematic efforts are spent on renewand upload pictures and videos they wish to share ing operating units. Last year, for instance, there with their colleagues. Flugan is also a dynamic news were new facilities brought into use in the flight service for management and a simple way to get control centre, new facilities for the employees of infortmation to all employees at the same time. airport security at Keflavík Airport and, at present, Employees, moreover, can retrieve various tools new facilities are being constructed for the employand equipment to use in their work and manage ees of airport services at Keflavík Airport. 32 33 Isavia ohf. YEAR 2016 2016 Annual Report Grímsey Airport 66° 32’ 52.3644’’ N 18° 1’ 15.2544’’ W 34 35 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y S TA K E H O L D E R S 2016 Annual Report Main organisations of which Isavia is a member THE SOCIETY Foreign organisations: There are extensive communications the Icelandic Tourist Board, Promote with local authorities and regional Iceland and the Tourism Task Force. Airport Council International (ACI) 1. Open meeting on associattions in the neighbourhood In addition, the company is a member the zoning plans for of the airport such as the Suðurnes of Iceland Tourism. Isavia is also an NAT-SPG, co-operative forum of the east and west states within the ICAO NAT Region municipalities, the City of Reykjavík, active member of the port and transport areas of Keflavík Akureyri, Ísafjörður, Fljótsdalshérað, group of the Icelandic Ocean Cluster, Airport. Borealis, co-operative forum for Þórshöfn, Vopnafjörður, Húsavík a collaborative forum for companies, 2. Isavia has, for a number flight navigation service providers and Vestmannaeyjar. It is vital that most of which are directly involved in northwest Europe of years, supported information provision to the municiin transport and port operations. Landsbjörg Search and palities is as good as possible, as the Civil Air Navigation Services Rescue to strengthen activities of the company can have Isavia has been one of the sponsors Organisation (CANSO) 1 accident response. a considerable effect on the local of the consultation venue Arctic Circle community. This is particularly true fromthe very beginning, and employees of the Suðurnes area, as Keflavik take an active part in discussions on the Icelandic organisations: International Airport is the largest issues facing the Nordic region, whether Travel Industry Association workplace in the area. Communications in connection with air traffic in the have been carried out at meetings with Nordic area or in connection with ideas Confederation of Icelandic of developing a rescue services hub Employers in Iceland. I T I S V I TA L T H AT Iceland Chamber of Commerce I N F O R M AT I O N In addition, Isavia regularly holds open meetings to provide information to the PROVISION TO THE public and entities within the tourism Association of Reykjanes Employers M U NICIPA LITIES IS sector as regards the plans of the comAmerican-Icelandic Chamber of AS GOOD AS POSpany at Keflavík Airport, such as on Commerce construction and traffic forecasts within SIBLE, AS THE the travel industry. Isavia employees 2 French-Icelandic Chamber of ACTIVITIES OF THE have also held lectures at numerous Commerce C O M PA N Y C A N H AV E open meetings that have been held by other entities. Iceland Tourism A CONSIDERABLE EFFECT ON THE In October 2016, the company held Iceland Ocean Cluster Civil protection and accident response Isavia and Landsbjörg Search L O C A L C O M M U N I T Y. an open consultation meeting in the Isavia is a member of the Civil Protection Control Centre and and Rescue Grant Fund Hljómahöll venue in Reykjanesbær to Festa, Icelandic Centre for plays a key role as regards response plans for search and rescue The Isavia and Landsbjörg Grant Fund has been active since present a draft of the new zoning plans Corporate Social Responsibility in the Icelandic air traffic control area. Response drills at the 2012 and has allocated close to ISK 40 million to 25 search the town and municipal authorities, as for the east and west areas of Keflavík airport are an important part of Isavia’s preparedness as well and rescue teams. The goal is to strengthen accident response well as other stakeholders. There is also Airport. The meeting was attended by as civil protection measures and their development. As a rule, throughout Iceland. The Fund’s latest project is to support close collaboration with the marketing approximately 80 persons who took Professional associations: four air accident drills are held every year, and participation in the manufacture of special group accident carts with all the agencies in the north and east Iceland part in discussion groups on different Stjórnvísi them has always been excellent. Three drills were held in 2016, principal equipment needed, such as in the case of coach areas where, for example, work has been aspects relating to the planning work. at Keflavík Airport, Reykjavík Airport and Þórshöfn Airport. accidents. The employees of the company have recorded the carried out on marketing efforts on The Project Management More than 1,000 people from all response units took part in equipment available in each part of the country, and the carts direct flights to Akureyri and Egilsstaðir In the field of flight navigation services, Association of Iceland these drills. Since the company began holding regular drills at will be delivered to the search and rescue teams where there in collaboration with the Icelandic Route Isavia collaborates closely with service airports, the response plans of the Civil Protection unit for is the greatest need for them. Isavia has collaborated Development Fund. providers and adjacent flight control Icelandic Bar Association multi-party accidents have developed in tune with the working successfully with search and rescue teams for many years. centres. The company participates procedures used in airport drills. The company's drills, thereThese teams are the foundation of emergency response Isavia also collaborates extensively with in Borealis, a collaborative venue for Flóra, Association of Human fore, have become a consultation venue for response entities in Iceland, including at airports. For further information, entities in the tourism sector such nine flight navigation service providers Resources Managers for the development of knowledge and procedures that have see isavia.is/um-isavia/styrkveitingar. as the Travel Industry Association (SAF), in North Europe. been codified in regulations and the Act on Civil Protection. 36 37 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y S TA K E H O L D E R S 2016 Annual Report Isavia is also monitored by and collaborates with Rulings and court judgements foreign entities. Of these, mention may be made involving Isavia ohf. in 2016 ofthe International Civil Aviation Organisation No court judgements or rulings have been made The “Joint Finance” agreement applies (ICAO),a sub-organisation of the United Nations where the company was considered to have violated to flight navigation services within which establishes international standards for all Acts of Law or rules in 2016. The following court the Icelandic flight information region main aspects of civil aviation and monitors the judgements and claims relate to the company: (Reykjavik FIR) with 24 other states, performance of states and service providers. Court case due to the decision of the Competition and the International Civil Aviation The Organisation, moreover, monitors the perforAuthority which was directed at the company Organisation (ICAO) is its monitoring mance of the previously mentioned “Joint Finance” and ended with a dismissal following the opinion body. The other agreement is with the agreement. Due to the company’s operations of the EFTA court at the beginning of 2016. Danish authorities for flight navigation in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, Isavia is In addition, the District Court agreed with the conservices in part of the flight information monitored by the Trafikog byggestyrelsen clusions of the Information Committee as regards region of Greenland (Søndrestrøm). in Denmark, and due to collaboration on flight the dispute on the interpretation of legislation on communications services in the North Atlantic, the delivery of data. The company was summoned Children in north Iceland Meetings are also held a few times there is close collaboration with the Irish as an alternate defendant together with the Conaccept a sports grant. a year with the Ministry of Industries Aviation Authorities. In the arena of the Borealis federation of Icelandic Employers and the state THE and Innovation in connection with collaboration, the company collaborates with due to the Act of Law that was passed to put a stop AUTHORITIES flight connections and tourism issues. The Ministry has established a Flight the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). to the wage dispute with the Icelandic Air Traffic Controller Association but was acquitted. Development Fund that has the purpose Isavia’s Community Fund Communications with the authorities of strengthening international flights SUPPLIERS There were four complaints due to invitations to The Community Fund awarded numerous take many forms. The state is the owner to Akureyri and Egilsstaðir, and Isavia tender. In two of the cases, the complaints commgrants to various projects during the of the company, and it follows the has a representative on the Board of Since Isavia is owned by the Icelandic state, ittee has accepted the company’s position, in one year. The grants focus on environmental general owner policies of the state in its the Fund. Meetings are also held with the company is subject to the Act on Public case, an interim decision has been reached accepting issues, humanitarian issues, preventative operations. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Procurement. The company’s main supplies the company’s position and one case is still pending. measures, aviation matters, arts, culture Economic Affairs has overall control of the Icelandic Coast Guard in connection may be divided between building construction, Two complaints were submitted due to a dispute and education. In addition, the company the share, and formal communications with defence-related operations service purchases and operating purchases. on the delivery of data; the company’s position supports various other charities by proare carried out at shareholders’ meetings at Keflavík Airport and the airport’s was accepted in one case and not in the other. viding space for collection boxes in the and the Annual General Meeting. organisational issues. Communications with suppliers can take many airports. A list of those receiving grants Other communications with the owner forms, such as in meetings, by e-mails and telephone can be seen on the website of Isavia at take place during meetings that are Isavia has a great deal of interaction calls. They mostly involve negotiations, follow-ups isavia.is/um-isavia/styrkveitingar. convened as needed. with many public bodies due to the of agreements or individual goods purchases. diversity of the company's activities. The company is working on the publication of Isavia’s University Grants The Ministry of the Interior plays a The greatest interaction is with the a code of ethics that is based on e.g. the provisions Grants have been allocated to students two-fold role in connection with operaIcelandic Transport Authority, which of the international initiative UN Global Compact. who are taking their master’s degrees tions of Isavia: on the one hand as the issues operating permits for airports and doctorates at Reykjavík University professional ministry for air traffic and flight controls and is responsible and the University of Iceland. The compissues and, on the other, as a business for the appropriate supervision of impleany allocated more than ISK 11 million to partner of the company as regards mentation and operation. Other monitorseven master’s degree research projects the operation of the domestic airport ing bodies of which mention may be made in 2016. For further information, system. The company has a seat on are the National Centre for Hygiene, WAR R ELICS see isavia.is/um-isavia/styrkveitingar. three committees and councils operated by the Ministry; the professional council Food Control and Environmental Protection, the Construction Authority, IN ÖSKJUHLÍÐ Startup Tourism on flight issues, the Flugvirktarráð the Administration of Occupational Isavia is one of the sponsors of the council and has a observer’s seat in Safety and Health, the National Planning Isavia has, in co-operation with Reykjavík City authorities, set project Startup Tourism, which gives the transport council. The company has Agency and the Environment Agency. up information signs in various locations in Öskjuhlíð. Öskjuhlíð start-up companies in the tourism sector regular professional communications Many public bodies have operating units and Nauthólsvík have a range of relics from the time the British a chance to realise their business ideas. with the Ministry of the Interior as rewithin or are in close collaboration with and the Americans occupied Iceland in WW II from 1940–1945. Ten companies were selected for gards aviation issues as well as close the company, such as the police, the The British built an aircraft base in Reykjavík in 1940–1942. Öskjuhlíð participation in what has been called collaboration as regards the impleDirectorate of Customs, the National played a key role in the defence of the city and the airport, and there still a business accelerator, and their mentation of the service agreement. Civil Protection Authorities and the stand various constructions relating to them and the airport operation. representatives were given a ten-week Coast Guard. The municipal bodies training course by various experts to In addition, Isavia is responsible for connected to the operation of Isavia Friðþór Eydal prepared the photographs and texts,Sighvatur Halldórsson, further develop their business ideas. the implementation of two international are mainly the health authorities, art director at Hvíta húsiðadvertising agency, did the layout and Árni agreements on flight navigation services. fire protection and fire brigades. Tryggvason, designer, designed the base for the signs. 38 39 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y 2016 Annual Report INCREASED SCOPE O N T H E W H O L E , I S AV I A' S S C O P E O F O P E R AT I O N S H A S I N C R E A S E D L A T E LY I N A L L T H R E E M A I N U N I T S The increase in the number of customers at Keflavík Airport Numerous passengers take advantage of Keflavík Airport O F I T S C O R E O P E R AT I O N S . T R A F F I C AT K E F L AV Í K has continued. During summer 2016, 25 airlines operated from as a transit airport, and both WOW air and Icelandair use A I R P O R T H A S I N C R E A S E D B Y A P P R O X I M A T E LY 4 0 % , the airport to more than 80 destinations. Ten airlines operated the airport for such purpose on routes between Europe A I R P O R T O P E R AT I O N S H A S I N C R E A S E D B Y A R O U N D 8 % through-out the year to and from Iceland in 2016: Icelandair, and North America. The minimum flight connection time WOW air, Wizz Air, Air Berlin, Delta, Norwegian, easyJet, SAS, for passengers at Keflavík Airport is 25 minutes. A N D F L I G H T N AV I G AT I O N S E R V I C E S B Y A L M O S T 1 4 % . British Airways and Vueling. Isavia has, with the assistance of an incentives system, Three aircraft operators maintained scheduled flights within There are four ground handling companies operating been quite successful in getting airlines to fly to Iceland over Iceland, i.e. Flugfélag Íslands, Flugfélagið Ernir and Norlandair. at Keflavík Airport, namely IGS, Airport Associates, the winter months, thereby distributing the load over the year. Other aircraft operators who used the services provided ACE Handling and South Air. In addition, Isavia has marketed time slots outside peak hours by the company’s domestic airports were Mýflug, Atlantsflug each day with the objective of better utilising the investments and Norðurflug. Vesturflug / Blue West and Helo operate in place in Keflavík Airport. a helicopter service in the company’s airports. Flight statistics Flugfélag Íslands has flights from Reykjavík to several Passenger movement through the airports of Isavia overall locations in Greenland and Atlantic Airways to the Faeroe 2016 2016 were 7.6m in 2016, an increase of 36% from 2015. The number Islands. In addition, the Icelandic Flight Academy (Flugskóli of international passengers increased from almost 4.9m Íslands) and Flugfélagið Geirfugl have facilities at Rekjavík to almost 6.9m, or approximately 40% between years. Airport. BIRK Flight Services and Flugfélag Íslands are The greatest increase was at Keflavík Airport and has never responsible for ground handling services at Reykjavík Airport. 2015 2015 been as great over the course of a single year. The number of domestic passengers increased during the same period from At Akureyri Airport, Norlandair has regular scheduled almost 693,000 to more than 749,000, or approximately 8.2%. flights within Iceland and scheduled and chartered flights to Greenland. In addition, travel agencies in the area offer direct Flight movements on Isavia airports were almost 173,000 flights from Akureyri to a few destinations overseas. Circle Air 0 10.000 20.000 30.000 40.000 50.000 60.000 in 2019. There was a decrease of almost 2% from the previous 0 2 4 6 8 10 offers chartered and sightseeing flights from Akureyri Airport. year, which can partly be attributed to the use of larger aircraft Domestic Passengers International Passengers Domestic International Icelandair has flown between Akureyri and Keflavík Airport in for domestic flights. International flight movements on connection with the company’s main destinations in Europe and Icelandic scheduled flights airports were almost 55,000, North America, although Flugfélag Íslands has at present taken Passenger movements in millions Goods transportation in tonnes an increase of almost 27%. In addition to the increase at over this route. In addition, the Akureyri Aviation Academy Keflavík Airport, there were increases at Akureyri and Egils(Flugskóli Akureyrar) is based at the airport. Flugfélag Íslands staðir Airports. Flight movements within Iceland on scheduled and South Air are responsible for ground handling services at flights airports were more than 118,000, a decrease of 11% beAkureyri Airport. 2016 tween years due to the use of larger aircraft, as stated earlier. 2016 At Egilsstaðir Airport, the travel agency Discover the In total, almost 52,000 tonnes of goods were transported World offered direct flights to London last summer. through the airports in 2016, an increase of more than 11% Flugfélag Íslands is responsible for ground handling from the previous year. Goods transportation between 2015 services at Egilsstaðir Airport. countries was almost 50,000 tonnes in 2016, an increase 2015 of almost 11% be-tween years. Goods transportation within The largest customers of Isavia’s flight navigation services Iceland was almost 1,800 tonnes in 2016, an increase are Icelandair, WOW Air, United Airlines, Emirates, Delta, SAS, of approximately 11% from 2015. Lufthansa, British Airways, Air Canada and Qatar Airways. 0 50 100 150 200 These airlines fly the greatest number of kilometres within Approximately 166,000 aircraft passed through the Icelandic the Icelandic flight traffic control area. The Icelandic companies Domestic International 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 air traffic control area, an increase of around 13.5% from 2015. are the most active at Keflavík Airport and take advantage A total of almost 235m kilometres were flown in the Icelandic of the flight navigation services there. Aircraft movements in thousands Number of flights through air traffic control area in thousands air traffic control area in 2016. 40 41 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y 2016 Annual Report PA SSE NG E R AN D TRAFFIC FORECASTS 1 #WHENINKEF 1. Keflavik International Airport improved services for cyclists. 2. Packaging station for customers in the retail area of Keflavík Airport. 3. A substitutes bench was installed for the duration of EM. 4. Jónsi made an unexpected appearance, playing for passengers, who all received an Easter egg. 5. Creative Take Off was Keflavík Airport’s contribution to DesignMarch in 2016. Selected Icelandic designers 3 were given the opportunity to display Isavia prepares passenger forecasts at least once Isavia prepares a passenger forecast for Keflavik their wares. a year for the company’s core operations. These Airport at the end of each year. The forecast is 2 forecast the number of passengers using domestic based on information about time slots that airlines airports and Keflavík Airport. In addition, an assesshave reserved for the upcoming summer and the ment is made of traffic through the Icelandic air winter schedule that they have prepared. traffic control area. Major airlines have been very co-operative in providing information about expected seat availability. Isavia focuses on sharing “ I S AV I A F O C U S E S O N S H A R I N G I N F O R M AT I O N T H AT information that the company T H E COM PA NY COL L EC TS WIT H TOU RIST SERVICES collects with tourist services entities, analysts and the E N T I T I E S , A N A LY S T S A N D T H E P U B L I C A N D H O L D S public and holds open meetOPEN MEETINGS FOR SUCH PURPOSE.” ings for such purpose. 4 The forecast for domestic airports is prepared The passenger forecast for 2017 assumes that once a year at the end of the year. It is based on passenger movements will increase by 28% at information obtained from the largest users Keflavík Airport, rising from 6.8m to 8.75m,or of the airports and is used in connection with approximately two million between years. The operating plans and the preparation of fee lists. division of passengers in recent years has been fairly equally divisible into three parts: arrivals, Isavia assesses the traffic in the Icelandic air traffic departures and transit passengers who only pass control area in accordance with information from through the airport. It is assumed that this will a working group entitled the Economic Financial change in 2017, when for the first time, the number Forecasting Group (EFFG). All service providers and of transit passengers will exceed the number of representatives of associations of the users of arriving or departing passengers. If the plans of the service in the North Atlantic are party to the the airlines Icelandair and WOW air are realised, working group, and it prepares a forecast for air the proportion of transit passengers may reach 5 traffic over the North Atlantic. more than 46% by the end of 2040. 42 43 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y 2016 Annual Report HUMAN 100% The labour market RESOURCES 90% 80% Isavia operates in the general labour market and follows general collective wage agreements which the Confederation of Icelandic Employers 70% have negotiated with numerous unions on behalf 60% BY THE END OF DECEMBER 2016, THERE WERE 1,081 EMPLOYEES of the company. Special collective wage agree50% ments have been made with the following unions: W O R K I N G F O R I S AV I A ’ S P A R E N T C O M P A N Y, I . E . E X C L U D I N G 40% Landssamband slökkviliðsmanna (LSS) SUBSIDIARIES. OF THESE, 68% WERE MEN AND 32% WERE WOMEN. (firefighters), Félag flugmálastarfsmanna ríkisins 30% T H E AV E R A G E A G E O F E M P L OY E E S I S 4 1 Y E A R S , A N D T H E AV E R A G E 20% (FFR) (state-employed aeronautics employees), L E N G T H O F S E R V I C E I S 7. 8 6 Y E A R S . Stéttarfélag í almenningsþágu (SFR) (public 10% servants) and Félag íslenskra flugumferðarstjóra 0% (FÍF) (flight traffic controllers). 0–5 6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25 26–30 31–35 35 + Male Female Written contracts of employment are made with all employees specifying their wages, working hours Employee turnover was 8.84% in 2016. Employee turnover Length of service in years and other rights and obligations. All employees varies somewhat between departments and divisions and 100% enjoy physical training grants and mandatory was the highest in the Keflavík Airport Operations Division 90% accident insurance, parental leave and maternity/ and least in the Finance Division and in Human Resources and 80% Isavia’s Airport Programme has the goal of ensuring paternity leave. Sickness rights are linked to Performance. A total of 252 summer employees were that employees have gained the ability to undertake the relevant collective wage agreement. 70% recruited in 2016, the majority to the Airport Aviation Security a range of airport services. 60% Department at Keflavík Airport, or 75%, and the rest to the Absence due to illness was 4.9% of all man-hours company’s other departments throughout Iceland. 50% The Airport Security Programme is intended in 2016. Occupational diseases, however, are not 40% to ensure that employees have gained the skills specifically recorded by Isavia. All managers at Isavia are from the company’s nearest environs, 30% to undertake airport security work. which is defined as being Iceland in its entirety. 20% The company complies with laws and regulations For other groups, regular training and continuing on health and safety, human rights and child labour. 10% Education education is a part of daily work, and employees The company does not employ persons under the 0% The company maintains extensive and ambitious educational are encouraged to attend courses and other related age of 18 and pays all public charges. No work paid Younger 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 activities with the goal of developing the knowledge and skills than 20 year old year old year old year old year old education. The company continually seeks to under the table is available at Isavia. of employees in accordance with the policies and values of Male Fremale provide education that strengthens employees the company. The educational work can be divided into two both professionally and personally. Isavia has established policies and response plans categories, specialised and general education. Physical age as regards bullying, harassment and violence in the Isavia’s teaching methods are under continuous workplace. The policy is accessible to all employees The company’s uniqueness can be seen in the fact that the development, and IT is used extensively. An example on the company intraweb and is, moreover, majority of its employees receive basic training in the company. of this is the Moodle learning platform. In recent presented to all new employees in the new recruit The education is specialised and is intended to ensure the years, the trend has increasingly been to offer presentations that are held for all new employees. appropriate training of employee groups who require special a blend of study techniques where the coursework 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 40% 45% rights or special skills, such as in the field of air navigation, is through a distance learning site and the practical No formal notifications or comments were subKEF Operations Division airport security services and ground handling services. training is at the place of work. mitted in 2016 about violations of equal rights, Air Navigation Services The training schedules for these groups are approved by the Division bullying or harassment. Icelandic Transport Authority, as there are strict rules that Airports Division apply to international airports. KEF Technology and The notice of termination Property Division KEF Commercial Division of employees is in accordance The training department in the Flight Navigation Division Development and with the applicable collective Administration is responsible for training air traffic controllers, aeronautical Finance Division “THE OBJECT OF THE EQUAL RIGHTS PROGRAMME wage agreement but varies station operators, air communications experts and flight data Human Resources and I S T O E N S U R E T H AT A L L P O S I T I O N S A R E A C C E S S according to length of service experts. An agreement has been reached withthe MeteoroPerformance and age. The right to termilogical Office for meteorology training for the company,with I B L E T O B O T H G E N D E R S , T H AT C O N S I D E R AT I O N nate employment is mutual, the exception that the company’s meteorologists are responsEmployees in each division I S T A K E N O F T H E B A L A N C E B E T W E E N F A M I LY L I F E and all information is ible for the meteorology training of aeronautical station Proportion of total number of employees AND WORK...” in writing. operators. 44 45 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y HUMAN RESOURCES 2016 Annual Report Equal rights The object of Isavía’s equal rights programme is to ensure full equality between men and women in the company’s Notifications of work-related accidents have workplaces, with the goal of taking full increased between years in conjunction with advantage of staff abilities, energy and the increased scope of operations and increase knowledge, free of gender-based discriin the number of employees. At the same time, mination. The object of the equal rights the registration of accidents and follow-up have programme is to ensure that all positions been improved, and this may explain part of the are accessible to both genders, that conincrease. There were 39 work-related accidents sideration is taken to balance family life recorded last year, none of which, however, were and work, that bullying and sexual harconsidered major. assment is prevented, that gender ratios are balanced in management positions A special risk assessment has been prepared and that equal rights are ensured as regards working conditions, and a schedule in determining wages. Particular care for health protection has been prepared in is always exercised to encourage both Human Resources and co-operation with Vinnuvernd, among others. genders to apply for available positions Performance Isavia was awarded Employees can contact the service desk of VinnuFinance Division in employment advertisements. PwC’s gold medal for vernd and obtain advice on their own illness or that Development and Administration wage equality in 2016, of family members. In addition, Vinnuvernd’s nurse Isavia’s equal rights programme is KEF Commercial Division the second year in a maternity/paternity leave in 2016, 24 women holds regular consultations at the company’s accessible to all employees on the KEF Operations Division row. and 31 men. They all returned to work at the largest operating units. company intraweb and is presented to Air Navigation end of the maternity/paternity leave. Services Division all new employees in the new recruit Isavia encourages and supports employees Airports Division presentations. The equal opportunities The gender division differs considerably between to engage in regular physical exercise and to live KEF Technology representative ensures that the and Property Division the company’s operating divisions. It is the most a healthy life. The company invites permanent company’s goals and schedules in equal 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% equal in the Keflavík Airport Business Division employees either to attend and record their visits opportunities are followed and provides Male Female and in the Development and Administration Division. to certain fitness centres or to receive a grant for advice to management and employees. Men are a large majority of employees in other physical exercise amounting to ISK 25,000 a year. The results of a review of achievements Gender proportions in different divisions divisions, although efforts are being made Summer employees may attend and register their in equal rights issues are presented to increase the number of women. The changed visits to fitness centres in the same manner annually to the Board of Directors. arrangements of the basic study programme for as permanently employed staff. flight traffic controllers has already led to a higher Male Female Total Average Isavia was awarded PwC’s gold medal proportion of women entering the programme, End of employment in the company’s equal wage audit in Manag. Dir. and Deputy Manag. Dir. 8 3 11 49 and there are hopes that it will do so even further. For a general employee, the end of employment 2016, the second year in a row. The certiis regarded as the end of the month in which the fication confirms that there is equal pay Department managers 16 9 25 51 Health and safety employee reaches the age of 70. The members of the at Isavia, with less than 3.5% difference Isavia operates a safety committee that addresses Icelandic Air Traffic Controller Association, however, between genders. The company has Other managers 47 7 54 48 the health and safety issues of employees. retire at the age of 63. The company offers end-ofplaced great importance on the equal In the event of an accident, the health and safety employment counsel for those who are nearing their pay of men and women, and this has Total 71 19 90 representative is responsible for recording and retirement age, and their spouses are invited as well. been the result. analysing the incident and proposing improvements The course is a venue to obtain useful information to facilities or procedures in order to prevent a and discuss the changes that may be expected and All employees are, by law, entitled to re-occurrence. A new employee was added in 2016 to spend a pleasant time with colleagues, spouses or payments from the Maternity/Paternity to work on improving safety in the operating units friends and the representatives of the company. Ten Leave Fund. A total of 55 employees took Gender division of management of the company. employees participated in such a course in 2015. 46 44 55 47 Isavia ohf. 2016 Annual Report I S AV I A A N D T H E ENVIRONMENT 46 — ACTIONS IN C L I M AT E I S S U E S 4 8 — U S E O F M AT E R I A L S 48 — ENERGY 4 8 — WAT E R 49 — BIODIVERSITY 52 — EMISSIONS 52 — AIR QUALITY 53 — DRAINAGE 53 — WA ST E 54 — NOISE 5 5 — D E I C I N G M AT E R I A L The company’s environmental policy may be found on Isavia’s website, together with detailed information on the company’s environmental work. The following section will describe the main tasks undertaken in 2016. 48 I SAV I A I N T H E 49 Isavia ohf. ENVIRONMENT 2016 Annual Report ACTIONS I N C L I M AT E I S S U E S E N V I R O N M E N TA L Work on the certification of selected Isavia airports according MANAGEMENT to ISO 140001 is well underway. Environmental assessments have been carried out on the airports in Keflavík, Reykjavík, Akureyri and Egilsstaðir. In addition, an assessment has been carried out on the aviation communications centre in Gufunes. The assessments define important environmental aspects in the operation, and their impact on the environment is evaluated. An action plan will subsequently be issued to ensure continuous monitoring and management of the environmental aspects in question. GREEN STEPS Isavia is a participant in the project Green steps organised by the Environment Agency of Iceland. The project involves making the company’s operations more environmentally friendly, increasing employee wellbeing, improving their working conditions and reducing operating costs. In order to create a positive atmosphere for the project, a competition between operating units was launched to fulfil the green steps in which Isavia participates. The first three prizes for achievement have been awarded. A few operating units have completed the first step, one has completed the second and one unit has completed all three steps. GRÆNÁS Keflavík Airport’s warehouse at Grænás in Reykjanesbær ENCOURAGES accepts furnishings and useable building materials from the changes made to the company’s operating units. Isavia made the decision to encourage carbon environmental impact on its environs has thereby R ECYCLING Equipment is recycled as much as possible in the operating offsetting in the company. The decision was made been identified. Work on the second step of the units of the company, and whatever cannot be used is given to start the work at the company’s largest accreditation is underway and is expected to be to a third party or disposed of. The initiative is part workplace, Keflavík Airport. Airports Council completed in 2017. This will require the airport to of the green steps that Isavia has been adopting and has International (ACI) has a management programme submit an action plan for the reduction of carbon saved the company tens of millions of ISK every year. to reduce carbon emissions at airports. Keflavik emissions from the operation. This accords well with International Airport is a participant in this work the declaration for actions in climate issues from and completed the first step of three toward the the City of Reykjavík and Festa, Icelandic Centre for airport’s Airport Carbon Accreditation in 2016. Corporate Social Responsibility, which the Managing The carbon footprint of the operation and Director of Isavia signed in November 2015. 50 I SAV I A I N T H E 51 Isavia ohf. ENVIRONMENT 2016 Annual Report U S E O F M AT E R I A L S A major part of the company’s operation is dependent BIO-DIVERSITY on the use of fuel. The greatest proportion can be traced to the servicing and maintenance of the runways and operating areas of airports. The scope of the operations is generally dependent on the weather and is independent of the number of passengers. There can be considerable fluctuations between years if winter services must be provided for many days during A N I M P O R TA N T PA R T O F A I R P O R T O P E R AT I O N A R E VA R I E D the year, as these machines require the most fuel. SAFETY MEASURES, INCLUDING EFFORTS TO MINIMISE THE RISK O F C O L L I S I O N S B E T W E E N A N I M A L S A N D A I R C R A F T. A N I M A L L I F E Petrol 45,665 l 47,131 l I N T H E A I R P O R T A R E A I S C L O S E LY M O N I T O R E D , A N D T H E Y A R E K E P T A W AY F R O M T H E R U N W AY S U S I N G E . G . M E A N S T O S C A R E T H E M A W AY Diesel 751,722 l 714,574 l A N D H A B I TAT M A N A G E M E N T. Kerosene 25,000 l 45,574 l Methane 198 l 27 l The registration of wildlife has been carried out for many years, although its scope differs between Litres per passenger 1.48 l 1.06 l airports. The tendency of animals to enter the airport area also differs between airports. Most of the wildlife entering the airport area are birds, although there have been cases where reindeer, foxes and rabbits have had to be scared away. A list of the species that have been recorded in airport areas, classified according to the IUCN Red list of ENERGY threatened species and their protective status in Iceland, can be seen on Isavia's website at isavia. Isavia’s operations are extensive, and tens of thousands is/um-isavia/umhverfisstefna-isavia. It should be of passengers use the company’s facilities on a daily basis. noted, however, that these are the species that Last year, the company’s energy use corresponded to that have been scared off the airport area, but not all the of over 4,500 households, or 22,843,018 kWhrs. The use of species that live within the area. hot water corresponded to the annual use of around 3,800 households,or 587,874 cubic metres. This use has been signifAlthough Miðnesheiði is among the larger nesting icantly decreased between years, or by 200,000 cubic metres. areas of the lesser black-backed gull, these are This reduction was first and foremost at Keflavík Airport, not protected. Grassland birds have also tended where better weather conditions have had a positive effect. to try to nest in the airport area, and there have Scare actions are most common at the four interbeen attempts to lessen their attempts to enter national airports, i.e. Reykjavík, Akureyri, Egilsstaðir the area by e.g. changing the vegetation by planting and Keflavík, given that all four locations are a short lupines and spreading organic fertiliser and seeding WAT E R distance from nesting grounds. The total land area the area. within the airport fences is over 30 square kilomeFresh water is obtained from the There are two settlement ponds tres, and it is, therefore, not unnatural that birds Foxes are the only wild land animal on and near distribution systems of the municat Keflavík Airport that have the role and other animals tend to enter. the airport. Their number has, however, decreased in ipality in which the company operates. of collecting surface water, slowing recent years, and sightings have been the exception. its flow rate and cleaning it. The water The diversity of the wildlife, however, differs beThere were, nevertheless, a higher number of sightGroundwater studies were performed is cleaned in that polluting materials tween airports, and a great deal of attention has ings in 2016 than previously. The majority of birds at Keflavík Airport in autumn 2016,and float up, settle to the bottom or are been paid to recording the scare tactics used near the airport areas tend to be migratory birds, samples were taken from wells in difffiltered out through the soil. In addition, and the development of wildlife at each airport. although ptarmigan nest nearby to a small extent. erent locations within the airport area. microbes and underground soil animals The scare tactics used certainly have an effect can encourage the degradation of on the wildlife, but they are used to ensure the The possible bird strikes registered during materials and plant life growing near safety of aircraft and passengers and are, therethe past year were 43 at the airports operated and in ponds may absorb them. fore, an integral aspect of air transport. by the company. 52 53 Isavia ohf. YEAR 2016 2016 Annual Report Vestmannaeyjar Airport 63° 25’ 30.2844’’ N 20° 16’ 8.7204’’ W 54 I SAV I A I N T H E 55 Isavia ohf. ENVIRONMENT 2016 Annual Report EMISSIONS SEWERAGE 2.600 The direct emission of greenhouse Waste sent to landfills is considered Over the past few years, Isavia has improved gasses from the operation of the as indirect greenhouse gas emissions, wastewater drainage at the international airports, company can be traced to fuel use in and in 2016, 1,222,277 kg of unsorted which are commonly connected to the municipal the operation. Emissions fell from 2,599 waste was sent to landfills. The assessed drainage systems. In 2016, work was carried out tonnes to 2,550 of CO2e., i.e. around 49 emission of carbon from landfill waste on refurbishing wastewater drainage from the west tonnes between 2015 and 2016. disposal from Isavia in 2016 was 709 2.550 part of Keflavík Airport, which drains into the sea. This corresponds to approximately 0.34 tonnes of CO2 . A pumping and filter station was built at Djúpavík kg per passenger passing through the south of Stafnes in Sandgerði and a new and longer company’s airports. The company has set itself a goal that outlet laid out to sea. The work is expected to be by 2020, its emission of the greenhouse completed this summer. Wastewater pipes from Direct greenhouse gas emissions from gases will have decreased by around 10% the east part of the area are connected to the Isavia’s energy use is next to none. per passenger based on the figures from filtering station at Fitjar in Reykjanesbær. 2.500 All energy is either from district heating 2015 and by 29% by 2030. In 2015, green2015 2016 plants (geothermal) or from hydropower house gas emissions were 0.60 kg CO2 stations. In both cases, the energy in equivalents, while in 2016, the emissions question is from renewable sources that were 0.46 kg CO2 equivalents, cause no or very little emissions of or a decrease of 24.5%, which fulfils WASTE greenhouse gases. Indirect emissions thecompany’s target much earlier than due to heat and electricity, therefore, was anticipated. Account was taken Fuel consumption Waste sorting varies considerably among company’s are very slight if account is taken of of the emissions of CO2 from the use — CO2 emissions (t CO ² e) in tonnes. operating locations. The most common is the sepaelectricity production by other means. of fossil fuels, production of electricity ration of paper, deposit beverage containers, plastic Indirect emissions from energy use and sending waste to landfills. and general waste. Some operating units, however, in 2016 was approximately 260 tonnes The decision to begin switching to have gone further and also separate organic waste. of CO2 . electric cars at Isavia was made in 2016. Hazardous waste is sorted separately in all operating units, as required by law. Kg per AIR QUALITY Proportion Kg passenger Isavia began to assess air quality at its it with significantly increased accuracy Sorted for recycling 14% 205,858 0.03 airports in 2016. The engineering firm in the location of the aircraft that fly Efla prepared a report in co-operation through the Icelandic air traffic Unsorted to landfill 86% 1,222,277 0.16 with the University of Aveiro in Portugal control area. This means that it is posas regards the air quality at Keflavík sible to lessen the distance between Total 100% 1,428,135 0.19 Airport. Pollution was calculated based aircraft in the part of the air traffic on traffic through the airport in 2015, control area where the traffic is heaviand estimates to 2025 were calculated. est each time due to advantageous It has proved most difficult to sort waste at The conclusion of the report was that weather conditions. This leads to consiKeflavík Airport, as there is a lack of facilities, the concentration of all pollutants derably less use of fuel and emission of and there have been difficulties according with proved to be within the limits set in the greenhouse gases. The new flight navicustoms rules. Waste sorting, however, will probarequirements for air quality in Regulation gation technology, therefore, promotes bly improve in the near future with the new facilities No. 251/2002 for both 2015 and 2025. increased safety, lessens environmental that have been built in connection with the enlargeIn addition, it should be noted that impact and saves the airlines money. ment of the airport terminal and which were there are next to no emissions of ozoneThe company has begun the adoption brought into use just before the end of the year. depleting substances emitted in the of telecommunications equipment for operation of the company.Isavia has satellites which will make it possible to A part of Isavia’s climate targets is to reduce adopted the ADS-B technology in its achieve event better success in other the volume of unsorted waste in its operation, flight navigation services,which provides parts of the air traffic control areas. as there is considerable room for improvement. 56 I SAV I A I N T H E 57 Isavia ohf. ENVIRONMENT 2016 Annual Report NOISE DE-ICING Noise from aircraft and other transport can have an effect on nearby areas and cause discomfort. Comments on noise M AT E R I A L levels are sometimes submitted by the residents of Reykjavík and Suðurnes. Isavia seeks to minimise such discomfort, designing, among other things, approach procedures that cause as little noise pollution as possible. Noise pollution sometimes temporarily increases due to work being carried out at the airport, or due to special types of aircraft that use the facilities of the airports. Regular noise analyses are carried out at Reykjavík Airport as regards air traffic and always in connection with the renewal of the operating permit for the airport. The results of analyses in recent years have shown that noise from air traffic is under the established reference limits, and only two comments relating to noise were submitted last year. In addition, numerous measures have been taken to reduce noise pollution near the airport. It is, for instance, closed at night, and flight paths have often been changed to improve noise levels near the airport. Keflavík Airport’s noise footprint changed for a while when only one runway, the east-west runway, was in use when renewal construction was underway during peak periods in the summer of 2016. Certain residential areas were then subjected to noise pollution, mainly in Reykjanesbær. Work has been carried out to change flight paths to lessen the noise pollution. A proportion of the pollution can be traced to the generally increased traffic through the airport. At present, new noise measurement equipment is being installed near Keflavík Airport, and the measurement values will be accessible to the public in real time on the Internet. One noise measurement device is already in use and has collected some data that is used to assess the level of noise. The measurements are the basis for being able to show users and residents the effects of changes. “THE MEASUREMENTS ARE THE BASIS FOR BEING ABLE TO SHOW USERS AND RESIDENTS THE EFFECTS OF CHANGES.” Isavia uses Clearway F1 de-icing liquid together with Clearway SF3 solid runway de-icer for its runways and other aircraft During the past year, there were 15 comments submitted as reused areas. The solid de-icer consists of sodium formate and gards the noise from Keflavík Airport, both from residents and carries the “Blue Angel” environmental label. The material is also from pilots who were dissatisfied with not being allowed to biodegradable, has minimal toxic effects on water resources Clearway F1 in litres 54,300 fly over residential areas. This is a decrease from the preceding and meets all required environmental and ecological year. With improvements, it is hoped that the comments will requirements. The same applies to the de-icing liquid, which Clearway SF3 in tonnes 27 decrease even further. One complaint is being processed due to is based on potassium formate. Very little de-icing materials the conclusions of the Environment Agency that new runways are used on the runways of domestic airports, only a little need not undergo an environmental impact assessment. in Akureyri (2,000 l in 2016) Sand is more commonly used. 58 58 101 59 Isavia ohf. 2016 Annual Report ECONOMY AND FINANCIALS 58 — MA JOR INDUSTRY IN ST E A DY G ROW T H 60 — KEY FIGURES FROM O P E R A T I O N S 62 — GRI OVERVIEW 74 — R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D OF DIRECTORS 76 — INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 7 8 — C O N S O L I D AT E D A N N U A L S TAT E M E N T S O F I S AV I A Isavia’s financial position has strengthened considerably in recent years in line with its increased scope of operations. This is an important prerequisite to enable the company to cover the increased leveraging with the necessary developments ahead. The company has embarked on extensive and costly construction at Keflavík Airport over the past few years in order to respond to the significant growth in traffic. During 2013–2016, investments were made amounting to approximately ISK 28.4bn in construction and renovations, and the company’s forecasts assume tens of billions in investments in the coming years. The proportion of Icelandic suppliers is 87%, and that of overseas suppliers is 13%, although there are no records detailing which of these reside outside the European Economic Area. 60 FINANCIAL POSITION 61 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report A MAJOR INDUSTRY IN STE ADY G ROW TH Keflavík Airport 1954 Isavia, the Icelandic authorities, the airlines and It is important that care is taken as regards the other stakeholders have been successful in proenlargement plans for Keflavík Airport, which are moting Keflavík Airport as a destination, particunecessary for the airport to be able to welcome larly outside peak hours. Passengers outside peak the growing number of passengers in the future. hours have grown proportionately faster than during peak hours. The decision of the Icelandic The development of the airport has great potential Keflavík Airport’s airlines to add wide-body jets to their fleet has had of becoming profitable, both as regards the operaMaster Plan assumes a significant impact on the operation of the airport. tion of the airport itself and the Icelandic economy extensive development to 2040. “ T H E D E V E L O P M E N T O F T H E A I R P O R T H A S G R E AT P O T E N T I A L O F B E C O M I N G P R O F I TA B L E , B O T H A S Icelanders are frequent flyers in comparison created at the airport each year. These jobs will R E G A R D S T H E O P E R AT I O N O F T H E A I R P O R T I T S E L F to other European countries, according to a recent be spread between many companies that have AND THE ICEL ANDIC ECONOMY AS A WHOLE.” study carried out by the ACI (Airports Council operations at the airport, and around 40% will be International). The number of direct jobs at airports directly linked to the Icelandic airlines (pilots, cabin This called for the enlargement of the airport as well as a whole. It is, however, important to keep per capita are only exceeded by Luxembourg. crew, etc.). Other jobs are in the numerous other as changes such as to the baggage handling system in mind the overheating effects of the development services provided at the airport. Some companies as well as the flow of passengers, and it is safe to and ensure that the build-up goes hand in hand with Direct jobs in the companies who have operations at the airport have had to seek employees overseas, say that these have been a success, although the the sensible forecast of the increase in passengers in Keflavík Airport have increased rapidly in conjuncand it is clear that the airport will increasingly have changes were very rapid. and opportunities relating thereto. tion with the increased number of travellers. to draw workers from the Greater Reykjavík Area The number of direct jobs was 5,600 in 2016, 1,300 and South Iceland. It is, therefore, extremely Keflavík Airport is the largest gateway into Iceland In addition, it is important that other infrastructure of which were new jobs created during the year. important to improve transport means to the area. and is one of the most important individual aspects grow in tune with the enlargement of the airport, By the end of 2016, approximately in the infrastructure of the tourism industry. such as policing, healthcare, monitoring bodies Based on the possible development of passenger 3% of the total workforce in Iceland was directly and the road system. numbers, it is estimated that 476 new jobs will be linked to the operations of Keflavík Airport. 62 FINANCIAL POSITION 63 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report K E Y F I G U R E S F R O M O P E R AT I O N S 2016 2015 From the balance sheet 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Group Revenue Income 33,008 26,013 22,079 19,810 18,397 3,5% Income from airport services 14,5% EBITDA 8,857 6,008 4,906 4,470 3,823 Income from property 38,0% EBIT 6,322 3,999 3,328 2,818 2,396 2,9% Goods sales 16,0% Financial income/expenses 2,304 -181 -605 1,200 -1,465 Income from international services 35,2% Profit before taxes 8,626 3,818 2,724 4,018 932 Other income 33,9% Overall results 6,923 3,073 2,197 3,217 738 36,8% 10,1% 9,0% From the statement of financial position Property, plant and equipment 42,922 31,425 25,715 23,179 21,784 Income from Assets 59,229 45,187 40,849 34,511 33,390 airport services 4,5% Equity 27,057 20,134 17,061 14,864 11,647 Service agreement 12,9% with IRR Interest-bearing liabilities 24,206 18,565 18,963 15,886 18,803 Landing charges 36,7% 2,8% Current ratio 1.49 1.30 1.91 1.24 1.26 Airport security fees 16,5% Passenger fees 21,9% From the statement of cash flows 33,8% Other fees Operating activities 6,151 6,326 4,628 4,032 3,535 22,3% Investment activities -13,760 -5,747 -5,754 -2,966 -1,730 24,0% 24,7% Financing activities 8,798 67 2,857 -1,324 -1,362 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 5,831 4,994 4,491 2,730 3,026 Operating costs Financial ratios 9,5% Contribution margin 27% 23% 22% 23% 21% Costs of goods sold 20,4% Profit margin 21% 12% 10% 16% 4% Payroll expenses 15,4% 9,1% Rate of return on assets 0.63 0.60 0.59 0.58 0.56 Office and administrative costs 21,4% Return on equity 29% 17% 14% 24% 7% Other operating costs 2,7% 16,3% Earnings per króna of share capital 1.24 0.55 0.39 0.58 0.13 Depreciation 2,9% Equity ratio 46% 45% 42% 43% 35% 52,0% 50,2% Average number of positions 1,215 1,017 914 848 790 64 FINANCIAL POSITION 65 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report GRI OVERVIEW Content Placement Status Page no. G- List of externally developed economic, environmental Address of the Chairman of the –, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Board of Directors, Corporate Social –, Isavia is issuing its first Annual Accounts and Social Report in The information in the report is based on 2016, and applies to to which the organization subscribes or which it Responsibility Strategy, Stakeholders – accordance with the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative the parent company. The report was prepared by experts in endorses. (society), Isavia and the Environment (GRI). The report follows the criteria of GRI G4 Comprehensive their fields at Isavia. The table below shows the status of each G- Memberships of associations (such as industry Address of the Chairman of the –, and Airport Operators Sector Disclosures, which is specifically aspect and where information on them can be found. associations) and national or international advocacy Board of Directors, Corporate Social –, organizations. Responsibility Strategy, Stakeholders – intended to address the challenges and opportunities that (society), Isavia and the Environment airports face when it comes to sustainability. I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L A S P E C T S A N D B O U N D A R I E S G- Operational Structure of the organization. Annual Report – Content Placement Status Page no. G- Details on report content and aspect boundaries. This is the first CSR report published by Isavia. It is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). With additions SS TRTRAA TE TG EG Y YA A NN D DA A NN AA LY LY SS I SI S from the Airport Operators Sector G- G- Statement Statement from from thethe most most senior senior decision-maker decision-maker of of Address Address byby Managing thethe Managing Director Director –– Disclosures. thethe organization organization (such (suchasasCEO,CEO, chair, chair, or or equivalent equivalent G- All material Aspects identified in the process for Isavia’s Operations Isavia, Stakehold–, senior senior position) position) about about thetherelevance relevance of of sustainability sustainability defining report content. ers, Isavia and the Environment –, to to thethe organization organization and and thetheorganization’s organization’s strategy strategy – forfor addressing addressing sustainability. sustainability. G- Aspect Boundary within the organization: Increased Scope, Human Resources, –, G- G- Provide Provide a description a description of of keykey impacts, impacts, risks, and risks, and Address Addressbybythethe Managing Managing Director Director –– Methodology for measures, including assumtions. Isavia and the Environment –, opportunities. opportunities. Addidionally for airports: Passengers and cargo from – customers OO RR GGAA NN I ZI Z AA T ITOI O NN AA L LP P RR OO F IFLI E LE G- Aspect Boundary outside the organization. : Increased Scope, Human Resources, –, G- G- Name Name thethe of of organization. organization. Isavia Isavia ohf. ohf. Methodology for measures, including assumtions. Isavia and the Environment –, Addidionally for airports: Passengers and cargo from – Compliance G- G- Primary Primary brands, brands, products, products, and andservices. services. Isavia’s Isavia’s Operations, Operations, Executive Executive Board, Board, , , customers Partially compliant Increased Increased Scope Scope –, –, – – G- Explanation of the effect of any restatements of Not applicable to first report None compliance information provided in previous reports, and the Not Applicable G- G- Location Location of ofthetheorganization’s organization’s headquarters. headquarters. Reykjavik ReykjavikAirport, Airport, Reykjavik Reykjavik reasons for such restatements. G- G- Number Number countries of of countries where where thethe organization organization Isavia Isavia only only operates operates in Iceland. in Iceland. G- Significant changes from previous reporting periods Not applicable to first report operates, operates, and and names names of of countries countries where where either either thethe TheThe company company owns owns fourfour subsidiaries, subsidiaries, in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. organization organization has has significant significant operations operations or or that that areare TheThe Duty DutyFree FreeStore, Store,Tern Tern Systems, Systems, specifically specifically relevant relevant thethe to to sustainability sustainability topics topics Domavia Domavia andand Suluk. Suluk. S TA K E H O L D E R E N G AG E M E N T covered covered in the in thereport. report. G- List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Corporate Social Responsibility –, G- G- Nature Nature ownership of of ownership and and legal legal form form Isavia is public Isavia is public limited limited company company organization. Strategy, Stakeholders, Increased –, Scope – G- G- Markets Markets served served (including (including geographic geographic breakdown, breakdown, Isavia’s Isavia’s Operations, Operations, Stakeholders, Stakeholders, , , sectors sectorsserved, served, andand types types of of customers customers and and Increased Increased Scope, Scope, https://www. https://www. –, –, G- Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Corporate Social Responsibility –, beneficiaries). beneficiaries). kefairport.is/English/About-us/Factskefairport.is/English/About-us/Facts– – with whom to engage. Strategy, Stakeholders, Increased –, and-figures/ and-figures/ Scope – G- G- Scale Scale reporting of of reporting organization: organization: Total Total number number of of Isavia’s Isavia’s Operations, Operations, Stakeholders Stakeholders , , G- Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, Address by the Managing Director, Ad–, employees, employees, total total number number of of operations, operations, sales netnet sales (customers), (customers), Human Human Resources, Resources, –, –, including frequency of engagement by type and by dress of the Chairman of the Board of –, netnet or or revenue, revenue, total total capitalization capitalization broken broken down downin in Major Major Industry Industry in Steady in Steady Growth, Growth, –, –, stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any Directors, Governance, Stakeholders, , terms terms debt of of debtand andequity equity andand quanity quanity products of of products Key Figures Key Figures from fromOperations, Operations, Annual Annual –, –, of the engagement was undertaken specifically as Increased Scope, Human Resources –, or or services services provided. provided. Additionally Additionally forfor airports: airports:size size Report Report –, –, part of the report preparation process. –, of of airport, airport, number number andand length length of of runways, runways, stating stating – – – whether whether theytheyareare primary primary crosswind or or crosswind runways, runways, G- Key topics and concerns that have been raised Address by the Managing Director, –, minimum minimum connection connection time time between between flights flights thethe at at through stakeholder engagement, and how the Address of the Chairman of the –, airport, airport, number number of of operations, operations, number number of of airlines airlines organization has responded to those key topics and Board of Directors, Corporate Social –, served served and andnumber number destinations of of destinations served. served. concerns, including through its reporting. Responsibility Strategy, Stakeholders, –, G- G- Total Total number number of of employees employees byby employment employment contract contract Human Human Resources Resources – – The Environment – andand gender gender (a-f(a-f total total items).  items). REPORT PROFILE G- G- Percentage Percentage of of total total employees employees covered covered byby collective collective Human Human Resources Resources – – G- Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for Report for the year  bargaining bargaining agreements. agreements. information provided. G- G- Description Description of ofthetheorganization’s organization’s supply supply chain: chain: Stakeholders Stakeholders (suppliers) (suppliers)  G- Date of most recent previous report (if any). Not applicable for first report G- G- Significant Significant changes changes during during thethe reporting reporting period period –, –, G- Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Yearly regarding regarding thethe organization’s organization’s size, size, structure, structure, – – ownership, ownership, or or itsits supply supply chain. chain. G- Contact point for questions regarding the report or Enquiries sent to: https://www.isavia. its contents. is/english/about-isavia/contact C OCM O M IMT IMT EMNETNST TS OT O E XETXETRENRANLA ILNIINT I TAT I AT I VIEVSE S G- GRI Content Index. Process for determining the The GRI criteria was used with addiG- G- Explanation Explanation of of whether whether andandhow how thetheprecautionary precautionary Stakeholders Stakeholders (authorities), (authorities), Isavia Isavia and and –, –, content of the report. tions for airports. approach approach or orprinciple principle is addressed is addressed bybythethe thethe Environment Environment – – organization. organization. 66 FINANCIAL POSITION 67 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A GRI OVERVIEW 2016 Annual Report Content Placement Status Page no. Content Placement Status Page no. G RGIRCI OCNOTNETNETN ITNIDNEDXE X H I G H E S T G O V E R N A N C E B O DY ’ S R O L E I N R I S K M A N AG E M E N T G- G- Policy Policy andandcurrent current practices practices with with regard regard to to seeking seeking Independent Independent Auditor’s Auditor’s Report, Report, comply comply –, –, G- Highest governance body’s role in the identification Governance – external external assurance assurance forforthethe report report with with laws and laws and regulations regulations applicable applicable –, –, and management of economic, environmental and to tothethecompany, company, Risk Risk Management, Management, – – social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the Governance, Governance, TheThe Environment Environment highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. Compliance GG OO VV ER ER NN AA NN CE CE G- Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the Partially compliant effectiveness of the organization’s risk management G OGVOEVRENRANNACNEC S E TSRTURCUTCUTRUER A E NADN D C OCM O PMOPSOIST I TOINO N processes for economic, environmental and social None compliance G- G- Governance Governance structure structure of ofthetheorganization, organization, including including Governance Governance – – topics. Not Applicable committees committees of of thethe highest highest governance governance body. body. Identify Identify G- Frequency of the highest governance body’s review anyanycommittees committees responsible responsible forfor decision-making decision-making onon of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, economic, economic, environmental environmental and andsocial social impacts impacts and opportunities. G- G- Process Process forfor delegating delegating authority authority forfor economic, economic, Governance Governance (Executive (Executive Board) Board) – – H I G H E S T G O V E R N A N C E B O DY ’ S R O L E I N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T I N G environmental environmental andandsocial social topics topicsfromfrom thethehighest highest governance governance bodybodyto to senior senior executives executives and and other other G- Highest committee or position that formally reviews Managing Director employees employees and approves the organizations sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G- G- Report Report whether whether thethe organization organization has hasappointed appointed anan Governance Governance (Executive (Executive Board) Board) – – executive-level executive-level positions positions withwithresponsibility responsibility forfor H I G H E S T G O V E R N A N C E B O DY ’ S R O L E I N E VA L U AT I O N G E C O N O M I C , E N V I R O N M E N TA L A N D S O C I A L economic, economic, environmental environmental and andsocial social topics, topics, and and PERFORMANCE whether whether postpost holders holders report report directly directly to to thethehighest highest G- Process for communicating critical concerns to the Through the Managing Director and governance governance bodybody highest governance body Executive Board G- G- Process Process forforconsultation consultation between between stakeholders stakeholders The The project projectwas was managed managed bybythethePMO PMO G- Report the nature and total number of critical Board Minutes andandthethe highest highest governance governance body body onon economic, economic, manager manager at at Development Development & Admin& Adminconcerns that were communicated to the highest environmental environmental andandsocial social topics. topics. If consultation If consultation istration istration onon behalf behalf of of thethe Managing Managing governance body and the mechanism(s) used to is delegated, is delegated, describe describe to towhomwhom and andanyanyfeedback feedback Director Director address and resolve them processes processes to tothethe highest highest governance governance body body R E M U N E R AT I O N A N D I N C E N T I V E S G- G- Composition Composition thethe of of highest highest governance governance body body andanditsits Corporate Corporate Governance Governance Statement: Statement: committees. committees. https://www.isavia.is/um-isavia/ https://www.isavia.is/um-isavia/ G- Remuneration policies for the highest governance Remuneration policy  confirmed stjorn/ stjorn/ body and senior executives at the Annual General Meeting G- G- Report Report whether whether thethe Chair Chair of of thethe highest highest governance governance Governance Governance Procedures: Procedures: https://www. https://www. G- Process for determining remuneration Human Resources  body body is also is alsoananexecutive executive officer officer isavia.is/um-isavia/stjorn/ isavia.is/um-isavia/stjorn/ G- How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken G- G- Report Report thethenomination nomination and andselection selection processes processes The The Authorities’ Authorities’ General General Ownership Ownership into account regarding remuneration, including forfor thethe highest highest governance governance bodybodyand anditsits comittess, comittess, Policy Policy the results of votes on remuneration policies and andandthethe criteria criteria used usedforfor nominating nominating and and selecting selecting proposals, if applicable. highest highest governance governance bodybody members, members, including: including: Whether Whether and andhowhow diversity diversity is considered, is considered, whether whether G- Ratio of the annual total compensation for the No bonuses are paid in the company andandhowhow independence independence is considered, is considered, whether whether andand organization’s highest-paid individual in each country howhow expertise expertise and experience and experience relating relating to to economic, economic, of significant operations to the median annual total environmental environmental andand social social topics topics areare considered considered compensation for all employees (excluding the andandwhether whether and andhowhowstakeholders stakeholders (including (including highest-paid individual) in the same country. shareholders) shareholders) areare involved involved G- Ratio of percentage increase in annual total No bonuses are paid in the company G- G- Processes Processes forfor thethehighest highest governance governance bodybody to to ensure ensure Governance Governance Procedures Procedures andandCodeCode compensation for the organization’s highest-paid conflicts conflicts of ofinterest interest areare avoided avoided andand managed managed of ofConduct: Conduct: https://www.isavia.is/ https://www.isavia.is/ individual in each country of significant operations um-isavia/stjorn/ um-isavia/stjorn/ to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the H IHGIHGEHSETS GT OGVOEVRENRANNACNEC B E OBDYO DY' S' R S ORLOEL IENI N S ESTETTI TNIGN G P UPRUPROPSOES, EVA , VAL ULEUSE AS NADN D S TSRTATR AT E GEYG Y highest-paid individual) in the same country. G- G- Highest Highest governance governance body’s body’s and and senior senior executves’ executves’ Governance Governance Procedures Procedures andandCorpoCorpoETHICS AND INTEGRITY roles roles in the in the development, development, approval, approval, andandupdating updating rate rate Governance Governance Statement: Statement: https:// https:// of of thetheorganization’s organization’s purpose, purpose, value value mission or or mission www.isavia.is/um-isavia/stjorn/ www.isavia.is/um-isavia/stjorn/ S TA N D A R D D I S C L O U S U R E S P R O V I D E A N O V E R V I E W O F : VA L U E S , P R I N C I P L E S , S TA N D A R D S A N D N O R M S statements, statements, strategies, strategies, policies, policies,and andgoals goalsrelated related to to economic, economic, environmental environmental and and social social impact impact G- The organization’s values, principles, standards Human Resources, on the website: – H IHGIHGEHSETS GT OGVOEVRENRANNACNEC B E OBDYO DY’ S’ A S NADN D S ESNEINOIRO E R XEEXCEUCTUVTEVSE’ SR’ ORLOELSE ISNI N E EDVEEVLEOLPOMP EMNET, T HTEH D N T, A PAPPRPORVA O VA L , LA, NADN D and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and https://www.isavia.is/um-isavia U PUDPATD AT I NIGN G O FO TF HTEH OE ROGRAGNAINZIAT Z ATI OINO’N S’ PS UPRUPROPSOES, EVA , VA E RO M L ULEU O R IMSISSISOINO N S TAT S TAT E ME EMNETNST, SS, TSRTAT E GEIGE ISE, SP, OPLOI LC I CE ISE, SA, NADN D R AT codes of ethics. G OGAOLASL R S ERLEAT L AT E DE DT OT OE CEOCNOONM O IMC I, CE, NEVNIVRIORNOM N EMNETAN TA L AL NADN DS OSCOI CAILA ILMI PAC M PAC T T G- Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice G- G- Measures Measures taken taken to to develop develop and and enhance enhance thethe on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to highest highest governance governance body’s body’s collective collective knowledge knowledge of of organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice economic, economic, environmental environmental and andsocial social topics topics lines. G- G- Processes Processes forfor evaluation evaluation of of highest thethe highest governance governance G- Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Rulings and verdicts, Laws and regula body’s body’s performance performance withwith respect respect to to governance governance of of concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and tions: http://www.isavia.is/um-isavia/ economic, economic, environmental environmental and and social social topics. topics. matters related to organizational integrity, such as log-og-reglugerdir escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 68 FINANCIAL POSITION 69 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A GRI OVERVIEW 2016 Annual Report Content Placement Status Page no. Content Placement Status Page no. G-EN Reduction of energy consumption. Additionally for Isavia and the Environment  EC EO CO NN OO MM I CI C airports: Important for airports to share sectoral best practice. E CEOCNOONM O IMC I P C EPREFROFROM RA MNACNEC E G-EN Reductions in energy requirements of products and Isavia and the Environment G-EC G-EC Direct Direct economic economic value value generated generated andand distributed: distributed: Annual Annual Report Report – – services Revenues, Revenues, operating operating costs, costs, employee employee wages wages andand benefits, benefits, payments payments providers to to providers capital, of of capital, payments payments WAT E R Compliance to to government government (by(by country), country), community community investments investments G-EN Total water withdrawal by source Isavia and the Environment  Partially compliant G-EC G-EC Risks Risksandand opportunities opportunities posed posed bybyclimate climate change change that have that have thethe potential potential to to generate generate substantive substantive G-EN Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal No water shortage in the country None compliance changes changes in operations, in operations, revenue revenue or or expenditure expenditure of water Not Applicable G-EC G-EC Coverage Coverage of of thetheorganization’s organization’s defined defined benefit benefit plan plan Annual Annual Report Report – – G-EN Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Isavia and the Environment obligations obligations reused G-EC G-EC Total monetary Total monetary value value of of financial financial assistance assistance received received None None A Airport disclosure: Quality of storm water by Isavia and the Environment  bybythethe organization organization fromfrom governments governments applicable regulatory standards. MA MRAKREKTE P T RPERSEESNECNEC E BIODIVERSITY G-EC G-EC Standard Standard entryentry level levelwage wage byby gender gender compared compared G-EN Operational sited owned, leased, managed in, or Isavia and the Environment  to to local local minimum minimum wagewage at at significant significant locations locations of of adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high operation operation biodiversity value outside protected areas G-EC G-EC Prorportion Prorportion of of senior senior management management hired hiredfromfromthethe Everybody Everybody G-EN Description of significant impacts of activites, Isavia and the Environment  local local community community at atsignificant significant locations locations of of operation. operation. products, and services on biodiversity in protected Additionally Additionally forforairports: airports: Is of particular Is of particular relevance relevance to to areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside thethe airport airport sector. sector. protected areas AA Airport Airport disclosure: disclosure: Total Total number number of of passengers passengers Economy Economy of of Isavia, Isavia, Facts Facts and and figures: figures:  G-EN Habitats protected or restored Isavia and the Environment annuarlly, annuarlly, broken broken downdown byby passengers passengers onon international international https://www.kefairport.is/English/ https://www.kefairport.is/English/ G-EN Total number of IUCN RED list species and national Isavia and the Environment  andand domestic domestic flights, flights, and and broken broken downdown byby origin-andorigin-andAbout-us/Facts-and-figures/ About-us/Facts-and-figures/ conservation list species with habitats in areas destination destination and andtransfer transfer passengers, passengers, including including transit transit affected by operations, by level of extinction risk passengers. passengers. EMISSIONS AA Airport Airportdisclosure: disclosure: Total Total annual annual number number of of aircraft aircraft Increased Increased Scope Scope – – movements movements byby day dayand and byby night, night, broken broken downdown byby G-EN Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope ) Isavia and the Environment  commercial commercial passenger, passenger, commercial commercial cargo, cargo, general general G-EN Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Isavia and the Environment  aviation, aviation, and and state state aviation aviation flights. flights. (scope ) AA Airport Airport disclosure: disclosure: Total Totalamount amount of of cargo cargo tonnage tonnage Increased Increased Scope Scope – – G-EN Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Isavia and the Environment  I NIDNIDRIERCETC ET CEOCNOONM O IMC I ICMI PAC M PAC T ST S (scope ) G-EC G-EC Development Development and and impact impact of of infrastructure infrastructure A Major A MajorIndustry Industryin Steady in Steady Growth, Growth, –, –, G-EN Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Isavia and the Environment  investments investments andand services services supported. supported. Additonally Additonally forfor Annual Annual Report Report – – G-EN Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Isavia and the Environment  airports: airports: Particular Particular relevance relevance to to thetheairport airport sector sector Additionally for airports: Reference to ACI-ACA because because of ofhighhigh impact impact onon local local economies. economies. Airport Carbon Accreditation Program. G-EC G-EC Significant Significant indirect indirect economic economic impacts, impacts, including including thethe A Major A MajorIndustry Industryin Steady in Steady Growth Growth – – A Airport disclosure: Ambient air quality levels Isavia and the Environment  extent extentof ofimpacts impacts according to pollutant concentrations in microgram P RPORCOUCRUERME EMNETN P T RPARCATCI TC IECSE S per cubic meter or parts per million by regulatory regime. G-EC G-EC Proportion Proportion of of spending spending ononlocal local suppliers suppliers at at Economy Economy of of Isavia Isavia  significant significant locations locations of of operation operation G-EN Emissions of ozone-depleting supstances (ODS) Isavia and the Environment  G-EN Nox, Sox and other significant air emissions Isavia and the Environment  EN EN VV I RI R OO NN MM EN EN TA TA LL E F F L U E N T S A N D WA S T E M AT M AT E REIRAILASL S G-EN Total water discharge by quality and destination G-EN G-EN Materials Materials used usedbyby weight weight or orvolume volume Isavia Isavia andand thethe Environment Environment  G-EN Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Isavia and the Environment  G-EN G-EN Percentage Percentage materials materials of of usedused that that areare recycled recycled input input Isavia and Isavia and thethe Environment Environment  Additionally for airports: Report on the weight of materials materials waste from international flights. E NEENREGRYG Y A Airport disclosure: Aircraft and pavement de-icing/ Isavia and the Environment  anti-icing fluid used and treated by m and/or metric G-EN G-EN Energy Energy consumption consumption within within thetheorganization, organization, Isavia Isavia andand Environment thethe Environment  tonnes including including fuel fueltypes types used used G-EN Total number and volume of significant spills G-EN G-EN Energy Energy consumption consumption outside outside thetheorganization, organization, Isavia Isavia andand thethe Environment Environment including including fuel fueltypes types used used G-EN Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms G-EN G-EN Energy Energy intensity intensity Not applicable. Not applicable.More Moreapplicable applicableto to of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, manufacturing manufacturing companies. companies. and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 70 FINANCIAL POSITION 71 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A GRI OVERVIEW 2016 Annual Report Content Placement Status Page no. Content Placement Status Page no. G-EN G-EN Identity, Identity, size, size,protected protected status, status, andandbiodiversity biodiversity G-LA Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases value valueof of water water bodies bodies and and related related habitats habitats related to their occupation significantly significantly affected affected bybythetheorganization’s organization’s G-LA Health and safety topics covered in formal discharges discharges of of water water andandrunoff runoff agreements with trade unions G-EN G-EN Extent Extent of of impact impact mitigation mitigation environmental of of environmental Isavia Isavia and thethe and Environment Environment  T R A I N I N G A N D E D U C AT I O N impacts impacts of of products products and andservices services Compliance G-EN G-EN Percentage Percentage products of of products sold sold and andtheir their packaging packaging G-LA Average hours of training per year per employee by Human Resources – materials materials that thatareare reclaimed reclaimed byby category category gender, and by employee category Partially compliant N ONIOSIES E G-LA Programs for skills management and lifelong Human Resources – None compliance learning that support the continued employability Not Applicable AA Additionally Additionally airports: forfor airports: Number Number andandpercentage percentage Isavia Isavia and and Environment Environment thethe  of employees and assist them in managing career change change people people of of residing residing in areas in areas affected affected bybynoise noise endings C OCM O PMLPI LAINACNEC E G-LA Percentage of employees receiving performance Human Resources – and career development reviews, by gender and by G-EN G-EN Monetary Monetary value value significant of of significant fines fines and and total number total number Isavia Isavia and and thethe Environment Environment  employee category of of non-monetary non-monetary sanctions sanctions forfornon-compliance non-compliance with with environmental environmental lawslawsand and regulations regulations DIVERSIT Y AND EQUAL OPPORTUNIT Y T RTARNASNPSOPROTR T G-LA Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Human Resources – of employees per employee category according to G-EN G-EN Significant Significant environmental environmental impacts impacts of of transporting transporting gender, age group, minority group membership, and products products and andother other goods goods andand material material forfor thethe other indicators of diversity organization’s organization’s operations, operations, and and transporting transporting members members of ofthetheworkforce workforce E Q U A L R E M U N E R AT I O N F O R W O M E N A N D M E N OVOVE REARLALL L G-LA Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Human Resources, Equal Pay Audit – men by employee category, by significant locations from PwC G-EN G-EN Total Totalenvironmental environmental protection protection expenditures expenditures andand of operation investments investments bybytypetype S U P P L I E R A S S E S S M E N T F O R L A B O R P R AC T I C E S USPUPPLPI LE IRE E R NEVNIVRIORNOM N EMNETA N TA L AL SASSESSESSM S EMNETN T G-LA Percentage of new suppliers that were screened G-EN G-EN Percentage Percentage of of new new suppliers suppliers thatthatwere werescreened screened using labor practices criteria using usingenvironmental environmental criteria criteria G-LA Significant actual and potential negative impacts for G-EN G-EN Significant Significant actual actual andandpotential potential negative negative labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken environmental environmental impacts impacts in the in the supply supply chain chainandand actions actions taken taken L A B O R P R AC T I C E S G R I E VA N C E M E C H A N I S M S E NEVNIVRIORNOM N EMNETAN TA L G L RGIRE IVA E VAN CNEC M E EMCEHCAHNAINSIM SSMS G-LA Number of Grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance G-EN G-EN Number Number grievances of of grievances about about environmental environmental impacts impacts Isavia Isavia and and thethe Environment Environment  mechanisms filed, filed, addressed, addressed, and andresolved resolved through through formal formal grievance grievance mechanisms mechanisms HUMAN RIGHTS SS OO C ICAI A LL INVESTMENT L ALBAOBRO P R RPARCATCI TC IECSE AS NADN D EDCEECNETN W TO WROKR K G-HR Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include E ME PMLPOYL OY M EMNETN T human rights clauses or that underwent human rights G-LA G-LA Total Total number number andand rates rates of of newnew employee employee hires hires andand Human Human Resources Resources  screening employee employee turnover turnover byby ageagegroup, group, gender gender andandregion region G-HR Total hours of employee training on human rights No special training has been perG-LA G-LA Benefits Benefits provided provided to to full-time full-time emplyees, emplyees, byby Human Human Resources Resources  policies or procedures concerning aspects of human formed on human rights issues beyond significant significant locations locations of of operation operation rights that are relevant to operations, including the the promotion and training related to percentage of employees trained gender equality and bullying G-LA G-LA Return Return to to workwork and andretention retention rates ratesafter afterparental parental Human Human Resources Resources  leave, leave,bybygender gender N O N D I S C R I M I N AT I O N L ALBAOBUORU/RM/ A MNAAGN AG E ME EMNETN R T ERLEAT L AT I OINOSN S G-HR Total number of incidents of discrimination and No incidents corrective actions taken G-LA G-LA Minimum Minimum notice notice periods periods regarding regarding operational operational Human Human Resources Resources  changes, changes, including including whether whether these these specified specified areare in in F R E E D O M O F A S S O C I AT I O N A N D C O L L E C T I V E B A R G A I N I N G collective collective agreements agreements G-HR Operations and suppliers identified in which the right Isavia operates only in Iceland and it is O COCCUCPAT U PAT I OINOANLA HL EHAELT A LTHH A NADN D S ASFAEFTEYT Y to exercise freedom of association and collective considered to be an insignificant risk bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and of such violations there G-LA G-LA Percentage Percentage of of total totalworkforce workforce represented represented Human Human Resources Resources – – measures taken to support these rights in formal in formal joint joint management-worker management-worker health healthandand safety safety committees committees thatthathelp help monitor monitor andand advise advise CHILD LABOR ononoccupational occupational health health and andsafety safety programs programs G-HR Operations and suppliers identified as having Isavia operates only in Iceland and it is G-LA G-LA Type Typeof of injury injuryand andrates ratesof of injury, injury, occupational occupational Human Human Resources Resources – – significant risk for incidents of child labor, and considered to be an insignificant risk diseases, diseases, lostlost days, days, and and absenteeism absenteeism andand total total measures taken to contribute to the effective of such violations there number number of of work-related work-related fatalities, fatalities, byby region region and byby and abolition of child labor gender gender 72 FINANCIAL POSITION 73 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A GRI OVERVIEW 2016 Annual Report Content Placement Status Page no. Content Placement Status Page no. F OFROCRECDE D O RO CR OCM O PMUPLUSLOSROYR Y L ALBAOBRO R COMPLIANCE G-HR G-HR Operations Operations andand suppliers suppliers identified identified asas having having Isavia operates operates Isavia only in Iceland in Iceland only and it is it is and G-SO Monetary value of significant fines and total number No fines for violations of laws and significant significant risk risk forforincidents incidents of offorced forced or or compulsory compulsory considered considered bebe to to ananinsignificant insignificantrisk risk of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with regulations labor, labor,and measures and measures to to contribute contribute thethe to to elimonation elimonation of of such such violations violations there there the laws and regulations of ofallall forms forms of of forced forced or orcompulsory compulsory labor labor S U P P L I E R A S S E S S M E N T F O R I M PAC T S O N S O C I E T Y S ESCEUCRUIRT IYT Y P RPARCATCI TC IEC E Compliance G-SO Percentage of new suppliers that where screened G-HR G-HR Percentage Percentage of of security security personnel personnel trained trained in the in the using criteria for impacts on society Partially compliant organization’s organization’s human human rights rights policies policies of of procedures procedures G-SO Significant actual and potential negative impacts on None compliance thatthatarearerelevant relevant to to operations operations society and supply chain and actions taken Not Applicable I NIDNIDGIEGNEONUOSU R S IRGIHGTHST S G R I E VA N C E M E C H A N I S M S F O R I M PAC T S O N S O C I E T Y G-HR G-HR Total Totalnumber number of of incidents incidents violations of of violations involving involving Not appicable Not appicableto to Iceland Iceland G-SO Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, CSR Strategy, Isavia and the ,  rights rights of of indigenous indigenous peoples peoples and andactions actions taken taken addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Environment A SASSESSESSM S EMNETN T mechanisms G-HR G-HR Total Total number number and andpercentage percentage of ofoperations operations that that Not appicable Not appicableto to Iceland Iceland havehavebeenbeen subject subject to tohuman human rights rights reviews reviews or or impact impact SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY assessments assessments PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY S USPUPPLPI LE IRE H R UHM UAMNA N R IRGIHGTHST A S SASSESSESSM S EMNETN T C U S T O M E R H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y G-HR G-HR Percentage Percentage of of newnew suppliers suppliers thatthatwhere where screened screened G-PR Percentage of significant product and service using using human human rights rights criteria criteria categories for which health and safety impacts are G-HR G-HR Significant Significant actual actual and and potential potential negative negative human human assessed for improvement rights rights impacts impacts in the in the supply supply chain chainand and actions actions taken taken G-PR Total number of incidents of non-compliance with H UHM UAMNA N R IRGIHGTHST G S RGIRE IVAE VA N CNEC M E EMCEHCAHNAINSIM SS MS regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services G-HR G-HR Number Number of of grievances grievances about about human human rights rightsimpacts impacts NoNocomplaints complaints during their life cycle, by type of outcomes filed, filed, addressed, addressed, and andresolved resolved through through formal formal grievance grievance mechanisms mechanisms A Airport disclosure: Total annual number of wildlife Isavia and the Environment  strikes per , aircraft movements. SS OO C ICEI T ET YY PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING T HTEH SE OSCOI CE ITEYT Y G-PR Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and L OLCOACLA CL OCM OM U MNUINT I TE ISE S service information and labeling, and percentage of G-SO G-SO Percentage Percentage operations of of operations withwithimplimented implimented local local CSRCSRStrategy, Strategy, A Major A Major Industry Industry –, –, significant product and service categories subject to community community engagement, engagement, impact impact assessments, assessments, andand in Steady in Steady Growth Growth – – such information requirements development development programs programs G-PR Total number of incidents of non-compliance with No complaint been accepted G-SO G-SO Operations Operations with with significant significant actual actual and potential and potential CSRCSRStrategy, Strategy, A Major A Major Industry Industry –, –, regulations and voluntary codes concerning product negative negative impacts impacts onon local communitis local communitis in Steady in Steady Growth Growth – – and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes AA Airport Airport disclosure: disclosure: Number Number of ofpersons persons physically physically NoNoincidents incidents reported reported or or economically economically displaced, displaced, either either voluntarily voluntarily G-PR Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Stakeholders (customers)  or orinvolunatirly, involunatirly, byby thethe aiport aiport operator operator or or ononitsits M A R K T E I N G C O M M U N I C AT I O N S behalf behalf bybya governmental a governmental or orother other entitity, entitity, and and compensation compensation provided. provided. G-PR Sale of banned or disputed products Isavia does not sell prohibited or controversial products itself. However, the A NATNI TCI -OCRORRURPUTPI TOINO N company has a contractual relationship G-SO G-SO Total Total number number and and percentage percentage of ofoperations operations assessed assessed with the operators of shops and resforforrisks risksrelated related to to corruption corruption taurants at Keflavik Airport which sells alcohol and tobacco. One of them is The G-SO G-SO Communication Communication and andtraining training onon anti-corruption anti-corruption Governance Governance Procedures Procedures andand Code Code Duty Free Store Ltd., Isavia’s subsidiary policies policies andand procedures procedures of of Conduct: Conduct:https://www.isavia.is/ https://www.isavia.is/ um-isavia/stjorn/ um-isavia/stjorn/ G-PR Total number of incidents of non-compliance No complaints to Isavia with regulations and voluntary codes concerning G-SO G-SO Confirmed Confirmed incidents incidents of of corruption corruption andandactions actions taken taken NoNocomplaint complaintbeen beenaccepted accepted marketing communications, including advertising, P UPPULPI LC I PC OPLOI LC IYC Y promotion, and sponsorship, by types of outcomes. G-SO G-SO Total Total value value of of political political contributions contributions byby country country andand NoNo funding funding is granted is granted to to political political G-PR Total number substantiated complaints regarding No complaints to Isavia recipient/beneficiary recipient/beneficiary parties parties breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data A NATNI TCI -OCMO PMEPTEI T I TVIEV B E EBHEAVH AVI OIRO R COMPLIANCE G-SO G-SO Total Total number number of of legal legal actions actions forfor anti-competitive anti-competitive NoNolawsuits lawsuits behavior, behavior, antianti trust, trust, and andmonopoly monopoly practices practices and and their their G-PR Monetary value of significant fines for nonNo fines have been imposed on the outcomes outcomes compliance with laws and regulations concerning the company provision and use of products and services 74 FINANCIAL POSITION 75 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report D E S T I N AT I O N S 20 1 6 Aberdeen Cologne Bonn Lisbon Paris CDG Akureyri Constable Point Ljubljana Paris Orly Alicante Copenhagen London Gatwick Portland Almeria Denver London Heathrow Prague Amsterdam Dublin London Luton Riga Intl Anchorage Dusseldorf London Stansted Rome Fiumicino Antalya Edinburgh Los Angeles Salzburg Baltimore Washington Edmonton Lyon San Francisco Barcelona Faro Madrid Seattle Basel Mulhouse Frankfurt Malaga Stockholm Arlanda Belfast Friedrichshafen Manchester Stockholm Vasteras Bergen Gdansk Milan Malpensa Stuttgart Berlin Schoenefeld Geneva Minneapolis St Paul Tenerife Berlin Tegel Glasgow Montreal Toronto Billund Gothenburg Munich Vagar Birmingham Halifax Narsarsuaq Vancouver Boston Hamburg New York JFK Verona Bremen Neuenland Intl Helsinki New York Newark Vienna Bristol Ilulissat Nice Vilnius Brussels Jerez De La Frontera Nuuk Warsaw Budapest Kangerlussuaq Orlando Washington Dulles Chania Keflavík Oslo Zurich Chicago Las Palmas Palma PA S S E N G E R N AT I O N A L I T Y T H R O U G H K E F L AV Í K A I R P O R T United States of America 18% Iceland 23% Britain 14% Other countries 12% Denmark 2% Finland 1% France 4% Germany 6% Netherlandst 2% Sweden 2% Italy 1% Airport at Bíldudalur Swiss 1% Japan 1% 65° 38’ 42.828’’ N Spain 2% Canada 4% Russia 0% China 3% 23° 32’ 37.014’’ W Poland 2% Norway 2% 76 FINANCIAL POSITION 77 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Isavia ohf. is a publicly owned company The Board of Directors recommends that the year’s and Managing Director of Isavia ohf. that the operating on the basis of Act No. 2/1995 on Public profits be transferred to the next year and refers company’s accounting standards are appropriate Limited Companies. The state Treasury is the only in other respects to the financial statements as and that these Consolidated Financial Statements share-holder in the company, and the company’s regards changes in equity. contain a good overview of the development and domicile and legal venue is at Reykjavik Airport. achievements in the operation of the company, Isavia ohf. is responsible for the operation and The Board has established detailed rules of risk management and main uncertainties in the development of all Icelandic airports, as well as procedure defining its scope of authority and the company’s environment. controlling air traffic in the Icelandic air traffic divisions of tasks between it and the Managing control area. Isavia ohf. is a service company in Director. In addition, the company has established The Board and the Managing Director of Isavia ohf. airport operations and air navigation and forms a comprehensive risk policy for the company, a have today examined and approved the consolidated the foundation for Iceland’s civil aviation. code of ethics and focus points as regards social accounts of the company for 2016 and confirm these responsibility. The rules of procedure provide for accounts with their signatures. The 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements have the company’s Board following the Guidelines on been prepared in accordance with International Corporate Governance which are published by the Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted Iceland Chamber of Commerce, Nasdaq OMX Iceland by the European Union (EU). hf. and the Confederation of Icelandic Employers. The company’s corporate governance statement Reykjavík, According to the overview of the overall results of was renewed in February 2017. 16 March 2017 the consolidated accounts of Isavia ohf., the operating income in 2016 amounted to approximately Isavia ohf. established policies on social ISK 33,008.3 million and had, therefore, increased by responsibility for itself and became a member ISK 6,995.4 million between years. The year’s profits of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). At the same amounted to ISK 6,922.8 million, an ISK 3,849.7 time, efforts have been spent on harmonising Board of Directors Ingimundur Sigurpálsson, Sigrún Traustadóttir million increase between years. Of this increase the company’s policy formulation and corporate Chairman of the Board between years, ISK 2,512 million can be traced to governance to the 10 main principles of UNGC. exchange rate differences which are a result of the The company’s annual accounts now reflects, for strengthening of the Icelandic króna. the first time, these focus points in environmental, This part of profits is by its nature not part of the social and employee issues. In addition, Isavia ohf. core operations of the company. According to the will annually submit a report to the United Nations Matthías Páll Imsland Ragnar Óskarsson balance sheet, the company’s total assets increased describing the company’s goals and achievements by ISK 14,041.8 million in 2016, and were ISK 59,229 in the ten categories specified. The report will be million at the end of the year. The company’s submitted for the first time in 2017. recorded equity amounted to ISK 27,056.9 million at the end of 2016, increasing by ISK 6,922.8 million The Board and Managing Director of Isavia ohf. Theódóra Þorsteinsdóttir from the close of 2015. The equity ratio at year-end confirm to the best of their knowledge that these 2016 was 45.68%, compared to 44.56% at year-end consolidated statements provide a fair view of 2015. Full-time positions were on average 1215 in the results of the company, its assets, debts 2016, increasing by 98 between years. and changes to cash and cash equivalents during the year. Moreover, it is the opinion of the Board Managing Director Björn Óli Hauksson 78 FINANCIAL POSITION 79 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2016 Annual Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND S H A R E H O L D E R S O F I S A V I A O H F. Opinion information is significantly inconsistent with the consolidated decided to dissolve the company or cease operations or have • Assess whether the accounting methods used and the We have audited the accompanying 2016 Consolidated financial statements or our knowledge which we have obtained no other realistic options. related notes are appropriate and whether the accounting FinancialStatements of Isavia ohf. The Consolidated Financial during the audit or which appears in other respects to contain assessment of the management is realistic. Statements contain the consolidated income statement, the significant errors. If we reach the conclusion, based on the Auditors responsibility for the audit consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of cash work that we have performed, that there are significant of the consolidated financial statements. • Form an opinion on the use by management of the criteria flows and information on significant accounting policies and inconsistencies in the other information, we are under Our goal is to obtain sufficient certainty that the consolidated for operability and assess on the basis of the audit whether other explanatory notes. obligation to disclose this fact. There is nothing that we need financial statements are free of material misstatements, there is significant doubt as regards operability or whether disclose relating thereto. whether through fraud or by mistake, and to issue a statement there are circumstances that could give rise to significant In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give that contains our opinion. doubt of operability. If we consider that there is significant a true and fair view of the results of the company in 2016, the If we reach the conclusion that there are significant doubt of operability, we are under obligation to draw attention financial position of the company as of 31 December 2016 and of inconsistencies in the annual financial statements of Isavia ohf. Sufficient certainty, however, is not a guarantee that the audit to the appropriate notes in the annual financial statements its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then when we read it after the date of signing, we are under performed in accordance with international auditing standards in our report. In the event that such notes are inadequate, we ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting obligation to disclose this fact. will discover all significant errors should they be there. Errors must depart from an unqualified report. Our conclusions are Standards as approved by the European Union and additional can occur by mistake or fraud and are considered significant based on the auditing data that we have obtained up to the requirements provided for in the Act on Annual Accounts. In accordance with the provisions of the second paragraph of if they can have an impact on the financial decision making date of our signature. Nevertheless, events or circumstances Article 104 of Act No. 3/2006 on Annual Accounts, we confirm of the users of the consolidated annual financial statements, may arise in the future that can cause uncertainties about the Basis for opinion that according to the best of our knowledge, the report of the whether on their own or in aggregate. operability of the company. We conducted our audit in accordance with international Board of Directors attached to this Annual Financial Statement standards on auditing. Our responsibility according to those provides the information that should be contained therein Our audit, in accordance with international auditing standards, • Assess overall whether the consolidated annual financial standards is further described below in the section on auditor pursuant to the Act on Annual Accounts and is not contained is based on professional judgement, and we make use of critical statements provide a clear image of the underlying business responsibility. We are independent of Isavia ohf. in accordance in the notes. thinking in our audit. In addition, we carry out the following: and events and assess the presentation, structure and with established codes of ethics for auditors in Iceland, and contents, including the notes to the consolidated annual we have fulfilled their conditions. We believe that the audit Responsibility of the Board and Managing Director • Analyse and assess the risk of significant errors in the confinancial statements, in light of a clear image. evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to for the consolidated annual financial statement. solidated annual financial statements, whether due to fraud provide a basis for our audit opinion. The Board and Managing Director are responsible for the or mistakes, design and execute auditing actions to respond We are under obligation to inform the Board of Directors, preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated to such risks and collect auditing data that are sufficient and among other things, about the scope and timing of the audit Other information financial statements in accordance with International appropriate to base our opinion on. The risk of not discovering and significant issues that arose during our audit, including The Board of Directors and Managing Director are responsible Financial Reporting Standards as approved by the European a significant error that is due to fraud is greater than one due significant shortcomings to internal controls that came for other information. Other information consists of the report Union and additional requirements contained in the Act on to a mistake, as fraud can involve collusion, forgery, misleading to light during the audit, if appropriate. of the Board and Corporate Governance Statement which Annual Accounts. The Board and Managing Director are also presentation of annual financial statements, something that we received before the date of endorsement and the annual responsible for the internal controls relevant to the preparation is deliberately left out or the deliberate by-passing of internal Reykjavík, financial statements of Isavia ohf., which we expect to receive and fair presentation of consolidated financial statements monitoring actions. 16 March 2017 after the date of endorsement and which do not contain the so that it is free from material misstatement, whether due annual financial statements and our signatures thereon. to fraud or error. • Obtain an understanding of internal controls, which has an impact on the audit, for the purpose of designing Our opinion of the consolidated financial statements does not In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, appropriate auditing actions, but not for the purpose of Guðmundur Kjartansson, cover other information, and we neither reach a conclusion on the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsexpressing an opinion of the effectiveness of the internal State-Authorised Public Accountant nor provide confirmation for their content with the exception ible for assessing the operability of Isavia ohf. If appropriate, controls of the company. of the confirmation relating to the report of the Board of the Board of Directors and Managing Director shall provide the Directors stated below. appropriate explanation of operability and the reason why they decided to apply the criteria for operability in the preparation Anna Birgitta Geirfinnsdottir, In connection with our audit, we are responsible for reading and presentation of the consolidated financial statements, State-Authorised Public Accountant the aforesaid other information and examining whether such unless the Board of Directors and the Managing Director have 80 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L 81 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. 2016 Annual Report S TAT E M E N T O F C O M P R E H E N S I V E C O N S O L I D AT E D B A L A N C E S H E E T ConsolidatedI N C O M E Iof Statements 2016 N Comprehensive Income 2016 AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidation Assets Consolidation Notes 2016 2015 Notes 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Non-current assets Operating revenues ............................................................................. 4 33,008,318 26,012,925 Property, plant and equipment ........................................................... 9 42,921,660 31,425,312 Intangible assets .................................................................................. 10 5,320,693 5,543,746 Cost of goods sold ................................................................................ (5,449,860) (4,715,871) 12 223,944 255,174 Bonds and other long term assets ....................................................... Salaries and related expenses .............................................................. 5 (13,863,834) (11,041,154) Administrative expenses ...................................................................... (731,905) (644,282) 48,466,297 37,224,232 Other operating expenses .................................................................... (4,106,199) (3,603,126) Depreciation and amortization ............................................................ 9, 10 (2,534,516) (2,009,451) Current assets Inventories ........................................................................................... 13 519,486 453,843 Operating profit 6,322,003 3,999,041 Accounts receivables ........................................................................... 14 2,625,764 1,633,010 Current maturities of long term assets ................................................ 12 36,551 48,900 Financial income .................................................................................. 7 349,742 219,154 Other receivables ................................................................................. 14 1,750,430 833,516 Financial expenses ............................................................................... 7 (837,089) (679,206) Bank balances and cash ....................................................................... 14 5,830,506 4,993,722 Net exchange rate differences ............................................................. 7 2,791,234 279,282 10,762,737 7,962,990 Profit before taxes 8,625,890 3,818,271 Total assets 59,229,033 45,187,222 Income tax ........................................................................................... 8 (1,703,060) (745,178) Equity and liabilities Total comprehensive income for the year 6,922,830 3,073,094 Equity 15 Share capital ........................................................................................ 5,589,063 5,589,063 Statutory reserves ................................................................................ 2,483,798 2,483,798 Revaluation reserves ............................................................................ 46,331 47,655 Retained earnings ................................................................................ 18,937,671 12,013,517 Total equity 27,056,864 20,134,034 Non-current liabilities Loans from credit institutions .............................................................. 16 22,970,292 17,547,474 Deferred tax liabilities .......................................................................... 17 1,987,019 1,359,680 24,957,311 18,907,154 Current liabilities Accounts payable ................................................................................. 18 2,567,127 2,790,519 Current maturities of non-current liabilities ........................................ 18 1,236,190 1,017,218 Current tax liabilities ............................................................................ 8 1,075,721 480,729 Other current liabilities ........................................................................ 18 2,335,821 1,857,569 7,214,859 6,146,034 Liabilities 32,172,170 25,053,188 Total equity and liabilities 59,229,033 45,187,222 82 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L 83 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. 2016 Annual Report E Q U I T Y S TAT E M E N T S TAT E M E N T O F C A S H F L O W S 2 0 1 6 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidation Share Capital Statutory Revaluation Retained Total Equity reserves reserves earnings Notes 2016 2015 Cash flows from operating activities Opening balance at 1 January 2015 ................... 5,589,063 2,483,798 48,979 8,939,100 17,060,940 Operating profit ................................................................................. 6,322,003 3,999,041 Transfer to retained earnings ........................... 0 0 (1,324) 1,324 0 Depreciation and amortization ......................................................... 9, 10 2,534,516 2,009,451 Comprehensive income ..................................... 0 0 0 3,073,094 3,073,094 Long term assets expensed .............................................................. 12 17,693 4,672 Balance at 31 December 2015 .......................... 5,589,063 2,483,798 47,655 12,013,517 20,134,034 (Gain) Loss on disposal of assets ....................................................... (2,738) (5,249) Opening balance at 1 January 2016 ................... 5,589,063 2,483,798 47,655 12,013,517 20,134,034 Operating cash flow before transfer to working capital 8,871,474 6,007,916 Transfer to retained earnings ........................... 0 0 (1,324) 1,324 0 Changes in inventories ...................................................................... 13 (67,176) (30,826) Comprehensive income ..................................... 0 0 0 6,922,830 6,922,830 Changes in operating assets .............................................................. (1,935,246) (143,110) Balance at 31 December 2016 .......................... 5,589,063 2,483,798 46,331 18,937,671 27,056,863 Changes in operating liabilities .......................................................... 248,942 1,265,270 No dividends were paid to shareholders for the year. Share capital has been fully paid. Cash generated from operations 7,117,994 7,099,250 Interest earned .................................................................................. 318,997 224,380 Finance costs ..................................................................................... (805,308) (666,294) Income taxes paid .............................................................................. (480,729) (331,767) Net cash generated from operating activities 6,150,954 6,325,569 Investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment .................................. 9 (13,712,023) (7,438,974) Acquisition of intangible assets ......................................................... 10 (93,051) (131,848) Installments on bonds ....................................................................... 12 44,607 48,654 Time deposit ...................................................................................... 0 1,774,920 (13,760,466) (5,747,248) Financing activities Repayments of borrowings ............................................................... 16 (1,135,128) (1,065,602) New bank loans raised ....................................................................... 16 9,933,200 1,133,680 Repayments of obligations under finance leases .............................. 0 (718) 8,798,072 67,360 Net change in cash and cash equivalents .......................................... 1,188,560 645,681 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year ................... 4,993,722 4,490,788 Effect of foreign exchange rates ........................................................ (351,776) (142,748) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ............................ 5,830,506 4,993,722 84 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L 85 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. 2016 Annual Report Notes Notes NOTES 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 1. General information Construction contracts Isavia ohf. (the Company) was established in the beginning of 2010 with a merger between Flugstodir ohf. and Keflavíkurflugvöllur ohf. Isavia ohf. is a government owned private limited company and complies with the Icelandic limited companies law No. 2/1995. The Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of company‘s domicile and venue is Reykjavik Airport. completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date, measured based on the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date relative to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of Isavia ohf. is the national operator of airports and air navigation services in Iceland. The Company ensures flight safety and airport security completion. Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed upon. in accordance with recognized international standards and operating licenses issued and supervised by the Icelandic Transport Authority. Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that is probable to be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they incur. The Consolidated Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. consist of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. Companies within the consolidation are in addition to Isavia ohf., Duty Free Store ehf., Tern Systems ehf., Domavia ehf. and Suluk ApS in Greenland. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is immediately recognised as an expense. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Leasing Statement of compliance Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, as lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Assets held under finance leases are recognized as assets of the Company at their adopted by the European Union by the end of the year 2015, new and revised. It is the opinion of the Management that application of new fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the and revised IFRS has not material impact on the financial statements. The Consolidated Financial Statements have not implemented new lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. and revised IFRS in issue but not yet effective. It is the opinion of the Management that application of new and revised IFRS which are not yet effective will not have material effect on the financial statements. Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Monetary Basis of preparation assets and liabilities denominated in such currencies are re-translated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Profits and losses The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except that certain assets are evaluated by the arising on exchange are included in net profit or loss for the period. revaluation methods. Accounting policies which concern certain properties and financial instruments that are measured at fair value is explained in note below. The Financial Statements are presented in ISK, which is the Company's functional currency. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily The principal accounting policies are set out below. take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Basis of consolidation All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee Income tax enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities and use its power to affect the time of investment. Income tax is calculated and recognised in the Financial Statements. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared using the purchase method. The result of subsidiaries acquired during the that are never taxable or deductible. The Company's current tax rate is 20%. year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other The tax currently payable is income tax that is likely to be paid within the next 12 months for taxable income of the year and corrections in members of the Company. income tax for previous years. One of the purposes of Consolidated Financial Statements is to show only the net external sales, expenses, assets and liabilities of the Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the consolidated entities as a whole. Hence, intercompany transactions have been eliminated within the consolidated businesses in the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. The presentation of the consolidated financial statements. difference is due to different assumptions in calculation of income tax. Risk management Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilized. The Company's general policy in risk management is to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. The Company has no currency swap contracts, options or derivatives outstanding at year-end. Special risk committee operates under mandate from Board of Directors and determines scope and nature on risk and profitability analysis for construction and projects which can have significant influence on income and financial position. Revenue recognition Revenues are recognised when earned as required by International Financial Reporting Standards. Interest income is accrued over time, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the applicable interest rate. Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2016 10 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 86 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L 87 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. 2016 Annual Report Notes Notes 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Property, plant and equipment Inventories Property, plant and equipment are recognised as an asset when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value, after taking obsolete and defective goods into consideration. Net flow to the Company and the cost of the asset can be measured in a reliable manner. Property, plant and equipment which qualifies for realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling recognition as an asset is initially measured at cost. The cost of a property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any and distribution. directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use. Provisions With the merger of Flugfjarskipti ehf. and Isavia ohf. the properties of the former company were revaluated because the market value of Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Company will their properties were considered higher than the book value. The revaluation is based on an estimated sales price, which has been be required to settle that obligation. confirmed by appropriated assessor. The changes in the value is credited to other equity as revaluation reserve and the tax effect in deferred tax liability. Financial assets The depreciable amount of an asset is allocated on a straight-line basis over its useful life, less residual value. The depreciation charge for Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets ‘at fair value through profit or loss' (FVTPL), ‘held-toeach period is recognised as an expense. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at each year maturity' investments, ‘available-for-sale' (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and receivables'. The classification depends on the nature and end, with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets. Effective interest method The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement. relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points Intangible assets paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. Intangible assets are recognised only if it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Intangible assets includes softwares. Intangible asset which qualifies for recognition as an asset is initially measured at cost. The depreciable amount of the asset is allocated on a fixed annual percentage of the historical cost over its useful life, less residual Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL. value. Estimated useful life and depreciaton methods are evaluated in end of each accounting period. Investments held to maturity Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in wich it is incurred. Developement cost is recognised only if Financial assets are classified as financial assets intended to be held to maturity when the Company has investments, i.e. bills or bonds all of the following conditions are met: with the intent and the ability to hold to maturity. When applicable, investments held to maturity are recognised at amortized cost, using the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be avilable for use and sale effective interest method less any impairment losses. the intension to complete the intangible asset and use or sell the ability to use or sell the intangible asset Loans and receivables how the intangible asset will generate probable future enocomic benefits the avilabilty of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. the ability to mesure reliably the expenditure attributable to intangible assets during its development. Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is Where no intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is charged to profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred. recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial. Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Impairment of financial assets Intangible assets resulting from the merger of the companies are only accounted for if they are distinctive from goodwill. At the initial Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for impairment at the end of each reporting period to evaluate if there has been registration they are recognized at cost, but with later assesments they are stated at cost less accumulated depreciations and impairment an impairment to the asset. Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or losses. more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial assets, the estimated future cash flows of the asset has been affected. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event Impairment occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the cost would have been had At the end of each reporting period, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether the impairment not been recognised. there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Derecognition of financial assets Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows The Company derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or a cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2016 11 All amounts are in thousands of ISK Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2016 12 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 88 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L 89 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. 2016 Annual Report Notes 5. Salaries and related expenses Notes 2016 2015 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Salaries ................................................................................................................................................. 10,770,430 8,504,670 Pension fund, employers's contribution .............................................................................................. 1,261,081 996,118 Financial liabilities and equity instruments Payroll taxes ......................................................................................................................................... 846,012 704,344 Salary-related expenses ....................................................................................................................... 178,477 117,439 Financial liabilities Additional contribution to pension fund and changes in vacation obligation ...................................... 401,000 324,047 Capitalized employment expenses ....................................................................................................... (166,828) (72,078) Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at FVTPL' or ‘other financial liabilities'. Contractor payments ........................................................................................................................... 10,149 12,690 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Other employee expenses ................................................................................................................... 563,512 453,923 13,863,834 11,041,154 Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL. Average number of employees ............................................................................................................ 1,215 1,017 A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: The Company´s total management salaries and benefits for the year 2016 were ISK 75.6 million compared to ISK 72.4 million for the year Such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or 2015. The Company´s CEO and Managing Director of Duty Free Store ehf. and Tern Systems ehf. salaries are decided by the wage The financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is negotiation committee. evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Company's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or 6. Fees to auditors it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 2016 2015 Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. Audit Other service Audit Other service Deloitte ehf. ....................................................................... 23,286 16,926 18,670 13,574 Other financial liabilities Other service are mainly accounting and tax service and assistance on tax return. Other financial liabilities (including borrowings) are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Derecognition of financial liabilities 7. Financial income and expenses The Company derecognizes financial liabilities when, and only when, the Company's obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire. Financial income 2016 2015 Interest on bank deposits .................................................................................................................... 202,952 100,753 3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Interest revenue on investments held to maturity ............................................................................. 34,234 28,465 Other interest revenue ........................................................................................................................ 112,556 89,935 In the application of the Company's accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the directors are required to make judgements, 349,742 219,154 estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual Financial expenses results may differ from these estimates. Accounting judgements are preferably in estimated useful life of assets and in write-downs of 2016 2015 receivables and inventories, as described at note no. 9, 10, 13 and 14. Interest expense and indexation .......................................................................................................... (727,356) (604,205) The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the Debt collection fee .............................................................................................................................. (104,545) (72,167) period in which the estimate is revised. Interest on late payments .................................................................................................................... (5,189) (2,835) (837,089) (679,206) Net exchange rate differences 4. Revenues 2016 2015 The consolidated composition of revenues, is specified as follows 2016 2015 Net exchange rate differences ............................................................................................................. 2,791,234 279,282 2,791,234 279,282 Revenue from sales .............................................................................................................................. 11,205,968 9,578,762 Revenue from services ......................................................................................................................... 18,497,147 14,098,774 Revenue from long term assets............................................................................................................ 3,305,203 2,335,389 33,008,318 26,012,925 Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2016 14 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 90 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L 91 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. 2016 Annual Report Notes Notes 9. Property, plant and equipment (continued) The assessmentand insurance value for the Company's assets is itemized as the following: 8. Income tax 2016 2015 Income tax has been calculated and recorded in the Financial Statements, the amount charged in the Income Statement is ISK 1,703.1 Assessment Insurance Assessment Insurance million. Income tax payable in the year 2017 is ISK 1,075.7 million. In year 2015 income tax charged in the Income Statement was ISK 745.2 Consolidation value value value value million and income tax payable in year 2016 was ISK 480.7 million. Buildings and sites .............................................................. 21,970,934 44,483,064 19,569,309 43,428,038 Machinery and equipment, asset insurances ..................... 12,899,952 10,762,090 The effective tax rate is specified as follows: Other insurances ................................................................ 712,958 3,576 2016 2015 Halt insurance .................................................................... 13,158,988 8,005,510 Amount % Amount % Profit before taxes ............................................................... 8,625,890 3,818,271 10. Intangible assets and amortization Tax rate ................................................................................ 1,725,178 20.0% 764,573 20.0% Consolidation Usage agreement Usage agreement Software Total Non-taxable revenues ........................................................ (19,791) (0.5%) (18,329) (0.5%) on facilities on runways Joint taxation ...................................................................... (3,402) (0.3%) (10,869) (0.3%) Cost Other changes ..................................................................... 1,075 0.3% 9,803 0.3% Balance at 1 January 2015 .................................................. 477,035 5,706,000 1,018,493 7,201,528 Income tax acc. to Statement of Comp. Income ................ 1,703,060 19.5% 745,178 19.5% Additions ............................................................................ 0 0 131,848 131,848 Disposals ............................................................................ 0 0 (8,097) (8,097) Balance at 31 December 2015 ........................................... 477,035 5,706,000 1,142,244 7,325,279 9. Property, plant and equipment Additions ............................................................................ 0 0 93,997 93,997 Disposals ............................................................................ 0 0 (3,159) (3,159) Buildings Aprons Control Other assets Total Balance at 31 December 2016 ........................................... 477,035 5,706,000 1,233,082 7,416,117 and artwork and car parks systems Cost Amortization Balance at 1 January 2015 ................... 21,146,281 3,801,903 4,444,438 6,505,321 35,897,943 Balance at 1 January 2015 .................................................. 95,407 1,141,200 277,105 1,513,712 Additions .............................................. 3,001,301 938,734 311,404 3,202,070 7,453,509 Charge for the year ............................................................ 15,901 190,200 69,817 275,918 Disposals .............................................. (67,882) 0 (369,417) (108,455) (545,754) Disposals ............................................................................ 0 0 (8,097) (8,097) Balance at 31 December 2015 ............. 24,079,700 4,740,637 4,386,424 9,598,937 42,805,698 Balance at 31 December 2015 ........................................... 111,308 1,331,400 338,825 1,781,533 Revaluation .......................................... 0 0 9,018 (9,018) 0 Charge for the year ............................................................ 15,901 190,200 110,949 317,050 Additions .............................................. 6,126,606 5,221,393 407,736 1,978,887 13,734,621 Disposals ............................................................................ 0 0 (3,159) (3,159) Disposals .............................................. 0 0 0 (148,375) (148,375) Balance at 31 December 2016 ........................................... 127,209 1,521,600 446,615 2,095,425 Balance at 31 December 2016 ............. 30,206,306 9,962,029 4,803,178 11,420,431 56,391,944 Book value Accumulated depreciation Book value 1 January 2016 ................................................. 365,727 4,374,600 803,419 5,543,746 Balance at 1 January 2015 ................... 4,870,855 1,063,198 1,999,826 2,249,442 10,183,320 Book value at year-end ...................................................... 349,826 4,184,400 786,467 5,320,693 Charge for the year .............................. 550,546 191,609 334,396 656,983 1,733,533 Disposals .............................................. (63,600) 0 (365,511) (107,356) (536,467) Balance at 31 December 2015 ............. 5,357,801 1,254,807 1,968,711 2,799,068 11,380,386 Due to the development of software intended for sale on the global market in the coming years, the development cost amounts to approximately ISK 62.5 million which was capitalized in calendar years 2012 to 2015. The software development was completed in the Charge for the year .............................. 672,774 251,347 333,247 960,098 2,217,466 second half of calendar year 2015 and are availble for sale and already in use by clients. The Company has assessed the recoverable Disposals .............................................. 0 0 0 (127,568) (127,568) amount of this intangible asset and determined that this asset has not suffered an impairment loss. Other software is purchased and its Balance at 31 December 2016 ............. 6,030,575 1,506,154 2,301,959 3,631,599 13,470,284 estimated lifespan is 3-20 years. Book value According to an agreement between Keflavik International Airport ohf., now Isavia ohf. and The Icelandic Defence Agency, now the Book value 1 January 2016 .................. 18,721,899 3,485,830 2,417,714 6,799,869 31,425,312 Icelandic Coast Guard, signed on April 22nd 2009, the Company would take over certain NATO inventory airport facilities and equipment Book value at year-end ........................ 24,175,731 8,455,876 2,501,220 7,788,834 42,921,660 at Keflavik from the beginning of 2009 for the next 30 years. No fees will be charged for the usage but the Company must cover all costs of daily operations and maintenance expenses, to ensure the conditions are in accordance with the regulated standards by The International Civil Aviation Organization. On behalf of NATO inventory, the Icelandic Coast Guard has the right to use these facilities of Estimated useful lives of fixed assets are as follows: which the usage rights are recognised proportionately over the lease term. Buildings and artwork ......................... 7-100 years 11. The Consolidation Aprons and car parks .......................... 5-50 years Fixtures and machinery ...................... 3-20 years The Consolidated Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. consists of the parent Company and the following subsidiaries: Other assets ....................................... 3-20 years Ownership% Nominal amount Principal activity Information about the revalued properties in year-end: 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Shares in subsidiaries Duty Free Store ehf., Keflavik Airport ................................ 100.00% 50,000 Retail and commerce Revalued book value ............................................................................................................................ 115,708 118,704 Tern Systems ehf., Kopavogur ............................................ 100.00% 80,000 Software and consulting Impact of the special revaluation ......................................................................................................... (56,501) (58,116) Domavia ehf., Reykjavik ..................................................... 100.00% 500 Real estate business Book value without impact of revaluation ........................................................................................... 59,207 60,589 Suluk ApS, Greenland .......................................................... 100.00% 1,999 Services of air traffic controllers Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2016 16 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 92 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L 93 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. 2016 Annual Report Notes Notes 12. Bonds and other long term assets 14. Other financial assets (continued) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Aging and allowance for doubtful accounts Bond loan, weighted average of interest rate 5.48%. .......................................................................... 260,494 304,073 Analysis of aging and allowance for doubtful accounts at the balance sheet date were as follows: Current maturities ............................................................................................................................... (36,551) (48,900) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 223,944 255,174 Gross amount Allowance Gross amount Allowance Construction contracts are projects which are conducted for The International Civil Aviation Organization related to the Joint Finance Receivables not yet due ....................................................... 1,726,539 20,380 1,225,115 12,359 agreement. Receivables, overdue 1-90 days .......................................... 673,977 14,969 377,922 15,059 Receivables, overdue 91-180 days ...................................... 90,292 9,816 50,910 10,263 Bonds and long term assets installments are specified as follows: Receivables, overdue 181-210 days .................................... 10,208 9,232 12,502 4,274 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Receivables, overdue 211 days and older ............................ 11,648 3,892 8,690 174 2,512,665 58,289 1,675,139 42,129 Year 2016 ............................................................................................................................................. 48,900 Year 2017 ............................................................................................................................................. 36,551 48,900 Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts: Year 2018 ............................................................................................................................................. 36,845 39,985 Year 2019 ............................................................................................................................................. 37,153 39,985 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Year 2020 ............................................................................................................................................. 37,475 39,985 Year 2021 ............................................................................................................................................. 37,812 39,985 At the beginning of the year ............................................................................................................... (42,129) (68,006) Installments later ................................................................................................................................. 74,658 46,335 Impairment loss recognized on receivables ....................................................................................... (16,171) (9,900) 260,494 304,073 Amounts written off as uncollectable.................................................................................................. 11 35,777 At year-end ......................................................................................................................................... (58,289) (42,129) 13. Inventories Allowance has been made for doubtful accounts, this allowance has been determined by management in reference to past default 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 experience. Goods for resale .................................................................................................................................. 502,153 449,323 Goods in transit ................................................................................................................................... 31,998 17,652 Other receivables Allowance for old and obsolete inventory .......................................................................................... (14,665) (13,132) 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 519,486 453,843 Value added tax, receivables ............................................................................................................... 1,320,776 392,541 Prepaid expenses ................................................................................................................................. 96,776 89,984 Changes in allowance for old and obsolete inventory: Capital income tax ............................................................................................................................... 29,620 21,342 Prepaid salaries .................................................................................................................................... 64,421 48,050 At the beginning of the year ............................................................................................................... (13,132) (44,558) Other receivables ................................................................................................................................. 238,837 281,599 Reversed allowance for old and obsolete inventory ........................................................................... (19,040) 13,981 1,750,430 833,516 Inventories written off ....................................................................................................................... 17,507 17,445 Bank balances and cash At year-end ......................................................................................................................................... (14,665) (13,132) The Company´s cash and cash equivalent consist of cash and bank balances. Insurance value of inventories ............................................................................................................ 708,382 662,594 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 No inventories have been pledged at year-end 2016. Bank balances in ISK ............................................................................................................................ 1,487,033 889,241 Bank balances in foreign currencies .................................................................................................... 1,168,823 4,099,412 The Company´s plan is to sell all of its inventories in next 12 months. Cash in ISK ........................................................................................................................................... 12,436 5,069 Time deposit ....................................................................................................................................... 3,162,214 0 14. Other financial assets 5,830,506 4,993,722 Accounts receivables 15. Equity 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Share capital is specified as follows: Domestic receivables .......................................................................................................................... 1,897,470 1,340,711 Shares Ratio Amount Foreign receivables ............................................................................................................................. 493,387 264,018 Construction contracts ........................................................................................................................ 121,809 70,409 Total share capital at year-end ........................................................................... 5,589,063 100.0% 5,589,063 Allowances for doubtful accounts ....................................................................................................... (58,289) (42,129) 5,589,063 100.0% 5,589,063 Receivables Joint Finance contract ..................................................................................................... 171,387 0 2,625,764 1,633,010 Each share of one ISK carries one vote. The Ministry of Finance carries the voting rights on behalf of the Icelandic Treasury. All shares have been paid in full. Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2016 17 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 94 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L 95 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. 2016 Annual Report Notes Notes 18. Other financial liabilities 16. Long term borrowings Accounts payable 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Loans from credit institutions 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Domestic accounts payable ................................................................................................................ 2,336,971 1,647,834 Accounts payable Joint finance agreement ...................................................................................... 0 915,912 Liabilites in CHF ................................................................................................................................... 2,599,378 3,236,070 Foreign accounts payable ................................................................................................................... 230,156 226,773 Liabilites in EUR ................................................................................................................................... 11,721,939 7,612,680 Liabilites in GBP ................................................................................................................................... 2,567,127 2,790,519 0 952,042 Liabilites in JPY .................................................................................................................................... 0 801,404 Current maturities of long-term liabilities Liabilites in SEK ................................................................................................................................... 0 265,128 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Liabilites in USD .................................................................................................................................. 3,167,489 3,846,217 Liabilites in ISK .................................................................................................................................... 6,717,676 1,851,150 Loans from credit institutions ............................................................................................................. 1,236,190 1,017,218 24,206,482 18,564,692 1,236,190 1,017,218 Current portion of long term liabilities ............................................................................................... (1,236,190) (1,017,218) Other current liabilities 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Non-current liabilities at year-end ...................................................................................................... 22,970,292 17,547,474 Value added tax, payable .................................................................................................................... 23,111 14,459 Installments of non-current liabilities are specified as follows: Deferred revenue ................................................................................................................................ 13,206 18,550 Accrued additional contribution to pension fund .............................................................................. 221,496 168,968 Loans from credit institutions Salaries and related expenses payable ............................................................................................... 514,909 416,246 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Accrued holiday commitment ............................................................................................................. 1,119,385 913,741 Current maturities .............................................................................................................................. 1,017,218 Accrued interest, payable ................................................................................................................... 142,413 128,998 Installments in 2017 ............................................................................................................................ 1,236,190 891,142 Other liabilities .................................................................................................................................... 106,331 196,606 Installments in 2018 ............................................................................................................................ 1,131,133 765,366 Deferred revenue ................................................................................................................................ 187,850 0 Installments in 2019 ............................................................................................................................ 1,260,336 884,503 Unfinished construction contract ....................................................................................................... 7,121 0 Installments in 2020 ............................................................................................................................ 1,389,881 1,003,975 2,335,821 1,857,569 Installments in 2021 ............................................................................................................................ 1,396,475 1,010,433 Installments later ................................................................................................................................ 17,792,467 12,992,054 19. Financial risk 24,206,482 18,564,692 Financial instruments Loans amounting to ISK 22,833.3 million are subject to financial covenants regarding equity ratio. Thereof loans amounting to ISK 3,822.7 The consolidated financial assets and liabilities are specified into following types of financial instruments: million are also subject to condition of net interest bearing debts/EBITDA ratio. The financial covenants are reviewed on a regular basis and it is management view that they are unlikely to be breached. Financial assets 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 17. Deferred tax liability Bank balance and cash ........................................................................................................................ 5,830,506 4,993,722 Financial assets that are intended to hold to maturity ....................................................................... 260,494 304,073 Loans and receivables ......................................................................................................................... 4,214,997 2,328,491 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Financial liabilities 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Balance at beginning of the year ......................................................................................................... 1,359,680 1,095,231 Other financial liabilities ..................................................................................................................... 30,185,151 23,693,508 Effects from joint taxation ................................................................................................................... (3,402) (10,870) Calculated income tax for the year ...................................................................................................... 1,706,462 756,048 Financial assets which are intended to hold to maturity, loans and advances and other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost Income tax payable for the next year .................................................................................................. (1,075,721) (480,729) with effective interest method less impairment. Balance at the end of the year ............................................................................................................. 1,987,019 1,359,680 Risk management Deferred tax balances consist of the following account balances The Company’s Management monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Company. These risks include interest rate risk, currency risk, market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Property, plant and equipment ............................................................................................................ 1,600,928 1,349,678 Current assets ...................................................................................................................................... 5,823 6,386 Other items .......................................................................................................................................... (11,002) (22,585) Exchange differences ........................................................................................................................... 391,270 26,200 1,987,019 1,359,680 Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2016 20 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 96 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L 97 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. 2016 Annual Report Notes 19. Financial risk (continued) Notes Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest 19. Financial risk (continued) rates. Foreign currency risk 31.12.2015 Interest rate changes affect the expected cash flow of assets and liabilities which bear floating interest rates. Assets Liabilities Net balance Sensitivity analysis EUR ..................................................................................................................... 3,412,015 7,740,674 (4,328,660) In the analysis below the effects of 50 and 100 basis points increase on profit or loss and equity are demonstrated. The sensitivity analysis GBP ..................................................................................................................... 763,573 964,378 (200,805) JPY ....................................................................................................................... 4,576 801,404 (796,828) below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date. The analysis is prepared assuming the CHF ...................................................................................................................... 19,344 3,243,357 (3,224,013) amount outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. The analysis assumes that all other variables than basis DKK ..................................................................................................................... 11,834 13,358 (1,524) points are held constant. The sensitivity analysis does take into account tax effects. A positive amount below indicates an increase in profit NOK ..................................................................................................................... 3,125 12,452 (9,327) and other equity. A decrease in basis points would have an opposite impact on income statement and equity. SEK ...................................................................................................................... 564 267,196 (266,632) USD ..................................................................................................................... 142,419 3,897,449 (3,755,029) Effects on profit or loss and other equity are the same as change in valuation of the underlying financial instruments is not charged directly CAD ..................................................................................................................... 5,981 0 5,981 to equity. Positive amount indicates increased profits and equity. Lower interest rates would have the same effect but in the opposite direction: Sensitivity analysis The table below shows what effects 5% and 10% increase of the relevant foreign currency rate against the ISK would have on profit or loss 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 and other equity. The table above details monetary assets and liabilities that are denomintated in foreign currency and the sensitivity 50 bps. 100 bps. 50 bps. 100 bps. analysis apply to. The foreign currency assets and liabilities in the sensitivity analysis are mainly foreign currency borrowings and foreign currency bank balances. The analysis assumes that all other variables than the relevant foreign currency rate are held constant. The Effects on profit or loss and other equity ............................ (66,810) (133,623) (48,106) (96,212) sensitivity analysis does take into account tax effects. An decrease of the relevant foreign currency rate against the ISK would have an opposite impact on profit or and other equity. Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign Effects on profit or loss and equity 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 currency rates. 5% 10% 5% 10% Foreign currency risk exposure does arise when there is a difference between assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency. EUR ...................................................................................... (426,891) (853,781) (173,146) (346,293) GBP ...................................................................................... 2,358 4,715 (8,032) (16,064) JPY ....................................................................................... 61 123 (31,873) (63,746) CHF ...................................................................................... (101,915) (203,829) (128,961) (257,921) The majority of assets of the Company are in the local currency, but some of the financial assets are denominated in foreign currency. The DKK ...................................................................................... 1,577 3,155 (61) (122) majority of the liabilities of the Company are denominated in foreign currencies. Following table details the currencies that affect the NOK ..................................................................................... (17) (34) (373) (746) operations of the Company. Rates and volatility in exhange rates are based on mid rates. SED ...................................................................................... (28) (56) (10,665) (21,331) USD ...................................................................................... (117,464) (234,927) (150,201) (300,402) Year-end rate Average rate CAD ...................................................................................... 55 111 239 478 Currency 2016 2015 2016 2015 EUR ..................................................................................... 119.13 141.32 133.78 146.35 Credit risk GBP .................................................................................... 138.91 192.06 164.27 201.64 Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company. The JPY ...................................................................................... 0.966 1.076 1.113 1.090 Company monitors the credit risk development on a regular basis. CHF ..................................................................................... 110.81 130.50 122.66 137.21 DKK ..................................................................................... 16.02 18.94 17.97 19.62 Maximum credit risk Carrying amount NOK .................................................................................... 13.11 14.75 14.39 16.40 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 SEK ..................................................................................... 12.43 15.40 14.16 15.65 USD .................................................................................... 112.82 129.59 120.83 131.91 Bonds and other long term assets ...................................................................................................... 260,494 304,073 CAD .................................................................................... 83.72 93.27 91.18 103.42 Accounts receivables .......................................................................................................................... 2,625,764 1,633,010 Other receivables ................................................................................................................................ 1,589,233 695,482 Bank balances and cash ...................................................................................................................... 5,830,506 4,993,722 Foreign currency risk 31.12.2016 10,305,997 7,626,286 Assets Liabilities Net balance The maximum risk of the Company is the carrying amount itemized above. EUR ..................................................................................................................... 1,210,340 11,882,603 (10,672,263) GBP ..................................................................................................................... 70,601 11,659 58,942 JPY ....................................................................................................................... 1,537 0 1,537 CHF ...................................................................................................................... 63,468 2,611,332 (2,547,864) DKK ..................................................................................................................... 54,257 13,026 41,231 NOK ..................................................................................................................... 2,861 3,291 (430) SEK ...................................................................................................................... 2,186 2,891 (705) USD ..................................................................................................................... 257,573 3,194,161 (2,936,589) CAD ..................................................................................................................... 1,387 0 1,387 Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2016 21 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 98 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L 99 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. 2016 Annual Report Notes Notes 21. Other obligations Operating license 19. Financial risk (continued) Liquidity risk management Isavia ohf. holds a license from the Iceland Civil Aviation Administration for the operations of air navigation services under regulation No. 1129/2014 and a license for the operation of airports according to regulation No. 464/2007. The Company is also a holder of flight Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company has difficulties to meet its financial commitments in the near future. operating license to operate aerial work (flight test etc.) according to regulation No. 97/2009. The licenses are granted for variable periods. On a regular basis the Company monitors the liquidity balance, development and the effects of market environment. Licenses for the operations of air navigation service is valid until 2021 and Keflavik Airport, Reykjavik Airport, Akureyri Airport and Egilsstadir Airport are valid until December 31st, 2017. Registered landing area or other airports including airports for scheduled flights are Payable Payable between Payable valid until 2017. within 1 year 1 4 years after 4 years Total Under its operating license the Company is required to respect and meet all obligations within the range of responsibilities and the Liabilities 31.12.2016 operational area of the airport, the runways and terminal at Keflavik Airport which the Icelandic goverment has undertaken, and may Non-interest bearing .......................................................... 5,978,669 0 0 5,978,669 undertake. Floating interest rates ........................................................ 1,139,714 4,732,936 17,071,243 22,943,893 Fixed interest rates ............................................................ 96,475 444,889 721,225 1,262,589 In times of war, and in emergencies, the Company shall be obliged to grant the American Military Authorities, use of airport facilities at 7,214,858 5,177,825 17,792,468 30,185,151 Keflavik Airport. The International and Security Affairs Department of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs shall be responsible for liaising Assets 31.12.2016 between the Company and the American Military Authorities, whether directly or indirectly. Non-interest bearing .......................................................... 4,064,867 0 0 4,064,867 Floating interest rates ........................................................ 6,017,187 149,286 74,658 6,241,131 Service agreement for construction 10,082,054 149,286 74,658 10,305,997 The service agreement between the Ministry of the Interior and the Company applies to maintenance and construction of airports others Net balance 31.12.2016 2,867,196 (5,028,540) (17,717,810) (19,879,153) than Keflavik Airport. The company works with the Ministry of the Interior and prepares a proposal for maintance and construction which the company believes is neccessary to perform in accordance with the National Transportation Policy. The construction projects are Payable Payable between Payable included in this plan and are therefore agreed, according to the transportation policy. Payments are received according to a payment plan. within 1 year 1 4 years after 4 years Total In 2015 the amount for construction projects was in total ISK 349.9 million (2015: ISK 354.2 million). Liabilities 31.12.2015 Non-interest bearing .......................................................... 5,128,817 0 0 5,128,817 Floating interest rates ........................................................ 927,876 3,133,014 13,177,792 17,238,682 Service agreements for operations Fixed interest rates ............................................................ 89,342 411,973 824,696 1,326,010 6,146,034 3,544,987 14,002,488 23,693,508 Assets 31.12.2015 On the basis of the service agreement with the Ministry of the Interior the Company provides navigation services in local airspace; Non-interest bearing .......................................................... 2,338,476 39,939 35,235 2,413,650 operations, maintance and construction of airports and landing strips and publishes the AIP handbook. Floating interest rates ........................................................ 5,032,637 120,000 60,000 5,212,637 The Company is obliged to have in effect all legally binding insurance including liability insurance for air traffic control and airports. The 7,371,113 159,939 95,235 7,626,286 liability coverage at year-end for air traffic control and airports amounted to USD 1,000,000,000 and for flight testing amounted to USD 500,000. Net balance 31.12.2015 1,225,078 (3,385,048) (13,907,253) (16,067,222) The Company's legally binding insurance is exempt from liability due to acts of terrorism. The Company has procured insurance against terrorism covering damage in air navigation services and airports amounting to approximately USD 250,000,000 and USD 15,000,000 at 20. Other issues Keflavik Airport. Revenues of International Air Navigation Services The Company has purchased an idemnity insurance for the Board of Directors and Management which covers a loss up to ISK 300,000,000. On the basis of a service agreement with the Ministry of the Interior, the Company offers air navigation services within the Icelandic, Obligation due to employees Greenland, and Faroese airspaces in accordance with the Icelandic Government's commitments in international agreements. For this obligation, there is a so called Joint Financing Agreement which was signed in 1956 between 13 member countries of ICAO, The The Company has insured all its employees in accordance with applicable collective agreements, except certificates of insurance for air International Civil Aviation Organization. These member countries are now 24. The users of the service pay for the service in full. traffic controllers. According to collective agreements, the Company shall at its own expense ensure certification of each controller that has VFR and/or IFR qualifications. The Company has not purchased insurance and therefore has an obligation in accordance with Court Proceedings applicable collective agreements, if loss of certifications occurs. In the year 2015 Drífa ehf. started Court proceedings against Isavia ohf. demanding compensation for alleged damages in connection with 22. Related parties the pre-qualification process when renting commercial space in the duty free area of Leifur Eiríksson Air Terminal. A selection committee considered an offer from another bidder more advantageous. The amount of Compensation claimed is ISK 1,563 million. Isavia ohf. is on Related parties are those parties which have considerable influence over the Company, directly or indirectly, including parent company, the opinion that it acted in accordance with the pre-qualification procedure and the lawsuit is without merit. owners or their families, large investors, key employees and their families and parties that are controlled or dependent on the Company, i.e. affiliates and joint ventures. Isavia ohf. is a government owned private limited company and partial exemption is provided from the disclosure requirements for government-related entities in the revised version of IAS 24. Disclosures regarding salaries for the Board of Directors and Managing Director is explained in note no. 5. Sales of goods and service to key management personnel and related parties where immaterial. 23. Approval of financial statements The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on March 16th, 2017. 100 e) f) g) a) b) c) h) d) Isavia ohf. Notes a) EBITDA/total revenue e) Inventory/revenues Cost of goods sold/income from retail division ................................................................................... From Cash flow: Profitability Activity ratios From Balance sheet: 24. Consolidated ratios Liquidity ratios c) Earnings per share (EPS) FINANCIAL POSITION n) Net cash debt coverage ...................................................................................................................... l) Shareholders equity/total assets Coverage ratios Salaries and related expenses/operating revenues ............................................................................ n) Cash flow from operat./Total liabilities f) Net income/average total assets Earnings before interests, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) ........................................ Investment in inventories ................................................................................................................... O F I SAV I A From Statement of Comprehensive Income: Operating expenses as percentage of revenues i) Quick or acid-test ratio ....................................................................................................................... Administrative expenses/operating revenues .................................................................................... Contribution margin on operation ...................................................................................................... i) (Current assets inventories)/average total assets Rate of return on assets ...................................................................................................................... Other operating expenses/operating revenues .................................................................................. o) Quality of sales .................................................................................................................................... l) Equity ratio ......................................................................................................................................... Profit margin on operating revenue .................................................................................................... j) Current ratio ....................................................................................................................................... b) Net income/total revenue o) Paid in revenue/stated revenue g) Cost of goods sold/average inventory Inventory turnover .............................................................................................................................. C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L Depreciation and amortization/operating revenue ............................................................................ Earning per share (EPS) ....................................................................................................................... j) Current assets/current liabilities d) Net income/average equity p) Cash flow from operat./net profit m) Shareholders equity/capital stock k) Net Interest Bearing Debts/EBITDA .................................................................................................... Receivables turnover .......................................................................................................................... p) Quality of net profit ............................................................................................................................ Operating expenses/operating revenues Return on equity ................................................................................................................................. m) Internal value of shares ....................................................................................................................... h) Reveneus/average accounts receivables S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 6 2016 2016 8,856,519 2016 16.51% 26.83% 42.00% 2.22% 45.68% 0.02 31.12.2016 20.97% 12.44% 0.19 1.42 0.63 1.24 7.68% 0.89 1.49 11.20 80.85% 1.13 4.84 2.03 15.50 29.34% 2015 2015 6,008,492 2015 18.13% 23.10% 42.44% 2.48% 44.56% 0.02 31.12.2015 11.81% 13.85% 0.25 1.22 0.60 0.55 7.72% 2.06 1.30 10.76 84.63% 1.78 3.60 2.26 15.76 16.52% Notes 25. Segment reporting Segment information are disclosed on basis of organizational structure and internal management information. Segments are divided on basis of three operational components from the parent company and one subsidiary. Majority of Air navigation component consists of service to carriers granted on basis of the Joint Finance Agreement. Domestic systems are operation of airports and airport control towers for domestic flights. Keflavik airport are operation of airport and control tower in Keflavik in addition to Leifur Eiriksson Air Terminal. The Duty Free is a retail business and Others consists of support units of the parent company and two subsidiaries. One client has revenues that comprise more than 10% of the consolidation revenue, that is Icelandair Group ISK 5.964 million or about 18.1% of the consolidate operating revenues. Segment information year 2016: AirDomestic Keflavik Duty Free navigation Airports Airport Store Others Eliminations Consolidated Revenue: External revenue ............................................................................. 5,796,641 2,150,209 13,309,093 11,410,034 342,341 33,008,318 Inter-segment revenue .................................................................... 605,194 42,399 3,812,414 0 2,179,766 (6,639,773) 0 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN THOUSANDS Total revenue .................................................................................. 5,225,181 2,048,265 12,571,315 9,731,402 2,454,884 (6,018,122) 26,012,925 Comprehensive income: Operating profit ............................................................................... 578,533 24,772 5,327,352 319,051 72,296 6,322,003 Net financial income / (expenses) .................................................... 2,303,887 Profit before taxes .......................................................................... 8,625,890 Total comprehensive income .......................................................... 6,922,830 Balance sheet: OF ICELANDIC KRÓNUR. Non-current assets .......................................................................... 3,652,045 906,997 42,274,767 350,568 1,281,920 48,466,297 Other assets unallocated to segments ............................................. 10,762,737 Total assets ..................................................................................... 59,229,033 Total liabilities .................................................................................. 32,172,170 Other information: Capital additions ............................................................................. 764,048 125,869 12,464,160 102,310 375,728 13,832,115 Depreciation and amortization ......................................................... 263,338 79,256 2,052,082 94,465 45,374 2,534,516 Segment information year 2015: AirDomestic Keflavik Duty Free navigation Airports Airport Store Others Eliminations Consolidated Revenue: External revenue ............................................................................. 4,742,496 1,960,956 9,273,006 9,731,402 305,065 26,012,925 Inter-segment revenue .................................................................... 482,684 87,309 3,298,309 0 2,149,819 (6,018,122) 0 Total revenue .................................................................................. 4,570,385 1,916,418 9,876,154 8,734,192 2,117,157 (5,134,869) 22,079,436 Comprehensive income: Operating profit ............................................................................... 374,775 -10,403 3,444,614 190,429 (373) 3,999,041 Net financial income / (expenses) .................................................... (180,770) Profit before taxes .......................................................................... 3,818,271 Total comprehensive income .......................................................... 3,073,094 Balance sheet: Non-current assets .......................................................................... 3,128,041 876,465 31,830,792 344,016 1,044,917 37,224,232 Other assets unallocated to segments ............................................. 7,962,990 Total assets ..................................................................................... 45,187,222 Total liabilities .................................................................................. 25,053,188 Other information: Capital additions ............................................................................. 642,318 223,351 6,511,737 99,791 108,161 7,585,357 Depreciation and amortization ......................................................... 192,478 72,268 1,572,623 86,405 85,677 2,009,451 2016 Annual Report 101 Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2016 26 All amounts are in thous 102 103 Isavia ohf. 2016 Annual Report 104 Isavia ohf. Isavia —— +354 424 4000 — isavia@isavia.is — isavia.is
