Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress 2016 1 Contents 3 Basic data 4 About Deloitte 5 Statement of continued support to UNGC 6 Principles 1 and 2 10 Principles 3, 4 and 5 12 Principle 6 14 Principle 7 15 Principles 8 and 9 17 Principle 10 19 Availability of Communication on Progress 20 Notes 2 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 Basic data Company: Deloitte Address: Radnička cesta 80, 10 000 Zagreb Country: Croatia Contact: Višnja Matković, Marketing, Communications & Business Development Manager E-mail: vmatkovic@deloittece.com Phone: +385 1 2351 900 Membership date: 13th July 2007 Number of employees: 209 Sector: Professional services Date of submission of COP: 3rd August 2017 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 3 About Deloitte About Deloitte Central Europe Deloitte is the brand under which tens of Deloitte Central Europe is a regional thousands of dedicated professionals in organization of entities organized under independent firms throughout the world the umbrella of Deloitte Central Europe collaborate to provide audit, consulting, Holdings Limited, the member firm in financial advisory, risk management, tax Central Europe of Deloitte Touche and legal services to selected clients. These Tohmatsu Limited. Services are provided firms are members of Deloitte Touche by the subsidiaries and affiliates of Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited, company limited by guarantee. Each which are separate and independent legal member firm provides services in a entities. particular geographic area and is subject to the laws and professional regulations of the The subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte particular country or countries in which it Central Europe Holdings Limited are operates. DTTL does not itself provide among the region’s leading professional services to clients. DTTL and DTTL member services firms, providing services through firm are separate and distinct legal entities, more than 6,000 people in 37 offices in 17 which cannot obligate the other entities. countries. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are only liable for their own acts or omissions, and About Deloitte Croatia not those of each other. Each of the In Croatia, the services are provided by member firms operates under the names Deloitte Ltd. and Deloitte Advisory Services Deloitte , Deloitte & Touche , Deloitte Ltd. (jointly referred to as “Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu , or other related names. Croatia”) which are affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited. Each DTTL member firm is structured differently in accordance with national laws, Deloitte Croatia is one of the leading regulations, customary practice, and other professional services organizations in the factors, and may secure the provision of country providing audit, tax, consulting, professional services in their territories risk services, financial advisory and legal through subsidiaries, affiliates, and/or other services through more than 200 national entities. and specialized expatriate professionals. 4 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact As Country Leader in Deloitte Croatia, I hereby confirm our continued support for the Global Compact. I find the Global Compact to be a valuable tool when working towards upholding social and environmental ethics throughout all links of our work. For Deloitte and Deloitte Advisory Services Zlatko Bazianec, Country Leader Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 5 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Deloitte recognizes that we have a responsibility to uphold human rights in the workplace and to use our influence and reach to foster support for human rights more broadly within society. We work to address human rights issues within our community. In the workplace, human rights take the form of non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, professional development that aids employability, and maintaining work-life balance. Recruiting and retention activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. 6 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 Actions implemented Impact day September 2016 – Terry Fruit refreshment Fox Run Fresh fruits and healthy snacks are This years Impact day was a little bit provided in each department. different from the ones held before. On 25th of September 2016, Croatian office staff participated in The Terry Fox Run which is an annual event held in many countries across the World, including Croatia. More than 80 participants gathered at the start point and many of them ran. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 7 Professional qualification Work-Life Balance In accordance with our global policy that Deloitte continuously strives to well educated and contended employees ensure a work environment and are the company's most important asset, culture that promotes personal and Deloitte enables its employees to obtain professional development. professional qualification by attending different courses (ACCA, Certified In Deloitte Croatia, employees have Auditor, ASA, CISA, CFA, CPA). The an opportunity for flexible work company covers all expenses except in arrangements, which includes flexible case of repeated exams, which are paid time, reduced working hours, partby employees themselves. In 2016, time arrangements and career Deloitte in Croatia educated 100 of its breaks. This policy has to be employees, and the number of discussed with the responsible participants in this education is Partner and in each instance; constantly rising. decisions will be tailored to specific circumstances for the case at hand. All employees who are taking the exams have four free days for study-leave (3 days per exam for studying and one day for exam). Days, which are spent on study-leave, are paid like a regular working days. 8 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 Health and well-being initiative Child support The health and well-being of Each employee, regardless of employees is of great concern to gender, receives financial support in Deloitte, and Deloitte have put a the form of a bonus for a new-born programme in place to help our baby. This programme was employees stay healthy. All Deloitte introduced in September 2007 and Croatia employees have additional is a continuing activity. health-care coverage which including systematic check-ups and consultations with specialists. In agreement with different sports centres all Deloitte employees have the opportunity to attend sports according to their affinities. Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Health programme On-going 100% Child support On-going 6% (100% new parents) Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 9 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Our commitment or policy Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its employees must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. 10 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 Actions implemented Deloitte’s SheXO club was a sponsor of the Theatre “Mala scena” play “PUŽ” which is a play for children, about the boy who was not in the rush to grow up. At the event, where children of the SheXO club members had a chance to watch the play, we also organized a book giving and signing with Croatian famous children writer Sanja Pilić. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 11 Principle 6 Business should support the elimination and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment or policy A part of Deloitte’s global vision – being the Standard of Excellence among professional services firms – is a desire to become the employer of choice for the most talented experts around the world. Women make up close to 45 percent of Deloitte member firms’ global workforce. Deloitte’s global goal is to increase the percentage of women among directors and partners. In 2015 Deloitte Croatia named first woman Partner, Marina Tonžetić who is also a first woman Partner in Big 4 in Croatia. Deloitte is committed to establishing programmes in order to develop, mentor and prepare women to be the next generation of global leaders. Elements of future programmes will include:  Learning and leadership development opportunities designed specifically for women  Building global networks both internally and externally  More consistent and comprehensive work/life balance structure Among Deloitte Croatia’s current employees, approximately 60 percent are women. 12 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 Diversity policy SheXO Club – programme dedicated At Deloitte, we know that cultural, gender, to networking of business woman and generation diversity are key elements of In 2012, Deloitte Croatia launched a talent development. Last year we held ‘SheXO Club’ for successful women in several diversity workshops across Central business with a variety of backgrounds, Europe. We set up a dedicated Diversity focus areas and interests. In the past Intranet page, created a guidebook for four years, the club has become a parents planning parental career breaks, networking platform for successful and rolled out updated attendance and businesswomen. Since it was flexible work arrangements policies. All are established, 10 meetings have been aimed at helping employees balance their held in Croatia covering such topics as career, family responsibilities, and personal personal development, work-life development. balance, and health. Additionally, in 2012, Deloitte Central Europe launched the SheXO Club, a project dedicated to women with exceptional performance in the business environment. The initiative brings together a network of women leaders (CEOs, CFOs, COOs, etc.) from multinational, national, and entrepreneurial companies, 3-4 times on a yearly basis. SheXO Clubs are now active in Poland, Slovenia, Bosnia, Croatia, Romania, Albania and the Czech Republic. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 13 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Green Frog Award In 2015, Deloitte Croatia started with the Initiative called Green Frog Award. Green Frog Award aims to identify and reward excellence in corporate non-financial reporting. Best Sustainability Reports in the previous years were: in 2015 Green Frog Award was given to INA-Industrija nafte d.d. and in the 2016 to JGL, Jadran-Galenski laboratorij d.d. 14 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy We believe that each company has a responsibility to minimize the impact of its business on the environment. Deloitte Croatia carries out a number of activities under the “Green Dot” umbrella that are aimed at improving our relationship to the environment. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 15 “Green Dot” programme Activities implemented include:  Bins for collecting waste paper in all copy rooms and open office spaces  Sorting recyclable materials: paper, glass, PET, toners; 2 special bins  Recycling printer toners  Two-sided printing set as default option for all printers that have this possibility  Introducing the message “Please consider environment before printing this e-mail” as an obligatory part of all emails  Implementing light sensors in our office Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Waste paper bins On-going 13 collection units Sorting recyclable materials On-going 100% Toner recycling On-going 100% Two-sided printing On-going 100% “Green” e-mail message On-going 100% Light sensors On-going 100% 16 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery Our commitment or policy In particular, the principles offer At the heart of our business culture are guidance about appropriate ethical the Ethical Principles, adopted by each and professional conduct covering of Deloitte’s member firms and linking areas that are critically important to directly to Deloitte’s Global Shared the member firms’ clients, their Values. These nine principles define the people and society. The principles are: standards of ethical behaviour that Honesty and Integrity; Ethical unite all the people of DTT’s member Behaviour; Competence; Objectivity; firms. Confidentiality; Fair Business Practices; Responsibility to Society; Respect and Fairness; Accountability and Decision-making. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 17 Actions implemented Educational programme on the Ethical Principles of the member firms of Deloitte The educational programme on the Ethical Principles is mandatory for all employees. It is an online e-learning and intranet which uses examples and scenarios from real life, as well as a resource on ethical business that can be used by our experts at any time. Deloitte also regularly confirms that employees abide by independence and compliance rules, ensuring that our business practice is carried out according to accepted rules and procedures. Independence Compliance Confirmation Completing an Independence Compliance Confirmation is mandatory for all employees. Maintaining compliance with the member firm’s independence policies is an important part of a Deloitte’s professional responsibilities. Anti-Money Laundering This program covers the required minimum to ensure that employees are complying with the law in the course of their work with Deloitte. Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Anti-Money Laundering December 2016 100% Ethics education December 2016 100% Independence December 2016 100% 18 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 Availability of COP How does Deloitte Croatia intend to make this Communication on Progress available to the stakeholders? Internal and external stakeholders The Communication on Progress will be available on the website of Deloitte Croatia. Internal stakeholders The submission of the Communication on Progress will be communicated to all employees in an internal newsletter. Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 19 Notes 20 Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touché Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/hr/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, financial advisory and legal services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and highquality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte's more than 200,000 professionals are committed to becoming the standard of excellence. In Croatia, the services are provided by Deloitte Ltd. and Deloitte Advisory Services Ltd. (jointly referred to as “Deloitte Croatia”) which are affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited. Deloitte Croatia is one of the leading professional services organizations in the country providing services in audit, tax, consulting, risk services and financial advisory services, through around 150 national and specialized expatriate professionals. © 2016 Deloitte Croatia Make an impact Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2016 21
