Contents 1 2 About Mindtree 04 About sustainability reporting 14 Executive message 06 Frameworks for sustainability and CSR 16 Top news (2016-17) 08 Governance and advocacy 17 Our commitments (2017-18) 10 Materiality and stakeholder management 22 3 Volunteering 30 Volunteering the Mindtree way 31 Volunteering? What’s in it 36 4 5 Leader speak 42 Leader speak 54 CSR Charter 44 Smart business through resource eﬃciency 57 The Mindtree Foundation 47 Responsible procurement 60 Empowering communities 49 Ecological performance 62 6 7 Leader speak 68 Leader speak 89 Focus on people-culture 71 Inclusive growth 92 Engaging and developing Business value creation 92 talent and leadership 72 Economic value addition 95 Enhancing transparency 76 Improving diversity 77 Annexures Global presence 97 Assurance statement 100 Data techniques & assumptions 103 UNGC & NVG application 105 GRI-G4 content index 110 Glossary 121 About the writer 124 Welcome to Mindtree About Mindtree Seventeen years ago, Mindtree was built Our Mission: We engineer with the intention of serving transformative technology solutions to markets while meaningful technology helping societies ﬂourish. Innate in our solutions to help businesses vision is the ideology of societal wellbeing, and apparent in our actions, the will to and societies ﬂourish. translate it into impacts on the ground. Our sustainability framework consists of With annual revenues of `52,364 million three pillars: governance and advocacy, and net proﬁts at `4,186 million in 2016-17, workplace sustainability and ecological Mindtree is poised well for strong growth, sustainability. Our CSR framework―nongiven our strengths in emerging strategic in intent and nature, is driven technologies including digital, cloud through Mindtree Foundation and also and analytics. new initiatives involving technological leverage. Our CSR policy, the board-level Mindtree enables digital transformation for CSR Committee, CSR Steering Committee, Global 2000 clients, from ideation to our strong set of relevant policies, CXOexecution. Expertise-led, culture-backed level oversight on sustainability, and our organization that we are, we place our functional focus on sustainability form people at the core of our success, and our architecture for responsible business. ensure that growth stays inclusive in multiple ways, for the society and the A United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) planet as well. signatory and a regular reporter of the 4 carbon footprint (Carbon Disclosure responsibility we treasure, the power of our Project), Mindtree endorses global communities to cause sustainability impacts guidelines and frameworks in business and our eﬀorts to remain a learning responsibility. We have been publishing organization with state-of-the-art our sustainability report based on the technologies. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This report shares the spirit our people bring framework since 2012-13, mapped to the to volunteering, an important expression of UNGC principles and National Voluntary an organization’s way of serving the cause Guidelines of the Government of India of sustainability. Our volunteers help us (NVG). We also publish our Business sustain our responsibility vision at all levels, Responsibility Report, as a part of our at all times. This report is dedicated to the Annual Report. spirit of our volunteers! Each of our sustainability reports is based on a theme close to our vision of Welcome to possible. sustainability. Our reports have shared with our stakeholders, stories of individual 5 Executive message Krishnakumar Natarajan, Rostow Ravanan, Executive Chairman CEO & MD Our short term goals are satisfactorily Technology and partnerships bearing fruit in terms of resource are key to solving larger eﬃciencies, and our medium term plans sustainability issues. for clean energy have progressed well. Our commitment to taking renewable Sustainability is ingrained into our vision energy component to 20% of our energy of making societies ﬂourish. While mix in the medium term remains strong. sustainability makes smart business Our growth stands testimony to strong sense in terms of resource conservation, fundamentals and remains as inclusive attracting high quality talent, our as ever. technological competencies give us an opportunity to solve larger issues of Mindtree Foundation continues to serve sustainable development. Mindtree is the society in multiple ways and increasingly involved in taking these Mindtree Minds are volunteering more opportunities forward. Our priorities are than ever to bring about social change. set by pressing sustainability issues in We, as an organization, have deployed the global and national contexts, issues our technological capabilities to serve a that touch us deeply and our capabilities set of sustainability causes. Technology to execute ideas. is a powerful path to solve larger 6 issues, and our focus and investments have structuring and monitoring of our been growing in this direction. Our sustainability actions and impacts. It has technologically powered platforms and evolved over the last ﬁve years, reiterating programs (e.g. I Got Garbage, I Got Crops, its value all along. We are keen to further I Got Skills) have made considerable inroads ﬁne-tune and align it with changing global into addressing issues of urban waste, benchmarks. For us, transparency is not agricultural ineﬃciencies, skills and about compliance. It’s the right thing to do. unemployment, and are transforming the This year’s sustainability report celebrates lives of waste-pickers, farmers and youth, the spirit of our volunteers―our foot and helping them evolve innovative, new soldiers who are translating our vision for solutions. social change into ground-level action. An organization’s endeavor in social Partnering with diﬀerent organizations is responsibility can only be complete when yet another eﬀective way of solving its people take up ownership and sustainability issues. We have initiated a channelize it into their personal capacities. ﬁve-member partnership model to address We are proud to say that our volunteer the issue of quality of education in Mindtree Minds are doing exactly that and government schools, the impacts of which transforming us into a socially responsible should be visible by next year. organization. We believe transparency is key to a sustainable organization and continue to Welcome to possible. endorse key global and national frameworks and guidelines for responsible business. We are regularly reporting our non-ﬁnancial performance based on GRI framework, mapping to UNGC and NVG guidelines. The journey of non-ﬁnancial reporting has been beneﬁcial for us in terms of better 7 Top news: 2016-17 Women intake at entry CSR total funds spent 100% clean energy at Revenues grew by 9.4% in level rose to 49% ` 109,065,812 our headquarters (West the turbulent market campus, Bengaluru) and 80% at our East campus, 32,117 beneﬁciaries Bengaluru 328 active clients impacted through our 16,470 Mindtree Minds CSR projects of Mindtree Foundation Trailing 12 months attrition at 15% Per capita emissions showed a decrease from Launched a major 2.44 tons CO2e /employee/ drive for delivery and Transformed the lives of operational excellence: annum to 2.29 tons CO2e/ over 8,000 waste pickers, Project DRIVE employee/annum Launched Yorbit, and recycled 20 million online learning platfrom kilograms of waste oﬀering 1,013 courses 100 lady Mindtree Minds identiﬁed for leadership 89.28% of waste Five more one-million under the Exuberance recycled clients added, taking the Transformed the lives of program total to 111 1,20,000 farmers in 2,000 villages Our water consumption 6 months’ maternity leave. was at 1.02 kl/employee/ Milady, an app exclusively Imparted over 1,00,000 month for lady Mindtree Minds trainings in 25 states launched to promote micro entrepreneurship Two key leadership programmes launched University of Commons, a shared platform for NGOs, Government and citizens, launched 300 community initiatives through 5,000 (external and internal) volunteers 8 Recognitions: 2016-17 • Voted as one of the 50 Happiest Companies in America for 2016. Our values • The ‘2016 New Jersey Corporate Culture Award’ by Smart CEO’s for its successful cultural practices. Collaborative • Ranked in the NASSCOM Top 20 IT-BPM Employers Spirit in India FY2016 list. • Named as 2016 Azure Innovation Partner of the Year Unrelenting Expert by Microsoft. dedication thinking • Recognized as an overall leader in software testing services by Nelson Hall, in its Vendor Evaluation and Assessment (NEAT) Report 2016. • Named in Forbes India’s Super 50 Companies List 2016 for the second consecutive year based on consistent shareholder returns, sales growth and return on equity. • Recognized as a Leader in IAOP’s 2016 Global Outsourcing 100 for global excellence. • Ranked #3 under the categories ‘Best CEO, IR Professional, IR program, Analyst Days, Website’ and the ‘Most Honoured Company’ in the IT Sector for 2016 in the All Asia Executive Team rankings by Institutional Investor. • Placed in the inaugural ‘Working Mother and AVTAR 2016 Top 10 Best Companies for Women in India’. * For a more detailed list of awards, please look at https://www.mindtree.com/about-us/awards-and-achievements/awards-conferred-mindtree 9 Our commitments: 2017-18 Workplace CSR Economic Continue focus on diversity Continue taluk-based Strengthen capabilities in at entry and middle levels focus for CSR projects new technology areas Strengthen the behavioural Enhance the full spectrum Strengthen our sales force and social elements of our services in each taluk, further to align to the learning modules from ﬁlling gaps, if any future requirements of entry to middle levels the market Environment Make signiﬁcant progress Pursue economic growth in leadership development Solar power plant based on our strengths programme for women (200 KW to 300 KW) a growth which is inclusive at our Pune location in impacts Launch a renewed system for career planning at Solar power plant various levels (500 KW to 600 KW) at Mindtree Kalinga campus Promote individual responsibility towards resources conservation 10 CO2 Sustainability enablers About sustainability reporting The journey of sustainability reporting, ﬁve years ago, was started because it is the right thing to do. It has brought in great value for us in turn, not only in sketching our sustainability proﬁle clearly for our external stakeholders, but also in deﬁning our focus on what is truly ‘material’ to our sustainability, and aligning our internal processes in that direction. This is still work in progress, and is evolving. Reporting uplifts our performance to new levels. The Chitra Byregowda leadership stands unanimous in recognizing Head, Sustainability & Diversity the value of reporting, and is committed to evolve internal focus and enablers to Sustainability reporting is of emulate global benchmarks in this journey great value to Mindtree. which is both external and internal. With the imperative of GRI standards next year, Mindtree approaches its social and the imminent Integrated Reporting responsibility through nonstrategic raising the bar further, we are aware that we CSR―with its policies, Foundation, have our work cut out. We are ready to and a strategic sustainability framework evolve further. comprising governance and advocacy, workplace sustainability and ecological This sustainability report covers the ﬁnancial sustainability. year 2016-17, with our ﬁnancial performance across our global locations and For Mindtree, transparency is a key value: environmental and social performance We submit Carbon Disclosure Report (CDP) covering our India operations, as did our annually. Our annual report contains a previous reports. There is no change in scope Business Responsibility Report (BRR). We or structure of the organization which may have been publishing our sustainability have bearing on this report, in its report since 2012-13, based on the GRI comparability with previous ones. The report framework, mapped to UNGC and NVG. Our is in accordance with comprehensive sustainability reports are annual, based on criterion of GRI-G4 framework, and is our performance in the ﬁnancial year. 14 externally veriﬁed by KPMG. The report promoting volunteering. Our people share content has been deﬁned and captured as their experiences of volunteering and how per the GRI guidance, and is based on the it has changed them and their lives. They material issues that were determined in an have chosen to be anonymous in sharing extensive exercise in 2015-16 and reﬁned their stories. and modiﬁed internally for 2016-17. We thank everyone who shared their The theme of this report is the spirit of positive feedback on our previous volunteering. Volunteering is an important sustainability reports. I invite each one you way of giving back to the society, and to share your invaluable feedback. Mindtree promotes volunteering in all Welcome to possible. possible ways it can. However, we do not share here, our investments or eﬀorts in 15 Mindtree sustainability framework Mindtree sustainability framework Workplace Governance Ecological sustainability and advocacy sustainability • Diverse workforce • Policies • Carbon footprint reduction • Inclusive workspace • Code of conduct • Resource conservation • Labour regulation • Transparency • Environmental legislation compliance • Employee engagement • Risk management • Green infrastructure • Reporting and disclosure • Financial compliance Mindtree CSR framework Direct CSR | CSR through Mindtree Foundation | Supporting through individual social responsibility Beneﬁt the Promote education diﬀerently-abled Create sustainable Voluntary engagement livelihood opportunities 16 Governance and advocacy Governance and advocacy form key pillars of our sustainability framework and anchor us as an ethical business. Our guiding principles Global endorsements • Act in the spirit of the law • We endorse OECD principles. and not just the letter of the law • We are a UNGC signatory. • Do what is right and not what • We endorse the precautionary is convenient principle for resources. • Provide complete transparency on • We support internationally proclaimed our operations human rights. • Follow openness in our • We report our carbon performance as communication with all stakeholders per CDP. • We report our sustainability performance based on GRI framework. • We map our reporting to the global UNGC and the national NVG principles. Governance anchored on • We publish BRR as a part of our annual report. • Honesty • Integrity • Fairness • Transparency Our policy architecture • We endorse OECD principles. • Code of conduct • Integrity policy Key advocacy platforms • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy we are engaged with: • Whistle-blower policy • CII • Prevention of sexual harassment policy • NASSCOM • Non-discrimination policy • FICCI • Equal remuneration policy • ASSOCHAM • Open door policy for communication • BCIC • Environmental health and safety policy 17 Ethical Governance Having laid out a strong policy architecture 324 stakeholders grievances totally, with for responsible governance, our one pending at the end of the ﬁnancial year communication mechanisms ensure all 2016-17. Mindtree Minds are oriented to the Owing to our robust Compliance Framework, expectations right from the beginning. and our principle of adhering to the spirit of Information on the intranet, training the law and not just the letter of law, modules, periodic mailers on policies and incidences of non-compliance have been our consistent message, frequent sessions prevented eﬀectively. Compliance from Mindtree leaders on zero-tolerance to framework of Mindtree which captures all deviations go a long way in aligning our the statutory requirements (voluntary people with the culture that we desire to requirements being decentralised at the inculcate. functional level) constantly scans the Our extensive trainings and risk assessments emerging trends in regulation across the regarding anti-corruption were carried out at globe. With the support of external content all locations. Our open door policy and providers, we educate the relevant internal various grievance mechanisms continue to stakeholders on the requirements and keep the access open for issues and expectations, and monitor adherence complaints of all nature. Our workers had a through functional owners. representation of 3.69% in health and No incidents of breach of law reported safety related committees, actively taking regarding environmental compliance, part in the action. marketing communication, anti-competitive There were 2 cases of sexual harassment behaviour, unfair business practice, product/ reported in the year 2016-17 and resolved. service regulation, penalties or sanctions, Total number of cases of breach of integrity breach of customer privacy or human rights were 39, and all were resolved. We resolved reported in the year 2016-17. 18 Our Board and its Committees Vice Chairman and President (who is also a CSR Committee member), and is driven by the Our Board of Directors is secured on the set Sustainability functionwhich includes the of our core, ethical values and the legacy Diversity Function, categorized under our set by our founders for over a decade and People Function. Our Executive Chairman a half. It is structured to leverage a chairs the CSR Committee and the CEO sits balance between directors and on the CSR Committee as well, bringing the independent directors, executive and top level attention to the domain. nonexecutive capacities and also gender-diversity. Two members of our board of directors are women. While the deﬁnition and direction of vision, values, and strategies are set and led by the board of directors, the direction on Sustainability and CSR (policies, strategies and goals) is also set at the board level at Mindtree. Critical concerns, Board competency in sustainability: Our issues and conﬂicts get channelized to the board members hail from backgrounds of highest governance body through the high excellence and performance from relevant communication channels that diverse ﬁelds, bringing with them a plethora remain open for ground level feedback. of competences and capabilitieswhich There were no critical concerns related include business responsibility aspects. to sustainability matters that were Apart from being leaders in their respective communicated to the board in the year domains, several of them have been 2016-17. actively involved in social causes, Structure for Sustainability campaigning and contributions. CSR Committee and CSR Steering Being philanthropists for diverse causes, Committee spearhead the CSR agenda, some of them have set examples for performance and review. The CSR personal volunteering in the company. In Committee of the board meets once every 2013, our then Chairman, Subroto Bagchi, quarter and on a need-basis to ensure set up the White Swan Foundation as a periodic focus on topics of social impact. personal initiative. The not-for-proﬁt organization oﬀers knowledge services in We do not have a board level committee mental healthan often neglected area of on Sustainability. Sustainability, including societal wellbeing. reporting, is overviewed by our Executive 19 Evaluation of board performance on Selection process and EES aspects: Sustainability: Evaluations of the Statutory provisions guide diversity and performance of the board are carried out independence criteria during the selection regularly; sustainability performance is a of the board members. Expertise on EES part of this evaluation, with no exclusive (economic, environmental and social focus on EES criteria. Some of our board impacts) is considered and due discretion members and some CXOs carry within their applied. Stakeholder consultation is not mandate, a set of CSR or Sustainability goals involved in nomination/selection process. naturally embedded into their roles. The Approval is sought through voting for goals are a part of the performance appointment of directors. management system, which is in turn linked The process for determination of to remuneration. For example, our remuneration of the board members and Chairman’s goals include CSR plans, our senior executives starts with an executive COO’s goals include carbon footprint benchmarking survey carried out by a reduction, energy savings and so on. We are third party agency. Taking into account yet to move to a system where all CXOs its recommendations and the internal have EES goals built into their roles and performance evaluations, under the remuneration. We at present have not supervision of the Nomination and implemented overt measures to develop Remuneration Committee, executive and enhance the collective knowledge of remunerations are set or modiﬁed. the highest governance body on EES topics. 20 Board of Directors Director Designation Krishnakumar Natarajan, 60 Executive Chairman Rostow Ravanan, 46 CEO & Managing Director N. S. Parthasarathy, 56 Executive Vice Chairman, President & COO Dr. Albert Hieronimus, 70 Vice Chairman & Independent Director V. G. Siddhartha, 57 Non-Executive Director Subroto Bagchi, 60 Non-Executive Director Prof. Pankaj Chandra, 58 Independent Director Apurva Purohit, 50 Independent Director Manisha Girotra, 47 Independent Director Milind Sarwate, 57 Independent Director Akshaya Bhargava, 60 Independent Director Board Committees Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Risk Management Committee Mr. Krishnakumar Natarajan Mr. Krishnakumar Natarajan Chairperson Chairperson Mr. Subroto Bagchi Mr. Rostow Ravanan Member Member Prof. Pankaj Chandra Mr. N. S. Parthasarathy Member Member Mr. Rostow Ravanan Mr. Akshaya Bhargava Member Member Mr. N. S. Parthasarathy Member Nomination & Remuneration Committee Ms. Apurva Purohit Administrative Committee Chairperson Mr. Krishnakumar Natarajan Dr. Albert Hieronimus Chairperson Member Mr. Rostow Ravanan Prof. Pankaj Chandra Member Member Mr. N. S. Parthasarathy Mr. Subroto Bagchi Member Member Mr. Krishnakumar Natarajan Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Member Dr. Albert Hieronimus Chairperson Audit Committee Mr. Rostow Ravanan Mr. Milind Sarwate Member Chairperson Dr. Albert Hieronimus Member Ms. Apurva Purohit Member Mr. Akshaya Bhargava Member Mr. V. G. Siddhartha Member 21 Materiality and stakeholder management The material issues identiﬁed by Mindtree and its stakeholders point at areas where we focus our current endeavours, and further strengthen our performance in the future. The external exercise we started in with the intent of better focus for action. 2015-16 to determine material issues was This did not make signiﬁcant or substantial an important step in the direction of changes to the original set of issues aligning our performance more closely identiﬁed in the previous year. (Details of the exercise shared in our last sustainability report 2015-16) with what is important and impactful for us and our stakeholders. Each material issue had its own goals Our materiality matrix underwent minor mapped to it, and performance was reﬁnements in 2016-17, given our collated across all of them. Report content increased clarity on each issue and its was deﬁned based on the GRI procedure, actionability. The changes were in the ensuring that GRI principles were nature of grouping or regrouping, and adhered to. making a part of an issue more explicit, PEOPLE / SOCIAL ECOLOGICAL ECONOMIC • People focus • Sales & delivery transformation HIGH • Transparency & disclosure • Industry leading growth • Green procurement • Green IT • Deep domain expertise • CSR – community investment projects • Digital transformation MEDIUM • People engagement • Customer privacy & • Talent & leadership development • Environmental stewardship data security • Diverse workforce LOW • Environmental compliance & management * Low, medium and high denote level of concern with each issue 22 Goals we set forth for our materiality issues Social Ecological People focus Green IT • Create a diﬀerentiated culture that Mindtree Minds • Achieving 20% or more clean energy component (solar, value wind, micro hydro) in the overall energy consumption – in a three-year time frame • More fun at work and greater work-life balance • Rigor on making Mindtree a great place to work for talented people Environmental stewardship • Safety & wellbeing initiatives • Further reduction in GHG emissions. • Reduction in per capita energy Transparency and disclosure • Reduction in per capita water • Processes for greater fairness in the performance • Increase in waste recycling component management system, compensation and career progressions Environmental Compliance & Management • Revised performance management process with focus • Stringent environmental compliance on continuous feedback, and removal of ratings from certain competency level and above • Upgradation of environmental management systems • Continue People Advisory Council as a part of the policy making process • Continue processes for grievance redressal • Continue focus on 360 degree feedback, leadership development programs and other such initiatives Economic Green procurement • Identify enterprises that are run by minority or Sales and delivery transformation women-based entrepreneurs and encourage them with • Sales transformation – to equip our customer-facing proportion of procurement spend teams to adapt to the changing expectations of our customers and prospects • Vendor engagement & traininglabor conditions, regulations & compliance, code of conduct, policies • Delivery transformation -with dual focus -Project DRIVE for improving eﬃciency and strong technology and • Grievance system to track issuesstrengthen vendor execution focus feedback to CFO CSR – Community Investment Projects Industry-leading growth • Sustain current programs • Achieve industry-leading growth through deep domain expertise in our chosen verticals combined with • Extend programs to taluk levels technology depth, customized for clients • Increase monitoring and capacity-building of NGOs for better impact assessment Deep domain expertise • Achieve industry-leading growth through deep domain People Engagement expertise in our chosen verticals combined with • To increase employee satisfaction technology depth, customized for clients • To reduce attrition Talent & Leadership Development • Run world-class KM programs to create minds of the future • Evangelize Global Learning Centre as a world class corporate institute • Personal value-add to build • Strengthen leadership development 23 Mapping our material issues with GRI aspects, indicators Our material issue Mapping to GRI aspect GRI performance indicators for the Sig. Impact aspects (Internal/ External) People Focus Occupational health and Safety LA5, LA6, LA7, LA8 I Non-discrimination HR3 Transparency & General disclosureEthics and G4-56, G4-57, G4-58 I disclosure integrity G4-34 to G4-55 General disclosure-Governance SO8 Compliance PR7 Marketing communication SO7 Anti-competitive behaviour HR3 Non-discrimination SO3,SO4,SO5,SO6,SO7 Anti-corruption EN34 Environmental grievance mechanism Green procurement Procurement practices EC9 E Freedom of association HR4 Child labour HR5 Forced labour HR6 Assessment HR9 Supplier Human rights HR10, HR11 Labour-management relations LA4 Human rights grievance mechanism HR12 Labor practices grievance mechanisms LA16 CSR – community Indirect economic impacts EC7, EC8 E investment projects Local communities SO1, SO2 Indigenous rights HR8 Grievance mechanisms for impacts SO11 on society People engagement Employment G4-10, LA1, LA2, LA3 I Economic performance EC3 Human rights grievance mechanisms HR12 Market presence EC5 Talent & leadership Training & education LA9, LA10, LA11 I development Investments HR1, HR2 Security practices HR7 Diverse workforce Diversity and equal opportunity LA12 I Equal remuneration for women and LA13 men EC5, EC6 Market presence Green IT Overall investment EN31 I&E Energy EN6, EN7 Emissions EN19 Environmental Economic performance EC2 I&E stewardship Energy EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 Water EN8, EN9, EN10 Emissions EN15, EN16, EN17,EN19, EN20, EN21 EN22, EN23, EN15, EN26 Biodiversity EN13 Products and services EN27, EN28 Transport EN30 Overall investment EN31 Environmental Compliance (environmental) EN24, EN29 I compliance & Environmental grievance Mechanisms EN34 management Sales & delivery Product and service labelling PR3, PR4, PR5 I transformation Industry-leading growth Economic performance EC1, EC4 I Deep domain expertise Economic performance EC1, EC4 I&E Digital transformation Product and service labelling PR5 I&E Customer privacy & Customer privacy PR8 I&E data security 24 Stakeholder management The various stakeholder engagement our stakeholders, listen to their voices, platforms we have put in place reﬂect the address their issues and concerns, and range of our stakeholder set and our evolve with their needs and our customised attention for them, with a innovations. These engagement forums are constant dialogue in mind. The platforms a highly signiﬁcant aspect of our work constantly see new ideas and culture―humane, performance-centric, modiﬁcations emerging within them. They values-based, open-ended and inclusive. communicate and clarify our policies to Employees Ongoing engagement • People Hub – content-rich intranet portal The intranet houses comprehensive organization-wide information accessible by Mindtree Minds, across the globe. All policies, practices, programs, people systems and applications are available on People Hub. • Genie An online resolution & interaction platform for queries. • Global Contact Centre Call center help desk available 24/5 serving Mindtree Minds globally on employee beneﬁts, payroll, expense reimbursements and related queries. • Senior management interactions & webcast New changes within the organization are addressed at open-house sessions by senior management. • Blogs & discussion groups Konnect Mindtree’s social platform • MindSpeak A platform promoting equality at the workplace, where Mindtree Minds can raise a dialogue on issues relating to career progression & promotion, preferential treatment / discrimination at the workplace, performance management. All dialogues are attended to by the concerned People Function representatives, involving respective stakeholders, and brought to closure ensuring satisfaction and redress. • Whistleblower Mindtree’s platform ensuring a ‘Fair and Equitable Workplace’ by providing an opportunity to blow the whistle against anyone who bypasses the integrity norms of the organization. • Open door policy Encourages accessibility, openness and transparency in communication. One can reach out to anyone, including the Chairman of the company, to address concerns at any point in time. • Skip level meetings To help sort out concerns that one might not be comfortable discussing with the immediate manager. • Speciﬁc engagement events for diﬀerent groups MiLady App to engage with Lady Mindtree Minds, Zoojoo.be for wellness engagement, Fundo club for celebrating events like Mindtree Got Talent, Ethnic Day etc. Periodic engagement • MiVoice Employee satisfaction survey (Annual) • PACE – Performance management system Performance appraisal discussions (Annual) Formal mid-year review discussion (Half-yearly) 25 • Award Functions Chairman Awards (Annual) Pillars Awards (Annual) • All Minds meet A platform to interact with the senior management, ask questions and voice opinions (quarterly) • Open session CEO interaction with middle management and above Customers Ongoing engagement • Project feedback through surveys • Customer visits Periodic engagement • Customer Experience Survey (CES) – CXO and senior level contacts (Annual) • Project Feedback Survey – Operational and Mid-level contacts (Quarterly) • Steering committee meetings for larger customers (Quarterly) Communities & NGOs Ongoing engagement • Interaction with communities and NGOs through Mindtree Foundation such as social and volunteer programs Partners & Suppliers Ongoing engagement • Operational reviews, vendor meets Periodic engagement • Supplier satisfaction survey • Supplier/ vendor evaluation (Annual) Investors & Shareholders Ongoing engagement • Dedicated email ID for investors, Stakeholder Relationship Committee • Annual report • Annual general meeting Periodic engagement • Newsletters on Mindtree website • Quarterly shareholder reports/ updates • Investor/ Analyst meets Regulators & Public Policy Makers Ongoing engagement • Workshops • Panel discussions • Steering committees Periodic engagement • Participation in NASSCOM, CII events and other regulatory bodies 26 Spirit of volunteering Volunteering at Mindtree Volunteering is a natural outcome of Mindtree's vision of social impact. Helping societies ﬂourish, an important part We present here, our approach to volunteering, of our vision, stated right from inception, is our way of seeing the volunteering opportunity, not possible without volunteering. While our and our volunteers’ experience in their own business, as an enterprise can strive its best words. to cause social impacts, our intent can be far-reaching, sustainable and eﬀective only We refrain from quantifying any aspects of when our people embrace volunteering. volunteering such as our investments and number of beneﬁciaries, so as to keep the focus Ours is a culture carefully built over a decade on the experience and the spirit of volunteering. and a half, to nurture not only the technically competent mind but also social sensitiveness. In a demonstration of the spirit of true Volunteering connects with that intent, and volunteering, our volunteers have requested for strengthens our organizational culture. The anonymity, and we are glad and proud to share 'Mind' part of the Mindtree, we believe, is their experiences with our readers as per their complete only when our heart is in the right request. place. Volunteering is both an expression and a validation of our conviction. Our volunteers at a blood donation camp Swachh Global Village Abhiyan 30 Volunteering, the Mindtree way Volunteering, for Mindtree, is a non-strategic commitment. A natural phenomenon, built into our vision and DNA. Hence, the growth in our volunteering is organic rather than driven by stringent chasing of numbers or accolades. Walk the Talk visiting a vocational training site supported by The seeds of volunteering have been sown by the Mindtree Foundation, made a personal our top leaders since the inception of our appeal to all Mindtree Minds to associate organization. Our people, right from their joining themselves with social causes and make a the organization, have seen our top leaders diﬀerence. being engaged with social causes in one way or the other. Leaders not only make philanthropic contributions (monetary and in-kind), but also get involved in volunteering. They set an example for our people, an authentic pitch for individual volunteers to take the plunge. The inspiration is all-pervasive: even our housekeeping staﬀ insists on volunteering. When Mindtree partnered with the Ugly Indian Volunteering is a celebration for us, a (an independent organization that ﬁxes ugly joyous activity. spots in the city) for spot ﬁxing in Bengaluru, our Our volunteers, when asked to describe their CXOs (including our present Chairman, and CEO) experiences in a few key words, invariably use also rolled up their sleeves and involved words such as 'joy', 'cheer', ' happy', 'satisfying', themselves in cleaning the city. Our Chairman 'gratifying', 'energetic', and also 'fun'. meets our volunteer champions at annual lunch sessions. Our President and COO joins our Our volunteers wait for the volunteering days, for volunteers for Joy of Giving visits, as and when they know they bring joy and cheer. Volunteers the schedules permit. Our CEO, recently, after across locations concur in saying how the 31 beneﬁciaries reward them with inexplicable recalls: I can never forget the warmth of the sense of pure joy. thanksgiving ceremony the villagers organised for us volunteers, for they expected only aid, Each year, our anniversary month includes and they said we went beyond. We often celebrations of this nature, in fact, and has come receive appreciation from the grassroots, for the to remind us how connected we are to the deep involvement of our volunteers. society at large. Our support at the Urban Micro Business Centre A volunteer from our Pune location says, at Bhubaneswar involves Mindtree Minds The most joyous and most colourful Holi bunching themselves into teams and teaching for me happens to be the ones I've celebrated key digital skills to underprivileged youngsters these last few years with the poor kids of the and making them job-ready. We discovered the schools we volunteer at. I'm amazed at their 'teacher' in us in this process and gained poise and cheer. students which we would never have, if we had outsourced or just delegated the teaching”, says a volunteer. Volunteering is not about winning a brownie point. Mindtree recognizes the commitment of volunteers and strives to support individual initiatives as well. The most prestigious internal set of awards, the Chairman's awards, includes a Volunteering at Mindtree is about category called 'Social Impact', where direct involvement, not delegation. individuals who demonstrate high impact on the Our NGO partners are a commendable support. society are felicitated. Our volunteering Mindtree Minds, with the help of our partners, champions bag this award, inspiring the spirit of take the direct plunge into ﬁeld-level action. volunteering in others. The recognition from the When volunteers from our Chennai location very top indicates the signiﬁcance that we, as an reached out to the remote schools aﬀected by organization, attach to the power of ﬂoods, with support material and infrastructure, volunteering. they also got down to teaching. A volunteer 32 The messaging on volunteering is anchored on such as shopping, transport, appointments and intrinsic motivation. Volunteers expend their household work. personal time for volunteering. We are expected to be our best at work too. The Volunteering is a great reporting managers encourage and engagement tool. accommodate. But no compromise with work or Gen Y being a socially-responsive generation, is a 'discount' on excellence in work because of drawn towards organizations which serve social volunteering , clariﬁes a volunteer. causes. Though Mindtree recognizes this trend and strives to create platforms for them to Volunteering must be encouraged engage in, this is not the key reason why from the very beginning. Mindtree Minds volunteer. We volunteer Exposure to volunteering is designed to take because it is in our vision to help societies place right at the point of entry into Mindtree at ﬂourish. Gen Y ﬁnds a natural alignment with this every level. It is an integral part of induction, a vision and gets engaged deeply. way of 'enculturation'. Our Campus Minds get initiated into our culture of doing one good Volunteering is innate in these young Mindtree deed a day , and gradually get involved into Minds. What's needed is just giving them access active volunteering. to opportunities. And we do exactly that , says a volunteer leader. The Campus Minds, fresh from college, carrying only 'job' and 'money' in their minds, are thrown It's a great place to work, not just because work into the waters of volunteering here, and ﬁnd is great but because there's volunteering beyond themselves enjoying it, and learn to swim , says work! , exclaims a young Mindtree Mind, excited a seasoned volunteer from Chennai. with what the combination brings for him. Our Global Learning Centre at Bhubaneswar, Roles in volunteering often Mindtree Kalinga, is witness to several of our overlap and cut across formal Campus Minds turning into dedicated volunteers, serving diverse causes, even in a short span of hierarchies, bringing all Mindtree time they spend at the Centre. They have Minds on the same page of developed a simple app that helps senior social impact. citizens with doorstep neighbourhood services 33 The act brings in a camaraderie that lingers on revitalizing and beautifying communities in New and spills into their work environment. Good Jersey.) Our volunteers undertake various deeds can be a great connector beyond formal, activities such as painting and beautifying school role-deﬁned boundaries. premises, raising funds for the movement, sorting out donations into the Food bank that There are no rules or norms on who should do feeds the poor and the hungry. A volunteer what. It's all about what all you can do. , leader shares how the volunteers work on the explains a volunteer. No formal boundaries ﬁeld with little shade through rain or heat, united here, all aligned just to see the beneﬁciaries in the common cause. She says how heartening it break into big smiles. is to see not only Mindtree Minds participating but also their families joining in, lending a hand. Volunteering is global. “Busy professionals, like the IT lot, can also Mindtree Minds in our New Jersey location are take up volunteering if it is planned and volunteers too, participating in Jersey Cares Day calendarized in advance for individual choice , (JCD), ever since 2005. (JCD is a day of true she says. partnership and community building for Many causes, multiple avenues TSA Technologies Vocational training Pinkathon Swachh Global for Social Action Village Abhyaan Blood donation Joy of Giving RR Nagar Run Stem cell donation One Good Deed I Got Garbage Other programs a Day 34 Rewarding our clients through avocado fruits can get a family out of poverty in volunteering about three to four years. Beyond just committing a two-dollar donation to a charity for every response we receive on our 1200 saplings of avocado for 240 families – ﬁve customer experience survey, our Quality saplings per family, were planted in seven tribal Function wanted to make the entire exercise villages, and the tribes were trained to maintain meaningful and eﬀective. We decided to them. We shared the details of this event with volunteer and own this entire exercise keeping our clients and they were very appreciative of the outcome visible to our clients. our eﬀorts. Customers who missed responding on our survey, wrote to us expressing their In collaboration with UNESCO and YARDS regret for having missed an opportunity for (Youth Awareness and Rural Development changing lives. We expect to get bigger response Society), and with the help of Mindtree for our survey next year, and plant more trees. volunteers, we planted avocado saplings on While the NGO provides periodic ﬁeld feedback, behalf of customers who responded to our our volunteers also plan to visit them personally survey, in an impoverished tribal zone near to assess the progress. We plan to plant 5000 Mysuru, in Karnataka, on December 5th saplings by mid-year 2017, as part of our overall (coinciding with World Soil Day). Besides being plan to beneﬁt 1000 families. a premium super-fruit, a good harvest of 35 Volunteering? What’s in it? Holistic leader I learnt to manage my time and balance my life Giving what you have in you and much better after I started volunteering , says a learning what volunteering teaches volunteer, adding, Since we must be good at you, helps one become a holistic our work too, we just grow higher from where leader. This is an unusual way of we were before. learning, and at Mindtree, we value its potential immensely. I was a complete introvert. Volunteering made me mingle with everyone. Today I lead myself diﬀerently”, says a veteran volunteer. Busting myths, breaking limitations Due to lack of awareness, stem cell donations I saw life's realities I was blind to earlier. Now and blood donations still face barriers in India. my lens is diﬀerent , admits a young volunteer. Volunteering for these drives not only involves Volunteering creates a space where individuals coordination and ﬁeld level activities but also go beyond their roles, beyond their comfort advocating its safety, addressing mental barriers, zones into an unstructured terrain, and grow into counselling, encouragement and a soft nudge their holistic potentials. They learn to manage too, when required. While on the ﬁeld camps, I uncertainties of an unstructured environment, to started persuading people who come along with face rejections, to move ahead despite the the blood donorstheir friends and family, and naysayers, to cope with, and innovate over gradually convinced them for blood donation constraints. too. , shares a volunteer. They also bring their competencies to It's a myth that leprosy is contagious. People volunteering. A lady who joined us as a delivery with leprosy are unfortunately alienated. Our manager years ago, now at a senior level, recalls Mindtree Foundation volunteers learnt to break how Mindtree Foundation supported her to these myths and ventured into caring for people continue her donation of clothes to her village with leprosy at the MoC (Missionaries of Charity). when she faced a shortfall. It spurred her to take The learning, they say, has been liberating for up the drive within Mindtree, build a team for them, as they take on the job of busting the myth this cause, and her project management skills amongst people. came handy when the scale grew. 36 When the Head of Mindtree Foundation between our volunteers and the inmates. They instructed me to wear a smile while serving the miss me if I skip a trip once in a while. They're old and the orphaned and the diseased, I like family now. I hate to disappoint them , a wondered why and how to do that in such volunteer says. pathetic surroundings; but I did it anyway, and later realised how happy it made me too, and Volunteering broadens your outlook , she not just the beneﬁciaries , recalls one volunteer continues, I couldn't believe how intensely the from her ﬁrst volunteering experience. nuns at MoC value and celebrate life, apart from silence and prayer. I learnt hugely. A lot of volunteers admit to doing the kind of work in volunteering which they never do at home. It changes them, they say. Every second Saturday of the month, volunteers across locations hop into a bus at 7 am in the morning to visit the old, the inﬁrmed and the orphaned at MoC, as a part of Mindtree's Technologies for Social Action initiative. They spend half a day with them helping in the kitchen, cleaning the premises, playing, singing, or simply sitting and talking with those who can barely move, and Another volunteer is deeply moved by what the feeding those who cannot help themselves. beneﬁciaries taught her. A regular and committed volunteer across causes, she was A lady Mindtree Mind, a regular volunteer, says once asked to attend a graduation ceremony of she is both surprised and gladdened to see her women whose MBA was sponsored by Mindtree children joining in Mindtree's volunteering trips Foundation. She was moved to tears by the and doing chores they totally avoid at home. gratitude of the three women beneﬁted. One of the women beneﬁciaries shared how she keeps Changing perspectives a gratitude dairy where she records all her Tending to the old strengthens one's own blessings. Just a little bit of help can change bonds with parents and family. The regular their entire lives and our perspectives”, she volunteering at MoC has produced lasting bonds declares, deeply touched by the meeting. 37 Visiting AMBA, an NGO-partner of the caught the bug , his colleagues say, teasing him Foundation, was an eye-opener for in good cheer. some volunteers. Looking at the intellectually-challenged people doing data Another engineer with a passion for volunteering entry work excellently was a humbling took up personal initiatives such as ﬁxing leaky experience for them. It put our pride in its faucets around the neighbourhood area, and place. If they can do so much, what we do in our participated in every volunteering activity at work is really no big deal , says a volunteer. Mindtree. Being a ﬁtness enthusiast, he has conducted a marathon for children in his native Several volunteers say volunteering is a two-way village in Tamil Nadu, with a team of 20 core street, a win-win. Some say they have reaped volunteers around him, and with the support of much more than what they have given. Some say, 220 volunteers. There are cross-learnings on what they receive is so intangible and this journey when we take up several indescribable that they have no words to opportunities for volunteering, which we can describe. leverage when we want to create and grow something big , he says. Evolving individual journeys A rural boy whom we groomed under our Dream A Mindtree Mind from our Hyderabad location to Reality (D2R) program completed his launched an ambitious volunteer project ‘Ride engineering, joined us as a Mindtree Mind and for better India’. The volunteer has embarked on today is a volunteer champion at our Chennai a 5000 km-long cycling expedition from Kashmir location. to Kanyakumari, raising awareness about climate change, environmental protection, promoting Another engineer joined us as a developer, green initiatives along the way. tasted volunteering, joined our Foundation to help with its work on assistive technologies, Another Mindtree Mind has taken a personal travelled with our team to the ﬁeld, and is now initiative of volunteering on weekends due for a placement in the mainstream domain supporting BCTP (Bengaluru City Traﬃc Police) in of Mindtree. But he says he will continue to be its Community wing, because standing outside associated with volunteering from wherever he the system and screaming doesn't work. A Lady is going to be placed. He cannot help it, he has Mindtree Mind who has started her own terrace 38 gardening workshops in Bengaluru for kids in the There is a lot of energy not only in Mindtree age-group 5-15 years, is planning to conduct one but beyond Mindtree too , says a Mindtree Mind for Mindtree Minds soon. from IGG which is involved with a wide network of external stakeholders. It needs to be tapped Individual journeys are triggered at some pointwell and made use of. He is witness to the sometimes within Mindtree, sometimes outside emerging ecosystem of responsible citizens, Mindtree, and they evolve to grow into paths schools, parents, school management under a nurturing environment available here, committees, external volunteersincluding and touch and transform many lives around. college students, social workers and the Government oﬃcials. He vouches that volunteering is a movement that is growing strong and has transformative potential. Mindtree values the work of its volunteers immensely and continues to create more opportunities for volunteering. Multiplier eﬀects Together, with constant At our Hyderabad location, people from neighbouring companies joined our blood organizational commitment and donation drive. Acts of volunteering can be enablers, and individual contagious too. volunteers' dedication and unending energy, we can make A volunteer at Bengaluru and another at our a diﬀerence in all possible Hyderabad location share how they took a slice ways we can. of their volunteering experience back home and shared it with their family. Their kids are now a Welcome to possible. part of the Mindtree volunteer trips. Friends and families have joined the visits to MoC. My dad's friend insisted and celebrated his birthday there! , says one of the ladies. 39 Giving back to society Leader speak multitude of areas and projects. We, at Mindtree, often sense a trade-oﬀ between depth and breadth in CSR work, and prefer to do niche and deeply integrated work. Unless CSR gets deep down into the ﬁeld, there is no way it can ﬁnd and meet latent or hidden needs. Nor can CSR projects evolve in a relevant manner. Unless we see the connections between diﬀerent issues of the beneﬁciary and serve the beneﬁciary in an integrated manner, there is no way the Abraham Moses General Manager and Head, outcome will have a lasting impact. For CSR Mindtree Foundation impacts to be sustainable, the service has to be grass root-focused and the solutions Only grass root-level and have to be integrated ones. integration-oriented CSR can Recognizing this fact, we brought in have sustainable impacts. education aspects to our disability projects. Integration was the key approach. CSR has been a non-strategic expression The impacts on the beneﬁciary are thus of what Mindtree represents. And Mindtree becoming not only faster but also more Foundation (MTF) is built to give full meaningful. expression to this purpose, guided by the CSR policy. Being independent in Our taluk-wide focus for our services is paving its own approach and focus, the being validated by the results we actually Foundation has evolved its own distinct see on the ground. We see our initiatives way of approaching CSR. One that goes bearing fruit satisfactorily across education, deep down to the grass root level, coupled poverty, disability and livelihood. MTF has with personal involvement of leaders and been planning and leading the volunteering rendering full spectrum of services to the initiatives since long, and is happy to see it needy, using a taluk-wide focus. This is growing in many ways, spreading to several diﬀerent from the perhaps more popular functions, even inﬂuencing stakeholders approach to CSR, of wide coverage of a outside Mindtree. 42 40 Beyond these measurements, we also rely on our personal experience of the results. We do not measure our impacts only by the feedback we get. We try and actually see the results personally: The committed leadership team of the Foundation travels to remote corners of the ﬁeld at various stages of the projects, in direct engagement with beneﬁciaries. That’s the Mindtree way! Welcome to possible. In line with the emerging trends, we have made eﬀorts to quantify CSR project outcomes in a methodical manner since the last few years. Yet, we know quantiﬁcation can never present the full picture, even to us. In 2016-17, we developed our own measurement methodology―CSR Eﬀective Index, which factors in qualitative measures into the metric. This innovation is helping us assess our own performance from both quantitative and qualitative perspectives. 43 41 CSR at Mindtree Our CSR endeavours, non-strategic and deep-rooted, continue to make societies ﬂourish, as a part of Mindtree's vision. Total CSR spend by Mindtree INR 109,065,812 Total fund allotted to Mindtree Foundation INR 53,942,810 Total fund spent by Mindtree Foundation: INR 40,344,144 + Total beneﬁciaries: CSR beneﬁciaries: Volunteering beneﬁciaries: 58,930 32,117 26,813 Volunteers involved: 8,819 Launched MTF Eﬀectiveness Index for CSR projects | Strengthened our on-going projects CSR enablers at Mindtree https://www.mindtree.com/corporate-socialOur CSR has been voluntary and ahead of responsibility-policy). regulation right from the beginning. We put in place a set of strong enablers to take forward our CSR at Mindtree includes the initiatives by the nonstrategic vision for CSR. With the CSR policy, Mindtree Foundation as well as the suite of the board level committee for CSR, a steering technology-enabled platforms for social committee, CSR at Mindtree is well guided by the transformation (I Got Garbage, I Got Crops and top level. (Our CSR policy can be viewed at I Got Skills). 44 Our technology platforms for I Got Garbage sustainability solutions A Cloud based IT platform that oﬀers ERP 78% of India is self-employed. These 78% capabilities for rag-pickers―Citizen Engagement citizens of India take real business risk every day. Platform, Waste Management Services They are the farmers, rag-pickers, artisans, Marketplace, and a Rag-picker Beneﬁts Tracker. vegetable vendors, small grocery shops and the Additionally, they work with social businesses like. At Mindtree’s “I Got” platform initiative, they for process improvement and to help build are referred to as “Independent Entrepreneurs” partner ecosystems; such that they can (IE). In a world with diminishing jobs, the role of collectively help achieve the goals of digniﬁed IEs will be key―for IEs are job-creators, not livelihood for rag-pickers and less landﬁlls for job-seekers. all . So far, it has created impact as much as being able to facilitate 20 million kilograms of recycled waste across ﬁve cities, aggregating The concept of PIE or the “Power of over 8,000 rag-pickers and bringing over Independent Entrepreneurs” is central to 200,000 waste generators on the platform. everything that Mindtree’s I Got platform works towards. The focus of this initiative is to help build innovative micro-businesses and support ecosystems around them using cutting-edge digital technology paradigms. The goal is to empower key stakeholders across various domains to become entrepreneurs running sustainable business models creating more jobs while solving pressing social issues―be it a waste-picker in the case of “I Got Garbage”, or a farmer in the case of “I Got Crops” or a skilled labourer through “I Got Skills”. 45 I Got Crops I Got Skills Towards the end of the year 2015-16, Mindtree Has been developed to address the launched I Got Crops, a cloud-based platform for employability-employment gap, and creating a sustainable agriculture and agri-related micro streamlined marketplace available for ready businesses across ﬁve states, targeting to beneﬁt employment in a multi-stakeholder fashion. 120,000 farmers, with threefold increase in their All the above-mentioned initiatives are income. The objectives are to become a digital path-breaking endeavours attempting to address national asset for 10 crore farmers in India, structural issues in the micro-business making it easy for them to adopt good ecosystem of the informal economy. It is an agricultural practices, enable rural supply chains, attempt to give control of economic activities to access to ﬁnance and market linkages and the aforementioned 78% independent leverage digital technology to improve eﬃciency entrepreneurs of India through technology and scale. So far, I Got Crops along with its social platforms. partners have an active engagement with 225,000 farmers in over 2,000 villages across ﬁve states. 46 The Mindtree Foundation CSR, as guided by our CSR Policy, is anchored by Supporting a diverse range of projects across the the Mindtree Foundation. Across the themes of above themes, are a set of 15 NGO partners who poverty, disability, education and livelihood, the complement the Foundation's strengths in Foundation strives to make a diﬀerence to the diverse ways. needy in an integrated fashion. The Foundation’s approach to CSR Taluks we cover • We take a personal 'deep-dive' approach • Kanakapura (Karnataka) to need assessment, problem-solution • Koratgere (Karnataka) and monitoring. • Vijayapura (Karnataka) • Our focussed projects often evolve into • Pune (Maharashtra) full spectrum programs. • Hyderabad (Telangana) • We adopt a taluk-level focus in our • Thiruvallur (TamilNadu) CSR planning. • Khandapada (Odisha) CSR eﬀectiveness Index The index we have developed allows us to factor Field visit and meeting in qualitative measures into our project beneﬁciaries evaluation, which is highly important while assessing CSR projects of intangible nature. Also, Hope and conﬁdence in every project needs to be evaluated from many the delivery teams angles, several stakeholder feedback and takeaways. Hence the Mindtree Foundation Hope and conﬁdence in launched the index in 2016-17. the leaders, government, shareholders The CSR Eﬀectiveness Index factors in ﬁve H-E-A-T evaluation elements into it. The uniqueness lies in the fact that our personal ﬁeld visit carries NGO reports the highest weight: 47 The index is an illustration of the way we see hunger/fear. The way we measure eﬀectiveness social transformation. According to us, there of our project involves our assessment of these are three enablers to social transformation: three enablers. enforcement, awareness/advocacy, and E Enforcement Social Transformation T Hunger A H Awareness / Advocacy 48 Empowering communities Rural Karnataka Rural Maharashtra • 15,000 government school children given • 3876 children from 28 government schools supplementary education (Shikshana, our inspired by Lab-on-Bike initiative. The program NGO partner). runs in Karnataka as well, beneﬁting additional • 1285 children from 15 government schools number of children (Agastya). inspired by Lab-on-bike initiative (Agastya). • 914 rural children taught various subjects Rural Andhra Pradesh and Telangana using tablets (Suvidya). • 176 intellectually-challenged youth trained • 750 rural dropouts supported with vocational across 8 centres in livelihood skills such as training (Yuva Jyothi). data entry (AMBA). • 247 rural children with learning disability getting special coaching (SSK). Rural Tamil Nadu • 227 rural children with disability assisted • 510 children with disability getting early with mobility aids (APD). interventions and home-based physiotherapy. • 40 children with disabilities identiﬁed and • 224 engineering students obtaining IT skill being supported with corrective surgeries/ enhancements. assistive devices/physiotherapy (KSCCW). Number of People Impacted 34,908 • 37 poor, urban women trained in teaching (KSCCW). 22,602 • 26 government school children being supported for medical career (Udaan-NHCT). 10,838 7,424 5,379 5,332 Odisha 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 • 8137 kids being served mid-day meals (Akshaya Patra). Funds Deployed in Social Projects 31,771,304 • 298 unemployed youth with disability being 20,774,693 trained in livelihood skills (Gram Tarang). • 58 youth with disabilities supported for 7,601,000 education and mobility (Government ITI). 3,000,000 2,250,000 2,000,000 • 67 urban, poor women and children trained in entrepreneurship and education (UMBC). 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 49 Akshaya Patra Agastya Pune Nayagarh 8,137 Children 3,876 Children APD, SPARSH Bijapur 260 CWD BRDO 755 Koratagere Rural Youths Kanakapura Sikshana, NH, Tiruvallur Agastya, Edzilla, SSK 15,000 Children SPASTN 500 PWD Total NGOs :9 Total NGOs :1 Total Project : 10 Maharashtra Total Project :1 Total Fund : 21,064,611 Total Beneﬁciaries : 18,766 Mumbai (Bombay) Total Fund : 17,87,440 Karnataka Total Beneﬁciaries : 3,972 • BRDO • APD • Sikshana Fundation • Agastya International Fundation Bangalore • Agatsya • K.S.C.C.W • edzilla • SSK • Narayana Health • SPARSHA Fundation Total NGOs :2 Chennai Implementation Agencies : 4 Total Project :2 Total Project :4 Odisha Tamil Nadu Total Fund : 29,94,990 Total Fund : 13,207,100 Bhubaneswar Total Beneﬁciaries : 724 Total Beneﬁciaries : 8,511 • Spastics Society Tamil Nadu (SPASTN) • GTET • UMBC • Akshaya Patra • Govt ITI for PWD • Radix Learning Pvt. Ltd. Total NGOs :1 Hyderabad Total Project :1 Andhra Pradesh Total Fund : 12,90,000 Total Beneﬁciaries : 176 • AMBA 50 Total fund allotted to Mindtree Foundation INR 53,942,810 / 822,989 USD 124% 100% Volunteer 179% 100% Overall Actual Plan Program Actual Plan Beneﬁciaries 58,930 47,356 Beneﬁciaries 26,813 15,000 99% 100% 88% 100% CSR Volunteers Actual Plan Actual Plan Beneﬁciaries Participation 32,117 32,356 8,819 10,000 Overall Funds Y-o-Y Overall Beneﬁciairies Y-o-Y 53,942,810 70% 58,930 69% 31,771,304 34,908 53% 20,774,693 22,599 54% 7,601,000 173% 10,838 109% 2,250,000 2,000,000 7,424 3,000,000 280% 5,379 5,332 103% -25% -11% -28% -1% 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Plans for 2017-18 • Continue with our taluk-based focus • Enhance the full spectrum services in each taluk, ﬁlling gaps, if any 51 Conserving Resources Leader speak We are taking constant steps in the direction of clean energy and solar power. We took our energy composition to 100% clean energy at our headquarters and 80% at the Whiteﬁeld facility at Bengaluru. We have laid the groundwork for rooftop solar systems, and next year we will be installing them at three of our locations Bhubaneswar, Pune and Bengaluru-East campus. We achieved good performance in emission reductions, energy eﬃciency, water and Padmanabhan Kannan General Manager, waste management. Administration and Facilities Volunteering for the environment is not an option but an imperative. We continue to pursue progress in managing our material issues―energy, emissions, water and waste, and have Resource conservation through energy, water, increasingly taken the technology route to emissions and waste management is a low bring in eﬃciencies. hanging fruit, in fact. And we have gained Our range of technology enablers for conﬁdence at this level. The next rung is resource conservation today includes not about how to make the green ‘convenient’ and only energy equipments but also data ‘attractive’. This is a huge challenge as well as analytics and IOT platforms. Two key an opportunity for all those who have achieved prototypes in digital technology developed a fair level of performance on conservation. by us are ready and waiting to be taken It is only when we make the green convenient forward in our Whiteﬁeld campus in that it gets embraced by all at the individual Bengaluru and our Learning Centre level and becomes sustainable in a larger at Kalinga. sense. This is a challenge we need to take up 54 now. We have in place a suite of green is that it is no longer an option: unless options for our people―green commuting, each individual takes up volunteering in safe driving, environmental volunteering, diﬀerent spheres of one’s life and work, and green lifestyle promotional events and we cannot address the pressing issues so on. The real challenge is to ensure that of this planet. Doing something of value they become attractive options for people for the environment cannot be left to our to adopt them on a larger scale. choice anymore. It is a ‘must’. Welcome to possible. Our culture of volunteering is built on a strong legacy and we are glad to not only promote volunteering at the organizational level but also appreciate and encourage individual initiatives in volunteering. While giving back to the planet is always a good and nice thing to do, my personal view 55 Achievements at a glance We made further strides towards greater We increased our environmental reliance on clean energy. Our West campus at investments from INR 33,991,288 Bengaluru is now 100% clean-energy based. to INR 50,667,391 in the year. We Our East campus at Bengaluru is 80% cleanmaintained our focus on resource power based. We invested INR 20 million into conservation at all levels. our green energy plans. GHG EMISSIONS ENERGY 2016-17 2.29 tons CO2e/employee/ annum 2016-17 170.74 (kWh/ employee/ month) WATER WASTE 2016-17 1.02 kl/employee/ month 2016-17 89.28% (recycled) 56 Smart business through resource eﬃciency Resource eﬃciency, being a material issue, occupies the central theme of our eﬀorts. Renewable energy has emerged as a key area of focus for now and the future. Moving towards clean energy empower key stakeholders across various With our commitment to increase the proportion domains to become entrepreneurs running of clean energy within a span of a few years, we sustainable business models creating more jobs are increasing our eﬀorts in the direction of while solving pressing social issues―be it a wheeling of clean power and our direct solar waste-picker in the case of “I Got Garbage”, or a investments. farmer in the case of “I Got Crops” or a skilled labourer through “I Got Skills”. In Bengaluru, our West campus is 100% clean power-based and East campus is 80% solar The awareness program on the 3R thinking energy based. (Repair, Reuse & Recycle) conducted for the technical team led to an implementation on a 2017-18 goals: continual basis, which resulted in extensive • We plan for 200 KW to 300 KW solar power repair and reuse of engineering material, with plant at our Pune location which would monetary savings as well. contribute 10% of total consumption. • We plan a 500 KW to 600 KW solar plant at Our awareness drives on World Environment Mindtree Kalinga and reduce the dependency day and the Earth Hour continued to advocate on electricity board by 25%. environmental responsibility at the individual level as we came together in several activities to Behavioural aspects of promote the idea. Our awareness drives also environmental responsibility included safe-driving campaigns which saw our The focus of this initiative is to help build senior leaders advocating safe driving at the innovative micro-businesses and support parking lots. ecosystems around them using cutting-edge digital technology paradigms. The goal is to 57 While our Common Bus System continues to quality but also reduced scaling, energy load, ferry our people to our Bengaluru campus from carbon footprint and maintenance costs. It across the city, our campaigning for the demonstrated that small interventions can have Bengaluru Metro converted 350 Mindtree Minds multiple eﬀects on energy, emissions, water and into Metro users. We ﬁlled in their last mile wastage, and savings, all at the same time. We commute with a shuttle bus service. Our plan to replicate it further across locations now. people-commute is now automated, with a supporting app, thus ensuring that our people We started saving 5000 litres of water every day are safe and secure at any time of the day. by collecting the rejected water at the STP. During the water treatment process, the back Small steps in resource eﬃciency go a wash process generates rejection water which long way in sustainability. normally gets wasted. We modiﬁed the back Resource eﬃciency is not the onus of just one or wash pipe, ran the water through sand ﬁlters and two functions. Our diverse functions launch their used the water for gardening and landscaping. own steps to conserve resources. Our biodiversity initiatives continue as always, with preference shifting from manicured gardens Replacing our CFL lighting with over 10000 to mini-forests. LED bulbs across India locations saved 50% of total lighting consumption and gave us a 2.5% The digital water meters installed at our Kalinga savings in energy. Added advantages accrue campus at Bhubaneswar brought in beneﬁts of in terms of long life, low maintenance, better data capture and analytics for water reduced frequency of e-waste generation. management. Installing battery monitoring systems with sensors enabled us to double the life of the We improvised our enormous onsite food batteries through timely interventions and composting system by introducing organic reduced our costs as well as the extent of converter/digester, thus enhancing our e-waste. We enhanced our on-premise green conversion capacity to 100%. belts including our cafeteria areas. Mindtree took an extra step in space As a pilot project, the insertion of magnetic tapes management through seat optimization in into water pipes not only enhanced the water 2016-17 by numbering/mapping AHUs (air 58 handler units) to seat numbers leading to shut increasingly over the years. Last year we down of speciﬁc AHUs/ﬂoors, resulting in saving reduced talent-acquisition travel by 50%, in energy and maintenance eﬀorts. did away with unnecessary paperwork that could be digitised, made good use of the Webex Talent acquisition, traditionally, a platform and achieved both eﬃciency and process-driven, paper-intensive, travel-ridden sustainability goals. domain, is adopting a sustainable mode 59 Responsible procurement A material issue for Mindtree, supply chain management involves social and environmental factors, with links to business strategy through proﬁtability and eﬃciencies. Mindtree has a supplier base of 1818 active abuse of human rights among the suppliers. We Suppliers out of a total supplier base of 10,210 have moved our grievances mechanism from across geographies includes 22 women-owned hotline to an email-based system, linking it to enterprises, thanks to our ongoing eﬀorts at the Finance and Sustainability functions as well. identifying and on-boarding minority-based While our focus on India has been on ventures. on-boarding global vendors, in the US, we have taken our minority focus forward by on-boarding Our emphasis on local sourcing is as stable as 3.35% of our base from minority segments. ever. Our Indian suppliers, 66.67% of our base, account for 57.3% of our spend, while US We have initiated a small sample survey among suppliers, 19.69% of our base, account for our suppliers in February 2017 with the 34.3% of our spend. objective of course-corrections and we plan a larger survey in mid-2017 to bring more control Our Supplier Code of Conduct with stringent on compliance and governance. clauses prohibits child labour, forced labour and Our vendor summit (February 2017): a bridge-building initiative We conducted a vendor summit in the US to We shared the best practices inbuilt in our align our vendors with our strategies, people-focussed culture, and also our eﬀorts at approaches and values. Sharing with them the ensuring smooth payments with better cash expectations of our customers and ﬂow to our vendors. We believe initiatives of expectations arising out of our growing this nature go a long way in strengthening emphasis on the digital space, the summit conﬁdence and trust in the partnerships. endeavoured to bring our vendors and related functions of Mindtree on the same page. 60 Overall environmental performance • Our GHG emissions have reduced in the • Our energy per capita performance and last year. water per capita performance have • Our recycling performance is stable but has increased slightly. not improved in the last year. 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2016-17 Category Performance Performance Performance Performance Target Performance GHG 3.38 tons CO2e/ 3.39 tons CO2e/ 3.29 tons CO2e/ 2.44 tons CO2e/ 2.37 tons CO2e/ 2.29 tons CO2e/ Emissions employee/annum employee/annum employee/annum employee/annum employee/annum employee/annum 201 (kWh/ 200.04 (kWh/ 189.22 (kWh/ 167.6 (kWh/ 159.22 (kWh/ 170.74 (kWh/ Energy employee/month employee/month employee/month employee/month employee/month employee/month 1.05 kl/ 1.28 kl/ 1.03 kl/ 0.91 kl/ 0.87 kl/ 1.02 kl/ Water employee/month employee/month employee/month employee/month employee/month employee/month 89.68% 80.62% 89.66% 91.66% 89.28% Waste 65% (recycled) (recycled) (recycled) (recycled) (recycled) (recycled) Overall expenditure on environmental initiatives: increased from INR 33,991,288 to INR 50,667,391 61 Ecological performance Energy Footprint (kWh) 2016-17 Energy Performance 2% 30269592 25716515 98% 637465 1796701 Electricity Purchased DG Units Electricity Purchased DG Units 2015-16 (kWh) 2016-17 (kWh) Emission Footprint (tons CO2e) 2016-17 Emissions Performance 2% 22283 22007 34% 9571 11763 1489 812 64% Scope1 Scope2 Scope3 Emissions Emissions Emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 2015-16 (tons CO2e) 2016-17 (tons CO2e) Scope1 Emissions Source-Wise Scope3 Emissions Source-Wise 13746 13038 1356 8353 8732 527 90 187 102 144 93 50 75 00 00 82 Fuel Usage/ Fuel Usage Fugitive Emissions Owned Employee Business Waste Freight Energy Generated (LPG) (HFC, PFC) Vehicles Commute Travel (Diesel) 2015-16 (tons CO2e) 2016-17 (tons CO2e) 2015-16 (tons CO2e) 2016-17 (tons CO2e) 62 Business Travel Ozone Depleting Substances 315 70656476 174 1582681 63859 325219 349457 771583 10 17 Air-Long Air-Short Air-Domestic Client Cabs Road Rail CFC Equivalent R22 (refrigerant) Haul Haul 2015-16 (km) 2016-17 (km) 2015-16 (kg) 2016-17 (kg) Air Emissions (kg) Water Footprint (kl) 2016-17 2% 41 38 6% 34 26% 66% N0x S0x SPM Ground Water Extraction Municipal corporation 2016-17 Private suppliers Packaged water Water Performance (kl) Water Conservation (kl) 133503 120987 184394 48655 47376 10360 11337 819 4050 4393 4200 0 Ground Water Municipal Private Packaged Total Water Total Water Rain Water Recharged to Extraction Corporation Suppliers Water Consumption Recycled Harvested Ground 2015-16 2016-17 2016-17 63 Waste Footprint (kg) 2016-17 Waste Disposal 2016-17 9% 10.55% 25% 10% 0.17% 9% 89.28% 7% 40% Electronic Hazardous Inorganic Recycle Incineration Landﬁll Organic Packaging Other Waste Management Performance 161333 99434 96402 70511 49234 34562 37890 37836 24978 27287 10559 675 Electronic Hazardous Inorganic Organic Packaging Other Total Quantity (kg) 2015-16 Total Quantity (kg) 2016-17 64 Nurturing Mindtree Minds Leader speak We are keen to ensure that global risks do not translate into people-level risks. The mitigation path, we are glad to say, lies in the strategic direction we have set for ourselves in terms of reskilling and/or multi-skills; and the rigor and velocity with which we are able to proceed in executing to our strategy. YORBIT, the digital learning platform that we launched last year has taken oﬀ in a big way. It has helped reskill our people at all levels through nearly a thousand courses. The courses are designed N.S. Parthasarathy to render them future-ready. Our Global Executive Vice-chairman, President, COO Learning Centre at Kalinga, Bhubaneshwar, not only trains fresh engineers but also Reskilling and/ or our existing talent pool in speciﬁc complementary areas. Unlearning, multi-skilling people is the relearning, and learning in diﬀerent ways mitigation strategy to overcome are key components of a responsive strategy talent-related risks in the against the times of ﬂux. challenging times ahead. Our gender-based diversity goals remain strong at 35% women talent pool in the Workplace sustainability assumes greater medium term. We have not managed to signiﬁcance, with our industry facing achieve our target of 32% in 2016-17. global uncertainties. Trends in robotics We achieved a 49% uptake of women at and automation replacing repetitive jobs, entry levels. Two of our board members are growing trends of protectionism in the US women. We are strengthening the mid-level and other geographies, increased number through Exuberance, our women leadership of skills needed in the Digital Technologies program which will be extended to space and so on have emerged as crucial locations beyond India soon. The program concerns. In spite of many of these would give us a ready pipeline of women concerns, at Mindtree, we remain leaders as and when opportunities arise. positive and optimistic. 68 Gender-based diversity is highly important While we are committed to reporting as for diversity but not suﬃcient. Diversity ‘the right thing to do’, we acknowledge must transcend gender. We are, therefore, the clarity and value it has brought to strengthening our eﬀorts in ensuring a our people and processes. The functional better diversity based on ethnicity. The heads of the organization are a direct diversity index we plan to launch soon witness to this transition. We would like would make tracking and comparison the whole organization to see the beneﬁts possible across all units, and enable us of non-ﬁnancial reporting clearly and play to improve our diversity composition in active and interlinked roles in further a broader way. reﬁning it. We are eager to move ahead in this journey of non-ﬁnancial reporting by Sustainability reporting over these years taking signiﬁcant steps to put in better has given us a way to structure and monitor structural enablers and process our acts better. It has sensitized our people innovations. to eﬃciencies and imperatives, often spurring needful action based on data. Welcome to possible. 69 Nurturing Mindtree Minds Mindtree has a unique approach to nurturing holistic plans for people engagement with its people. We view our people as 'people' and enhanced transparency, cutting-edge talent, not as 'employees' or 'human resources'. leadership development and growing Our focus on expertise-led service which is diversity performance. culture-backed is made possible through our Yorbit, Mindtree’s homegrown 13,157 Mindtree Minds Performance online learning platform oﬀers have completed 47,000+ Rating System for 1013 online courses at three courses in a span of mid-levels abolished levels, covering 84 genres 9 months. and 6533 skills. Two key leadership 49% of new hires in Placed in the inaugural development programs 2016-17 at the entry ‘Working Mother and AVTAR 2016 launched. were women. Top 10 Best Companies for Women in India’. MiLady, an exclusive Maternity 23 Mindtree Lady Minds App for Mindtree Lady leave extended to on-boarded on 'Exuberance' Minds launched. 6 months. program to be developed into leaders. Plan is to reach 100. 70 Focus on people-culture Mindtree's culture looks at their people not as employees or human resources but as 'people'. We continuously strive to make Mindtree a great place to work. Our people culture, carefully cultivated over Our top leaders met Mindtree Minds in smaller a decade and a half, places high emphasis on focussed groups in 2016-17, engaging them in human sensitivities and dignity, across levels, deeper conversations about integrity and extending the value to contractors, dedication. Our programs to recognise and subcontractors and external partners. reward individual achievements continue to showcase top talent in motivational ways. Our Pillars program which focuses on the best of the Mindtree believes in an inclusive philosophy best Mindtree Minds saw 50 Mindtree Minds and insists on taking it beyond the pursuing Mindtree-sponsored certiﬁcation non-discrimination policy on paper to actual programs, 45 enrolling for ‘shadowing the practice and behaviour in everyday work life. leaders’. Our focus on people makes it an imperative for us to keep searching for ways to better balance work and life. The year 2016-17 saw India-speciﬁc policy changes regarding working from home and extending maternity leave. We oriented our subcontractors to our Integrity Policy and POSH (Prevention of Sexual Our new entrants experience our people-culture Harassment) policy in 2016-17, introduced both right from the time they get assessed for our entry level hires and lateral hires to our recruitment. The feedback that we receive from open, humane culture in several diﬀerent ways. the people we interview has been more than positive. They have reiterated that our approach New Mindtree Minds were exposed to our to talent acquisition is highly diﬀerentiated and culture of volunteering for diverse causes, and personalised. It involves a day-long engagement rewarded us back with their positive feedback on the experience and learnings. with customised segments. 71 Engaging and developing talent and leadership Our learning programs are geared towards holistically developing Mindtree Minds and building expertise. Our engagement programs anchor and build a culture of knowledge-sharing through integrated initiatives. In a world where technology is disrupting Yorbit allows the learner to select courses industries, Mindtree has constantly been designed to meet their individual learning needs enhancing its virtual mode of learning. Our while also facilitating learning at a project level, virtual learning programs now cover 93% of our with project packages designed for speciﬁc people across the globe, up-skilling them to project assimilation and learning needs. meet the diverse requirements. Courses are aligned with our organization skilling needs and to meet diﬀerent levels of expertise. Virtual learning takes oﬀ in a With over 47,000 courses completed in a span of big way in 2016: nine months, Yorbit has been successful in YORBIT, our home-grown, cloud-based learning improving our organization’s skilling capabilities. platform, transforms the way we approach learning. It allows our Minds to learn at their own YORBIT CONTENT 84 genres • 653 Skills • 1013 courses • 12,575 videos Pace, Space and Time, with bite-sized modules that allow for easy assimilation. Most Popular Courses 72% Mindtree Minds Introduction to SCRUM are using Yorbit AGILE for testers 20% Minds are from Core testing outside India Spring Framework MVA 41 domain 201 Courses 1052 average Project Packages courses Testing, Digital users daily 21 Accounts BFSI, RCM 25 Projects Top learners 276744 hours 50% Active learners 500 New 300 of learning from competency C1 & C2 Courses Added EXPERTS 72 This year, our annual knowledge management showcase. The Techie of the Year contest saw (KM) event Osmosis picked six cutting 2518 techies participating, with the selected edge-technologies viz, Blockchain, Chatbot, Big participants developing and demonstrating Data, Cognitive Computing, Cloud Computing working prototypes of innovative products and IoT, around which we ran a series of events using disruptive technologies. including talks, contests and technology We continue to extend the boundaries of our stakeholder deﬁnition in several possible ways: Our K-Safari event, a part of the Osmosis program opened its doors to stakeholders outside of Mindtree, with eight start-ups making a pitch to our Chairman in the areas of emerging technologies. Leadership development got a further boost Leadership development shall continue to in 2016-17 with the launch of two leadership garner top mindshare and focus at Mindtree, as journeyEnterprise Management Leadership we nurture leadership capabilities to take up Program and Technology Leadership global challenges and leverage multi-pronged Development Program, each oﬀering a nine approaches to build depth and breadth of month-long journey in action projects and experiences. experiential grooming of leaders. We brought in a special focus on digital skills in our leadership Succession planning, a key issue in programs for grooming emerging digital leaders, organizational sustainability in India, has always in line with the increasing digital component been an area of attention for us. We extended in our business. the focus on succession planning from beyond 73 top leader levels to sub-panel levels in 2016-17. Enabling and empowering leaders commits us to As a result of our focus, 35% of our key building an entire Leadership Ecosystem to take role-holders have a named successor each. Mindtree to the next level of growth. Leadership Honing Leadership Onboarding Leadership Assessments Leadership Leadership Development 360 Degree Program and Engagement Our lateral on-boarding inducted 1886 new gathered interest from several universities hires in Bengaluru and one hundred across the globe as well as governmental interventions came together to ensure their oﬃcials, and curious clients. We received transition, which we see, is getting smoother increasing appreciation from our customers for every year. In a gesture of aligning with our our ability to scale our capabilities of talent culture of voluntary service for the society, all development with technologies of the future. our lateral hires participated in Joy of Giving, Mindtree Kalinga campus, with its wide range of our voluntary program of fulﬁlling the needs Sustainability initiatives (detailed in our previous and wishes of underprivileged children. Sustainability report) got recognition by STPI and Odisha government. Our Global Learning Centre at Bhubaneswar (Mindtree Kalinga, featured in detail in our We are engaging our people in a nuanced way previous sustainability report 2015-16) opened with diverse engagement platforms. (Refer to its doors for lateral hires from within Mindtree, the stakeholder engagement platforms in the oﬀering advanced and focussed programs ﬁrst section of the report). While our focus on for them. career planning is undergoing a major redesign and in-depth work is being carried out in Mindtree Kalinga, being an intensive meeting preparation for a launch next year, our structured point for ideations and experimentations, has focus on communication and culture has 74 acquired a behavioural dimension to it. Yorbit, approach. Greater visibility into entry levels and our learning platform, out of its 1013 courses, above, as well as clarity in compensation oﬀers a wide range of behavioural courses contributed to our eﬀorts. across progressive levels which begin at the basic awareness level and evolve into more Healthy Mind Healthy Body advanced scopes. Our Healthy Mind Healthy Body initiative is well established with its wide range of programs. All Through our experience, we have noticed that our locations are OHSAS-certiﬁed. With standard learning is a great tool to ensure retention. Our beneﬁts oﬀered to all our employees, our work retentions remain healthy (with voluntary environment has been crafted to promote attrition around 15%) despite the churn in the healthy and safe habits. industry, thanks to our emphasis on creating constant learning opportunities and the Zoojoo.be, the digital platform that messaging that goes with it. encourages healthy habits, saw increased participation in the year. Mindtree Minds Retention needs a wide web of interconnected took up a wide range of health challenges. initiatives. Our talent acquisition strategy has Our internal platforms were highly active, increasingly made use of referrals, which, apart with several sessions conducted on from bringing in cost eﬃciencies in hiring, also subjects as varied as ergonomics, yoga, strengthens retentions. Our 'n-1' policy cancer, parenting, and men’s health and so prioritizes replacements from lower levels within on, through workshops, webinars and Mindtree over external hires, providing them ﬁtness camps. with a reason to stay. We provide ample opportunities to move within the organization through internal job postings on the portal. The Fun being an integral part of our workplace, increased senior level connect with our external, Mindtree Minds, under our ‘Fun Do’ platform, lateral hires last year went a long way in engaged in a plethora of fun activities reducing the exits at the entry level by 50%. The throughout the year, such as Zumba sessions, DJ feedback we received from the exit interviews evenings, coloring the bay contests, painting conducted by an external agency is helping us in contests and art exhibitions. strengthening our retention and engagement 75 Enhancing transparency Transparency is one of our core values, and a material issue for us. As an organization, our transparency is evident in our various external disclosure commitments. Internally, we drive transparency through communication across people engagement channels. Our external commitments to transparency are Transparency is not a one-way street at Mindtree: evident in our carbon performance disclosures We weave in ground level feedback into our through CDP reporting, overall business internal transparency initiatives to make them responsibility through Business Responsibility more responsive. Our stakeholder platforms Report as a part of our annual report and our integrate transparency with communication sustainability performance disclosure through agenda, and our transparency initiatives are GRI-based sustainability reports for several years. designed to be responsive to the feedback We have constantly advanced our transparency gathered from various sources and engagement levels in our sustainability reporting from platforms. (Refer to the platforms list in the 2012-13 to GRI -G4 Core in 2015-16. This year chapter: Materiality and Stakeholder we move to G4 Comprehensive and gear up for Inclusiveness.) GRI Standards next year. We scaled up our eﬀorts at soliciting and Transparency has emerged as one of our capturing ground level feedback across all strengths and has been endorsed by our clients: functions of the organization in 2016-17. We Our Customer Experience Survey which gave us further simpliﬁed our communication initiatives. high scores on satisfaction, positive feedback on An Idea Jam in 2016-17, one of the initiatives our governance and transparency levels, apart under our iBelong suite of programs, focused on from other strengths. bottom-up communication, resulted in 1733 ideas that came in from the ground level. Right Internal mechanisms: Transparency, as a material now 473 ideas have been implemented by issue, is of paramount signiﬁcance for us various functions and another 293 ideas waiting internally as well. for adoption. 76 We took carbon disclosure to an internal organization-wide disclosures, we believe, audience this time: we published our carbon complement our eﬀorts at building awareness footprint performance on a quarterly basis on about the low carbon imperative. PeopleHub, our internal platform. Such internal A key highlight of our endeavours in 2016-17 lies in our moving away from the bell curve in performance management at the middle levels and doing away with the rating system at that level. While we are transitioning to the new system, we are glad and proud to have taken the bold step in this direction. Improving Diversity We are strengthening diversity by a two-pronged approach: increase the uptake at entry levels and groom the women at mid-rungs into leaders of tomorrow. Ethnicity / Nationality People with Disabilities Gender Sexual Orientation 77 Development programs Equal Opportunity Policy • Exuberance • TA process • Mi Footprints • PMS • Dhriti Women’s network forum • Safe workplace Lady Mind App Reasonable Accommodation Policy • Policies & beneﬁts • Acquiring or modifying equipment or devices • Organization update • Job restructuring • E-learning module • Modiﬁed work schedules • Health diary Policies • Reassignment to same project • Maternity counselling & • Career counselling Practices Flexi-work Options • Buddy • WFH-Swift (6 days) • Return to work • WFH-Stretch (30 days) • Reduced working hours Child Care Facility • Part time • Crèche onsite & oﬀsite • Subsidized cost Parental Leave Special Needs Leave • Night crèche reimbursement • 6 months maternity leave • 180 Days of leave • Lactation counselling • 6 months adoption leave • Baby’s day out • 3 months surrogacy leave • Open door policy, kids to workstation • 5 days paternity leave • Reserved parking To cross the distance from intent to action in Our observations on exit reasons for women diversity, and to ensure lasting impacts, several indicate that they are increasingly shifting away functions must come together. At Mindtree, we from family-related reasons to professional deploy interlinked enablers to make this ones, thus implying a greater need for us to happen. Talent acquisition, organizational make this a thriving workplace that oﬀers development, learning, leadership development challenging work as well as work-life balance. and other related functions converge on the agenda on diversity goals. Our overall diversity continues to be around 29%.We were keen on an equal or near equal Mindtree has 46 people with disability ratio at entry levels in 2016-17 without contributing to our performance. Our Reasonable compromising on the quality of talent. The fact accommodation policy couple with that campuses, where we source talent from, do disability-friendly infrastructure provide an not possess equal or near equal spread, posed a enabling environment for our people. challenge. We added women-only campuses to our talent acquisition sourcing list, and achieved Mindtree's two-pronged approach to gender 49% women talent at entry levels. diversity strives to boost women talent at entry level and to develop them as leaders especially from middle level onwards. 78 To nurture mid-level women talent into leaders, women constantly updated about organizational we launched an exclusive program in 2016-17. development, helping new mothers get back to Exuberance, a leadership development program work comfortably through the buddy system, for mid-rung Lady Mindtree Minds was launched exclusive recruitment drives for women on long as an eight month program, power-packed with breaks, and mentorship programs to encourage well-crafted modules, combined with senior women leaders. We updated our maternity level mentoring. Twenty three high potential policy beneﬁt, and extended the paid maternity members were on-boarded in 2016-17 into this leave from three months to six months. leadership launch vehicle custom-built for women. We have a goal of developing 100 MiLady: We launched an app exclusively for women leaders in our plan. Lady Mindtree Minds and kick-started the app for the beneﬁt of women on maternity leave, to start with. The app keeps them up-to-date with all the happenings at Mindtree, giving them access to all learning platforms, also linking them with the staﬃng people and their reporting managers even before they re-join work, thus making the transition smother, with no loss of time or work during the transition. This initiative goes a long way in keeping the women on leave We also launched MiFootprint, a unique platform constantly connected to our organization and where our women leaders across locations their work. engage with Mindtree Lady Minds to inspire them through sharing their own growth journeys and motivating them to grow as professionals. The very ﬁrst round saw 26 Lady Mindtree Minds enrolling for this mentorship program which plans quarterly sessions to include more aspirants in its fold, going forward. Mindtree's women-centric programs include extended maternity leave, exclusive app to keep 79 Women returning to work is a force that is consecutive year, with 1600 Mindtree Minds, growing in our sector. So is the second career friends and family enthusiastically participating women segment (women returning to work after in the run. Inspired by the success, Mindtree a long sabbatical). We created avenues to make went for another run in February 2017, at RR use of these opportunities. Nagar, Bengaluru, for causes served by the local Rotary Club. International Womens’ day We created job opportunities for women celebrations included six key initiatives for the returning to work and women in search of a beneﬁt of Lady Mindtree Minds, and saw active second career. We started 'Women in Tech', participation from over 2000 women across a diversity recruitment drive for women, eight locations. and selected 50 women out of the 210 who participated. Our Lady Mindtree Minds continued Our emphasis on diversity extends to our supply to get inspired by thought leader talks and panel chain management as well, resulting in a special discussions from across the globe, as a part of focus on women-based enterprises as part of our Dhriti, our community platform for women. supply chain. Going forward, we plan to start identifying and creating role descriptions for part-time work for women. As a co-sponsor for Pinkathon, a women-only run for awareness of breast cancer, Mindtree supported the initiative for the second 80 Our talent pool Total Workforce by Employment type, Employment Contract, and Region, Broken down by Gender. Categorization 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total By Employee Category Associates (T4-C4) 8,600 4,222 12,822 9,113 4,162 13,275 8,105 3,561 11,666 Middle Management (C5-C7) 2,621 425 3,046 2,415 386 2,783 2,014 286 2,300 Senior Management (C8-C9) 170 15 185 138 10 148 127 9 136 Top Management (C10-C12) 17 1 18 15 2 17 16 1 17 Subsidiary Employees 5 5 10 52 22 74 By Employee Contract Permanent 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 Contract 849 282 1,131 869 345 1,214 869 317 1,186 By Employee Type Total no. of Employees in FTEs 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 Full Time Employees (Headcount) 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 Part Time Employees (Headcount) 849 282 1,131 869 345 1,214 869 317 1,186 By Region India 9,016 4,230 13,246 9,437 4,161 13,598 8,571 3,629 12,200 UK 206 44 250 226 50 276 174 33 207 US 1,780 340 2,120 1,637 296 1,933 1,185 157 1,342 Others 411 54 465 433 57 490 332 38 370 By Age <30 4,951 2,959 7,910 5,570 3,018 8,588 5,128 2,640 7,768 30-50 6,303 1,673 7,976 6,024 1,509 7,533 5,051 1,206 6,257 >50 159 36 195 139 37 176 83 11 94 Total 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 81 New hires Total Number of New Employee Hires by Category, Region, Age and Gender Categorization 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 1,998 1,040 3,038 3,482 1,613 5,095 3,009 1,170 4,179 Middle Management (C5-C7) 388 54 442 498 81 579 345 39 384 Senior Management (C8-C9) 28 3 31 19 2 21 24 3 27 Top Management (C10-C12) 2 2 1 1 2 1 0 1 Subsidiary Employees 0 0 0 59 28 87 India 2065 994 3,059 3,546 1,580 5,126 3,092 1,159 4,251 UK 12 3 15 19 2 21 11 0 11 US 309 92 401 428 126 554 226 44 270 Others 30 8 38 66 17 83 50 9 59 <30 1,377 835 2,212 2,509 1,322 3,831 2,143 949 3,092 30-50 994 252 1,246 1,472 374 1,846 1,200 259 1,459 >50 45 10 55 78 29 107 36 4 40 Total 2,416 1,097 3,513 4,059 1,725 5,784 3,379 1,212 4,591 Attrition Total Number of New Employee Hires leaving the organization in the reporting period by Category, Region, Age and Gender Categorization 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 172 78 250 291 106 397 170 45 215 Middle Management (C5-C7) 32 7 39 38 8 46 129 28 157 Senior Management (C8-C9) 1 1 1 1 14 2 16 Top Management (C10-C12) 0 0 0 0 Subsidiary Employees 7 6 13 India 153 66 219 287 108 395 272 67 339 UK 1 1 2 1 1 2 0 2 US 49 17 66 47 12 59 34 6 40 Others 2 1 3 2 2 5 2 7 <30 99 44 143 189 77 266 186 54 240 30-50 101 38 139 142 39 181 121 20 141 >50 5 3 8 6 4 10 6 1 7 Total 205 85 290 337 120 457 313 75 388 82 Total Employee Attrition by Category, Region, Age and Gender Categorization 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 2,286 928 3,214 2,205 957 3,162 2,072 877 2,949 Middle Management (C5-C7) 417 69 486 348 54 402 368 63 431 Senior Management (C8-C9) 24 24 22 2 24 26 0 26 Top Management (C10-C12) 4 1 5 4 4 7 0 7 Subsidiary Employees 7 6 13 India 2,298 903 3,201 2,249 976 3,225 2,189 878 3,067 UK 11 5 16 16 1 17 19 5 24 US 358 80 438 267 39 306 221 51 272 Others 64 10 74 54 3 57 44 6 50 <30 1,278 610 1,888 1,385 654 2,039 1,267 592 1,859 30-50 1,411 372 1,783 1,170 359 1,529 1,179 343 1,522 >50 42 16 58 31 6 37 27 5 32 Total 2,731 998 3,729 2,586 1,019 3,605 2,473 940 3,413 Rate of Employee Turnover by Category, Region, Age and Gender Categorization 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 26.58% 21.98% 25.07% 24.20% 22.99% 23.82% 26% 25% 25% Middle Management (C5-C7) 15.91% 16.24% 15.96% 14.41% 14.67% 14.44% 18% 22% 19% Senior Management (C8-C9) 14.12% 0.00% 12.97% 15.94% 20.00% 16.22% 20% 0% 19% Top Management (C10-C12) 23.53% 100.00% 27.78% 26.67% 0.00% 23.53% 44% 0% 41% Subsidiary Employees 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 13.46% 27.27% 17.57% India 25.49% 21.35% 24.17% 23.83% 23.46% 23.72% 26% 24% 25% UK 5.34% 11.36% 6.40% 7.08% 2.00% 6.16% 11% 15% 12% US 20.11% 23.53% 20.66% 16.31% 13.18% 15.83% 19% 32% 20% Others 15.57% 18.52% 15.91% 12.47% 5.26% 11.63% 13% 16% 14% <30 25.81% 20.62% 23.87% 24.87% 21.67% 23.74% 25% 22% 24% 30-50 22.39% 22.24% 22.35% 19.42% 23.79% 20.30% 23% 28% 24% >50 26.42% 44.44% 29.74% 22.30% 16.22% 21.02% 33% 45% 34% Total 21.17% 23.50% 21.85% 22.04% 22.33% 22.12% 24.10% 24.37% 24.17% 83 Ratio of entry to local minimum wages are Local hiring at Senior healthy across regions Management levels 2016-17 2016-17 India (INR) UK (GBP) US (USD) Local hiring at GM and above levels (Per day) Local Total % of Male Female Male Female Male Female Region Hires Number Locals India 19 19 100% Entry level wage 1100.0 1100.0 128.0 124.8 240.0 240.0 UK & Europe 7 7 100% US 7 7 100% Local minimum wage 622 622 119.6 119.6 221.0 221.0 Others 0 0 Ratio 1.77 1.77 1.07 1.04 1.09 1.09 Total 33 33 100% Healthy return to work and retention rates after parental leave 2016-17 No. of employees entitled No. of No. of No. of Return to Retention Rate to parental leave employees employees who employees who work rate that took returned to returned to parental leave work after work after leave ended leave ended and were still employed after 12 months Maternity All full-time 336 323 311 96% 93% Leave women employees Paternity Mindtree Minds who 743 742 668 100% 90% Leave become father with a childbirth or in cases where his wife undergoes pre-mature termination of pregnancy, are entitled for the paternity leave Performance appraisals 2016-2017: Performance Reviews Male Female Total Total No. of Employees 11165 4468 15633 Total No. of Eligible Employees 10200 3875 14075 Total No. of Employees submitting regular performance appraisals 9686 3607 13293 (Annual appraisals submitted) Total No. of Employees receiving regular performance appraisals 9571 3546 13117 (Annual appraisals released*) Percentage 95.0% 93.1% 99.3% 84 Health and wellness activities 2016-17 Zoojoo.be platform No. of activities No. of Campaigns 5 Total no. of employee participation 9549 No. of Health Challenges taken 8474 No. of Webinars Conducted 15 No. of Onsite Sessions 6 One to one counselling Total no. of Counselling Sessions 194 Total no. of Self Assessment Tests 163 Total no. of articles 863 Total no. of Counselling Follow ups 89 Total no. of Priority Alerts 50 In house Sessions No. of Sessions People impacted Health Talks 17 1010 Health Camps 12 840 Wellness Sessions 44 2640 Workplace injury incidents Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. By Gender By Region Category Overall Male Female Bangalore Total No. of Injury Incidents This can include: • Injuries inﬂicted at the workplace • Injuries inﬂicted during travel, 357 206 151 291 66 commuting etc. • Occupational Disease Incidents like ergonomic injuries, both major and minor like RSI, Stress, etc. No. of lost days due to injuries * 83 66 17 81 2 Total No. of Person Hours Worked 23788512 16273224 7515288 21208176 2580336 Total No. of Employees 10012 6849 3163 8926 1086 Incident Rate per 100 employees = No. of incidents X 100 / 2.91 3.01 4.77 3.26 6.08 Total No. of Employees Frequency Rate = No. of incidents X 100000 / 1.5 1.27 2.01 1.37 2.56 Total Person Hours Worked Severity Rate = Total No. of Lost Days / 0.28 0.32 0.11 0.28 0.03 Total No. of Incidents 85 86 Our training programs spanning across all levels Training in 2016-17 Category/Level/ Total No. of Employees per Category No. of Hours of Training per Category Average hours of training per year per employee Grade of Employees# Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 8,600 4,222 12,822 4,89,033 3,89,781 8,78,814 56.86 92.32 68.54 Middle Management (C5-C7) 2,621 425 3,046 31,902 6,481 38,383 12.17 15.25 12.60 Senior Management (C8-C9) 170 15 185 374 40 414 2.20 2.67 2.24 Top Management (C10-C12) 17 1 18 10 10 0.59 0.56 Sub-Contractors 849 282 1,131 422 235 657 0.50 0.83 0.58 Total 12,257 4,945 17,202 5,21,741 3,96,537 9,18,278 42.57 80.19 53.38 Remuneration ratio by gender on 31of As Ratio Basic Mar Salary 2016: and Ratio of Women Basic Salary and ofRemuneration Remuneration to Men:of2016-17 Women to Men India (in INR) UK (in GBP) US (in USD) Others (In USD) Employee Category Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Basic Salary Associates (T4-C4) 1,59,946 1,41,117 0.88 39,333 39,163 1.00 63,772 63,364 0.99 49,947 42,524 0.85 Middle Management 4,90,488 4,23,481 0.86 59,900 56,218 0.94 90,257 88,013 0.98 73,866 66,324 0.90 (C5-C7) Senior Management 11,39,773 10,60,122 0.93 1,16,190 1,16,190 1.00 1,59,866 1,78,298 1.12 1,49,234 1,49,234 1.00 (C8-C9) Top Management 21,00,617 21,00,617 1.00 1,80,451 2,30,000 1.27 2,24,966 2,24,966 1.00 (C10-C12) Remuneration Associates (T4-C4) 7,39,172 6,35,725 0.86 42,226 41,960 0.99 71,737 70,698 0.99 53,412 45,640 0.85 Middle Management 20,10,526 17,47,344 0.87 65,907 61,839 0.94 1,07,228 1,02,031 0.95 81,871 73,485 0.90 (C5-C7) Senior Management 45,79,511 42,40,484 0.93 1,39,532 1,39,532 1.00 2,10,741 2,34,261 1.11 1,94,306 1,94,306 1.00 (C8-C9) Top Management (C10-C12) 93,72,041 93,72,041 1.00 2,40,000 3,30,000 1.38 3,34,398 3,34,398 1.00 Mindtree at a Glance We engineer meaningful technology solutions to help businesses and societies ﬂourish. $779.8M 16,470 9.4% annual revenue Mindtree Minds YOY growth 68% US 43 Oﬃces Top 20 22% EU 10% APAC 17 Countries IT-BPM employer in India, NASSCOM Enhancing Economic Value Leader speak monitored by the leadership team to ensure the best eﬀectiveness for the investment committed. Our commitment to invest in environmental sustainability, including capex-based ones, continues to be unwavering. We have invested INR 51 million in environmental initiatives during FY 2016-17 and it has grown at a CAGR of 64% over the last three years. Our investments in the technology platform IGG (I Got Garbage) are in the range of INR 51 million during FY 2016-17. Jagannathan Chakravarthi Narasimhan We would be making increased investments in Vice President, CFO cleaner power, especially solar energy, water eﬃciencies, and green buildings. We are We are committed to our committed to see our plans through. environmental and social investments at all times. Mindtree, having faced a short-term impact of global uncertainties, has started to bounce back Our growth has always been inclusive in nature. well. Our fundamentals for future growth are We have invested in CSR much before the law very robust. Our strengths lie in the direction of came into force, and did so even in times of what the global markets increasingly need. Our ﬁnancial challenges. Our commitments, hence, strategies focused on agile, digital and managed are steadfast, and have crossed national services prove to be the right recipe for success boundaries. Our CSR spend has grown from in the changing times. We are sure that we will INR 40 million in FY 2014-15 to INR 109 million bounce back even stronger in the medium term. in FY 2016-17. Our commitment to CSR is more Our resilient organization did so in the past a than the ﬁnancial commitment and each leader couple of times when the industry faced voluntarily commits time to participate and enormous challenges, and we are conﬁdent we contribute for the CSR activities carried out by would repeat our rebound again. us. Each of our CSR activity is eﬀectively 89 Mindtree is committed to transparency with We encourage new entrants to volunteer. stakeholders, and our reporting on sustainability Leaders set an example and inspire all levels. is a testimony to this commitment. We follow We are glad to recognize the contributions our the global best frameworks and norms in volunteers make in creating an equitable society. non-ﬁnancial reporting as we have demonstrated There is scope to make volunteering go wider in our ﬁnancial reporting. than it is today. This year’s theme for our report is volunteering. Welcome to possible. Volunteering is an expression of our culture. 90 Enhancing economic value Mindtree continues to pursue industry leading growth that is inclusive as well, and the diﬀerent material issues contributing to it: deep domain expertise, sales and delivery transformation, digital transformation, customer privacy and data security. Revenue Net Proﬁts INR 52,364 Million INR 4,186 Million (growth of 12.1%) (decline of 24.2%) Clientele Total CSR spend 328 Active Clients INR 109,065,812 (USD one million clients grew by 5: total of 111) Total environmental spend INR 50,667,391 91 Inclusive growth Our CSR expenditure stands at INR 109,065,812 Our economic value-add has (total of MTF and IGG mentioned as in the consistently increased over the years, annual report) in the year 2016-17. We invested demonstrating our ability to share the INR 50,667,391 on our environmental initiatives fruits of our growth with larger stakeholders in multiple ways. and are steadfast on our investments in clean energy, which will increase in the years to come. Business value creation Our strategy of achieving industry-leading not only in the form of increasing or repeat growth through deep domain expertise in our business but also in the form of strengthening chosen verticals combined with technology our customer relationships. depth, customized for our clients remained the same in 2016-17. Our Customer Experience Survey bears testimony to this fact. Apart from giving us high Our digital business, continues as strong as satisfaction scores, the study revealed to us our ever, having established a leadership position strengths as experienced by our customers: by our seamless integration with the digital governance and transparency, ﬂexibility, transformation stories of several of our clients. professionalism and responsiveness, partnership We strengthened our footing in our European and service orientation. segment. Customer Experience Survey We created a new Integrated Solutions and 5.59 5.55 5.56 Services group, to create new oﬀerings combining 5.50 5.45 multiple services, newer pricing and delivery 5.41 5.42 5.37 5.27 5.35 models to meet changing customer needs. 5.25 5.11 Mindtree’s culture-backed deep domain expertise has been achieved as a result of our relentless pursuit of excellence at all levels. (Please refer to the section 'Nurturing Mindtree Satisfaction Loyalty Advocacy VFM Minds' for details.) This pursuit has borne results 2015 2016 2017 92 Sales transformation Delivery transformation With the market shifting to emerging platforms (Project DRIVE) digital, cloud, analytics, and the pace of change In 2016-17, we embarked on a major exercise to being drastic, success in the future depends on enhance our capabilities and achieve delivery the sharpness and alignment of sales force with and operational excellence. the new realities. Mindtree has embarked on a signiﬁcant initiative to train and prepare Starting with a diagnostics and benchmarking the sales force to plan and execute our sales exercise with McKinsey that led to a clear gap strategy eﬀectively. analysis and subsequently to policy deﬁnitions and policy enablers, we launched multiple We have launched a self-paced Learning initiatives across ﬁve verticals and organizational Management System consisting of audio learning processes. LEAN was an important focal point modules―ShotClasses to share crisp client here, which helped us cut down wastages in stories with our sales force, live training projects, optimize cost, time, documentation, workshops, and social-selling coaching sessions. automation and work potential. Having The intent is to empower them with a set of successfully completed three waves in a short cutting-edge tools to deliver our message more span of a few months, we have imparted LEAN eﬀectively to the market. principles to 50 projects covering 2300 Mindtree Minds and improved eﬃciencies by about 35% Marketing in each project. Each business line in Mindtree is led by marketing, working in close association with We see our relationships with sales, generating business that has grown sub-contractors improving, our constantly overall and impressively in areas of utilizations rising, our resource-pyramid focus. With a high-tech Marketing Opportunity better optimized, and our forecasting Tool, and personalised, experiential marketing at system for staﬃng starting to various touch points, the marketing function at strengthen. We are looking at ways to Mindtree makes use of innovative ways to reﬁne the system of people-forecasting convey the brand values and sustainability and bringing in a culture of constant proﬁle among its various stakeholder segments. improvement at the individual level. 93 LEAN is not just about process change but about technology spending continues to be high, but is inculcating high performance culture and shifting from traditional outsourcing to cloud, continuous improvement at the mind-set level. digital and analytics. This puts us on a threshold We are aiming at that change through increased of new opportunities. With our expertise-led, accountability and motivation. culture-backed capabilities, we are conﬁdent of riding the future with increased impacts on Opportunity multiple bottom lines―ﬁnancial, social and The market is increasingly shifting in the environmental. direction in which our strengths and recent emphases lie: digital, cloud, analytics. This augurs For further details on our strengths, strategies well for our prospects. A study by ISG, a leading and outlook, please refer to our annual report. sourcing advisory ﬁrm, concludes that 94 Economic value addition Economic value generated and distributed (INR in crores) Direct Economic Value Generated (A) 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Revenue (through core business segments) 5,236.39 4,672.97 3,561.90 Other income (through other sources) 55.33 83.90 83.50 TOTAL 5,291.72 4,756.87 3,645.40 Economic Value Distributed (B) Other operating cost 1,134.15 1,067.71 794.25 Personnel expenses (wages+beneﬁts) 3,392.92 2,780.68 2,057.20 Interest charges 19.10 16.04 0.08 Taxes and royalties (given to various govt. wherever business units are located) 136.23 170.60 154.52 Taxes expenses Taxes and royalties (given to various govt. wherever business units are located) 32.57 39.40 29.15 Dividend tax paid Dividends (payments to capital providers) 167.93 209.50 142.40 Donations (political parties/politicians) Community development/CSR investments paid to Mindtree Foundation 4.8 3.60 1.25 TOTAL 4,887.69 4,287.53 3,178.91 Economic value added (A-B) 404.03 469.34 466.54 Our contribution to employee beneﬁt plans (INR in crores) Contribution to beneﬁt plan (in crore) 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Contributions to provident and other funds 188.23 158.84 163.65 Staﬀ welfare expenses 19.74 18.46 17.5 TOTAL 207.97 177.34 181.15 Government assistance received (INR in crores) Financial assistance received 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 IT exemption 309.91 352.40 273.12 Land provided at subsidized rate Incentives Custom, excise duties waived # 6.54 14.95 14.67 Others TOTAL 316.45 367.35 287.79 Note: We have adopted Ind AS ﬁnancials in place of IGAAP ﬁnancials from FY 2016-17 and accordingly have restated the FY 2015-16 numbers. 95 Global presence AMERICA CALIFORNIA UAE Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree Ltd. NEW JERSEY 2001 Gateway Place, Suite 700 W 423, Block A, 5W Mindtree Ltd. San Jose, CA 95110, USA DAFZA 25 Independence Boulevard Ph: +1 408 986 1000 PO Box 293858 Suite 410 Fax: +1 408 986 0005 Dubai, UAE Warren, NJ 07059, USA Ph: +971 4260 2400 Ph: +1 908 604 8080 CANADA Fax: +971 4260 2401 Fax: +1 908 604 7887 Mindtree Ltd. Bay and Bloor Centre AUSTRALIA FLORIDA 1235 Bay Street, Suite 400 Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree Delivery Center Toronto, Ontario M5R 3K4 Level 7, 155 George Street 720 SW 2nd Avenue, South Tower Canada The Rocks, Sydney NSW 2000 Gainesville, FL 32601, USA Australia Ph: +1 352 702 4565 Ph: +61 (2) 9089 8970/71 Mindtree Ltd. Fax: +1 352 433 4080 1004-3601 Highway 7 East, Mindtree Ltd. Markham, ON L3R 0M3, Level 40, 140 William Street ILLINOIS Canada Melbourne, VIC 3000 Mindtree Ltd. 1901 N. Roselle Road, Suite 800 Schaumburg, IL 60195, USA ASIA PACIFIC MALAYSIA Ph: +1 847 592 7044 MindTree Consulting Limited Fax: +1 847 592 7043 JAPAN Level 16, 1 Sentral Jalan Ste Mindtree Ltd. 5, KL Sentral 50470 2-21-7-703 Kiba, Koto-ku KualaLumpur TEXAS Tokyo 135-0042, Japan Malaysia Mindtree Ltd. Ph: +81 3 5809 8444 320 Decker Drive #100 Fax: +81 3 5809 8445 EUROPE Irving, TX 75063, USA Ph: +1 972 422 9113 SINGAPORE UNITED KINGDOM Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree Ltd. ARIZONA 17 Changi Business Park Central 1, 3 Sheldon Square Mindtree Ltd. #05 03 Honeywell Building, W2 6PR, London 19820 N. 7th Avenue, Suite 135 Changi Business Park, United Kingdom Phoenix, AZ 85027-4736, USA Singapore 486073 Ph: +44 020 37633300 Ph: +1 480 499 3145 Singapore Ph: +1 602 535 2257 Ph: +65 6323 8135 GERMANY Toll free: +1 800 239 4110 Fax: +65 6323 1795 Mindtree Ltd. WASHINGTON Richmodstrasse 6 Mindtree Delivery Centre 50667, Cologne 5010 148th Avenue NE, Suite 200 Germany Redmond, WA 98052, USA Ph: +49 221 9204 2233 Ph: +1 425 867 3900 Fax: +49 221 9204 2200 Fax: +1 425 861 8151 97 BELGIUM IRELAND PUNE Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree Limited Mindtree Limited Pegasuslaan 5 3rd Floor, Kilmore House, Rajiv Gandhi Infotech and 1831, Diegem Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Biotech park, Belgium Dublin 1 Plot no.37 phase 1 MIDC Ph: +32 2709 2055 Ireland Hinjewadi Pune 411 057 Fax: +32 2709 2222 Ph: +353 1 614 6240 Maharashtra, India Ph: +91 20 3915 6000 SWEDEN INDIA Mindtree Ltd. HYDERABAD Svetsarvägen 15 2tr BENGALURU Mindtree Limited 17141, Solna Mindtree (MTW) Divyasree Orion SEZ, (Stockholm) Global village, RVCE post 12th Floor, Block #6, Sweden Mysore Road North Tower Ph: +46 8 5787 7020 Bengaluru 560 059 Survey #66/1, Raidurga, Fax +46 8 5787 7010 Karnataka, India Ranga Reddy District, Ph: +91 80 6706 4000 Gachibowli, FRANCE Hyderabad 500 032 Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree (MTE) Andhra Pradesh, India La Grande Arche EPIP Second Phase Ph: +91 40 672 30000 Paroi Nord KIADB industrial area 92044, Paris Hoody village, Whiteﬁeld BHUBANESWAR France Bengaluru 560 066 Mindtree Limited Ph: +33 (0)1 7329 4524 Karnataka, India Plot No-1 Fax: +33 (1) 7329 4500 Ph: +91 80 6747 0000 Chandaka Industrial Estat, Chandrasekharpur SWITZERLAND CHENNAI post oﬃce Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree Limited Khurda 751015 c/o Paramis AG 10th, 11th and 12th Floor, Bhubaneswar Christoph Merian-Ring 31 TRIL Infopark Ltd., Neville Block CH-4153 Reinach BL Ramanujan IT City SEZ Switzerland Taramani, Chennai 600 113 Ph: +41 5 2269 1400 Tamil Nadu, India Fax: +41 5 1269 1401 Ph: +91 44 66711100 NETHERLANDS Mindtree Limited Mindtree Ltd. 5th and 6th Floor Lange Dreef 11, Vianen TRIL Infopark Ltd. 4131 NJ, The Netherlands HARDY BLOCK Netherlands Ramanujan IT City SEZ Ph: +31 34 771 5021 Taramani, Chennai 600 113 Tamil Nadu, India Ph: +91 44 66711100 98 MINDTREE SUBSIDIARIES DISCOVERTURE SOLUTIONS, LLC BLUEFIN SOLUTIONS LIMITED MAGNET 360 16100 North 71st Street Building 4, Chiswick Park 5757 Wayzata Boulevard Suite 250 566 Chiswick High Road Minneapolis, MN 55416 Scottsdale, AZ 85254 London, W4 5YE USA United Kingdom MAGNET 360 Toll free: +1 (877) 841-0962 Ph: +44 (0)870 233 0404 320 W. Ohio St. Ph: +1 (480) 269-8100 6th Floor West BLUEFIN SOLUTIONS LIMITED Chicago, IL 60654 DISCOVERTURE SOLUTIONS Suite 9.07, Level 9 EUROPE LTD The Gardens North Tower, MAGNET 360 C/0. Mindtree Limited Mid Valley City 17 State Street, Second Floor 3 Sheldon Square Lingkaran Syed Putra, New York, NY 10004 W2 6PR, London Kuala Lumpur 59200 United Kingdom Malaysia MAGNET 360 Ph: +44 020 37633300 3250 Ocean Park Blvd Ph: +603 2289 2003 Los Angeles, CA 90405 MINDTREE SOFTWARE BLUEFIN SOLUTIONS LIMITED (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD Room 541, 26 Duxton Road Standard Chartered Tower 89490 No.201 Century Avenue, Singapore Pudong, Shanghai Ph: +653 1587 513 China Ph: +86-21-6182 6987 BLUEFIN SOLUTIONS LIMITED Fax: +86-21-61826777 200 S Wacker Drive Floor 31, Chicago, IL 60606 MINDTREE SOFTWARE USA (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD, BEIJING BRANCH RELATIONAL SOLUTIONS INC Room 303, 3/F, 24601 Center Ridge Rd, Tower B, B28, Westlake, OH 44145, Building 55, No. 10, United States Jiuxianqiao Road, Ph: +1 440-899-3296 Chaoyang District, Beijing, Post code: 100015 Ph: +86-10-59756345 99 Assurance statement 100 101 102 Data assumptions & techniques Company The company owns four vehicles. An assumed average of 30KM per day is used. Mindtree has arrived at the owned average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of the vehicles city. Thus, by multiplying the average km per day by the assumed number of working days in a year (250), we arrive at the total kilometers travelled. Emission factors are bifurcated into petrol and diesel based on the make of the vehicle. Fuel usage Weight of one full LPG gas cylinder is considered as 19.5 kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of LPG gas cylinders being used as opposed to the kg. Refrigerant a) For HFCs, the global warming potential of the refrigerant along with a conversion factor of 0.001 is converted into CO2e using standard conversion formulas. Employee a) For company leased vehicles, the fuel make of the vehicle is considered to determine petrol vs. diesel vehicles. Commute An average of the monthly petrol and diesel prices of all major Indian cities has been considered to compute the total liters consumed. Emissions are overstated by at least 20% as the fuel claim also includes personal travel on the part of employees. b) Assumed an average of 30 km per passenger per day for public transport. We have arrived at the average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of the city. Thus, by multiplying the average passenger km per day by the assumed number of working days in a year (250) and the number of employees who use the service, the total kilometers travelled are computed. It is assumed that the emission factor for public transport to be that of bus (type unknown) as a majority of employees using public transport commute by bus services. c) Public transport: We have arrived at the number of employees who use public transport by inference, i.e. by subtracting the total of the number of employees who use cars, two wheelers and Mindtree operated buses from the total number of employees in the India operations. d) Mindtree uses parking lot figures to determine a factor of the employees using fourand twowheelers. e) For fourand twowheelers, the emissions on account of employee commuting have been computed based on the assumption arrived from the company leased vehicles that 70% of fuel costs assumed are to be associated with petrol, 30% of fuel costs assumed to be associated with diesel. The kilometers are calculated by assuming an average of 30 KM per passenger per day – with a similar principle to that of public transport. Business a) GHG protocol provides different emission factors for domestic, short-haul and long-haul flights. A distance-based Travel classification into these categories is more appropriate. Based on an assumption and a study of available literature, (International Mindtree has considered the following categorization to classify all flights as per the categorization below: & Domestic) Domestic,less than 463 km Short haul,between 464 and 1108 km Long haul,greater than 1108 km With this categorization, a majority of the flights (98%) are long haul with the balance under short haul (1%) and domestic (0.2%). Waste a) Weight of one UPS battery is considered as 11.70 kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of batteries being used as opposed to the kg b) Weight of 1 liter of used oil is considered as 0.88 kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of litres of used oil being disposed as opposed to the kg c) Weight of one CFL bulb is considered as 126 g. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of CFLs being disposed as opposed to the kg 103 d) Weight of one tubelight is considered as 250 g. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of tubelights being disposed as opposed to the kg e) Weight of one DG filter is considered as 1.5 kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of DG filters being disposed as opposed to the kg f) The average weight of Municipal solid waste (wet/dry) generated is considered as 0.5 kg/person/month. 50% of this is considered as dry waste which is recycled. g) In the event that waste (Oil soaked cotton and DG filters) have been disposed but there is no record of the same, averages of the available data have been considered for those months. h) Emissions associated with waste disposed have been considered as opposed to disposed + generated + stored. i) Since clarity on the disposal methodology is not available, more conservative emission factors are used. Freight Emission factor for domestic is used for domestic air-freight and emission factor for international is that of long haul. Water > For smaller locations where the builder maintains the total water consumed, figures are obtained by assuming one employee consumes 65 liters of water per day. 65 liters is derived based on ratio of the total water consumed in locations with accurate measure by the total number of employees. > Drinking water is collected in the form of number of cans. This is multiplied in 20 liters (capacity of the bubble top) to provide the total number of liters. Air emissions > Air emissions are not measured monthly, and hence are extrapolated for the months not measured. * The rupee to US dollar conversion factor was taken at the rupee-US dollar exchange rate of Rs. 45.6013 for the year 2010-11, Rs. 47.5709 for the year 2011-12, Rs. 54.2107 for the year 2012-13, Rs. 60.5237 for the year 2013-14, Rs. 61.0106 for the year 2014-15, Rs. 65.5510 for the year 2015-16 and Rs. 67.1533 for the year 2016-17 104 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Guidelines The Ten Principles Principles Statement Page Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed human 17 rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 17 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the NA* right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 17, 18 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and 17, 18 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. 17 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 17 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 17 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environment-friendly technologies. 57-59 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 18 NVG Report Application NVG report application table Sub part Aspects Page A Part A of the report includes basic information and data about the operations of the business entity. Thus, the reading of the report becomes more contextual and comparable with other similarly-placed businesses. It may be written in a free format incorporating at least the following: A-1 Basic information about the business Name 4 Nature of ownership 4 Details of the people in top management 21 *Not Applicable. 105 Location of its operations national and 97-99 international Products and services offered 4 Markets served 97-99 Economic and Financial Data Sales 4 Net profit 92-95 Tax paid 95 Total assets Annual Report Market capitalization Annual Report Number of employees 81 A-2 Management's commitment statement to the ESG Guidelines 6, 7 Priorities in terms of the principle and the core elements 6, 7 Reporting period / cycle 14, 15 Whether the report is based on this framework or any other framework 14, 15 Any significant risk that the business would like its stakeholders to know Annual Report Any goals and targets that were set by the top management for improving their performance 10 during the reporting period B Part B of the report incorporates the basic parameters on which the business may report their performance. Efforts have been made to keep the reporting simple keeping in view the fact that this framework is equally applicable to small businesses as well. The report may be prepared in a free format with the basic performance indicators being included in the same. In case the business entity has chosen not to adopt or report on any of the principles, the same may be stated along with, if possible, the reasons for not doing so. B-1 Principle 1 – ethics, transparency and Governance structure of the business, including accountability committees under the Board responsible for organizational oversight. In case no committee is 21 constituted, then the details of the individual responsible for the oversight. Mandate and composition (including number of independent members and/or non-executive 21 members) of such committee with the number of oversight review meetings held. 106 State whether the person/committee head responsible for oversight review is independent 21 from the executive authority or not. If yes, how. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 19 Board/ Chief Executive. Processes in place for the Board/ Chief Executive to 21 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Internally-developed statement on ethics, codes of conduct and details of the process followed to 17, 18 ensure that the same are followed. Frequency with which the Board/ Chief Executive 19 assesses BR performance. Principle 2 – products life cycle Statement on the use of recyclable raw materials. NA* sustainability Statement on use of energy-efficient technologies, designs and manufacturing/ service-delivery 58, 59 processes. Statement on copyrights issues in case of the products that involve use of traditional knowledge NA* and geographical indicators. Statement on use of sustainable practices in the 60 value chain. Principle 3 – employees' well-being Total number of employees with percentage of 81 employees that are engaged through contractors. Statement on non-discriminatory employment 17 policy of the business entity. Percentage of employees who are women. 81 Number of persons with disabilities hired. 78 Amount of the least monthly wage paid to any 84 skilled and unskilled employee. Number of training and skill upgradation programmes organized during the reporting 86 period for skilled and unskilled employees. Number of incidents of delay in payment of wages None during the reporting period. *Not Applicable. 107 Number of grievances submitted by the employees. BRR (Annual Report) Principle 4 – stakeholder engagement Statement on the process of identification of 22 stakeholders and engaging with them. Statement on significant issues on which formal dialogue has been undertaken with any of the 22 stakeholder groups. Principle 5 – human rights Statement on the policy of the business entity on 17, 18 observance of human rights in their operation. Statement on complaints of human rights BRR (Annual Report) violations filed during the reporting period. Principle 6 – environment Percentage of materials used that are recycled NA* input materials. Total energy consumed by the business entity for its 62 operations. Statement on use of energy-saving processes and 57, 58 the total energy saved due to use of such processes. Use of renewable energy as percentage of total 57 energy consumption. Total water consumed and the percentage of water 64 that is recycled and reused. Statement on quantum of emissions of greenhouse 62 gases and efforts made to reduce the same. Statement on discharge of water and effluents indicating the treatment done before discharge 63 and the destination of disposal. Details of efforts made for reconstruction of 58 biodiversity. Principle 7 – policy advocacy Statement on significant policy advocacy efforts 17 undertaken with details of the platforms used. Principle 8 – inclusive growth Details of community investment and development work undertaken indicating the financial resources 44-51 deployed and the impact of this work with a longer-term perspective. Details of innovative practices, products and services that particularly enhance access and allocation of 44-51 resources to the poor and the marginalized groups of the society. *Not Applicable. 108 Principle 9 – customer value Statement on whether the labelling of their products has adequate information regarding product-related customer health and safety, NA* method of use and disposal, product and process standards observed. Details of the customer complaints on safety, labelling and safe disposal of the products NA* received during the reporting period. C Part C of the report incorporates two important aspects on BR reporting. Part C-1 is a disclosure by the business entity on any negative consequences of its operations on the social, environmental and economic fronts. The objective is to encourage the business to report on this aspect in a transparent manner so that it can channelize its efforts to mitigate the same. Part C-2 is aimed at encouraging the business to continuously improve its performance in the area of BR. C-1 • Brief report on any material / significant negative consequences of the operations of the Nil. No significant business entity. impacts C-2 • Brief on goals and targets in the area of Social 10 social, environmental and economic responsibilities that the business entity Environmental 10 has set for itself for the next reporting period. Economical Annual Report *Not Applicable. 109 GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis Gen Standard Disclosure Disclosure Item Location G4-1 Statement by the MD, CEO and the Chairman 6, 7 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risk & opportunities Annual Report Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization. 4 G4-4 Primary brands, products, services. 4 G4-5 Location of the headquarters. 4 G4-6 Number of countries of operation. 97-99 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 4 G4-8 Markets served 97-99 G4-9 Scale of the organization. 4 G4-10 Employee profile. 81 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective None bargaining agreements. G4-12 Organization’s supply chain. 60 G4-13 Significant changes during the year. 14 G4-14 Precautionary approach principle. 17 G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or other initiatives to 17 which the organization subscribes. G4-16 Memberships of associations. 17 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial Annual Report statements. G4-18 Defining the report content and aspect boundaries. 14, 15 G4-19 Material aspects. 24 110 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization. 24 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization. 24 G4-22 Effect of any restatement of information provided 14 in previous reports. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. 14 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 25, 26 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. 25 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. 25, 26 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 22 engagement. Report profile G4-28 Reporting period. 14 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 14 G4-30 Reporting cycle. 14 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the 15, Back page report or its contents. G4-32 ‘Comprehensive’ option chosen. 14 G4-33 External assurance. 15 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization. 19 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for EES topics from highest 19 governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive level position with responsibility for EES topics and whether the 19 post-holder(s) report directly to the governance body. G4-37 Process for consultation between stakeholders and highest governance body on EES topics. If delegated, to whom. Any 19 feedback process to highest governance body. G4-38 Report composition of the highest governance body. 21 111 G4-39 Report whether the chair of the highest governance body is 21 also an executive officer. G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and criteria usedhow diversity, independence, EES 20, Annual Report competence are considered and if stakeholders involved. G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. 19, Annual Report (Cross-board membership, cross-shareholding, controlling stakeholders, related party disclosures.) G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ role in development, approval and updating the organization’s 19 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, goals related to EES impacts. Highest Governance body’s competencies and performance evaluation G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance 20 body’s collective knowledge of EES topics. G4-44 Processes of evaluation of highest governance body’s governance of EES topics. Whether such evaluation is independent or not and 20 its frequency. Whether it is self-assessment. Actions taken in response to such evaluation. Highest body’s role in risk management G4-45 Highest body’s role in identification and management of EES impacts, risks and opportunities. Role in implementation of due 20, Annual Report diligence and whether stakeholder consultation is used to support. G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the Annual Report effectiveness of risk management processes for EES topics. G4-47 Frequency of highest governance body’s review of Annual Report EES impacts, risks and opportunities. Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting G4-48 Highest committee/position that formally reviews and approves the sustainability report, and ensures that all material aspects 19 are covered. Highest governance body’s role in evaluating EES (Economic, Environmental, Social) performance G4-49 Report the processes for communicating critical concerns 19 to the highest body. G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns communicated to the highest body, and the mechanism used to address and 19 resolve them. 112 Remuneration and incentives G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest body and senior executives (with detailsfixed, variable, sign-on bonuses, termination pay, 20, Annual Report clawbacks, retirement benefits). Report how performance criteria in remuneration policy relate to their EES objectives. G4-52 Process for determining the remuneration reportwhether consultants are involved, whether independent of management/any 20, Annual Report other relationship with the organization. G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken Annual Report into account regarding remuneration. G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the highest paid individual in each country of significant operations to Annual Report the median percentage increase in the same for all employees (excluding the highest paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms 17 such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical & 17, 25, 26 lawful behavior and integrity-such as help lines or advice lines. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanism for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior and matters related to 19, 25, 26 organizational integrity. 113 Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/E) disclosure Social category People Focus I DMA 71 Occupational LA5 Percentage of workforce represented in health & safety formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and 75 advise on occupational safety program. LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 85 total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of 85 diseases related to their occupation. LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal NA* agreements with trade unions. NonHR3 Total number of discrimination and BRR discrimination corrective actions taken. Transparency of I DMA 76 policies and disclosure General disclosure-Ethics (See G4-56, G4-57, G4-58) and Integrity General disclosureG4-34 to G4-55 Governance Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total (Society) number of non-monetary sanctions for None non-compliance with laws and regulations. Marketing PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Communications with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, None including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Anti-Competitive SO7 Total number of legal actions for Behavior anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and None monopoly practices and their outcomes. NonHR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination discrimination BRR and corrective actions taken. *Not Applicable. 114 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/E) disclosure Anti-corruption SO4 Communication and training on 100% anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and 100% the significant risks identified. SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption BRR and actions taken. SO6 Financial/in-kind contributions to political None parties, politicians and related institutions. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, None monetary policies and outcome. Environmental EN34 Number of grievances about environmental Grievance impacts filed, addressed, and resolved None Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms. Green I&E DMA 60 procurement Procurement EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at 60 Practices significant locations of operation. Freedom of HR4 Operations and suppliers identified where association & freedom of association and collective collective None bargaining may be violated or at significant bargaining risk, and measures taken. Child labor HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and None measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or HR6 Operations identified as having significant Compulsory risk for forced or compulsory labor and labor None measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Human rights HR9 Number and percentage of operations subject 100% to human rights review/impact assessment. HR10 Percentage of new supplier screening on 100% human rights criteria. HR11 Significant actual/potential negative human Action under rights impacts in supply chain and actions taken. planning 115 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/E) disclosure Labor LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Management operational changes, including whether NA* Relations these are specified in collective agreements. Human Rights HR12 Number of grievances about human rights Grievance impacts filed, addressed, and resolved BRR Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms. Labor Practices LA16 Number of grievances on labor practices Grievance filed, addressed, resolved through formal BRR Mechanisms grievances mechanisms. CSR Community I&E DMA 44 investment projects Indirect EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Economic investments and services provided Impacts primarily for public benefit through 44-51 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, 44-51 including the extent of impacts. Local SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented Communities local community engagement, impact 100% assessments, and development program. SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local None communities. Grievance SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on Mechanisms for society filed, addressed, and resolved Nil Impacts on through formal grievance mechanisms. Society Indigenous HR8 Violations and incidents related to human rights rights in sites around tribal or indigenous None populations. People I DMA 72 engagement Employment G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, type, gender, region, and 81 significant variations, if any. LA1 Total number of new employee hires and 82 turnover by age group, gender and region. *Not Applicable. 116 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/E) disclosure LA2 Benefits provided for full time employees that are not provided to temporary/part-time 75 employees, by significant locations of operation. LA3 Return to work and retention rates after 84 parental leave, by gender. Economic EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan 95 performance obligations. Human rights HR12 Number of grievances about human rights grievance filed, addressed and resolved through BRR mechanisms formal mechanisms. Market EC5 Ratio of standard entry-level wage by Presence gender compared to local minimum wage 84 at significant locations of operations. Talent I DMA 72 Development Training and LA9 Average hours of training per year Education per employee broken down by 86 employee category. LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them 72-75 in managing career endings. LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 84 reviews, by gender. Security HR1 Total number & percentage of significant Practices investment agreements that include human 100% rights clauses/ underwent human rights screening. HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of 100% human rights that are relevant to operations, coverage including the percentage of employees trained. HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in (100% the organization’s human rights policies or trained) procedures that are relevant to operations. 117 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/E) disclosure Diversity & I DMA 77 inclusion Diversity and LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Equal breakdown of employees per category Opportunity according to gender, age group, minority 21, 81 group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Remuneration employee category by significant locations of 86 for Women operation. and Men Market EC5 Ratios of standard, entry-level wage by Presence gender compared to local minimum wage at 84 significant locations of operation. EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from local community at significant locations of 84 operations. Economic category Economic I&E DMA 91 material issues Industry-leading Economic I EC1 Direct economic value generated 95 growth & performance and distributed. deep domain expertise Financial assistance received from EC4 95 the government. Digital Product & service I&E PR5 Results of surveys measuring transformation labelling 92 customer satisfaction. Sales & Product & PR3 Product & services’ information required for delivery service product & services’ labelling; percentage of transformation labelling NA* products & service categories subject to such labelling. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes None concerning product & services’ information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer 92 satisfaction. Customer I&E PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints privacy & data regarding breaches of customer privacy and None security losses of customer data. *Not Applicable. 118 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/E) disclosure Environment category Green IT I&E DMA 57 Overall I EN31 Total environmental expenditures 61 and investments by type. Energy EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 62 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements 62 of products and services. Emissions EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas 62 (GHG) emissions. Environmental I&E DMA 57 stewardship Emission EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Economic opportunities for the organization's activities 61 Performance due to climate change. Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organization (Direct energy consumption 62 by primary energy source). EN4 Energy consumption outside the 62, 63 organisation. EN5 Energy intensity | Report the energy 62 intensity ratio. EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 62 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of 58 products and services. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 63 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by 63 withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water 63 recycled and reused. Emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 62 emissions (Scope 1). EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas 62 (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse 62, 63 gas emissions. 119 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/E) disclosure EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. 62 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 62 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting 63 substances (ODS). EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air 63 emissions. Effluents and EN22 Total water discharge by destination 63 Waste and quality. EN23 Total weight of waste by type and 64 disposal method. EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil EN26 Identity, size, status, biodiversity of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by None discharge of water and run-offs. Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 58 Products & EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental services NA* impacts of products and services. EN28 Percentage of products sold and packaging NA* material reclaimed, by category. Transport EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s 58 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN31 Total environmental expenditures and 61 investments by type. Environmental I DMA 57, 58 Compliance & Management Compliance EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for None non-compliance with environmental laws & regulations. EN24 Total number & volume of significant spills. None Grievance EN34 Number of grievances about environmental mechanism impacts filed, addressed and resolved through None grievance mechanisms. *Not Applicable. 120 Glossary of acronyms Acronym Expansion APAC Asia-Pacific region AR Annual Report BEE Bureau of Energy Efficiency BOD Board of Directors BRR Business Responsibility Report C&B Compensation and Benefits CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CFO Chief Financial Officer CO2e Carbon Dioxide equivalent CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DG Diesel Generators EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization EDGES Ethnicity, Disability, Gender and Sexual Orientation EHS Environment, Health & Safety EES Economic, Environmental, Social ELW Entry Level Wages EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa EPS Earnings Per Share ERM Enterprise Risk Management FY Financial Year GHG Green Houses Gases GRI Global Reporting Initiative GJ Giga Joules HFC Hydro-Flouro-Carbon HMHB Healthy Mind Healthy Body IGG I Got Garbage INR Indian National Rupee 121 IP Intellectual Property ISO International Organization for Standardization IT Information Technology ITES Information Technology Enabled services ITBPM Information Technology Business Process Management (as an industry) KWh Kilowatt Hour LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LMW Local Minimum Wages LPG Liquid Petroleum Gas NOx Oxides of Nitrogen National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and NVG-SEE Economic Responsibilities of Business NGO Non Government Organization OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety assessment Sequence PwD People with Disabilities ROCE Return on Capital Employed ROW Rest of the World ROI Return on Investment SMAC Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud SOx Oxides of Sulfur SPM Suspended Particulate Matter SEBI Securities Exchange Board of India STP Sewage Treatment Plant TA Talent Aquisition UNGC United Nations Global Compact USD United States Dollar VFM Value for Money 122 About the writer Sangeeta Mansur, Founder-catalyst, Bhairavi Business & Consultancy, has created the content for our sustainability report. A researcher, writer, trainer and advisor in Sustainability Leadership, Sangeeta specializes in framework-based sustainability roadmaps and sustainability communication. She has guided and ably supported our journey in sustainability reporting from GRI 3.1 to the current GRI-G4 Comprehensive level over four years. She has woven the narrative of our sustainability performance with maturing frameworks of GRI, oﬀering a glimpse of our innate sustainability facets through an evolving theme story. Sangeeta Mansur, Ph.D Founder-Catalyst, Bhairavi Business & Consultancy www.bhairaviconsultancy.com 123 CO2 The hard copy of our Sustainability Report is printed on 100% recycled paper certified by the UK-based National Association of Paper Merchants (NAPM) and Germany-based Blue Angel. Feedback and communication We welcome any feedback and suggestions which will further strengthen our sustainability programs. Contact details: Chitra Byregowda | Head – Sustainability & Diversity | Chitra.Byregowda@mindtree.com Mindtree, Global Village | RVCE Post, Mysore Road | Bengaluru 560 059 | Karnataka, India. Telephone: +91-80-6706 4000 | Fax: +91-80-6706 4100 The report can be downloaded at http://www.mindtree.com/sustainability/mindtree-sustainability-report.pdf www.mindtree.com
