UN Global Compact Communication on Progress “This is already our third Communication on Progress and I am delighted at how the pace of change has been maintained. On behalf of the firm, I reiterate the commitment of Linklaters LLP to the ten principles of the Global Compact. We remain committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our firm, not least through the lens of the Sustainable Development Goals which are now fundamental to how we recognise and address our responsibilities to the world around our business.” Charlie Jacobs, Senior Partner and Chairman This year, we have been working to share more of our policies and Our adoption of the SDGs as a framework for our responsible business procedures online, appreciating the importance of public disclosure programme reflects a growing trend among clients and competitors in building trust in our business. In so doing, we have also created which we see as a wholly good thing. The language of the SDGs, the new reference points which bring related but disparate material clarity of their presentation and the focus of the targets and measures together for the first time. This has not only helped us to respond to make this an attractive approach and we are pleased at how wellclient requests more fully but has also grown the understanding of received this work has been among our people, many of whom had our people as information becomes easier to find. hitherto not appreciated how much our core business addresses many Clients remain a key influence on the communication of our activity of the world’s most pressing social, economic and environmental and the questions we are asked in pitches, interviews or simply while issues. Of course, there remains much more for us to do but within doing our jobs provide us with a clear steer on where we should focus this “Communication on Progress”, we are delighted that there is so both our words and deeds. much progress to report. Key contacts:  Kathryn Ludlow Partner, Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee kathryn.ludlow@linklaters.com Matt Sparkes Global Head of Corporate Responsibility matthew.sparkes@linklaters.com 1. Human Rights – Linklaters supports and respects the This year we have raised the importance of human rights as an protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. issue within our supply chain. To this end, we have published a Our statement of intent on human rights makes explicit our Sustainable Procurement Policy and Statement which is available commitment and clarifies our ambition. The statement endorses online. It sets out our commitment to responding to human rights the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human concerns, not only in the selection of suppliers but also in their Rights and supports the principles contained within the ongoing management. Though currently primarily focused on International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour suppliers to our UK offices, we are exploring how best to make Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights the approach global during 2017. at Work. The statement is approved at the highest level, is publicly Commitment: We will maintain the momentum of recent work by available and is communicated internally and externally. It remains establishing sustainable procurement as a norm across our office under regular review, as does the extensive supporting material network and, with the help of internal experts, ensuring that our provided for additional internal guidance. approach remains appropriate and effective. Our cross-practice Operational Intelligence Group continues to 3. L  inklaters upholds the freedom of association and the effective advise clients on developing human rights policies, due diligence, recognition of the right to collective bargaining. impact assessments and supply chain risk management. In We have a firm-wide policy in place that we maintain employment particular, we advise many large multi-national corporations on arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit or discourage the implementation of the Guiding Principles and on the nonfreedom of association or collective bargaining. financial disclosure requirements around human rights policies and considerations. Recent work includes assisting an energy Commitment: We will continue to implement this policy across all company on human rights due diligence for the purposes of M&A of our operations. transactions, advising a major ICT company on the design and 4. Linklaters upholds the elimination of all forms of compulsory implementation of a human rights compliance programme and or forced labour. designing a methodology for conducting human rights impact assessments in the defence sector. 5. Linklaters  upholds the effective abolition of child labour. We continue to provide pro bono advice on dozens of matters We have a firm-wide policy in place that we will not use, be related to human rights every year. During 2016 these included: complicit in, or knowingly benefit from forced, compulsory or child labour. We will engage our people on the basis of recognised >> through A4ID, in-country training to commercial lawyers in partnership, employment, collaboration and consultancy Kenya to comply with, and advise their corporate clients on, arrangements established through national law and practice. the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The training provided valuable networking and peer to For several years, we have been advising clients on the peer learning opportunities between Kenyan and international implications of the UK Modern Slavery Act. Now in force, we lawyers and was successful in equipping lawyers with the have also been reviewing our own operations to ensure that we knowledge and skills to improve corporate governance and are complying with the new legislation, not only in setting out a enhance responsible business practices policy, but also in monitoring our suppliers and by being prepared to take action where we have concerns. In 2016 we not only >> collaboration with the Cambodian NGO Hagar to ensure child published our own Modern Slavery Statement (expanded, in fact, victims of trafficking, forced labour, sexual exploitation or other to cover broader human rights as well) but we also produced serious abuse are supported appropriately by court processes and an interactive guide to the legislation which is freely available on not re-traumatised. Teams of lawyers across Bangkok, Hong Kong, our website. Our priority in this first year has been our highest Singapore and London and several alliance partner and “best risk supply chains in London, notably in catering (sourcing of friends” firms provided research on practical measures that best food), merchandise and IT. We are extending the sectoral and support children through legal processes against their abusers geographic reach of this work in the coming year and will also >> seeking to promote the establishment of fair asylum policies and consider tier 2 suppliers for the first time. practices by contributing to the European Database of Asylum Law (“EDAL”) across eight countries, to develop harmonised Again, pro bono activities support this principle: standards of protection across the EU and increase the >> lawyers in our Brussels office work with Oasis Belgium, a nonconsistency and quality of the interpretation of EU asylum law profit organisation working on anti-human trafficking initiatives. Commitment: We will review our internal guidance to It forms part of Stop The Traffik, an international NGO network ensure it remains relevant and, in particular, the processes we involved in anti-human trafficking work. Our lawyers have have in place to monitor‎ the firm’s performance in addressing compiled a legal toolkit relating to legal rights of Thai women human rights risks. We are committed to sharing our commercial who have been the victims of trafficking or are at risk of being expertise pro bono and will continue to grow this aspect of trafficked on areas such as social and immigration rights our programme. >> we led a cross-firm landscape analysis on behalf of NGO Visayan Forum Foundation of the rights of fishing industry 2. Linklaters  makes sure that it is not complicit in human workers across 14 jurisdictions, which will facilitate modern rights abuses. slavery conditions being addressed in the Philippines and In line with the UN Guiding Principles, we strive to avoid causing or elsewhere. Offices involved included Amsterdam, Dusseldorf, contributing to adverse human rights impacts on our people and, Madrid, London, Bangkok, Beijing, Shanghai, Singapore and through the running of our offices, those who work for us through Hong Kong our supply chain. We also commit to addressing such impacts >> our report for Lawyers Without Borders on the legal and immediately should they occur. regulatory framework around child labour in Nepal, was We encourage our people to consider potential or actual adverse originally published in October 2015 and makes concrete human rights impacts in their work. Our internal guidance on recommendations for change to combat child trafficking, sexual human rights at the firm provides for a proportionate discussion exploitation and bonded labour. It has now been presented by of actual and potential human rights impacts as part of existing Lawyers Without Borders to the Nepalese government consideration of wider business risk and reputational issues, Commitment: We will continue to extend the reach of our modern particularly for higher risk areas. Our Operational Intelligence slavery and human rights policy through our supply chain. We will Group has developed extensive expertise in articulating how maintain a commercial expertise in this principle and use that to multi-national corporations should address human rights in their inform our own practice as well as that of pro bono clients. operations, and we are asked increasingly to share this knowledge more widely through participation at conferences and through dedicated seminars. 6. Linklaters upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect 7. L  inklaters supports a precautionary approach to of employment and occupation. environmental challenges. Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) is an ongoing strategic priority for Our firm-wide Global Environmental Policy commits us to the firm. Linklaters opposes all forms of unlawful discrimination. minimising the potentially harmful effects our operations have We are committed to providing equal opportunity to everyone on the environment and ensures we focus on a programme of in all aspects of work including: recruitment, selection, training, continual improvement in our environmental performance. Our promotion, redeployment, performance improvement measures, certified and globally implemented Environmental Management disciplinary and grievance procedures, redundancy situations and System (EMS) provides us with the framework to assess our terms and conditions of employment. We believe that individuals environmental risk and manage those aspects which are of should be treated on their merits and that employment-related greatest significance. decisions should be based on objective job-related criteria such as By using the skill and expertise of our in-house environment and aptitude and skills. Additionally, Linklaters is committed to ensuring energy team, these issues are then addressed by setting objectives that all professional dealings with third parties will be free from any and targets against our most significant environmental impacts: discriminatory behaviours. climate change through energy use and business travel, our use Our Global Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and Action Plan help of resources, specifically paper and water, and our generation and us to give people an enhanced understanding of D&I through disposal of waste. By measuring and monitoring these impacts, we training and communications. Our strategy is developed by our are able to report our progress publicly into the Carbon Disclosure Global Diversity Manager and Global Diversity Partners. It is Project (CDP), and our greenhouse gas emissions are externally designed to allow for greater visibility of local initiatives and, in so assured against the CDP-recognised ISAE (3000) method. We doing, encourages and supports offices in developing their own have recently agreed to offset the unavoidable carbon emissions locally-appropriate responses. resulting from energy use, business travel and waste; recognising We are committed to championing diversity. In 2015, we joined that while we will continue to reduce these emissions, immediate “Open For Business”, a newly-formed coalition of nearly 20 mitigation is required. international businesses partnering together to address the Commitment: We will maintain our commitment to global EMS workplace discrimination experienced by people in the LGB&T certification as well as put in place carbon offsetting for our community. We are proud to be one of the founding members unavoidable emissions. of this initiative. 8. L  inklaters undertakes initiatives to promote greater Within the firm, the Women’s Leadership Programme “Leading environmental responsibility. Lights” has been developed in conjunction with Cranfield School We are one of only two global law firms to have achieved ISO of Management for our leading female senior lawyers (managing 14001 certification of our Environmental Management System associates). The programme aims to increase the proportion of (EMS) comprehensively across our global operations. We aim female partners who can act as role models in the firm. We are to be early adopters and have pushed ahead with a number of also pleased that almost all of our people have now received energy efficiency initiatives (eg energy focussed maintenance unconscious bias training, with bespoke sessions developed for rather than planned preventative maintenance) and implemented specific jurisdictions and specific recruitment groups such as our re-use programmes. We work with our staff and our suppliers to Graduate Recruitment Panel and Partner Election Committee. ensure the evolving green and circular economies prosper. Every Naturally, the firm has an internal global whistle-blowing policy year, we raise awareness by celebrating the UN Environment which is regularly reviewed to ensure that it provides the most Programme’s World Environment Day (WED), with the support of effective means for employees to raise concerns in the public our global network of over 150 environmental champions. In 2016, interest, while protecting them against suffering any detriment 13 offices took part in a variety of ways ranging from meat-free as a result of making a relevant disclosure. and organic lunch options in Brussels to our daily media summary In articulating our employee proposition, “Our Deal” highlights going paperless in Paris. A significant behavioural change initiative how individuals in the firm can give mutual support to one another in London saw the implementation of a reusable take away scheme and we provide a number of tangible ways of getting involved. In whereby staff are now charged for takeaway boxes. This scheme London, a range of groups foster an inclusive culture: the Allies aims to reduce unnecessary waste resulting from the 148,500 Network, Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Network, such boxes consumed last year. Women@Linklaters, LGB&T Network, Christian Fellowship, Hindu We share best practice, learn and exchange knowledge in being Forum, Islamic Society, Jewish Forum and Family and Carers members of a number of industry groups. As executive members Network. We want to grow such networks elsewhere. of the Legal Sustainability Alliance, we collaborate within the legal Raising awareness on the subject of disability and the workplace sector to reduce environmental impacts and promote a sustainable is important to us. In London, we are founding members of the future. We supported and hosted the final of 2016’s LSA Student Interlaw Forum on Disabilities, a group of law firms across the city Debating Competition in London. working together to break down the stigma of disability. We also Responding to our clients is critical to us and, through these are founding members of the City Mental Health Alliance working relationships, we report both our environmental management and with mental health NGOs MIND and SCOPE to bring visibility to this greenhouse gas performance. We achieved a B in the CDP supply often invisible strand of diversity. chain module in 2016, are silver rated in the Ecovadis sustainability External benchmarking is a good indicator of progress, particularly benchmarking platform (within the top 30% of 21,000 suppliers in in our larger offices. We were the first organisation to achieve 101 countries) and scored 100% for Environment within the CIPS the UK National Equality Standard and in the UK have also been Sustainability Index. We share our progress with our clients and recognised by the Times and Opportunity Now as one of the Top 50 use it to drive forward environmental responsibility within our own Places for Women to Work. We want to retain such leadership and supply chain. will use it to inspire similar success elsewhere. Commitment: We will continue to use World Environment Day to Commitment: We want to reflect our recent D&I success engage with our staff on environmental issues and promote local in London with similar progress and recognition across our action. We will engage with our suppliers on the circular economy office network. and be responsive to our clients’ environment-related requests. 9. Linklaters encourages the development and diffusion of 10. L  inklaters works against corruption in all its forms, including environmentally friendly technologies. extortion and bribery. Linklaters’ expertise in energy covers the full spectrum of Linklaters work in risk, regulation and governance addresses renewables projects, including onshore and offshore wind, many of the most critical challenges faced by our clients. Our solar, biomass, biofuels, wave/tidal, geothermal, hydropower, Operational Intelligence Group and the International Governance waste and waste to energy. We support clients to achieve and Development Practices bring together a broad range of increasingly ambitious projects in the renewable energy sector, expertise, specialist knowledge, and innovative thinking to enable advising on the project financing of three biomass developments us to offer holistic advice to any given situation. Of particular in the UK and on another seven biomass mandates in Europe. note is the team’s work advising on the application of anti-bribery We also produced a guide to support our clients navigate frameworks in new and developing markets. the cross-border demands of the EU Energy Efficiency Recent matters have included: Directive 2012 energy audit requirements, where potential >> undertaking a global compliance review for a multi-national sanctions for non-compliance differ significantly across the heavy industrial company, including assessment of its EU Member States. compliance with anti-bribery and corruption laws and Our practice areas specialising in sustainable finance, climate with safety, environmental and social regulations and change, product stewardship and environmental regulation permit requirements and sustainable real estate support companies as they seek >> advising a client in the defence sector in connection with UK ever more innovative and practical advice from their lawyers. Serious Fraud Office (SFO) and U.S. Department of Justice Recent work includes: (DoJ) corruption investigations, and on Lord Woolf’s review >> advising the International Finance Corporation (IFC), of compliance and ethics in the sector a member of the World Bank Group on the issuance of its We have further expertise in governance in international ground-breaking Forest Bond, a first-of-its-kind bond that development and continue to run an annual conference on gives investors the option of receiving their interest payment this theme. The 2016 seminar examined the many challenges, in either cash or carbon credits. The five-year bond raised complexities, sensitivities, and ambiguities contained in SDG 16. US$152m and will support IFC’s private sector lending and It featured sessions on tackling illicit flows; on making progress help to prevent deforestation in developing countries by with Goal 16 in contexts of conflict and protracted crisis; on supporting the price of voluntary carbon credits balancing the Goal 16 themes of peace and security, on the >> advising the sponsors on the construction and financing of the one hand, and governance and development on the other; and £2.6bn 588-megawatt, 84 turbine Beatrice offshore windfarm, on measuring progress with Goal 16. Over 100 policy experts, a deal which represents the latest in a long line of offshore NGO leaders, government representatives and business people windfarms upon which Linklaters has advised. It follows hot participated in the two days of debate and plans are underway on the heels of the £1.3bn project financing of the Dudgeon not only to repeat the Oxford sessions once gain in 2017 but offshore windfarm. We are also currently advising on the UK’s also introduce other versions elsewhere. largest biomass transaction In providing advice to clients on these themes, we must, of We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions course, take steps to encourage our people to show leadership and improving our environmental performance through capital in every jurisdiction in which we operate. ‎We have robust policies improvements in our premises, including incorporating low and procedures on anti-bribery and corruption and these are carbon technologies. One Silk Street, in the City of London, under regular review. Our people are encourage to raise concerns has undergone a number of retrofits over the years. Since quickly and confidentially, and our Risk function provides 24/7 2005, the firm has invested almost £3.5m in a variety of support to our lawyers wherever they may be. In 2016 we brought energy efficiency upgrades, including: five new chillers; works together many of our policies into a single “Ethical Code” which to the boilers; new lighting and the associated controls; new included significant guidance on anti-bribery and corruption air handling units; linking the building management system to matters including whistle-blowing. both the lighting and comfort cooling systems (IQ controllers); Commitment: We will us the recent uplift in internal awareness and IT upgrades. These improvements have been recognised of “Our Ethical Code” to ensure that our advice to clients is and shared, in a case study for the Mayor of London’s Business reflected in our own response to bribery and corruption risk. Energy Challenge. Telepresence facilities in our Frankfurt, London, Hong Kong and New York offices, combined with global video-conferencing facilities continue to provide an alternative to business travel. Over a period of three years, use of these facilities has increased by 60%, with further technology upgrades planned. Commitment: We will continue to implement environmentally efficient technologies in our operations at every opportunity and willingly share our experience to encourage adoption of similar schemes by others. INNOVATIVE LAWYERS2016 linklaters.com AWARD WINNER GC8744C_F/01.17 Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC326345. It is a law firm authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is used to refer to a member of the LLP or an employee or consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its affiliated firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications. A list of the names of the members of Linklaters LLP and of the non-members who are designated as partners and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at its registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, England or on www.linklaters.com and such persons are either solicitors, registered foreign lawyers or European lawyers. Please refer to www.linklaters.com/regulation for important information on our regulatory position.
