Sustainability Report 2016/2017 Contents Introduction Supply chain 2 From our CEO 72 Fast read 4 Who we are 74 About our supply chain 6 Our companies & associates 74 Our standards for supplier partners 8 Sustainability and our strategy 75 Assessing modern slavery risks in our supply chain 10 Creating value through our business 76 How we select supplier partners 11 Our sustainability priorities 76 How we monitor risks 13 Quantifying our impacts 79 Embedding sustainable procurement Our client work Social investment 14 Fast read 80 Fast read 16 Sustainability in marketing 82 Performance in 2016 17 Recent client work 83 Volunteering and fundraising 23 Investing in creativity 84 Finding Common Ground for the Global Goals 24 Our thinking and insight 86 Pro bono work by WPP data, 28 Our ethical standards PR and media companies 30 Human rights 88 WPP the parent company 32 Public policy and lobbying 88 WPP India CSR Foundation 34 Privacy and data security Governance & management Our people 90 Roles and responsibilities 36 Fast read 92 Stakeholder engagement and materiality 38 WPP: a global company 92 Corporate governance 40 Diversity and inclusion 92 Assessing and managing our risks 47 Education, internships and apprenticeships 94 Tax policy 50 Training and development 95 Annual Board and Committee Evaluation 52 Human rights 53 Health, safety and well-being Other information 54 Monitoring progress 96 About this report 55 Reward and recognition 97 Data summary 100 Quantifying our impacts: methodology Environment and results 56 Fast read 105 Independent Verification Statement 58 Our carbon footprint 107 United Nations Global Compact Index 60 Our carbon strategy 110 GRI G4 content index 62 Madrid: designing sustainable buildings 66 Carbon offsetting projects 2016 WPP Policies 67 Resource use and waste 120 WPP Sustainability Policy 68 Our wider carbon impact 121 WPP Code of Business Conduct 70 Carbon emissions statement 2016 123 WPP Human Rights Policy Statement IBC Get in touch This Sustainability Report, together Throughout this report this icon with our Pro bono book, Annual denotes that case study campaign Report, trading statements, news footage can be viewed in the releases, presentations and previous Sustainability Report online at Sustainability Reports, are available wpp.com/sustainabilityreport2016-17 online at wpp.com Introduction WPP is the world’s leading communications services group. This report explains how we work with clients and supplier partners on sustainability, how we treat our people, how we manage the environmental impacts of our business and the support we provide for charities and organisations working to tackle social and environmental challenges. By adopting sustainable business practices we generate value for WPP and our stakeholders including our clients, share owners and people. Information on our sustainability performance is also integrated into our Annual Report and Accounts. About WPP We are made up of leading companies in: Advertising; Media Investment Management; Data Investment Management (formerly known as Consumer Insight); Public Relations & Public Affairs; Branding & Identity; Healthcare Communications; Digital, eCommerce & Shopper Marketing; and Specialist Communications. We were named Holding Company of the Year at the 2016 Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity for the sixth year running, ranked Most Effective Holding Company, globally, in the 2016 Effie Effectiveness Index for the fifth consecutive year, awarded top holding company in Warc’s 100 annual ranking of the world’s best campaigns and companies for the third consecutive year and ranked Holding Company of the Year 2016 at The One Show. We directly employ 134,000 people and, when associate companies are included, we have almost 200,000 people working in 3,000 offices now in 112 countries. We serve 360 of the Fortune Global 500 companies, all 30 of the Dow Jones 30, 78 of the NASDAQ 100 and 892 clients in three distinct disciplines. We work for public sector clients in more than 70 countries. WPP is quoted on the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ in New York (WPPGY). WPP USA: Named one of America’s Best Employers by Forbes magazine. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 1 From our CEO To say that 2016 was a year of political uncertainty would be something of an understatement. From the Brexit referendum in the UK to the results of the US Presidential election, voters shocked the pollsters, the commentators and their political leaders. We don’t yet know what their full impact will be, but the fact that these results surprised so many indicates a worrying disconnect between leaders and many of their citizens. But political uncertainty is just one of the many challenges the world faces in 2017. Nearly 11% of the world’s population still live in extreme poverty, 130 million girls are currently out of school1 and six million children die from easily preventable causes each year2. Even in affluent societies like the UK and US, many people feel they have not reaped the benefits of globalisation and technological change – a sentiment likely to intensify with many jobs at risk of being replaced by automation3. Climate change and a growing and ageing population will make these challenges more difficult to resolve. By 2030 there will be 660 million people severely affected by climate change4. The world’s population will be approaching nine billion with increasing demand on food supplies, public services and resources. So what does this mean for WPP and our clients? Certainly these trends will impact businesses – and for many sectors there will be significant challenges. But, more importantly, business can be a key part of the solution to these problems, and this in turn will create new commercial opportunities. It is business that will provide the much-needed innovation to enable the transition to a low-carbon economy in which we can address the needs of a growing population with fewer resources. In doing so, forward-looking brands will be able to tap into new markets and create more resilient businesses for the long term. There is a growing movement of businesses already engaged on these issues and many of them are WPP clients. In pursuing these opportunities they are connecting to society’s rising expectations of what the role of business in society should be. Citizens believe that business has a responsibility to bring social change on important issues, and research by WPP’s Kantar Media demonstrates that consumers across markets take into account a brand’s approach to sustainability, see page 24. Communications, with its power to change attitudes and influence behaviour, has a key role to play in helping shift society towards more sustainable development. WPP companies are already advisors to pioneering businesses looking to embed sustainability and purpose into their brands, products and marketing. Some recent examples of this work are profiled on pages 17 to 22. Clients who engaged with us on sustainability generated £1.64 billion in revenues to the Group in 2016, 11.4% of the total. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals provide an important framework for government agencies, civil society and the private sector to work together to end extreme poverty, inequality and climate change by 2030. During 2016, we were pleased to help launch Common Ground, a new collaboration between the six biggest advertising and marketing services groups in support of the Sustainable Development Goals. Through Common Ground we are putting aside our competitive differences and using the power of communication to help stimulate progress in tackling the world’s sustainability challenges. WPP is focusing on the goal of gender equality, which is critical both in its own right and in terms of its knock-on benefits: achieving gender equality will also help to tackle poverty and improve education and economic growth. 1 UNESCO Institute for Statistics and the Global Education Monitoring Report – unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0024/002452/245238E.pdf 2 Unicef – https://data.unicef.org/topic/child-survival/under-five-mortality/ 3 Citi and the Oxford Martin School at the University of Oxford – www.oxfordmartin.ox.ac.uk/downloads/reports/Citi_GPS_Technology_Work_2.pdf 4 Global Humanitarian Forum – www.ghf-ge.org/human-impact-report.pdf 2 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Introduction We are collaborating internally and with the other groups to drive progress as 2016 highlights well as encouraging clients to get involved. Some of the early projects are profiled on pages 84 to 85 and there is plenty more exciting work to come during 2017. There is a clear-cut case for gender equality and diversity in our sector, just as there is across the world of business. We absolutely require a workforce that is diverse in all senses and able to create work that connects with the diverse global consumer 45% reduction in carbon emissions base. And businesses with greater gender balance in their leadership teams perform better than the competition. We at WPP have much more to do in this respect at the most senior levels. per person since 2006 In our own business, diversity and inclusion has remained a focus, including through our Stella women’s network in the UK which aims to remove barriers to women’s progression. Our companies are innovating through programs such as Brave your Bias at MEC, equipping people to identify and counteract unconscious biases, and Walk the Talk, an intensive coaching program for women that began at Maxus and 6,413 is being rolled out to other parts of the Group. Our senior management mentoring and development program, ‘The X Factor’, run by Charlotte Beers, the former paid internships and chairman and CEO of Ogilvy & Mather and chairman of J. Walter Thompson, apprenticeships continues to prepare women for the next level of leadership in the Group. Women now account for 54% of our people and 34% of executive leaders. We made progress on other issues too. We reduced our per-head carbon footprint by 10% last year and our energy use by 4%. Overall, we have cut our per-head carbon footprint by 45% since 2006. 34% Our future success depends on our ability to recruit and retain great people. We continue to invest in skills, offering over 6,413 internships and apprenticeships of executive leaders in 2016, partnering with universities and colleges and providing training worth are women £45.1 million for our people. The Common Ground partnership builds on our long heritage of pro bono work – providing professional communications services for little or no fee. Pro bono campaigns enable organisations and charities working in areas such as the environment, human rights and anti-poverty to raise awareness and funds, recruit new members and bring about positive change. Our social investment, £42.3m total social contribution including pro bono work and charitable donations, was worth £19.5 million in 2016 equivalent to 1.03% of reported profit before tax. Our companies also negotiate free media space for charity campaigns. This was worth £22.8 million in 2016, bringing our total social contribution to £42.3 million equivalent to 2.23% of reported profit before tax. Political attitudes to issues of sustainability are changing – and not necessarily always for the better – but at WPP we will continue to make them a priority in 2017 and beyond. I look forward to updating you on our progress. Sir Martin Sorrell Group chief executive sirmartinsorrell@wpp.com WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 3 4 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 5 Our companies & associates Advertising Media Investment Kantar Millward Brown Penn Schoen Berland■ Management and millwardbrown.com psbresearch.com ADK1 Data Investment Kantar Public Prime Policy Group kantar.com/public prime-policy.com adk.jp Management Bates CHI&Partners† Kantar Retail QGA bateschi.com kantarretail.com qga.com GROUPM: Berlin Cameron Kantar TNS SJR◆ groupm.com berlincameron.com tnsglobal.com groupsjr.com Mindshare CHI&Partners1 Kantar Vermeer Wexler & Walker Public mindshareworld.com chiandpartners.com mbvermeer.com Policy Associates♦ MEC wexlerwalker.com Cole & Weber Kantar Worldpanel mecglobal.com coleweber.com kantarworldpanel.com MediaCom Grey Lightspeed mediacom.com grey.com lightspeedresearch.com Maxus comScore3,▲ Branding & Identity GTB maxusglobal.com gtb.com comscore.com Essence Addison Group★ HS Ad1 essencedigital.com addison-group.net hsad.co.kr Catalyst BDG architecture + design J. Walter Thompson Worldwide catalystdigital.com Public Relations & bdg-a-d.com jwt.com KR Media Public Affairs Brand Union● krmedia-france.com brandunion.com Ogilvy MetaVision Media CBA† ogilvy.com Benenson Strategy Group❖ metavisionmedia.com cba-design.com Santo bsgco.com Xaxis Coley Porter Bell† santo.net Blanc & Otus♦ xaxis.com coleyporterbell.com WPP-Scangroup blancandotus.com tenthavenue: FITCH● wpp-scangroup.com Buchanan tenthavenue.com fitch.com Scholz & Friends* Communications Bookmark buchanan.uk.com Lambie-Nairn★ s-f.com bookmarkcontent.com lambie-nairn.com *S,C,P,F... Burson-Marsteller ■ Joule burson-marsteller.com Landor ■ scpf.com jouleww.com landor.com Sra. Rushmore BWR❖ Kinetic Worldwide bwr-pr.com PeclersParis★ srarushmore.com kineticww.com peclersparis.com Soho Square Clarion Communications TMARC clarioncomms.co.uk The Partners★ sohosquareasia.com tmarc.co.za the-partners.com TAXI■ Cohn & Wolfe ■ Other media agencies cohnwolfe.com SET ● taxi.ca Gain Theory setcreative.com The Jupiter Drawing Room 1 Dewey Square Group gaintheory.com VBAT ★ thejupiterdrawingroom.com deweysquare.com m/SIX2 vbat.com WPP AUNZ Finsbury msixagency.com wppaunz.com finsbury.com KANTAR: Y&R■ Global Counsel1 kantar.com yr.com global-counsel.co.uk Kantar Added Value Glover Park Group Healthcare added-value.com gpg.com Communications Kantar Futures HERING SCHUPPENER thefuturescompany.com WPP Health & Wellness: heringschuppener.com Kantar Health wpphealthandwellness.com Hill+Knowlton Strategies kantarhealth.com CMI/Compas hkstrategies.com Kantar IMRB cmimedia.com Ogilvy mrbglobal.in ghg ogilvy.com Kantar Media ghgroup.com Ogilvy Government kantarmedia.com Ogilvy CommonHealth Relations ogilvygr.com Worldwide ogilvychww.com Sudler & Hennessey■ sudler.com 6 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Introduction GCI Health Specialist WPP Digital mySupermarket3 gcihealth.com Communications mysupermarket.co.uk Wunderman World Health+ Blue State Digital Moment Systems3 wunderman.com Demographic marketing bluestatedigital.com miaozhen.com Bravo ■ Cognifide MRC3 bebravo.com cognifide.com mrcstudios.com UniWorld1 The Data Alliance OrderDynamics3 Digital, uwg.is thedataalliance.com orderdynamics.com eCommerce & Wing F.biz Percolate3 Shopper Marketing insidewing.com fbiz.com.br percolate.com Employer branding/ Globant1 Refinery293 Acceleration + recruitment globant.com refinery29.com acceleration.biz JWT INSIDEΩ Hogarth Worldwide VICE Media3 A. Eicoff & Co † jwtinside.com hogarthww.com vice.com eicoff.com Event/face-to-face Johannes Leonardo1 The Weinstein Company3 AKQA marketing johannesleonardo.com weinsteinco.com akqa.com MJM Mutual Mobile1 WildTangent3 Barrows1 mjmcreative.com mutualmobile.com wildtangent.com barrowsglobal.com Metro POSSIBLE Blast Radius+ metrobroadcast.com possible.com blastradius.com Richard Attias & Rockfish Cerebra Associates1 rockfishdigital.com Cross-Group cerebra.co.za richardattiasassociates.com Salmon Communities deepblue networks* Foodservice marketing salmon.com & Practices db-n.com The Food Group SYZYGY thefoodgroup.com EWA syzygy.net Government & Public ewagroup.com Sports marketing Sector Practice Bruin Sports Capital3 wpp.com/govtpractice FullSIX3 bruinsportscapital.com fullsix.it/en The Store Geometry Global Chime Communications1 WPP Digital wpp.com/store geometry.com chimegroup.com partner companies WPP Health & Wellness Courtside Ventures3 wpphealthandwellness.com ggk DialogGroup* courtsidevc.com gkk.de Ace Metrix3 WPP Sports Practice ESP Properties acemetrix.com HighCo1 espglobal.com highco.fr All Def Digital3 PRISM Group alldefdigital.com iconmobile ■ prismteam.com iconmobile.com AppNexus3 Mando TSE Consulting ❖ appnexus.com tseconsulting.com mando.co.uk Domo3 Two Circles domo.com Maxx Marketing† insidetwocircles.com maxx-marketing.com Fullscreen3 Real estate marketing fullscreen.com MirumΩ PACE mirumagency.com HDT Holdings Technology3 paceadv.com Ogilvy hdtmedia.com Media & production ogilvy.com Imagine Entertainment3 services Smollan1 The Farm Group Indigenous Media3 Key smollan.com farmgroup.tv indigenousmedia.com 1 Associate 2 Joint venture VML ■ Imagina1 Invidi3 3 Investment vml.com mediapro.es invidi.com ♦ A Hill+Knowlton Strategies company Wunderman■ United Visions* Mitú3 † An Ogilvy company wunderman.com uv.tv mitunetwork.com ■ A Y&R Group company ● A member of Group XP ★ A member of The Partnership + A Wunderman company * A Commarco company Ω A J. Walter Thompson company ▲ Partnership with GroupM/Kantar ❖ A Burson-Marsteller company As at April 2017. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 7 Sustainability and our strategy Leading companies are prioritising sustainability, looking to integrate improved social and environmental performance into OUR FOUR products, communications and operations. STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Our commitment to sustainability helps us to align with the interests of these clients and to respond to Our goal remains to be the growing number of client procurement processes the world’s most admired, that include sustainability criteria. It makes us a more creative and respected communications services attractive employer, enables us to improve efficiency, advisor to global, to be prepared for changes in regulation and maintain multinational, regional positive relationships with our stakeholders. Our work and local companies. on sustainability supports progress on our strategic To that end we have priorities, see right. four strategic priorities. The longer term Demographic, technological, social and environmental change will reshape our world generating new challenges, uncertainties and opportunities for our clients. There will be new markets from a growing and ageing population but also unprecedented demands on public services and resources. Climate change and resource scarcity will create major challenges but also opportunities for businesses able to tap into low carbon innovation. ENABLING OUR Rapid technological change is disrupting old business STRATEGY TODAY models and impacting the relationship between business and consumers. We are seeing rising expectations from Our work on sustainability supports progress on our citizens, consumers and employees who expect business strategic priorities in three to lead in tackling societal challenges. main ways: Brands need to prepare now for these challenges. The most successful will be those who are able to integrate sustainability into their strategies and products, and to align their purpose with changing societal needs. Our clients require the best insight, research and communications services to help them do this effectively and will continue to seek out a marketing services provider who understands the changing landscape and shares their values. Our companies are already working with many pioneers of sustainable business. As our clients increasingly feel the Read more about our business impact of these longer-term trends, their significance will strategy in our Annual Report grow for WPP too. Our work on sustainability today at wpp.com/annualreports/2016/ will help ensure our business is prepared for the future. 8 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Introduction STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Horizontality New markets New media Technology, data & content Advance horizontality Increase share of revenues Increase share of revenues Maintain share of more by ensuring our people from faster-developing from new media to 40-45% measurable marketing work together for markets to 40-45% services at 50% of revenues the benefit of clients ACCESS TO SKILLS ACCESS TO NEW BUSINESS EFFICIENCY, RISK AND REPUTATION Strong employment policies and A growing number of our clients are flexible and inclusive working practices prioritising sustainability and looking Managing the social and help us recruit, motivate and retain for suppliers who share their values environmental impacts of our the talented people we need to serve and aspirations. Our commitment to business and selecting supplier our clients in all disciplines across our responsible and sustainable business partners who adopt standards locations, including new markets where practices helps us to access this consistent with our own can reduce our industry is less well-established. business and to meet the sustainability costs and risks to the business as requirements in client procurement well as improving efficiency and processes. Privacy and data security safeguarding our reputation. continue to be a high priority for our clients and for WPP. £45.1m £1.64bn £8.3m investment in Clients who engaged with in avoided annual utility training and skills. us on sustainability generated costs through improved £1.64 billion in revenues energy efficiency. to the Group in 2016, 11.4% of the total. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 9 Creating value through our business Our mission WPP, the parent company, complements these companies in three distinct ways: we encourage, To develop and manage talent; enable and incentivise our companies to work in to apply that talent, close collaboration for the benefit of clients; WPP throughout the world, can itself function as the 21st century equivalent for the benefit of clients; of the full-service agency; and we relieve our to do so in partnership; companies of much administrative work. to do so with profit. Through our business activities we generate value for share owners, clients, our people and for wider Within WPP, our clients have access to companies society. We aim to maximise this positive value where with all the necessary marketing and communications possible, as well as minimising negative impacts. skills; companies with strong and distinctive cultures of their own; famous names, many of them. How we generate value for our business and stakeholders We draw on our ••134,000 people ••Share owner equity £9,325 million resources and ••64,000 people in associate companies ••13,338 share owners ••360 of the Fortune 500 companies ••Natural resources – 339,037 MWh relationships are clients of WPP companies of energy use ••Thousands of supplier partners To provide services ••Advertising ••Healthcare Communications across all marketing ••Media Investment Management ••Digital, eCommerce & ••Data Investment Management Shopper Marketing and communications ••Specialist Communications ••Public Relations & Public Affairs disciplines ••Branding & Identity ••Sustainability Services Developing our ••Global presence, local insight – ••Creativity and effectiveness – for business to help 3,000 offices in 112 countries six consecutive years, WPP has ••Full-service agency – cross-company been ranked Creative Holding clients meet teams serve our 48 largest global Company of the Year at the their goals clients Cannes International Festival ••Horizontality – 53% of revenues of Creativity and ranked Most from clients served in four or Effective Holding Company in the more disciplines Effie Global Effectiveness Index for four consecutive years and for •• Shared values – sustainable business the third consecutive year, WPP practices integrated into our services, has been named the World’s operations and procurement. Clients Top Holding Company by Warc. that engaged with us on sustainability worth £1.64 billion in revenues Generating value for ••Over £1 billion returned to share ••Supplier spend £6 billion our investors, people, owners through dividends and share ••Training spend £45.1 million buy-backs ••Community investment £19.5 million, supplier partners ••Total tax contribution £1.5 billion creating a benefit to society worth and society ••£7.1 billion in salaries and benefits £156 million 10 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Introduction Our sustainability priorities We focus on the sustainability issues, risks and opportunities that are most important to our business and our stakeholders, particularly our clients, share owners and people. We engage regularly internally and with our external stakeholders to understand their views and priorities, including through our formal materiality process, see page 12. Our priority issues come under six themes, see diagram. The inside ring on the diagram indicates the main ways these themes relate to the three elements of our business case for sustainability, see page 9. Our client work How we work with clients on sustainability and our Governance and management ethical standards: How we manage sustainability D • Business ethics and risks and opportunities, including: E AN OUR NC ENT human rights • Roles and responsibilities A N EM WOCLIE • Client work ethics RK N for sustainability ER AG • Government relations/ • Risk management GO N T public policy • Stakeholder engagement M V A Acce • Marketing and sustainability s • Tax policy bus s to (including sustainable ine n ss consumption) Ef ew fic • Marketing compliance ie n • Partners (JVs, affiliates, SOCIAL OUR PEOPLE associates) & acquisitions OUR KEY cy, risk m a n a • Privacy and data security Access STMENT I E PRIORITIES V • Sensitive countries to skills N Social investment How we support charities Our people and social causes How we recruit, retain, develop ge and engage our people: • Pro bono work m en • Donations ta • Access to skills (including • Volunteering nd education and internships) r e p u t a ti o n • Diversity and inclusion PP SU T • Employee engagement E N LY M • Employee relations CH N AIN I RO • Employee well-being ENV • Employment practices/human rights • Health and safety Supply chain • Training and development How we apply our standards to our supply chain: • Fair treatment of suppliers Environment • Living wage How we work to reduce our • Supply chain human rights environmental footprint: • Compliance with Modern • Climate change Slavery Act • Paper and resource use • Supply chain environmental impacts (including environmental impact of campaigns) • Waste and recycling • Water use WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 11 Our materiality process Our materiality assessment helps us to prioritise the social, environmental and economic issues most important to our business, to identify new issues and emerging trends and align our work to the priorities of our stakeholders. Our formal materiality assessment in 2014 included interviews with clients, investors, NGOs and sustainable business experts as well as senior executives in our Group functions and our operating companies. The assessment took into account our own business goals, activities and impacts as well as external trends, risks and opportunities. We updated this assessment during 2016 through an internal review and interviews with key external stakeholders. In the diagram below, importance to stakeholders is shown on the vertical axis, and materiality to WPP on the horizontal access. All issues of high importance are included in our report as well as the majority of issues of medium importance. WPP materiality assessment Our client work Marketing compliance Business ethics Partners (JVs, affiliates, Client work ethics Our people associates) & acquisitions Diversity and inclusion Environment Sensitive countries Government relations/public High Supply chain policy Privacy and data security Social investment Tax policy Governance and management Employee relations Access to skills/support for skills Employee engagement Stakeholder assessment Paper and resource use Climate change Supply chain human rights Employee well-being Training and development Fair treatment of suppliers Living wage Marketing and sustainability1 Medium Supply chain environmental impacts2 Waste and recycling Biodiversity Employment practices/ Community relations human rights Supplier diversity Health and safety Water use Social investment pro bono, donations, volunteering Low Low Medium High Internal assessment 1 Including sustainable consumption 2 Including environmental impact of campaigns 12 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Introduction Quantifying our impacts Our business activities can have both positive and negative impacts for society. We carry out research to quantify these impacts in terms of their monetary cost or benefit. This enables us to compare the relative significance of different types of impacts and, over time, may help us to enhance our positive contribution. Our latest research findings are summarised in the diagram and the full analysis and methodology are included on pages 100 to 104. They show a significant positive economic impact through payments to governments, our people and supplier partners as well as a positive social impact through our social investment and activities such as training and internships. Among the impacts we have valued, our main negative impact relates to the cost to society and future generations of greenhouse gas emissions associated with our business activities. Waste disposal and water consumption also represent negative impacts from our direct operations. There are many impacts we are not yet able to quantify, such as the indirect benefits or costs associated with our work for clients. For example, if our communications services help clients to increase product sales this could stimulate growth and help create jobs but also increase consumption of resources. Summary of our impact Our people Governments £7.1bn Paid to our people in £1.5bn salaries and benefits, Tax payments to provides cash injection governments support into local economies in public service provision the 112 countries in and local socio-economic which we operate. development. Carbon emissions The economy £5.4m Net cost to society from £12.4bn greenhouse gas emissions The direct caused by our business contribution our activities. activities make to the ENV worldwide economy. IC IR Water use ECON £1.3m TA OM MEN L The cost to society ON associated with OUR our water IMPACT consumption. Supplier partners Waste £2.3bn £0.08m Our expenditure with supplier partners The cost to society provides indirect benefits S O CIA L from waste we to the economy, generate that isn’t supporting livelihoods recycled. and job creation. Youth employment Social investment Skills £6m Internships at £339m £45.1m our companies created benefits by Our social investment Human capital helping some young contributes to improving benefit for our staff people find jobs health, community cohesion, undertaking more quickly. human rights and the training courses. Positive impact environment. Note: Negative impact The methodology used to evaluate these impacts is Indirect impact outlined on pages 100 to 104. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 13 Our client work The power of marketing to influence opinion and change behaviour is significant. This can help to bring about positive change in relation to social and environmental issues. We set ourselves high ethical standards – through our policies and practices – to ensure that we exercise this influence responsibly. Fast read Our goal We seek to work with clients to engage citizens and consumers on sustainability issues, while minimising ethical risks to WPP and our clients. We focus on: •• Sustainability in marketing •• Ethical standards •• Human rights •• Public policy and lobbying •• Privacy and data security Business value Sustainability-related and social marketing services are an important part of our work and a growing source of revenue. Leading privacy practices enable us to access new business and reduce financial, legal and reputational risks to the business. Sustainability impact Our communications and marketing expertise can help to increase the market for products and services with sustainability credentials. Challenges and dilemmas We operate in 112 countries around the world against a background of fast-moving technology. We need to understand the local context, while maintaining consistently high standards in relation to ethical conduct and privacy and data security in all our markets and when acquiring new businesses. We rely on our people and leaders to make the right judgement in relation to ethical issues in client work and such issues are not always easy to identify or resolve. 14 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work Management approach We have created a suite of policies and documents to guide our people, including our Code of Business Conduct, Human Rights Policy Statement and Sustainability Policy. All our people complete online ethics training, which helps them deal with a wide range of ethical, social and environmental subjects. Complementing our Group-wide policies are the detailed policies on marketing standards and other issues which are set at the local level. All companies must comply with WPP data and security policies, and WPP’s Data Code of Conduct. Our IT Security (ITS) audit team monitors compliance. Under our governance structure, responsibility for ethics and compliance lies with our deputy general counsel, litigation and compliance, who provides support and guidance to our companies. She reports to our Group chief counsel and director of internal audit. External frameworks GRI indicators in this section: G4-2 (M), G4-15, G4-16, G4-34 (M), G4-56 (M), G4-58, G4-HR2 (M), G4-HR6, G4-SO4, G4-SO6, G4-PR7 (M), G4-PR8 Global Compact Principles: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10 Progress on our KPIs in 2016 Performance in 2016 £1.64 bn revenue from clients who engaged with WPP on sustainability 126,700 people completed refreshed anti-bribery and corruption training in 2016 124,960 people completed our ethics training in 2016 154,570 people completed online Privacy and Data Security Awareness training Key: Increased New training WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 15 Sustainability in marketing Our companies work with a growing number of clients to integrate sustainability and purpose into brands and consumer and stakeholder communications. This includes: •• D  ata investment management: Providing insight into future trends, changing consumer attitudes to social and environmental issues and testing the impact of sustainability strategy and communications approaches. •• Branding and identity: Integrating social and environmental values into brand and business strategy. •• C  onsumer communications: Helping clients communicate credibly with consumers and citizens on sustainability and generate sales of sustainable products. •• Internal communications: Engaging internal audiences on social and environmental issues. •• S takeholder communications: Our public relations and public affairs companies help clients to communicate with regulators, the media, NGOs and the public on sustainability issues. WPP, the parent company, supports our companies in sharing their expertise. We run regular events, publish background briefings on our Group intranet and foster collaboration through our ‘Sustainability Navigator’, a directory of sustainability expertise within WPP. Social marketing Social marketing raises awareness of issues of public interest – health, safety or the environment – and creates behaviour change for the benefit of society as a whole. We work with many clients including governments and NGOs on social marketing campaigns. In this period of falling trust in governments, public policy goals cannot be achieved without effective communications. The Government & Public Sector Practice brings together our best thinking and expertise for policy makers and communicators in national and local government, public institutions and international organisations (see www.wpp.com/govtpractice/). Our companies work for the public sector in more than 70 countries. The Government & Public Sector Practice advises policymakers and public sector communication leaders on strategy, innovation, capability development and global best practice. Our team of senior consultants connects clients with the best ideas and expertise in WPP’s global network. We also partner with leading schools of public policy to train future government leaders on the strategic use of communications. In the UK, we teach a module on Communications for Public Policy, part of the Master of Public Policy program at the Blavatnik School of Government, University of Oxford. In Singapore, we partner with the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy to provide an executive education program on Communications for Public Policy Delivery. Cause-related marketing We help clients to partner with charities through cause-related marketing campaigns. These can be effective in raising the profile of the brand while engaging consumers and raising funds to benefit social and environmental causes. 16 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work Recent client work Engaging consumers and citizens on sustainability Campaign: Campaign: Campaign: Rainwater Harvesting Project So Long Old World The Enlightment Trail WPP company: WPP company: WPP company: Kinetic Worldwide India DAVID Argentina and Hill+Knowlton Strategies Oslo Client: Vodafone Ogilvy London Client: NORAD Client: Unilever Kinetic Worldwide created a harvesting DAVID Argentina and Ogilvy London The 17 UN Sustainable Development and distribution method for rainwater launched a TV and digital campaign Goals for 2030 will govern Norwegian in Pune, India. The system uses for Unilever, citing three of its brands development policy for the next 14 U-shaped aluminium sheets attached which have a long-standing social years. To raise awareness, to billboards. The rainwater captured purpose. The campaign aims to bring Hill+Knowlton Strategies Oslo created is drained into tanks that are fitted together the collective power of an illuminated trail to the top of with Vodafone SIM cards which alert consumers and brands to show how Mount Gaustatoppen, said to be the employees when the tanks are full. the everyday choices that people most beautiful mountain in Norway. The water is then collected and make can help to make the world Seventeen light installations were set delivered to local farmers affected a better place. up along the trail. On the night of by drought. 17 September 2016, over 5,000 hikers Results: climbed the trail, further illuminating Result: ★★46m views the route with their torches. ★★50,000 litres of water ★★20m people reached distributed in 30 days Results: on Facebook ★★2.5m views Video: Video: ★★Awareness of SDGs increased wpp.com/rainwaterharvesting wpp.com/solongoldworld by 24% in Norway Video: wpp.com/theenlightmenttrail WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 17 Promoting innovation for social causes Campaign: Campaign: Campaign: Ford Best Drive Touchable Ink The RainSprout WPP company: WPP company: WPP company: GTB/Ogilvy Spain J. Walter Thompson Bangkok Grey Kuala Lumpur Client: Ford Client: Samsung Client: Webe Ford linked up with the Asociación J. Walter Thompson Bangkok helped Some 390 million people around the Benéfica Geriátrica (Charity for create ‘Touchable Ink’ an innovative world are affected by dengue fever the Aged) to give elderly people a product that mixes embossing powder every year. To help fight the disease, chance to step out of their day-to-day with ink and allows an ordinary Grey Kuala Lumpur developed a device lives and meet new people. GTB/ home printer to be transformed into known as the RainSprout, which Ogilvy Spain created a digital a braille printer at an affordable contains a patch impregnated with a campaign, ‘Ford Best Drive’, price. This project was developed and larvicide. The RainSprout is fixed to encouraging people to borrow implemented through a collaboration the top of an umbrella and when rain a Ford car from a Ford dealership between Samsung, the Thailand hits the patch, the larvicide is released and take an elderly person out for Association of the Blind and the and mixes with the rainwater. As the the day. Department of Chemistry, Faculty rainwater falls off the umbrella to the of Science and Technology, ground, the larvicide destroys the Results: Thammasat University. mosquito larvae. The project was ★★2.6m views commissioned by the Malaysian ★★7.7m people reached Result: digital mobile service provider, ★★11,100 web visits ★★225m impressions in first week Webe, which funds projects that ★★575 new registered volunteers Awards: will lead to positive change. Video: ★★Cannes Lions 2016: 1 Gold, Result: wpp.com/fordbestdrive 2 Silvers, 3 Bronzes ★★150,000 views in first week ★★Grand Prix Spikes Asia 2016: Video: 3 Grand Prix, 1 Gold, 1 Silver, wpp.com/therainsprout 1 Bronze ★★Clio Awards 2016: Bronze. ★★D&AD Impact 2016: 1 White Pencil, 2 Graphite Pencil Video: wpp.com/touchableink 18 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work Campaign: Campaign: Campaign: NOMADA Smart School The Good Note GOODFest WPP company: WPP company: J. Walter WPP company: Essence Geometry Global Bogotá Thompson Beirut New York Client: Samsung Client: Bou Khalil Supermarché Client: Google Pixel NOMADA Smart School is a portable Around 2 million Syrian refugees have Essence New York collaborated with classroom designed by Samsung fled to Lebanon since 2011 and many major artists and innovative NGOs Electronics, aiming to bring technology child refugees are reduced to begging to create GOODFest, a modern education to children in remote areas. on the streets to survive. Often people livestreamed digital music festival. The classroom is equipped with a are reluctant to give money to street The team organised five concerts in 32-inch monitor, tablet PCs, tables, beggars because they fear their five different American cities for five rugs and cushions, so that the class can donations will be taken by gang leaders different causes. Each event used the sit round and work together. Geometry or spent on cigarettes, alcohol and Google Pixel phone, livestream and Global Colombia worked with drugs. J. Walter Thompson Beirut virtual reality to connect people Samsung to create the idea, as well as worked with local supermarket chain around the world in the name of good. designing the visual identity, product Bou Khalil to create an alternative All of the proceeds from the events go design and communications. currency, the Good Note, which can to charitable causes. only be spent in-store on food, Results: medicine and basic necessities. Results: ★★Over 5,000 children reached ★★117m impressions in less ★★12 NOMADA schools working Results: than two months in communities ★★$4.2m of earned media ★★9m views and PR Award: ★★$17,000 Good Notes Video: ★★Colombia Leadership Award in circulation wpp.com/goodfest Video: ★★$9,000 Good Notes redeemed wpp.com/nomadasmartschool Award: ★★Dubai Lynx 2016: 3 Grand Prix Video: wpp.com/thegoodnote WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 19 Raising awareness and changing behaviour Campaign: Campaign: Campaign: The Second Scoreboard Child Labours Call Road to Rio WPP company: WPP company: WPP company: J. Walter Thompson Costa Rica Wunderman Phantasia Ogilvy Düsseldorf Client: Costa Rica’s Ministry of Client: Fundación Telefónica Client: Allianz Women’s Affairs Costa Rica’s Ministry of Women’s One in four children in Peru works Ogilvy Düsseldorf led the development Affairs reported that during soccer instead of going to school. To raise of a global social media campaign matches domestic violence complaints awareness of the problem and help on behalf of Allianz to promote the can spike by up to 690%. To raise combat child labour, Wunderman 2016 Paralympic Games in Rio. awareness, J. Walter Thompson Costa Phantasia worked with Fundación The campaign, adapted in 14 markets, Rica teamed up with TV station Telefónica to make the subject consisted of a series of films, social Teletica and the Costa Rican Soccer newsworthy again. The automated media content and offline media, Federation. During every soccer game, voice on Movistar’s interactive phone highlighting the achievements of a second scoreboard tracked the services was replaced with the voices some of the world’s best Paralympic number of domestic violence incidents of real children. athletes while leveraging Allianz’s reported to the police in real-time. new ‘Dare to’ strategic and Results: communications platform. Additional Result: ★★Over 20m media impressions WPP agencies contributed to the ★★40% reduction in domestic ★★76% increase in awareness campaign, including MediaCom violence complaints of child labour London, The Social Partners London and Sponsorplan Munich. Awards: Video: ★★Cannes Lions 2016: 3 Golds, wpp.com/childlabourscall Results: 2 Bronzes ★★133m media impressions ★★Effie Awards 2016: Bronze in 15 markets ★★Festival El Sol 2016: Bronze ★★Over 2m views ★★Festival de Antigua 2016: Video: Gold wpp.com/roadtorio Video: wpp.com/thesecondscoreboard 20 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work Campaign: Campaign: Campaign: Breathless Choir Invictus Games Orlando Air View WPP company: WPP company: Hill+Knowlton WPP company: Ogilvy London Strategies Washington, DC, Burson-Marsteller Stockholm Client: Philips Los Angeles and Chicago Client: Blueair Client: Invictus Games Ogilvy London was tasked with Orlando 2016 Nine out of 10 people in the world reminding people that Philips is more breathe polluted air. To raise awareness than an electronic appliances business; HRH Prince Harry launched the of what is often an invisible problem it is a health technology company international Invictus Games for Burson-Marsteller Stockholm designed seeking to improve the lives of billions servicemen and servicewomen to an interactive digital platform, of people through innovation. The harness the power of sport to inspire Air View, for Blueair, the Swedish Breathless Choir campaign tells the recovery and support rehabilitation. manufacturer of air purifiers. The moving story of a group of people with Hill+Knowlton Strategies was tasked tool enables users to visualise the air breathing disabilities who were helped with raising brand awareness, quality at a specified location using to sing again by the Philips SimplyGo facilitating marketing sponsorships and Google Street View and the Blueair Mini portable oxygen concentrator. inspiring wounded service members. air quality app. Results: Results: Results: ★★15m views ★★2 billion people reached ★★93,000 web visits in one month ★★97% increase in web visits ★★1.7m views ★★200,000 views in one week ★★650m media impressions ★★5.5m Facebook impressions Video: Award: ★★$25m in donations wpp.com/airview ★★Cannes Lions 2016: Grand Prix Award: ★★Cannes Lions 2016: Grand Prix Video: wpp.com/invictusgamesorlando WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 21 Raising awareness and changing behaviour Campaign: Campaign: Campaign: Ladyballs Hunger is Happening Here Toilets Change Lives WPP company: WPP company: WPP company: Grey4Good Canada Team Unilever Shopper Mindshare Madrid Client: Ovarian Cancer Canada Client: Unilever Client: Kimberly-Clark Ovarian cancer is the most fatal of One in five children in the north-east To raise awareness of infant mortality women’s cancers in Canada, with of the US go hungry. To help increase caused by a lack of basic sanitation in five women dying of the disease every awareness and promote positive some countries, Mindshare Madrid day. Grey4Good Canada created the change, Team Unilever and Ahold created the campaign, ‘Toilet Changes Ladyballs campaign to raise awareness joined forces with Feeding America to Lives’ under Kimberly-Clark’s brand of the work that Ovarian Cancer create Hunger is Happening Here – a name for its toilet tissue, Scottex. The Canada does to support women platform that provided meals to local team turned a toilet in Madrid into a and families, educate the public children in need. By purchasing $15 third world bathroom. The reactions and fund critical research. of Unilever products at Ahold stores, of celebrities and bloggers were shoppers saved $5 and helped give recorded and shared online. As part Results: meals to children through a donation of the initiative, a portion of the sales ★★118% increase in medical to a local food bank. of Scottex went to Unicef’s Community inquiries from women across Sanitation program. Results: the country Results: ★★27m impressions ★★220% increase in social ★★€150,000 raised in two months ★★1.1m meals donated engagement ★★26m impressions to local food banks ★★35% increase in calls to ★★199,000 views ★★79% increase in Unilever OCC regional offices product sales vs. prior year Video: ★★75% of donations during campaign from new donors Video: wpp.com/toiletschangelives wpp.com/ Award: hungerishappeninghere ★★Cannes Lions 2016: 1 Silver, 1 Bronze Video: wpp.com/ladyballs 22 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work Investing in creativity Our companies track new ideas and innovation, and run events and programs to expose our people to new ideas for the benefit of our clients and our people’s development. Hill+Knowlton Strategies London, for example, runs the Collider Program, to stimulate an entrepreneurial mindset among its people and enhance understanding of the real-world potential of technology to change the future. Our dedicated global retail practice, The Store, helps our operating companies to invest in the creativity of their workforce and challenge the conventional in the retail arena. The Store holds seminars, hands-on innovation technology sessions and thought leadership programs in areas including product customisation, personalisation, artificial intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT) and many others. It develops partnerships with technology start-ups who bring their specialist knowledge to our companies. Its IoT innovation kit, a simple but effective set of tools allows our retail clients to customise and harness the power of the IoT. Our creative teams can use the kit to prototype new ideas at speed; and the simplicity of the kit means that they are not required to understand computer code. Our WPPED Cream Awards recognise the very best creative work produced by WPP companies in all disciplines across nine categories (see www.wpp.com/wppedcream). Our Atticus Awards honour original thinking in communications from professionals within WPP. For the 2016/17 awards, entrants were invited to consider the commercial value of brands with a social purpose. The category winners receive a cash prize and extracts from the winning and other outstanding entries will be published in the Atticus Journal, during 2017. Our WPP Partnership Awards recognise collaborations across marketing disciplines which demonstrably enhance client service. Externally, work by WPP companies was recognised in The Good Report 2016, which highlights the contribution of advertising to tackling social and environmental issues. Geometry Global’s work for the Colombian Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources was ranked 2nd in the Report with 12 other campaigns by WPP agencies appearing in the top 30. The Good Report is published by ACT Responsible, an international non-profit association, and the Gunn Report, the global index of creative excellence in advertising. We were also named Holding Company of the Year at the 2016 Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity for the sixth year running; ranked Most Effective Holding Company, globally, in the 2016 Effie Effectiveness Index for the fifth consecutive year; awarded top holding company in Warc’s 100 annual ranking of the world’s best campaigns and companies for the third consecutive year; and ranked Holding Company of the Year 2016 at The One Show. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 23 Our thinking and insight WPP companies invest in thought leadership on sustainability, exploring how the power of marketing can be used to advance progress on social and environmental issues. New thinking and insights developed within our companies can help clients achieve commercial goals, create brands with purpose and contribute to positive social change. Insight: Consumer attitudes to sustainability – global trends, local differences James Powell Senior marketing manager, Kantar Media Consumer trends in sustainability are far from static, both in terms of how they shift over time and how they vary between markets. Businesses wishing to engage with consumers on sustainability should be mindful of the ebb and flow of such trends to ensure that they are in tune with the issues of particular interest to their key targets. Data from Kantar Media’s TGI studies of consumer behaviour, tracked and expanded over almost 50 years, reveal sustainability trends in major markets around the world. Recently we have looked at differences and similarities in four countries: Great Britain, India, Brazil and China1. Consumers in Great Britain positive about sustainability In Great Britain, a number of measures of sustainability are as positive as they have been in recent history. For example, today, 64% of adults agree ‘it is important that a company acts ethically’ – an increase from 54% in 2011. Similarly, 36% of adults say they like to buy products from companies who give something back to society – up from 30% in 2012. Young adults in particular are keen that companies give something back. Beyond company ethics, the trend stretches into other areas, such as equality and the environment. Today, two-thirds of adults agree ‘I think we should strive for equality for all’, compared to 55% in 2010. In addition, 40% of adults are prepared to make lifestyle compromises to benefit the environment, up from 34% in 2012. 1  reat Britain (Great Britain TGI): All adults aged 15+, China (China CNRS): Adults living in the 60 G biggest cities, aged 15-69, India (India TGI): 15-55 year olds in ABC social grades living in state capitals and urban towns of selected states, Brazil (Brazil Target Group Index): All adults aged 12-75 living in nine major metropolitan areas. 24 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work It should be noted that much of the comparison here is against those years when Britain was still seeking to recover from the 2008 financial downturn. The downturn appears to have had a hand in prompting a decline in agreement with a number of sustainability-related attitudes, as many consumers felt compelled to focus on their own, closer-to-home priorities. However, as the economy recovered, so too did the sustainability conscience of British consumers. Chinese consumers becoming more positive about sustainability, Indian consumers more negative Consumers in China and India show a marked difference to each other in sustainability trends. In China, recent years have seen a significant shift towards greater consumer commitment to sustainability, in a variety of guises. Now 75% of Chinese adults claim to support companies who make a contribution to society and 74% state that merchants’ ethics affect their purchase decisions, up from 52% and 53% respectively in 2011. Environmental concerns are also of growing interest, possibly driven by issues of smog pollution recently becoming a critical problem for many cities in China – 73% of Chinese adults now state that they would buy environmentally-friendly products. In addition, those who say they make a conscious effort to recycle has grown from 46% in 2011 to 75% today. Conversely, India has seen a dip in interest in corporate ethics in recent years. In 2010, 62% of consumers felt it important that a company acts ethically, but today it has dropped to 51%. Likewise, while two-thirds of adults in 2010 were prepared to make lifestyle compromises to benefit the environment, today it is 61%. Brazilian consumers show little shift in sustainability attitudes If China is seemingly headed in one direction on sustainability and India in the other, what of another BRICS giant, Brazil? The short answer is consumers there are somewhat in the middle. Today, 56% of Brazilian adults say they prefer products from companies which support social and cultural projects, which is a small reduction on the 2010 figure of 58%. In addition, 57% are today willing to volunteer for a good cause, modestly below the 2010 figure of 59%. When it comes to the environment there is also little change. Over half (55%) of Brazilian consumers are prepared to make lifestyle compromises to benefit the environment, which is the same proportion as in 2010. It is worth noting, however, that this is a lower proportion than for Indian consumers. To conclude… Consumer attitudes and behaviour towards sustainability show marked differences between countries and over time. It is therefore important that businesses ensure their corporate sustainability stance is robust and flexible enough to engage consumers in different markets with differing prevailing views on sustainability in its many forms. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 25 New thinking: Deep green consumerism, and why brands need to add ‘tayyab’ to their vocabulary Shelina Janmohamed Vice president, Ogilvy Noor and author of Generation M: Young Muslims Changing the World. When we talk of Muslim consumers, our first thought most likely runs to halal meat. Of course, that’s if we think of Muslims as a consumer group at all. In fact, the Muslim lifestyle market today is worth an estimated $2.6 trillion, and spans all categories, from food and finance, to fashion and pharmaceuticals. There are significant opportunities for brands able to engage this growing demographic and to reflect Muslim consumers in their advertising and product ranges. What’s more, a growing faith-inspired eco-consciousness means there are positive implications for ethical and values-based consumerism and for brands with strong sustainability credentials. Meet Generation M The 1.6 billion global Muslim population is incredibly young. One third are under 15 and two-thirds are under 30. Among this vast and growing group is Generation M, a cohort that believes that being faithful and modern go hand-in-hand, that there is no contradiction between the two, and in fact they are complementary. They believe that being faithful makes the world better, and the modern world enhances their faith. They are proud of their Muslim identity, tech savvy and globally conscious. Among their characteristics are creativity and entrepreneurship – the economics of the internet have allowed many of them to build businesses that they feel help them to uphold their values. They see their businesses serving a wider social good. And it’s not just for Muslims, the values they imbue into their businesses are designed to make things better for everyone. The language of universal values The halal stamp might have once been enough to brand a product as something for Muslims. But today, the brands that Generation M want to consume and the ones they create, must go beyond a simple tick box exercise of ‘halal’. They want brands that embody ethics, the spirit of halal. They call this spirit, ‘tayyab’. 26 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work The spirit of halal, tayyab, means that every aspect of the supply chain, from materials and sourcing, to fair wages, to distribution, packaging and disposal must meet higher standards. Creation and consumption must be ‘good’ in a holistic sense. Faithful pioneers Generation M are translating their faith into the language of universal values, to connect to other Muslims, to wider societies, and to build the businesses and brands that they feel are missing from communities and high streets around the world. These universal values underpin a growing movement towards faith-inspired eco-consciousness. For example: ••  uslim fashionistas (‘hijabistas’) are not only creating a modest fashion M revolution, they are increasingly concerned about the provenance and recycling of their clothes. Aab clothing, a UK brand that has signed to high street retailer Debenhams, for example, takes pride in its premium positioning that is built on fair wages for its workers. ••  ashion is going hand-in-hand with beauty. Alongside a desire to have animalF free and alcohol-free ingredients, Generation M consumers are keen that the ingredients are sourced well, are natural and free of harm to themselves and to the environment. •• H  alal organic farms are being set up around the world to ensure that supply is not just halal, but also tayyab. Halal suppliers are looking at inserting RFID chips into animals so that the entire farm-to-fork journey can be tracked and consumers can be confident of an animal’s welfare. Embracing tayyab So how will global brands rise to the challenge? It’s clear that thinking about halal is a must for a business wanting to reach out to Muslim minority and majority countries. And so is inclusion of Muslim voices, needs and presence in branding. These are basic issues to establish to enter this consumer space. There are even more opportunities, however, for brands able to understand and implement tayyab values. What’s more, by speaking to Generation M consumers in the language of universal values they will increase their appeal to wider audiences too. Ogilvy Noor is the world’s first bespoke consultancy for engaging with Muslim audiences. It is part of the Ogilvy network. www.OgilvyNoor.com @OgilvyNoor WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 27 Our ethical standards The WPP Code of Business Conduct provides the ethical framework for WPP and our companies. It sets out the values, principles and key points of policy that apply to everyone at WPP and that our companies must reflect in their own policies and procedures. It is supported by more detailed policies in key areas including anti-bribery and corruption, gifts and entertainment and the appointment of third-party advisors. You can read our Code of Business Conduct on pages 121 and 122. Senior managers in all our companies and our business and supplier partners are asked to sign a copy of the WPP Code of Business Conduct each year to confirm they will comply with its principles. Breaches or alleged breaches of the Code are investigated by the director of internal audit, the Group chief counsel and external advisers where appropriate. Our people can report concerns or suspected cases of misconduct in confidence through our third party-managed Right to Speak facility, overseen by our legal and internal audit departments. This is publicised through induction packs, the Group intranet, the WPP Policy Book and our ethics training. There were 70 calls made via Right to Speak during 2016, all of which were followed up, investigated where appropriate and reported to the Audit Committee. We have a Group-level committee that meets regularly to discuss ethical and compliance issues and new risk areas. Committee members include the Group chief counsel, deputy general counsel, litigation and compliance, Group finance director, the head of talent and the head of sustainability. The committee met twice in 2016. Ethics training Our ethics training, ‘How we behave’, is compulsory for all our people. It covers topics such as diversity, human rights and avoiding misleading work. Our online training on anti-bribery and corruption covers the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act on issues such as hospitality and gifts, facilitation payments and the use of third-party advisors. During 2017, we will be including unconscious bias scenarios into this training. Training is updated every 2-3 years and our people are required to repeat the training following each update. Over 126,700 people have completed our anti-bribery and corruption training and 124,960 have completed our ethics training since the last update in summer 2016. 28 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work Associates, acquisitions and partners We expect associate companies (those in which we hold a minority stake) and affiliate companies (preferred partners to whom we may refer business) to adopt ethical standards that are consistent with our own. Our due diligence process for acquisitions and expansion into new markets includes a review of ethical risks including those relating to bribery and corruption, human rights or ethical issues associated with client work. We take steps to ensure that acquired businesses embed our policies and undertake our ethics training. We enter into contractual commitments to comply with WPP policies and to undertake the Group training programs within a short time-frame of joining the Group. We expect supplier partners to meet high ethical standards and require all major supplier partners to sign our Code of Business Conduct – Supplier Version, which interprets our own Code for our supply chain. See page 74. Compliance with marketing standards We expect our companies to comply with all relevant legal requirements and codes of practice for marketing standards in the work they produce for clients. A small number of the campaigns we produce give rise to complaints, some of which are upheld by marketing standards authorities. Our companies take action where needed to prevent a recurrence. Our companies participate in industry groups and help to develop and evolve codes of practice for the marketing industry to reflect changing attitudes and new issues that arise as technology develops. Ethical decisions in our work Our work for clients can sometimes raise ethical issues, for example, work for government clients, work relating to sensitive products or marketing to children. We have a review and referral process for work that may present an ethical risk. Before accepting potentially sensitive work, our people are required to elevate the decision to the most senior person in the relevant office and then to the most senior executive of the WPP company in the country concerned, who will decide if further referral to a WPP executive is required. Our people are trained on this referral process during our ethics training. Companies also have copy-checking and clearance processes through which campaigns are reviewed by the legal team before publication. Requirements are particularly comprehensive in sectors such as pharmaceutical marketing which are highly regulated. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 29 Human rights Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle for WPP. In our business activities we aim to prevent, identify and address negative impacts on human rights and we look for opportunities to positively promote and support human rights, including children’s rights. Our Human Rights Policy Statement, published in 2015, summarises our approach to human rights. It reflects international standards and principles, including the International Bill of Human Rights, the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Children’s Rights and Business Principles. The policy is available on our website and included on page 123 of this report. We updated a number of other policies relating to employment and procurement during 2016 to ensure they reflect our commitment to human rights. We train our people on a number of human rights issues through scenarios in our ethics training including non-discrimination, marketing to children and human rights in the supply chain. This training is completed by all our people. We are members of the United Nations Global Compact and committed to making progress against its ten principles, see pages 107 to 109. Our human rights impacts and opportunities Our main human rights impact is as a major employer and we aim to embed respect for human rights into our employment practices. Read more on page 52. We can have a positive impact on human rights in our supply chain. We work with supplier partners on human rights and set clear standards through our Code of Business Conduct for Suppliers. Client marketing campaigns can have an impact on human rights and, where relevant, we work with our clients on these issues. This includes protecting children’s rights in relation to marketing. WPP companies will not undertake work designed to mislead on human rights issues. Communications campaigns can be used to raise awareness of human rights issues and to encourage action to protect human rights. Our companies provide creative services to organisations involved in protecting and promoting human rights, often on a pro bono basis. This is our main opportunity to positively promote human rights. Many examples are included in our Pro bono book, www.wpp.com/probono/2016/. Operating in sensitive countries WPP operates in 112 countries. We use a variety of sources to understand and manage any risks associated with different countries of operation, including the Transparency International Corruption Index, Human Rights Watch country reports and any relevant governmental guidance. We comply with all relevant sanctions regimes. 30 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work Our direct and indirect human rights impacts Our people On-site contractor Workers in our supply chain Citizens and consumers impacted by our client campaigns and pro bono Direct impact work for human rights Indirect influence organisations Indirect influence Indirect influence Modern slavery We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery, forced labour or human trafficking in any part of our business or supply chain. As part of our due diligence processes we have assessed the risk of modern slavery for WPP amongst our direct workforce, whereby we concluded the risk to be very low. In early 2017 we conducted compulsory training for our central Commercial and Procurement Services Team on the risks and issues of modern slavery. We are providing guidance and support to our operating companies to help them comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act. During 2017, we will publish our first annual slavery and human trafficking statement in response to the UK’s Modern Slavery Act. This will contain more information on our approach and be publicly available on our website. Living wage We support the principle that workers should be paid enough to provide a decent standard of living. This principle is known as the ‘living wage’. In the UK, the Living Wage Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation, calculates the voluntary living wage which exceeds the UK’s statutory national living wage. The vast majority of our people already earn significantly above the voluntary living wage rate. However, wage rates in our supply chain may be lower. It is our policy for WPP, the parent company, and all our UK companies, to pay the voluntary living wage set by the Living Wage Foundation to all our people and all on-site contractors such as cleaning, security and catering staff in the UK. Our policy is not to offer unpaid internships and apprenticeships anywhere in the world. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 31 Public policy and lobbying The business community can make an important contribution to the debate on regulation and government policy. However, to protect the public interest, it is important that business lobbying is conducted with honesty, integrity and transparency. We have a number of public affairs businesses that carry out public policy work for clients, including direct lobbying of public officials and influencing public opinion. Our public affairs companies include: BursonMarsteller, and its affiliates: Prime Policy Group, Direct Impact and Penn Schoen Berland; Finsbury; Glover Park Group; Hill+Knowlton Strategies, and its affiliates: Dewey Square Group and Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates; OGR; QGA. The majority of their work takes place in the US and the EU, although many of our clients are multinational companies. On occasion, we also engage in the public policy process on issues that affect WPP and our companies. This section explains our approach to political activities in both areas. Our standards We recognise the importance of transparency and high ethical standards in our public policy activity. We are governed by our Code of Business Conduct, which commits us to acting ethically in all aspects of our business and to maintaining the highest standards of honesty and integrity. In all instances, we respect national laws and any other laws with an international reach, such as the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, where relevant, and industry codes of conduct. We also have more detailed policies on issues such as hospitality and gifts, facilitation payments and the use of third-party advisors. In addition, many of our companies are members of professional organisations and abide by their codes of conduct. Examples include the UK’s Association of Professional Political Consultants (APPC), the self-regulatory body for UK public affairs practitioners, and the European Public Affairs Consultancies’ Association (EPACA) the representative trade body for public affairs consultancies working with EU institutions. In relation to our work for clients, WPP companies comply with all applicable laws and regulations governing the disclosure of public affairs activities. In the US, this includes the Lobby Disclosure Act and the Foreign Agent Registration Act, which are designed to achieve transparency on client representation and require lobby firms to register the names of clients on whose behalf they contact legislators or executive branch personnel. A number of our companies are listed on the voluntary EU Transparency Register of lobbying activities. It is WPP’s practice that those of its US companies whose sole or primary business is lobbying have representatives of both major political parties among senior management. We will not undertake work that is intended or designed to mislead. We do not knowingly represent ‘front groups’ (organisations which purport to be independent NGOs but are controlled by another organisation for the purpose of misleading) and seek to ensure we are aware of who the underlying client is before taking on work. 32 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work Mark Linaugh, chief talent officer, has overall responsibility for our public affairs practices and ultimate responsibility for our political activities rests with our Board. We have a Group-level committee that meets regularly to discuss ethical and compliance issues including in relation to political activities, see page 28. Any associates carrying out political activities on our behalf are expected to comply with our Code of Business Conduct and other relevant policies. Political contributions WPP the parent company does not make political contributions. WPP companies do not make political contributions from corporate resources with the occasional exception of very small, lawful contributions to local candidates or parties in the US or UK. No corporate contributions of any kind, including the provision of services or materials for less than market value, may be made to politicians, political parties or action committees, without the prior written approval of the WPP Board. In countries where it is consistent with applicable law, individuals working at WPP companies may make personal voluntary political contributions directly to candidates for office. Several of our businesses, including Burson-Marsteller, Glover Park Group, Hill+Knowlton Strategies, Prime Policy Group and Wexler & Walker, also maintain political action committees (PACs) which accept voluntary donations from their people to support political candidates. During 2015 and 2016, around $264,000 was given through these PACs to federal candidates. Lobbying and political advocacy We occasionally contribute to the debate on public policy issues relevant to our business, sometimes operating through our public affairs companies. This can include issues relevant to our sector or the general business environment. Like several of our operating companies, WPP itself is listed on the EU Transparency Register. Our companies also contribute to public debate in areas where they have expertise and a special interest – our digital and research companies, for example, are involved on privacy and data protection issues. We work with our peers and governments on a number of sustainability issues, for example, launching the Common Ground initiative in 2016 with then UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon, see pages 84 and 85. We follow government rules in relation to ‘cooling-off’ periods for people joining WPP from public office or the public sector. Membership of trade associations and public policy groups We are members of trade associations, industry groups and memberships organisations which undertake lobbying activity on behalf of their members. At a parent company level our memberships in the US include the American Benefits Council, British American Business Inc, The Business Council, Business Roundtable, Council on Foreign Relations, Northeast Business Group on Health and the Wall Street Journal CEO Council. In the UK they include the All Party Parliamentary Corporate Responsibility Group, British American Business London Transatlantic Council, Business Disability Forum, CBI, Chambre de Commerce Française de Grande Bretagne, China Britain Business Council, Institute of Business Ethics, PARC, Trilateral Commission, Women on Boards and the World Economic Forum. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 33 Privacy and data security Consumer data is used extensively in developing, implementing and monitoring marketing campaigns and is particularly important to the services provided by our digital marketing and insight businesses. It enables our companies to create tailored marketing, improves consumer engagement and allows for more accurate measurement of the effectiveness of campaigns. We have rigorous privacy and data security standards and procedures governing how we collect, use and store this data to protect consumer privacy and reduce risks to our business. This topic is of increasing interest to clients, regulators and investors, in particular since EU privacy laws have been updated due to the pending implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the issuing in early 2017 of the draft ePrivacy Regulation. We also work with our peers, clients and industry bodies to improve privacy practices including the Interactive Advertising Bureau. Our standards All WPP companies must follow the WPP Data Code of Conduct as well as our global IT security, privacy and social media policies. Our Data Code of Conduct provides a clear framework for all our companies to implement privacy best practice. Our WPP Client Contract Toolkit helps WPP companies understand how privacy and data protection criteria should be integrated into client contracts. In 2017, we will be launching a GDPR Toolkit to provide advice and assistance to our companies on the new legislation and how practical measures can be taken to ensure they are compliant. Any supplier who collects, manages or stores consumer or client data on behalf of WPP companies and our clients must have the right data security and privacy standards in place. We are also identifying and managing data privacy and security risks in our supply chain, working with Sedex, (the sustainability supply chain platform), see Supply chain, pages 72 to 79. Changes in technology create new privacy risks and we keep our approach and the guidance we provide to our companies under continual review. Raising awareness We continue to push our SAFER DATA initiative, a privacy and security awareness campaign and online platform with information and guidance for our people on the importance of privacy risk and data security. This covers topics such as phishing, safe file sharing, avoiding rogue wifi networks and setting strong passwords and uses a humorous short video to engage attention. It includes a ‘SAVEMYDATA’ reporting tool, to allow our people to raise concerns and questions they have about data issues direct with our in-house legal teams. We will use SAFER DATA as our platform for the launch of our GDPR Toolkit. In 2016, we started running workshops on GDPR to raise awareness of this important subject and this will continue in 2017. Our mandatory global online Privacy and Data Security Awareness training has been completed by 154,570 people. 34 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our client work Monitoring implementation We have a central team of legal, audit and compliance professionals who support WPP companies on privacy. Our internal audit team reviews privacy risks and practices as part of its Group-wide audit program, focusing on different companies each year. Our teams are working with our companies to ensure they are ready to comply with the GDPR when it comes into force in May 2018. We used our Data Health Checker in 2016 for the fourth year running to review privacy risks and data security practices in our businesses. The results showed us that the majority of our companies have mitigation measures that match or exceed their level of privacy risk, with the average score being 2.9 out of 5, where 5 is the maximum score possible. Of those companies surveyed, 76% have a dedicated privacy lead and 79% have trained all of their people on data security and privacy in addition to Group training, which is an increase of over 20% from 2015. WPP DATA CODE Our principles OF CONDUCT WPP, its companies and its people are committed to responsible collection, management, use and protection of data. WPP recognises its obligations to all its stakeholders including share owners, clients, its own people, suppliers and consumers. WPP works with many categories of data and uses the term data in its broadest sense. We include within this definition client data, consumer data and all information and data related to the operation of our businesses. Our practices •• We will be transparent with consumers. ••  e will treat data in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations W and treaties. •• We will implement fair and reasonable data policies and procedures. •• We will treat data as confidential. •• W  e will understand not only what data we hold but also its relevance to stakeholders. •• We will secure, collect, process, use and store data appropriately. •• We will ensure that data is retained appropriately. •• W  e will implement necessary and appropriate technical measures to secure data. •• We will delete data when required to do so. ••  e will ensure our people understand their role in upholding W these principles and practices. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 35 Our people Our clients choose WPP companies because of the creativity and effectiveness of our people. People management is a highly material issue for WPP. Fast read Our goal We aim to recruit, retain and engage the most talented people, adopting inclusive working practices and investing in our people so they do great work for our clients. We focus on: • The talent landscape • Diversity and inclusion • Training and development • Internships, apprenticeships and support for education • Health and well-being • Reward and recognition Business value Strong policies and flexible and inclusive working practices enable us to recruit from a wider pool of talented candidates and to get the best out of our people. A diverse workforce is more creative and effective and better able to serve our clients in all disciplines across our locations, including new markets where our industry is less well established. Sustainability impact Adopting leading employment practices protects the human rights of our people and enables more people from all backgrounds to have successful careers in our industry. Challenges and dilemmas There is fierce competition for talent in our sector and this can contribute to employee turnover. The most senior levels of our workforce do not yet reflect the full diversity of the markets in which we operate and women remain under-represented among our leadership. Workplace stress is a challenge in our fast-paced and client-focused industry. 36 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our people Management approach Our Code of Business Conduct, Human Rights Policy Statement and Sustainability Policy set out our core principles for people management. Detailed policies and implementation are determined at operating company level, reflecting local circumstances. Our central WPP Talent Team supports leadership and human resources professionals in our companies, providing guidance on current issues and facilitating best practice sharing. Data in this section relates to our people in our wholly-owned companies only, and does not include people in our associate companies or investments. External frameworks GRI indicators in this section: G4-10 (M), G4-11, G4-15, G4-16, G4-EC6, G4-LA1, G4-LA3, G4-LA6, G4-LA8, G4-LA9 (M), G4-LA10, G4-LA11, G4-LA12, G4-LA16, G4-HR3 Global Compact Principles: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Progress on our KPIs in 2016 Performance in 2016 34% women in executive leadership 48% women in senior management 21% ethnic minorities in senior management in the UK and US 28% ethnic minorities in our workforce in the UK and US £45.1m training spend, £336 per person 57% satisfied with work-life balance Key: Improved Stayed the same Decreased WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 37 WPP: a global company We directly employ 134,000 people. When our associate companies are included (those in which we have a minority stake) the figure is almost 200,000 people in over 3,000 offices in 112 countries. We believe a diverse workforce is more collaborative, creative and effective and we aim to achieve gender balance in our workforce at all levels. We invest in our people’s skills through training and development and provide paid internships and apprenticeships to bring young people into our industry. Here we show data in our mature markets as well as some of the world’s growth markets.* UK USA 157 £671 Spain France 602 £445 280 £233 311 £221 Mexico Nigeria 49 £156 Brazil 0 £459 Colombia 504 £99 115 £53 Argentina * Top 10, BRIC, Next 11 (the Group has no operations in Iran), CIVETS and MIST. 1 £132 38 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our people People Male Female Executive leaders Male executives Female executives Germany Paid apprenticeships and internships Training spend per person The size of each pie chart 884 £516 Greater China is relative to the total Russia permanent headcount in each country. Turkey 9 £56 1,630 £200 6 £129 South Korea Pakistan 83 £190 Japan Egypt Bangladesh 10 £225 5 £238 0 £243 27 £64 India Vietnam Philippines 79 £216 1 £334 307 £114 Indonesia 109 £211 Australia South Africa 6 £414 158 £433 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 39 Diversity and inclusion A diverse workforce is more collaborative, creative and effective. Research shows that companies in the top quartile for gender or racial and ethnic diversity are 35% more likely to have greater financial returns than the industry average1. Diversity of outlook and background is particularly important for our sector because our work needs to connect with a very diverse and global consumer base. Clients increasingly expect us to put forward diverse teams in both pitches and ongoing work. We promote inclusive working practices and support our companies to increase the diversity of our workforce through recruitment, policy development, training, mentoring and flexible working practices. All our people undertake awareness training on diversity as part of our online ethics training ‘How we Behave’, see below. We are also developing e-learning to help our people understand, identify and address unconscious bias. This will be included in our ‘How we behave’ ethics training in 2017 and will be mandatory for all our people. Our UK companies are encouraged to launch their own diversity and inclusion training during 2017 in addition to Group training. We have identified a number of preferred training partners to help them do this. Sir Martin Sorrell, our chief executive, signed the 4As diversity and inclusion pledge in the US, signalling our commitment to diversity and to working with others to advance minorities and promote diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Brave Your Bias for a truly inclusive workplace Research has shown that despite our best intentions, individuals inadvertently allow their unconscious biases – or assumptions – to influence their actions and behaviours in ways that can stifle diversity. To create a truly inclusive and diverse workplace, we must be brave enough to acknowledge our biases and their impact on our decision-making. MEC launched Brave Your Bias at New York’s Advertising Week in September 2016. This industry-wide initiative aims to celebrate difference and raise awareness of unconscious bias. Delegates were invited to a Brave Your Bias challenge where they could take the Harvard Implicit Association Test (IAT), that identifies personal bias and sign a pledge to explore the impact unconscious biases have on their decision-making and behaviour. MEC also asked its 800-plus employees in North America to complete the IAT test. Brave Your Bias has now launched at MEC London with an event at London Ad Week and will be rolled out to other offices in the network. MEC has launched a social media campaign and Facebook Chatbot that invites users to talk about unconscious bias and receive tips for identifying and addressing their own biases. Read more and get involved at braveyourbias.com 1 Diversity’s Dividend research by McKinsey www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/organization/our-insights/why-diversity-matters 40 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our people Gender balance Achieving gender balance at all levels of our workforce is essential to enable us to attract the best talent – more than half of all graduates in our key markets are women – and create work that connects with female consumers. Our overall workforce is gender balanced; however, women remain under-represented at the highest levels of the business. As at 31 December 2016, women comprised 29% of the WPP Board, 33% of non-executive directors on the WPP Board, 34% of directors and executive leaders in our operating companies, 48% of senior managers, 54% of total employees and 39% of Global Client Leaders. The WPP Stella women’s network aims to address barriers that could prevent women progressing their careers to senior levels within the Group and to facilitate the sharing of good practices between our companies. The network began in the UK and will be extended to our businesses in the US and Asia. As well as supporting our work on inclusion and tackling unconscious bias, the network focused on a number of other initiatives during 2016 including: ••  ur Family Friendly Guidelines and Parent Portal for UK operating companies, see page 43. O Similar guidelines are being developed for the US. •• T  raining and development, including progression coaching and media training to facilitate women in leadership roles to take up speaking opportunities. A Stella Speakers’ Bureau will be launched during 2017. •• A series of networking events, talks and Q&A sessions for Stella members during the year. We run ‘The X Factor’, a mentoring and development program for WPP’s senior women leaders. Led by Charlotte Beers, the former global CEO of Ogilvy & Mather and chairman of J. Walter Thompson, this program prepares participants for the next level of executive leadership. A further 12 senior women completed the course in 2016, bringing the total to 109. Charlotte Beers also helped to inspire ‘WILL: Women in Leadership Lessons’ – a growing collection of programs targeted at enhancing the professional development of the Group’s high potential women. WILL programs have run in three countries, with 239 women leaders from 71 WPP companies attending to date. Our first WILL session in Asia ran during 2016 with a three-day workshop for 25 high potential and mid-career women from several of our companies and markets. Charlotte Beers has also led programs for our client Unilever and will host a program for Kantar during 2017. We are part of the UK Creative Equals program which supports the objective of getting more women into creative departments. Gender diversity 2012–2016 % women 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 WPP Board 29% 29% 24% 29% 19% Executive leaders 34% 33% 31% 32% 32% Senior managers 48% 47% 46% 47% 47% Total employees (full-time equivalent) 54% 54% 54% 54% 54% WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 41 Walking the Talk at Maxus Walk the Talk is an intensive coaching experience, available to senior women at Maxus Global. It aims to lead a change in gender equality in the advertising industry by exploring the barriers that women face, both in business and in their personal lives, and giving participants the chance to focus on their ambitions. The bespoke program helps give women the confidence they need to take steps towards their ‘bigger game’ and to reach the top – ensuring that Maxus leadership is balanced and reflective of the wider world around us. More than 800 women have completed the course and 22 secured promotions within eight months. We are sharing the success of the program with other WPP companies and two have launched their own Walk the Talk initiatives. WPP plans to implement the program for 60 senior women during 2017. Executive leaders* in 2016 by region (% women) 40 39% 34% 35 33% 32% 32% 30 25 20 15 10 14% 5 0 Africa Asia Pacific Europe Latin Middle East North America America * Executive leaders are the most senior people in our operating companies. Working with clients on diversity Burson-Marsteller, a WPP communications and public relations firm, has launched a new offering to help clients take full advantage of the benefits associated with closing the gender gap and creating more opportunities for women to rise as leaders. Burson-Marsteller Advantage Women brings together communications services with research and insights to develop campaigns that reach women audiences as consumers, decision-makers and influencers. Karen Hughes “Burson-Marsteller Advantage Women is a response to clients Worldwide and prospects that recognize the business and social benefits vice chair, of greater diversity and want internal and external programs to Burson-Marsteller. better galvanize the power of women leaders and consumers.” 42 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our people Flexible working and support for working parents Flexible working practices help create an inclusive culture, particularly for working parents and people with caring responsibilities, and can help us to retain valued people. Flexible working arrangements are agreed by our operating companies and can include part-time arrangements, flexible start and finish times, home working arrangements as well as career breaks and sabbaticals. Around 21% of our people have flexible working arrangements, 65% of flexible working requests are approved by our companies and 46% of our companies offer career breaks and sabbaticals. We launched our Family Friendly Guidelines and Parent Portal for UK operating companies during 2016, following an extensive benchmarking exercise. These are helping our UK companies to implement best practice maternity, paternity and flexible working policies and support working parents. The Parent Portal is an online hub of guidance and support for working parents and line managers, on topics such as maternity, paternity or adoption leave, through to longer-term career management for working parents. We are starting to track return rates after maternity leave, as this is a stage at which we risk losing women. Our data, which covers 51% of our companies, shows that 92% of women return to work after maternity leave including 24% who return part-time. Half of our companies (49%) offer parental leave benefits that exceed local legal requirements and we aim to increase this. Our companies also offer preand post-maternity catch-ups which can enhance retention. Women returning to work after maternity leave 10% 8% 11% 8% 4% 8% 100 8% 3% 7% 16% 24% 80 45% 60 40 Returning full-time 20 88% 75% 43% 85% 88% 68% Returning part-time 0 Not returning Africa Asia Europe Latin North WPP Pacific America America Support offered to parents returning to work after parental leave Phased return to work 44% Coaching 18% Mentoring 20% Other 31% Childcare support 13% Guidance/information 22% % companies offering these programs, weighted by headcount. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 43 Ethnic diversity We measure ethnic diversity in our businesses in the UK and the US using national definitions of ethnic/racial minorities (the Equality and Human Rights Commission in the UK and the Equal Opportunity Commission in the US). In 2016, 28% of our people in these countries were from ethnic minorities (2015: 26%). We were ranked 10th in the FTSE 100 by Sir John Parker’s Report into the Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards published in November 2016, with 3 out of 14 directors considered diverse. Ethnic minorities (UK and US) % 30 28 25 26 26 25 23 Executive leaders 20 21 20 18 18 19 Senior managers 16 15 13 All employees 11 10 11 10 5 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Our companies are working to increase the recruitment, retention and promotion of ethnically diverse candidates and employees. Examples include: •• I nternships and apprenticeships: Many of our programs target diverse candidates, see pages 47 and 48. Our companies also support external programs such as PRCA’s PR Internships For All in the UK and, in the US, Ladders for Leaders, The Marcus Graham Project’s summer bootcamp and the 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern Program (MAIP). At a Group level we established the Micro Fellowship for students from ethnic minority backgrounds. •• R  ecruitment: We partner with recruiters and organisations targeting diverse candidates. In the UK, for example, our companies work with organisations such as Rare Recruitment, the job site Milkround, ACS in the City – a diversity recruitment program, City Gateway, Equality Britain, African Caribbean Diversity, Asians in the Media and the Diversity Group that provide access to a diverse pool of candidates. Partners in the US include the One Club, Emma Bowen and LAGRANT Foundations. •• C  areers events and higher education partnerships: Our companies attend career fairs targeting diverse candidates and work with colleges that have a more diverse student base such as the Historically Black Colleges and Universities in the US. ••  rofessional networks: Employee networks and resource groups can assist in attracting and retaining P diverse talent. Nationalities and local recruitment We are proud of our multinational workforce. There are seven nationalities currently represented on the WPP Board. We estimate that globally 63% of senior managers were recruited from the local country or region in which they work. Our companies seek to maximise the benefit of our global diversity. For example, the Maxus Global Exchange enables Maxus people to experience another culture, ways of working and forge strong relationships through placements at Maxus offices in other countries. In 2016, 75 Maxus people from 45 countries took part. At VML, offices in different countries pair up and celebrate a holiday or cultural tradition from another location. 44 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our people Age diversity A mix of ages can be beneficial to creativity and insight in the workplace. As the global population ages it will also be increasingly important that our companies create work that appeals to older generations. Our industry has traditionally employed a young workforce, but our data suggests that the proportion of workers aged between 40 and 59 is increasing over time. Around 23% of WPP companies have introduced measures to support recruitment and retention of older people. Age diversity in 2016 Age diversity by region 2016 % % 100 19 or under 0% 19 or under 20-29 36% 80 20-29 30-39 37% 60 30-39 40-49 18% 40-49 40 50-59 7% 50-59 20 60 and over 2% 60 and over 0 Africa Asia Europe Latin Middle North Pacific America East America Where do all the over 50s go? MEC UK teamed up with industry magazine Campaign to highlight the need for greater age diversity in the media and advertising sector. The starting point was a survey of more than 200 people of all ages working in the sector. This found that 66% of respondents want to see better representation of the over 50s age category both in the workplace and in advertising. The survey also revealed that a large majority, 79% of those surveyed, feel the industry is ageist. Clare Alger MEC hosted an Age Debate to share the results, where industry leaders, lawyers, People and culture representatives from ad industry charity NABs, clients, and the IPA, discussed director, MEC UK the findings. The company is exploring how it can boost age diversity in its own workforce, and as a starting point has removed the maximum age limit for its apprenticeships. Age is one of the themes explored in its Brave Your Bias initiative, see page 40. “A shift in attitudes, behaviours, policies and practices around older workers is needed and needed fast within our industry and I’m delighted that MEC is leading the way to ensure we attract, develop and retain this group of diverse talent and to better celebrate the valued role they play in the workplace.” WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 45 LGBT diversity We aim to create an inclusive environment that encourages the recruitment, retention and development of talented people from the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) communities. Our companies take a number of approaches including: attending, sponsoring and hosting LGBT-related events; attending careers fairs targeting LGBT candidates; establishing LGBT employee resource networks (such as Global Team Blue Pride, Grey Pride, Ogilvy Pride and PrideM); and working with external partners such as the PRCA LGBT Group, Stonewall and Reaching Out MBA, a US organisation for LGBT MBA students. Sir Martin Sorrell was a keynote speaker on the business and economic case for LGBT inclusion at The Economist’s Pride & Prejudice conference held in March 2016 in Hong Kong, London and New York. Gender transition Gender transition, when a transgender person makes the decision to publicly change his or her gender, can be a challenging time for the individual. Our companies need to be able to provide the right support to people undergoing gender transition and their colleagues. We have issued guidelines to our heads of human resources in all WPP companies globally on how to manage gender transition in the workplace. These include information on how to address concerns and misconceptions as well as practical steps the company may need to take. Disability Disability and physical or mental ill-health can affect anyone during their working life. We aim to be a ‘disability smart’ employer, providing the right support and removing barriers so people affected by disability can play a full role in our companies. In France, our companies are working with specialist recruiters and investing in support for disabled people in line with French law which sets a target for employers to reach 6% representation of disabled people in the workplace. All means all at GroupM GroupM London held its first diversity week during 2016, celebrating all forms of diversity. The week included a series of different events and speaker sessions around the themes of: ••  nableM: An interactive session that gave people the opportunity to experience what it might E be like to live with physical or cognitive impairments. •• PrideM: A panel discussion exploring issues relating to the media and the LGBT community. •• G  enderM: A lunchtime Q&A session exploring women’s empowerment with Sue Unerman, CSO of MediaCom and author of The Glass Wall. •• CultureM: A food festival celebrating the cultural diversity of GroupM. •• GenerationM: A session exploring the benefits of a multi-generational workplace. 46 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our people Rebranding highlights diversity at Grey Grey is one of the largest advertising networks in the world, with 10,000 employees in 96 countries, embracing every gender, race, religion and sexuality. To celebrate its 100th anniversary, Grey London has launched a five-point diversity plan to spark further action on diversity in its business and the wider industry. To raise awareness it changed its name for 100 days to Valenstein & Fatt, after its founders. These young Jewish entrepreneurs didn’t name their agency after themselves because they feared the impact of anti-Semitism on their business. Grey’s diversity plan will see the company establish mentoring programs for diverse talent, working with schools to inspire the next generation and establishing the Valenstein & Fatt bursary to enable young people from ethnic minority and disadvantaged backgrounds to take up roles at the agency. A cross-industry taskforce has been launched to identify the barriers to recruitment and retention of talent among ethnic minorities and increase representation of minorities in advertising. Education, internships and apprenticeships Internships and apprenticeships help young people to kick-start their careers and give us access to talented new people. Internships can also help us to reach out to diverse candidates. It is our policy that all internships and apprenticeships should be paid positions so they are accessible to people from all socio-economic backgrounds. We offered 6,413 paid internships and apprenticeships at our companies during 2016 (2015: 5,378). Examples of internship and apprenticeships at our companies in 2016 included: ••  A’s Multicultural Internship Program (MAIP): Our companies in the US participate in the American 4 Association of Advertising Agencies’ MAIP program which provides over 120 placements each year. Participants gain real-world work experience, with access to training and development, and networking opportunities and an alumni network. WPP companies involved include GroupM, J. Walter Thompson, Maxus, Ogilvy, Team Detroit, VML and Y&R. ••  ssociate Learning Programme, Genesis Burson-Marsteller India: Established over 12 years ago, this A year-long paid program provides training in all facets of public relations. •• C  ohn & Wolfe Sweden: Participates in the City of Stockholm’s project ‘Stockholm Open,’ which enables high school students from the suburbs to complete an apprenticeship at a PR agency, opening up the industry to a more diverse range of potential recruits. •• J . Walter Thompson Vietnam: 30 young people complete full-time internships with JWT Vietnam each year, each lasting at least 12 weeks. Interns get involved in real projects and benefit from professional training and networking opportunities. ••  ediaCom London: Award-winning apprenticeship program, providing year-long placements for 13 young M people, who have not had the benefit of attending university. Participants also work towards a Level 3 NVQ qualification in Marketing and Communications. MediaCom has taken on 40 apprentices since launching the program in 2012. •• M  indshare US: Runs a Data and Analytics Summer Internship Program for college students interested in media investment management. Interns support teams with specific client projects and gain experience to prepare them for potential entry-level opportunities with Mindshare. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 47 •• O  gilvy, ‘The Pipe’: A six-month creative internship program launched in 2016, open to applicants of all ages including school leavers and retirees, and candidates without a degree or work experience. ••  R Internships for All UK: Cohn & Wolfe, Hill+Knowlton Strategies and Ogilvy participate in this initiative P of the UK’s Public Relations Consultants Association’s which offers placements to interns from diverse ethnic and socio-economic backgrounds. •• S tarting Blocks: Burson-Marsteller South Africa’s internship program launched 21 years ago to give students, including empowerment candidates from previously disadvantaged groups, practical experience in public relations. ••  PP Micro Fellowship: This joint initiative between WPP and Rare Recruitment, encourages ethnic minority W candidates to consider a career in marketing communications. ••  &R’s Z Academy: Offers threeto six-month apprenticeships to students from leading digital marketing, Y design and social science universities. Participants work on client projects and are paired with executives across Y&R’s global network. We are a founding member and communications sponsor of Movement to Work, a UK initiative that aims to tackle youth unemployment through high-quality work experience placements. To date, 50,000 placements have been provided at member companies. From April 2017, WPP will pay the UK Apprenticeship Levy. Rotational Degree Apprenticeship at Ogilvy Lack of diversity can exacerbate skills shortages and we aim to support educational partnerships that are inclusive to a diverse range of people. For example, WPP and Ogilvy UK are participating in the new Rotational Degree Apprenticeship program, a three-year structured training program developed by Pearson Business School. This enables participants to gain a Business Management degree and professional experience through apprenticeships at leading businesses. Participants are paid an annual salary, making the course accessible to a more diverse range of candidates. Partners in the program include Unilever, IBM, Tesco and Pearson. For the last five years, Ogilvy has also run Rough Diamond, a future talent program, in collaboration with the Ideas Foundation, School of Communication Arts, Ravensbourne University, Onedotzero and The Marketing Academy. This initiative seeks out diverse creative talent which might not have made it through traditional recruitment channels. The program was recognised by the National Undergraduate Employability Award for the best collaboration. 48 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our people Education partnerships We believe that business can play a positive role in education. By investing in young people we can help build the skills our industry needs and create a future pipeline of talent. We partner with several leading educational institutions and many of our senior people serve as visiting lecturers and teach courses at local universities and colleges. Many of our university partnerships are in faster-growing markets. They include our support for the WPP School of Communications and Marketing with the Shanghai Arts and Design Academy (SADA), our partnership with the Indian School of Design and Innovation, in Mumbai, which offers a three-year undergraduate course on marketing communications and the WPP Africa Academy, in Johannesburg, which provides training and talent development opportunities in partnership with the Red & Yellow School of Logic and Magic, a highly-respected marketing and advertising school. In Bangladesh, we support the Asian University for Women that helps more women access higher education, particularly those from disadvantaged and rural areas. We recently became a corporate partner to the Nova School of Business and Economics in Lisbon, Portugal. This partnership will see us collaborate in masters courses, co-teach executive education courses, benefit from consulting labs and support the School on its digital campaigns. Many of our companies work with local schools to help build skills and alert young people to career opportunities in our industry. For example, MEC people mentor secondary school students, help primary schoolchildren develop their reading skills and attend careers talks. We support Inspiring the Future, an organisation that connects state schools and colleges with employers and professionals, giving young people better insight into different careers, jobs and educational routes. Over 200 of our people have spent time at local schools talking to children about careers, CVs and interview techniques. JWTeach – Young Tribes Day JWTeach has seen people from JWT London work with and inspire more than 2,500 schoolchildren from inner city schools over the past eight years. During 2016, employees presented an introduction to advertising at nine schools across London. The teams shared JWT’s Female Tribes initiative that challenges the use of female stereotypes in marketing and encouraged students to think about the vital effect of role models. JWT invited 38 students to the London office for a ‘Young Tribes Day’, where they met with staff members and tackled a brief from Wagamama, a UK-based James Whitehead Asian food restaurant chain, alongside JWT mentors. CEO, J. Walter Thompson London “Young Tribes brings together our Female Tribes work, which has been changing the narrative around women across the industry, our JWTeach program, and our Diversity Strategy of which a key pillar is to encourage more young women from a diverse mix of backgrounds to take up careers in advertising.” WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 49 Training and development Training supports employee engagement and development, and enables us to meet the changing needs of our clients. Leadership development is an important aspect of our training and one which can positively impact employee engagement, well-being and retention. Our Group training programs are designed to help us deliver on our four strategic priorities: horizontality; new markets; new media; and technology, data and content. Examples include: •• M  aestro: Orchestrating Client Value, our week-long program for senior client leaders held in 33 countries, designed to strengthen the effectiveness and confidence of senior client practitioners and help us to achieve horizontality in our ways of working. There have been 4,167 participants from 149 WPP companies since 2003. ••  PP ‘Mini MBA’: A series of workshops that help our rising talent broaden their understanding of W business and marketing issues, develop leadership skills, and deliver client value. To date, 2,732 participants have benefited. •• W  PP Fellowship program: A three-year global leadership initiative for graduates, providing experience across a range of marketing disciplines and geographies. To date, 194 Fellows have gone through the program or are participating. ••  PP MBA Fellowship program: A global multidisciplinary program for MBA graduates, with 70 W participants so far. ••  PP Leadership Toolkit for Managers: An interactive resource and educational tool hosted on our Group W intranet. This explores what good leadership is and provides practical techniques, tips and tools. Our companies run a wide range of bespoke training programs to develop their people’s professional skills, leadership competencies and functional expertise. Performance in 2016 In 2016, we spent £45.1 million on training (2015: £41.1 million). This includes the cost of training courses, and travel and accommodation costs for people attending training sessions. In addition, 60% of our people took part in formal training programs, averaging 6.8 hours per person. On average, we spent £336 per person on training. The average for women was slightly higher at £348. Training facts and figures People participating in formal training 60% Spend on training per person £336 Spend on training per woman £348 Training delivered online 17% Training delivered face-to-face 81% 50 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our people Staff training £m 50 45.1 40.0 41.1 40 38.1 38.2 30 20 10 0 12 13 14 15 16 Training by category % Industry specific Management skills 13% skills 30% Leadership, strategy and Business skills 22% business development 16% Function skills 7% Other 9% Privacy and data security 3% Appraisals and performance development Our companies use regular appraisals as part of performance management. During 2016, 79% of our people participated in a formal appraisal process, and 68% of executive leaders and 60% of senior managers had a 360 degree appraisal which combine feedback from colleagues, managers and others. As a global and multidisciplinary company we can offer our people exciting opportunities for development, and we aim to retain talented people within the Group. Springboard, for example, is our online Job Board that helps our people find new roles within our companies in the UK, China, Hong Kong and Singapore. We estimate that almost 12,000 new roles were created in 2016 and 22% of these were filled by existing people from within the Group. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 51 Human rights Our approach to employment starts with respect for the human rights of all people, whether permanent, temporary or contract workers. This includes encouraging diversity, preventing discrimination, providing safe workplaces, recognising the rights of our people to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and not tolerating harassment or any form of forced, compulsory or child labour. Our commitment is summarised in our Human Rights Policy Statement and we updated a number of other policies during 2016 to reflect this. More information is on page 30. Non-discrimination and anti-harassment WPP does not tolerate harassment, sexual harassment, discrimination or offensive behaviour of any kind. We select and promote our people on the basis of their qualifications and merit, without discrimination or concern for factors such as race, religion, national origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age or disability. These commitments are set out in our Code of Business Conduct (see page 121) which applies to all staff and is available on the WPP website, in our Policy Book and on our intranet. Staff are trained on our commitment through our online ethics training, ‘How we behave’. Staff should feel confident to report concerns or grievances without fear of recrimination. Our people are encouraged, in the first instance, to discuss any concerns or suspected cases of harassment or discrimination with their line manager, local human resources representative or senior manager. We also have an independently operated ‘Right to Speak’ helpline people can use to report concerns confidentially and anonymously. Our people can access this via phone or email and report concerns in their local language. The helpline is publicised locally and via our Group intranet site. All reports to the helpline are investigated by an appropriate person independent of the parties involved, led by WPP Legal or the WPP director of internal audit. Living wage in the UK We support the principle that full-time workers should be paid enough to provide a decent standard of living. This principle is known as the ‘living wage’. In the UK, the Living Wage Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation, calculates the voluntary living wage which exceeds the UK’s statutory national living wage. The vast majority of our people already earn significantly above the living wage rate. However, wage rates in our supply chain may be lower. Our UK companies now pay the voluntary living wage as set by the Living Wage Foundation for all their people and on-site contractors, such as cleaning, security and catering staff in the UK. Our policy is not to offer unpaid internships and apprenticeships. Modern slavery We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery, forced labour or human trafficking in any part of our business or supply chain. As part of our due diligence processes we have assessed the risk of modern slavery for WPP amongst our direct workforce, whereby we concluded the risk to be very low. We are providing guidance and support to our operating companies to help them comply with the UK’s Modern Slavery Act. See page 75 for information in relation to our supply chain. 52 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our people Health, safety and well-being Employee well-being is a priority for our companies. We aim to support our people to stay fit and healthy and to manage work-related stress. This helps us to attract and retain the best people, reduce the costs of sickness absence to the business. The main health and safety risks within our workplaces are stress and ergonomic injuries. Stress is a challenge in our fast-paced and client-focused industry. As well as putting in place the policies and procedures to identify and prevent stress, our companies also need to focus on creating an open culture in which our people can raise concerns and get support when they need it. In some countries there is a long hours culture that can contribute to stress and here our companies take additional measures, such as restrictions on overtime and monthly review of overtime data by agency management, as well as targeted support for staff. Our companies implement a range of initiatives to promote health and well-being including: fitness facilities or subsidised gym memberships (67% of our companies); health and nutrition services (55%), including health insurance and medical assessments; counselling services (50%), including employee assistance programs; ergonomic risk assessments and specialist equipment (64%); and subsidised childcare. Health and safety (H&S) is managed within our companies and approaches include training, audits and risk assessments. 68% of our companies have appointed someone with responsibility for health and safety management and 31% have a formal management-worker H&S committee to monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs. H&S topics are covered in formal agreements with works councils or trade unions at 16% of our companies. Performance in 2016 The overall sickness rate was 3.2 days per person in 2016 (2015: 3 days). This includes both non-work related illness or injuries, work-related injuries and any occupational diseases related to someone’s work (such as work-related stress or repetitive strain injuries). As a comparison, the UK’s Office for National Statistics reports that in the UK the average worker took 4.4 days off work due to sickness absence in 2013, the last year for which data is available. There were no work-related fatalities in 2016. Days lost due to sickness 3.4 3.5 450,000 3.2 3.2 3.5 Days lost to sickness 3.0 3.0 (including injuries and stress) 2.5 400,000 Days lost per person 2.0 1.5 350,000 1.0 0.5 300,000 0.0 12 13 14 15 16 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 53 Monitoring progress We use a range of tools to engage with our people and monitor the impact of our policies and practices. Our approach includes employee surveys and structured engagement with employee representatives as well as informal day-to-day dialogue. Our Sustainability Advisors are working with our companies to assess implementation of our HR policies and to share best practices. Exit interviews with people who are leaving the business can provide valuable feedback. In 2016, 83% of leavers had exit interviews (2015: 80%). Employee surveys Our companies carry out regular employee surveys to help them understand our people’s views and satisfaction levels. In the last two years, 72% of our companies have conducted an employee survey with an average response rate of 75%. Surveys vary between our companies but we include a set of standard questions to enable us to compare results in different parts of the business. These questions were included in surveys covering 56% of Group people during 2016. Question % positive Attracting, developing and retaining people with a diverse background is encouraged at my location 60% My performance in my job is evaluated fairly and regularly 60% I have the opportunity for personal development and growth at this company 60% My company takes an interest in my well-being 61% My work schedule allows me sufficient flexibility to meet my personal/family needs 57% I could discuss ethical concerns with my managers without worrying that my job would be affected 72% My company is trying to cut its carbon footprint 42% Generally we are encouraged to be ‘green’ in our office 29% The support my company gives to charities and good causes is appropriate 56% Employment infringements In 2016, 280 cases were reported, compared to 200 cases in 2015. During the year, 190 cases were finalised (including cases reported from prior years). Of these, 32 were withdrawn, 92 agreed between parties, 38 judged against Group companies and 28 judged in favour. Labour relations We support the right of our people to join trade unions and to bargain collectively. We aim to have positive relations with unions and employee works councils. In our industry, trade union membership is relatively low. In 2016, around 5% of our people were members of trade unions across 32 countries (2015: 5%). There were 1,471 consultations with works councils, of which the majority were in Europe. We aim to avoid compulsory redundancies, where possible, and in cases where redundancies are necessary, our HR teams and Employee Assistance Programs support affected people. 54 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Our people Reward and recognition Attractive compensation packages are key to ensuring we can recruit and retain talented people. Pay and benefit levels are regularly benchmarked against other companies in our markets and sector to make sure we remain competitive. Our people are provided with a range of benefits that are typically provided in their local market. Examples include retirement savings plans, life assurance and employee advice services. Many of our people also participate in performance-related incentive plans. These plans are designed reward excellent performance and behaviours. These plans operate at an employee’s operational business area level. Senior people may also participate in share-based incentive plans that align their reward with that of our share owners. Since 1997, WPP has operated worldwide share option plans and has, since this time, made awards to over 157,000 employees, many who have gone on to receive considerable value based on the growth in the WPP share price. Compensation for our Executive Directors is set in accordance with our Directors’ Compensation Policy which is set out in the Annual Report. The policy for our most senior executives, which is aligned to that of our Executive Directors, is designed to attract and retain the best-in-class talent. The policy looks to incentivise directors to develop their skills and those of their employees in order to optimise their potential and to be able to deliver a consistently excellent service to our clients and excellent return for our share owners. AWARDS AND WPP companies received numerous awards and accreditations in the ACCREDITATIONS area of human resources management during 2016. Examples include: Burson Marsteller New York, Diversity Distinction in PR Awards, Diversity Champion Award • Cohn & Wolfe UK, PR Week Best Places to Work Award, Gold Trophy and Highly Commended Best Internship Programme 2016 • Cohn & Wolfe Europe, The Holmes Report, Best European Network to Work for • Cohn & Wolfe New York, The Holmes Report, Holmes Large PR Agency of the Year and PR Week Best Places to Work Award • GroupM Düsseldorf, IHK Chamber of Commerce Düsseldorf-Exceptional Achievement in Training apprentices • GroupM India, Asia Pacific HRM Congress, Best Talent/Recruiting Initiative • GroupM Mexico, Workplace Wellness Council, Distintivo Organización Responsablemente Saludable • GroupM Mumbai, HR Tech Awards 2016, Most Effective Recruitment Strategy using Technology and Best Use of Social Media • GroupM Spain, Top Employers • Hill+Knowlton Strategies Canada, Great Places to Work, Best Workplace in Canada • Hill+Knowlton Strategies Chicago, PR News, Top Places to Work in PR • Hill+Knowlton Strategies Hong Kong, Home Affairs Bureau, Family Friendly Employers Award • Hill+Knowlton Strategies USA, WorldatWork Alliance, 2016 Seal of Distinction • J. Walter Thompson UK, The IPA Effectiveness Awards, CPD Gold accreditation for excellence in professional development • LMRB Colombo, The Employer Branding Institute Awards, Asia Best Employer Brand Award • Maxus Global London, Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For 2016 • Mediacom London, The IPA Effectiveness Awards, CPD Gold Award for excellence in professional development • Mindshare London, The IPA Effectiveness Awards, CPD Gold Award for excellence in professional development • MEC New York, Great Place to Work, Great Place to Work Certification • MEC Toronto, Canada’s top 100 Employers, Canada’s Best Employers for Recent Graduates WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 55 Environment Climate change is one of the most pressing global challenges. We aim to cut our carbon footprint and use resources efficiently. We have been working to improve our environmental performance since 2006. Fast read Our goal For WPP to be a low-carbon and resource-efficient Group, we focus on: •• E  nergy use and climate change: building and IT energy use, business air travel and carbon offsetting •• Resource use: paper, water and waste management •• C  lients: environmental campaigns (see page 17 and our Pro bono book) and work to reduce carbon emissions in our value chain Our Group targets are: •• 1.8 tonnes of CO2e per person by 2020 – a 47% reduction from 2006 •• 25% of global floor space certified to advanced green building standards by 2020 •• 25% of electricity from renewable sources by 2020 •• 80% of paper from recycled and/or certified sources by 2020 Business value Reducing our environmental footprint also improves efficiency and reduces costs associated with energy use and travel. It enables us to comply with environmental requirements in client tender processes, contributes to employee engagement and supports our credibility as advisors to clients on sustainability communications. Sustainability impact Our most significant impact is the greenhouse gas emissions associated with our energy use and business air travel. We can have a positive impact through our client work, including pro bono support for environmental organisations. Challenges and dilemmas Decisions regarding energy contracts and waste management are often made at local level, making it harder to implement a consistent approach. Most of our 3,000 offices are leased and we need to work with hundreds of different landlords to achieve our goals. As marketing becomes more data-driven there is the potential for our carbon footprint associated with servers and data centres to grow. 56 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Environment Management approach Our Group strategy is implemented by our regional Environmental Action Teams with representatives from IT, real estate and procurement, in partnership with our companies. Progress is regularly reviewed by our Group finance director. Our companies implement environmental management systems, of which a small percentage are certified to standards such as ISO 14001. We issue annual carbon performance reports and scorecards to over 200 senior decision-makers in our businesses, enabling them to compare performance with others in the Group and to identify lower-performing offices. We conducted indepth performance reviews with financial controllers from operating companies representing over 80% of emissions in 2016. We hold regular workshops to help facilities managers use energy and carbon data to reduce their footprint. Our environmental toolkit summarises WPP policies and provides case studies and information on best practices. External frameworks GRI indicators in this section: G4-14, G4-36, G4-EC2, G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN8, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN23, G4-EN27, G4-EN30, G4-EN33 Global Compact Principles: 7, 8, 9 Performance in Progress on our KPIs in 2016 2016 1.86 tonnes of CO2e per person (target 1.8) 18% of floor space certified to advanced green building standards (target 25%) 22% of electricity from renewable sources (target 25%) Key: Improved WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 57 Our carbon footprint We aim to be a low-carbon, resource efficient group. We support urgent action to tackle global climate change and have targeted a reduction in our own carbon footprint to 1.8 tonnes per person across our locations by 2020. This diagram shows how we are progressing in some of our key markets*. Our carbon footprint varies by market reflecting factors such as our work to improve energy efficiency in our offices; our purchase of electricity from renewable sources; and the carbon intensity of national grids. UK Germany 1.32 USA 1.26 Spain 0.47 2.47 1.38 France Mexico 1.14 Nigeria Colombia 0.94 0.56 Brazil 0.79 Argentina * Top 10, BRIC, Next 11 (the Group has no 1.03 operations in Iran), CIVETS and MIST. 58 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Environment Environmental impact Carbon footprint per person (tonnes CO2e) Building energy use (% total carbon footprint) Business air travel and other (% total carbon footprint) The size of each pie chart is relative to the carbon footprint per person in each country. Russia 1.11 Greater China Turkey 8.09 Pakistan South Korea Japan 1.66 1.84 Egypt 2.31 2.37 Bangladesh India 1.80 Philippines 8.27 Vietnam 2.39 2.10 0.67 Indonesia 1.05 South Africa Australia 4.00 2.52 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 59 Our carbon strategy Our goal is to reduce carbon emissions to 1.8 tonnes of CO2e per person by 2020, a 47% reduction from 2006. Our annual reduction target is 4% and each of our operating companies has its own individual reduction target. We have selected a carbon intensity target per person, as headcount is closely linked to levels of business activity and this allows us to reflect the impact of acquisitions and disposals without needing to adjust our baseline. Our strategy focuses on: •• Office energy use: Improving building and IT energy efficiency and consolidating office space. •• Air travel: Reducing non-essential flights by promoting videoconferencing. We offset 100% of emissions from our business air travel by supporting renewable energy generation projects in fast-growing economies. •• Renewable energy: Purchasing renewable electricity for our offices where available. In 2012, we identified the savings we needed to achieve our target by 2020 for each area of our strategy. We have made significant progress in 2016 and expect to achieve our target ahead of schedule. As a result, we will be reviewing this strategy in the coming year. Carbon strategy 2012-2020 tonnes of CO2e per person Tonnes per person % 2.5 2012 carbon intensity 2.45 Building energy efficiency -0.14 -6% Investing in technology at new and existing buildings Office space consolidation -0.14 -6% Reducing space requirements in key cities 2.0 IT consolidation -0.15 -6% Moving servers to best-in-class data centres 2020 target = 1.80 Green-tariff electricity -0.17 -7% Increasing supply from 16% to 25% of total electricity use Other reductions -0.05 -2% From additional carbon reduction measures, to be identified 1.5 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2020 carbon intensity target 1.80 -26% Performance in 2016 •• Carbon footprint per person: 1.86 tonnes of CO2e, down 10% on 2015 and 45% lower than 2006. ••  arbon footprint per £million of revenue: 17.36 tonnes of CO2e, down 20% on 2015 and 62% C lower than 2006. ••  bsolute carbon footprint: Down on the previous year at 249,782 tonnes CO2e (2015: 264,774 tonnes CO2e). A Since 2006, our absolute carbon footprint has decreased by 7%, compared to a growth in reported headcount of 69% and revenue growth of 144%. The reduction in our carbon footprint this year is due to a number of factors, including: changes in carbon emissions factors for scope 2 emissions in some countries reflecting an increase in the percentage of lower-carbon and renewable energy used to power national grids; an increase in the amount of Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) that we purchase in the US, with enough RECs purchased to offset 41% of the electricity used by WPP companies in the US during 2016; improvements in our office energy efficiency and a drop in business air travel. 60 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Environment Carbon footprint in 2016 Carbon intensity 2006-2016 % tonnes of CO2e 4 45.56 50 Tonnes per £m revenue 40 Tonnes per person 3 3.39 1.86 30 2 20 1.80 1 17.36 10 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Stationary fuel combustion 3% Purchased electricity 47% Headcount intensity Business air travel 37% Target headcount intensity Other estimated impacts 13% Revenue intensity In 2016, total energy use fell by 4% year-on-year and energy use per person by 9%, largely due to improvements in office energy efficiency and consolidation of office space. Total air travel decreased by 3% year-on-year and air travel per person by 7%. This may be due to cost pressures, for example the impact of exchange rates on the cost of travel as well as an increase in the use of our videoconferencing facilities. Since 2006, our total energy consumption increased by 10%. However, energy use per person decreased by 35%. As a result, we have avoided £8.3 million in annual utility costs and 103,000 tonnes of CO2e. Total air miles increased by 37% since 2006, but air miles per person decreased by 19%, avoiding over 134 million air miles and 46,000 tonnes of CO2e annually. Decoupling emissions from business growth Index (2006 = 100) 260 240 244 220 200 180 169 160 140 120 100 93 80 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Revenue Headcount Emissions We participate in the CDP Climate Change program, a collaboration of institutional investors encouraging companies to disclose climate change risks and opportunities. We scored Aand were the leading company in our sector for our climate change strategy and reporting. The CDP scoring system changed this year so our score is not directly comparable with our score of 97B in 2015. We also take part, as a responding company, in the CDP Supply Chain program. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 61 Madrid: designing sustainable buildings The Rios Rosas building designed by BDG architecture + design, a WPP company, will be home to all our agencies in Madrid and has a number of sustainability features. The building will be operational in 2018. 7 6 2 5 3 8 4 1 Building energy use Half of WPP’s carbon footprint comes from energy used in our offices. Investing in low-carbon, energy-efficient buildings is therefore a key component of our strategy. We also aim to use space more efficiently so we can reduce the overall amount of space we occupy, and therefore the total amount of energy we consume. When we lease, purchase, fit out or renovate a building larger than 50,000 square feet, we require it to be certified to an internationally-recognised green building standard. This includes the US standard LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) and the UK standard BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method). Today, over 4.4 million square feet, 18% of our total floor space, is certified to recognised standards (2015: 16%) against our target of 25% by 2020. We have made steady progress since 2007 when 1% of our floor space was certified to such standards, and have a pipeline of major projects in cities in Europe, Asia and the Americas. 62 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Environment 1 Accessibility 5 Lighting City-centre location with both underground rail and The lights are energy-efficient LEDs which are bus stops immediately outside the building. Bike controlled through a central system. Daylight storage will be provided for people who cycle to work. sensors automatically dim the lights depending on the daylight levels. 2 Façade 6 Heating, cooling and ventilation The façade has been carefully engineered using thermal modelling to reduce heat gain and keep The central heating and cooling plant has been the building cool. selected to maximise energy efficiency. Local ventilation units have been used in the office 3 Workspace space to minimise the energy lost through the ductwork. A central building management system The workspace has been designed to facilitate both will monitor the building’s operational uses individual concentrated work and group collaborative allowing the equipment to be fine-tuned to working. The variety and availability of spaces will operate at maximum efficiency. encourage movement and enhance the potential for chance encounters between people. 7 Solar panels 4 Auditorium/conference space There are 49 solar hot water panels integrated into the roof, these will provide more than 50% of the The auditorium and conference facilities provide a building’s hot water demand. flexible presentation space to be used for formal or informal presentations or screenings. The equipment 8 Terrace garden and room set-up enables WPP in Madrid to host seminars and broadcast these to other WPP offices, Existing trees have been preserved and allowing large WPP gatherings to happen virtually. complemented with a mixture of low-maintenance landscaping designed to cope with changes in climate. Moves to certified buildings have reduced our energy use by an average of 21% at each location. Recent examples include the new London workspace for Ogilvy and MEC at Sea Containers (BREEAM Excellent) and the WPP Campus in Shanghai (LEED Gold). Offices below 50,000 square feet must either be certified to recognised green building standards (as described left) or assessed against our own scorecard. This covers five criteria: energy and carbon; water; materials and waste; travel; and health & safety. Detailed energy use data can help us improve efficiency and reduce energy use. When acquiring or retrofitting buildings, access to energy and other environmental data is one of the factors considered. We aim to integrate this into lease agreements with landlords and/or to install sub-metering. Office space consolidation includes redesigning offices to use space more efficiently and encouraging flexible working to reduce the overall number of desks needed. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 63 Well-being in our buildings We aim to design and run our offices in a way that promotes our people’s well-being, looking at factors such as indoor air quality (especially in large congested cities), thermal comfort, lighting levels, noise and acoustics. This is good for our people and can contribute to productivity. To increase our understanding of healthy buildings, we successfully tested a new methodology in 2016, the WELL Building Standard, at GTB’s new offices in Shanghai. IT energy use As part of a major transformation program to improve the efficiency of our IT infrastructure across WPP companies, we have signed a partnership with IBM. The contract was signed at the end of 2014 and includes energy and environmental targets to ensure we realise the potential carbon reduction opportunities from improving IT. In 2016, we started the complex task of migrating WPP’s server infrastructure to best-in-class external data centres and we aim to transfer up to 4,000 servers by the end of 2017. We are in the process of quantifying the environmental impact of these transfers with preliminary results available in early 2018. We will use these to optimise the migration of the remaining servers in 2018 and 2019. Our managed print program is being deployed at 35 of our largest locations globally and is expected to reduce paper use by 14% and printer energy use by 63% at these locations. Renewable energy We aim to increase our use of electricity generated from renewable sources, including green-tariff electricity contracts. We reached 22% in 2016 (2015: 21%). We reviewed green-tariff uptake at our 100 largest locations and found that, in many locations, suitable contracts are not available or electricity purchasing is controlled by the landlord. As an alternative, and to help us reach our target of 25% renewable energy, we purchase renewable energy certificates (RECs) in the US, our largest market. Each REC purchased is equivalent to purchasing 1MWh of renewable energy and promotes investment in renewable energy generation. We purchased 23,145 Green-e Energy certified RECs for 2016, working with Renewable Choice Energy, a US-based business providing clean energy products and services. Our use of renewable electricity and our RECs purchases reduces our carbon footprint by 29,941 tonnes of CO2e. Total renewable electricity purchased % breakdown by country, 2016 USA 57 UK 24 Germany 9 Italy 3 All other countries 7 64 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Environment Air travel, videoconferencing and offsetting Face-to-face meetings with clients are often essential so, while we cannot eliminate air travel, we can reduce unnecessary flights and use audio and videoconferencing to replace some face-to-face meetings. We have invested in a videoconferencing network that now incorporates over 720 units in 173 cities worldwide. With the introduction of a new conferencing system and the purchase of 68 new VC units, usage continued to grow in 2016. Our 24-hour, five-day-a-week helpdesk offers support to our people wanting to use the service. We are integrating this service into other online collaboration platforms, enabling us to extend video services to all users within the Group. Worldwide videoconferencing network Key cities London Chicago Madrid Detroit New York Barcelona San Francisco Beijing Los Angeles Shanghai Delhi Guangzhou Hong Kong Mumbai Singapore São Paulo Cape Town Sydney VC units supported by WPP’s Melbourne videoconferencing program Major air routes We offset 100% of our air travel emissions by purchasing high-quality carbon credits. We work with South Pole Group, a company that develops emission-reduction projects. In 2016, we invested £150,000 to support four renewable energy-generation projects in faster-growing economies. Together, these projects generate over 230m kWh of renewable electricity a year and support almost 600 direct jobs. Our operating companies cover the cost of the carbon credits, based on their air travel mileage, which encourages initiatives to reduce air travel. Since 2007, we have purchased and permanently retired over 1.2 million carbon credits and supported 15 projects. We focus on projects that provide both environmental benefits and support local socio-economic development, see following page for our current projects. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 65 Carbon offsetting projects 2016 Brazil China India Turkey Renewable biomass Small hydropower Wind power Geothermal power Ituiutaba Hezhou III and V Mitcon Dora II 10,000 11,266 51,179 20,000 tonnes of CO2e offset tonnes of CO2e offset tonnes of CO2e offset tonnes of CO2e offset Project Ceramic factory running Six small run-of-river 138 wind turbines across Geothermal plant on thermal energy from hydropower plants five regions in western in western Turkey agricultural waste instead in southern China India generating 161m generating 70m of native forest timber in generating 6m kWh of renewable kWh of renewable south-eastern Brazil kWh of renewable electricity annually electricity annually electricity annually Standards Verified Carbon Standard Gold Standard Verified Carbon Standard Gold Standard (VCS) (VCS) Social Carbon WPP coverage 58% of annual 100% of annual 34% of annual 48% of annual credit issuance credit issuance credit issuance credit issuance Benefits 40 workers with improved 30 direct jobs created 450 direct jobs created 117 direct jobs created working conditions Decrease in open 9,700 indirect jobs created 732 students 1,100 students involved in fireplaces in households with improved 4,200 students environmental activities (switch from burning educational facilities with improved wood for energy 20,500 cubic metres of educational facilities to hydroelectricity) native forest timber saved per year (over 10,000 trees) About carbon offsetting standards: Gold Standard – Established in 2003 and endorsed by over 80 NGOs. Used in voluntary and CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) projects. Aims to ensure that projects are both reducing emissions and providing sustainable benefits to local populations. Social Carbon Standard – Created in 2008 by the Ecologica Institute in Brazil. Assesses the social, environmental and economic performance of projects. Works in conjunction with carbon accounting standards that measure emissions reductions, such as VCS. Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) – Launched in 2006 and the most widely-used carbon accounting standard for the voluntary carbon offsetting market. Ensures that emissions reductions meet accepted quality standards and are independently verified, uniquely numbered and transparently listed in a central database. 66 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Environment Resource use and waste We aim to use resources efficiently, reduce waste and reuse and recycle where possible. Many procurement and waste management decisions are made at operating company level and we encourage our companies to use preferred supplier partners selected by WPP who offer products and services with improved environmental credentials. Paper As an office-based business, paper use is one of our most significant resource impacts and we have set a target to purchase 80% sustainably-sourced paper by 2020. This includes paper with recycled content and paper certified to recognised sustainability standards such as FSC and PEFC. We sourced 23% in 2016. During 2016, we continued working with our largest paper users, including companies purchasing paper on behalf of clients, to implement our approach. Our total paper usage in 2016 was 4,460 tonnes (2015: 4,897 tonnes). Our managed print program (see IT energy use on page 64) helps us to reduce paper use by up to 40% per location. We are working to improve the accuracy of our data in this area. Paper purchased % Paper with recycled and/or certified content 23 Other paper 77 Water We do not use significant volumes of water and, as an office-based company, water use is not a material issue for WPP. However, we recognise that water scarcity is a major challenge in some regions of the world and we aim to use water carefully. We estimate that our total water use is around 1.9 million cubic metres, equivalent to 14.8 cubic metres per person per year. This is based on data from external benchmarks and the results of a previous pilot project we ran at 11 offices in areas of water scarcity. We provide guidance for our offices, available on our intranet, on reducing water use by identifying and repairing leaks; upgrading water fixtures and fittings during renovations; and reusing rainwater and wastewater where feasible. We integrate water conservation into our property acquisition and refurbishment process, see Building energy use on pages 62 and 63. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 67 Waste Our main types of waste are electronic waste and office consumables such as paper, card, cans, plastic bottles and toner cartridges. We look for opportunities to reduce waste and increase recycling, working with landlords in our leased properties. To encourage recycling among our companies, we have identified preferred supplier partners of recycling services for paper, standard office consumables and mobile phones in all major markets. In 2016, we estimate the Group generated 10,233 tonnes of waste (2015: 8,772 tonnes) of which 60% was recycled (2015: 65%). The remaining 40% was disposed via landfill or incineration. We are working to improve our data collection on waste and recycling but have further to go to improve data quality. We recycled 6,122 tonnes of waste in 2016 (2015: 5,713 tonnes), of which 73% was paper and cardboard. Management of electronic waste is a particular priority for WPP. Our policy is that obsolete IT equipment should be refurbished and sold for reuse, or if this is not possible, be broken down for recycling. Disposal is a last resort, and must be done in compliance with local environmental regulations and data security best practice. As part of our IT Transformation program, our main contractor IBM is working to increase reuse and safe recycling of old IT equipment. Waste recycled % Recycled waste: 60% Non-recycled waste: 40% Paper and cardboard 73% Other waste 25% IT equipment 2% Our wider carbon impact As well as managing our direct greenhouse gas emissions, we can influence indirect emissions associated with our business activities – our value chain emissions. Our analysis shows there are opportunities to work with clients and supplier partners to reduce value chain emissions, for example, those connected with client media plans and other parts of our supply chain. Carbon emissions across our value chain % Advertising we place for clients 81 Goods and services we buy 15 Day-to-day activities 4 68 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Environment Our value chain footprint in the UK is around 1.2 million tonnes of CO2e. Our main sources of emissions are: •• A  dvertising we place for clients: Emissions from the physical dissemination of advertising through press, TV, radio, internet and outdoor channels. See chart below. ••  oods and services we buy: Emissions associated with the goods and services we buy from supplier partners G to create marketing campaigns for clients and to run our business. For example, emissions from travel to an advertising shoot or emissions associated with manufacturing the ICT equipment used in our offices. ••  ay-to-day activities (direct emissions): Emissions associated with running our business including office D energy use, business air travel, commuting and waste. With the exception of commuting, these emissions are covered by our current carbon strategy and target. We are developing a carbon metric for GroupM, our media investment management business, to use in its media plans, and exploring how we can work with clients to reduce the carbon footprint of media campaigns. In 2017, we are adding a carbon dashboard to our procurement spend analytics system that identifies more carbon-intensive supplier partners and categories of spend. This will help procurement teams consider carbon impacts in their decision-making. The carbon impact of the advertising we place for clients Breakdown of Key phases in the dissemination of advertising carbon emissions Producing the Delivering Viewing Disposing the by phase for each advertising medium the advertisement the advertisement advertising medium media channel (%) 12% 19% Press 69% <1% TV & Radio 99% Internet – display 56% 44% 17% Internet – search 83% 2% 12% Outdoor 86% What we’ve included in our analysis: Emissions from the manufacturing and printing Emissions from the energy used to view of paper used for newspaper and billboard advertisements. and/or listen to the advertisement on a TV/radio, smartphone, tablet or computer. Emissions from the energy used to transmit TV and radio advertisments, to transfer advertisement data over the internet, Emissions from the disposal of newspaper and to deliver newspaper and billboard advertisements. and billboard advertisements. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 69 Carbon emissions statement 2016 This data covers the year ended 31 December 2016 in line with the Group’s financial reporting period. Emissions breakdown (in tonnes CO2e) Base year Emission source 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2006 Scope 1 Natural gas combustion 6,617 6,677 7,203 8,757 7,584 7,486 1,946 Heating oil combustion 1,234 1,458 2,546 2,548 2,256 2,228 682 Total scope 1 emissions 7,851 8,135 9,748 11,305 9,840 9,714 2,628 Scope 2 Total purchased electricity at grid average intensity (gross) 146,846 153,798 159,540 157,471 164,212 152,968 149,728 Less purchases of renewable electricity (see note 6) 29,941 30,580 21,192 21,299 23,765 22,572 0 Total scope 2 emissions (net) 116,905 123,218 138,348 136,171 140,446 130,396 149,728 Scope 3 Business air travel 92,445 98,885 96,590 95,879 96,080 100,961 81,714 Other estimated scope 3 emissions (see note 4) 32,581 34,536 36,703 36,503 36,955 36,161 35,111 Total scope 3 emissions 125,026 133,421 133,293 132,382 133,034 137,121 116,825 Total CO2e emissions (net) 249,782 264,774 281,389 279,859 283,321 277,231 269,181 Total CO2e emissions (gross) 279,723 295,354 302,581 301,158 307,086 299,803 269,181 Carbon intensity (in tonnes CO2e) Base year Intensity metric 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2006 Tonnes per person (net) 1.86 2.07 2.28 2.35 2.45 2.44 3.39 Percentage change from 2006 -45% -39% -33% -31% -28% -28% – Tonnes per £m of revenue (net) 17.36 21.64 24.41 25.40 27.31 27.66 45.56 Percentage change from 2006 -62% -53% -46% -44% -40% -39% – Office energy use (in megawatt hours) Base year Energy type 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2006 Direct energy use (natural gas and heating oil) 37,174 38,287 44,847 52,532 45,673 45,090 12,099 Indirect energy use (purchased electricity) 301,863 315,731 314,773 328,374 323,582 307,245 295,396 Total energy use 339,037 354,018 359,620 380,906 369,255 352,335 307,495 % of electricity from renewable sources 22% 21% 14% 15% 16% 16% – 70 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Environment Notes to carbon emissions statement 2016 1. Reporting standard 6. Emission factors Our carbon emissions statement 2016 has been prepared CO2e emissions have been calculated on the basis of in accordance with the World Resource Institute (WRI) measured or estimated energy use, fuel use and miles and World Business Council for Sustainable Development travelled, multiplied by the relevant carbon emission factors. (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting In 2016, we updated our emission factors for scope 2 and and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (the GHG scope 3 emissions, and our data is based on the following Protocol). emissions factors: Emission scope Emission factors used 2. Greenhouse gases Scope 1 (fuel IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse All greenhouse gases emissions figures are in metric tonnes used to heat Gas Inventories (using global warming potentials WPP premises) from the 2007 IPCC Fourth Assessment Report). of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e). They include three Scope 2 – For the US: US Environmental Protection of the six greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – (purchased Agency eGRID 2014 (released in August 2016) carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide electricity) – For the UK: UK Department for Environment, (N2O). Per fluorocarbons (PFCs), hydro fluorocarbons Food & Rural Affairs (Defra), GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2016) (HFCs) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions have – For all other countries: International Energy been omitted from our reporting as they are not a material Agency, CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, source of greenhouse gases for WPP. 2016 Edition Scope 3 UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural (business air Affairs (Defra), GHG Conversion Factors for 3. Organisational boundary travel) Company Reporting (2016). Emissions data is included for all operations for which WPP and its subsidiaries have operational control. This covers When calculating our carbon footprint, we rate purchased 134,000 people. Associate companies are excluded. renewable electricity as zero emissions to account for WPP’s use of renewable electricity. We follow the market-based 4. Operational boundary method of the revised version of the GHG Protocol Scope 2 We include the following emissions in our reporting: Guidance. For full transparency, we also disclose total electricity purchased at grid average carbon intensity ••  irect emissions (scope 1): Fuel used to heat WPP D according to the location-based method of the Guidance premises (combustion of natural gas and heating oil). mentioned above. •• I ndirect emissions (scope 2): All purchased electricity, including electricity purchased at grid average carbon 7. Data collection methodology intensity, purchased heat and steam, and renewable Data used to calculate CO2e emissions is collected quarterly electricity purchased under specific contractual through WPP’s financial reporting system, and includes some instruments, such as green-tariff contracts with supplier estimated data (e.g. in some locations electricity usage is partners and energy attribute certificates (e.g. renewable estimated based on headcount or floor space). In 2016, our energy certificates in the US or guarantees of origin in data covered 98% of our operations by headcount. The the EU). remaining 2% was extrapolated based on the Group’s total headcount at year-end. ••  ther indirect emissions (scope 3): Business air travel O and an estimate for other scope 3 emissions that we 8. External assurance do not currently measure on a global basis, including Our carbon data is reviewed by Bureau Veritas, an emissions from leased cars, taxis and couriers. This independent assurance provider. Following its review estimate is an additional 15% that we add to our of our 2015 data, Bureau Veritas made a number of carbon footprint and is shown under ‘other estimated recommendations for improving our approach. We scope 3 emissions’. have implemented many of these in our 2016 reporting process. This includes enhancements to our sustainability 5. Geographic scope data collection system to facilitate the ease and accuracy Our CO2e emissions data covers our worldwide operations. of data submission for our companies. See the Independent Verification Statement, page 105. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 71 Supply chain We spend £6 billion on goods and services each year1, sourcing from thousands of supplier partners worldwide. We aim to source responsibly, selecting supplier partners who meet high standards in areas such as ethical conduct, human rights, workplace standards and environmental management. This reduces risks for WPP and our clients. Fast read Our goal We aim to build a responsible and sustainable supply chain by: •• Setting clear standards for supplier partners •• Integrating sustainability criteria into supplier selection •• Monitoring risks in priority areas of our supply chain •• W  orking with supplier partners to drive social and environmental change, prioritising areas most relevant to our business Business value By improving oversight of our supply chain we can identify opportunities to: consolidate spend and reduce costs; protect our reputation and that of our clients; and meet the requirements of the growing number of client tender processes that include supply chain management criteria. Sustainability impact By working with supplier partners we can have a positive impact on human rights and environmental protection beyond our business. Challenges and dilemmas We have a large supply chain. We work with thousands of supplier partners, with many buying decisions made at operating company level. This makes it more challenging to ensure consistent standards. Our current approach focuses on our tier-one supplier partners. However, higher-risk practices may be more likely to occur further down the supply chain where we have limited influence. 1 Not including media space purchased on behalf of clients. 72 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Supply chain Management approach Our Group Procurement Leadership Team (PLT) is responsible for managing sustainability in our supply chain. All PLT members have sustainability included in their performance objectives. The PLT oversees procurement teams at the WPP parent company level and works with out operating companies to implement our sustainability requirements and communicates on sustainability through quarterly reporting, team meetings and regular newsletters. External frameworks GRI indicators in this section: G4-12, G4-36, G4-58, G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-HR1, G4-HR6, G4-HR10 Global Compact Principles: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 Progress on our KPIs in 2016 Performance in 2016 236 supplier partners covered by our supply chain risk program £236 million annual spend covered by our supply chain risk program Key: Improved WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 73 About our supply chain Around half of our spend is with WPP preferred supplier partners who provide goods and services to our companies, such as IT, travel, telecommunications, professional services and facilities. Many of these contracts are negotiated centrally. The other half of our spend is primarily made up of goods and services used in client work, such as advertising production, market research operations and other marketing services. These contracts are usually smaller and negotiated by budget holders within our companies. To track spend with supplier partners and monitor performance, we have implemented an online analytics system that enables us to monitor 70% of our total spend with supplier partners across 12 of our largest markets. The large numbers of supplier partners we work with and the diversified nature of procurement within WPP means we have to prioritise our efforts. We currently focus on tier-one supplier partners, those with whom we have a direct commercial relationship. Higher-risk practices may be more likely to occur further down the supply chain, for example among raw material suppliers. We do not have a direct commercial relationship with these suppliers; however, by working with our tier-one supplier partners and requiring them to implement their own supply chain management programs, we can influence standards further down the supply chain. Our standards for supplier partners Our supplier standards are set out in our Code of Business Conduct – Supplier Version. This explains how our own Code should be applied by companies in our supply chain. It includes requirements relating to labour practices (such as wages, anti-harassment and discrimination and health & safety), human rights (including no child, forced or bonded labour), social impacts (such as anti-bribery and corruption) as well as other sustainability issues. Our procurement policy is also aligned with the WPP Data Code of Conduct, our data protection and privacy principles (pages 34 and 35), our Sustainability Policy (pages 120 and 121), and our Human Rights Policy Statement (pages 123 and 124). Our key policies and information about our approach are available to supplier partners and prospective suppliers and the public on our website, wpp.com/sustainability. The Code of Business Conduct – Supplier Version is also available on our procurement website – wpp.com/wpp/about/how-we-buy. Our supplier partners have access to a whistleblowing mechanism, the WPP Right to Speak helpline, with contact details provided on our website at www.wpp.com/wpp/contact/. See page 28. 74 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Supply chain Assessing modern slavery risks in our supply chain The UK’s Modern Slavery Act now requires companies to explain their approach to preventing slavery in their operations and supply chain. Read page 31 for a summary of our approach. We updated our procurement policy in 2016 to ensure it is aligned with our Human Rights Policy Statement and the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act. As part of our due diligence processes we have assessed the risk of modern slavery for WPP amongst our direct workforce, whereby we concluded the risk to be very low. We also extended our due diligence exercise to assess the risk of modern slavery amongst our preferred supplier partners, across nine categories of spend, with whom we have a direct contractual relationship. To ascertain the risk of modern slavery among these supplier partners, we evaluated their category risk in relation to category spend. Almost 90% of our spend with preferred supplier partners is in mediumor low-risk categories such as HR and professional services. We identified facilities as a high risk category, accounting for 11% of our spend. For the country risk evaluation we referred to a third party, Maplecroft. Most of our spend with preferred supplier partners (94%) is in countries deemed mediumor low-risk according to Maplecroft’s Modern Slavery Risk Index. Preferred supplier partner spend by category risk % Facilities Professional services Low risk 34% Medium risk 55% IT HR High risk 11% Research operations Telecommunications Travel & entertainment Advertising & marketing services Production Preferred supplier partner spend by country risk % Low risk: 22% Medium risk: 72% High risk 4% Extreme risk 2% *Based on Maplecroft Modern Slavery Index. In addition, we also assessed another category of spend – promotional goods – which was found to be high-risk both in terms of category and country. Here, we not only assessed our preferred supplier partners but also additional suppliers where the relationship is managed by our companies. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 75 How we select supplier partners We evaluate potential new supplier partners on factors such as assurance of supply, quality, service, cost, innovation and sustainability. Our sustainability criteria cover six areas: policy; senior responsibility; materiality and identification of key issues; reporting; supply chain; and anti-bribery and corruption. We do not have a standard weighting for sustainability criteria, which varies from supplier to supplier. All WPP companies and Group buyers are required to take the following steps when selecting supplier partners: •• C onduct due diligence to assess whether supplier partners pose a potential financial or reputational risk to WPP or its clients. •• A ssess operational, commercial and sustainability criteria to determine whether supplier partners are fit for purpose. •• Apply our anti-bribery and corruption policies. •• H ave supplier partners read and sign the supplier version of the WPP Code of Business Conduct, confirming that they will comply with our standards. •• Include a right-to-audit clause in purchase orders where appropriate. How we monitor risks We have identified two areas of our supply chain where breaches of our Code could have a potentially significant impact on WPP’s reputation or that of our clients. These are: •• A dvertising production: this part of our supply chain involves many small companies and costs for these services are typically passed onto clients. This category includes suppliers of promotional goods. •• D ata collection: a higher-risk area because of the importance of protecting consumer data and the many legal and contractual requirements relating to data security and privacy. We are engaging with higher-risk supplier partners in these areas. A supplier may represent a potentially higher risk due to factors such as spend, the type and volume of goods or services we buy, the supplier’s strategic value to WPP or their location. See chart on page 77. Selected supplier partners are asked to complete a self-assessment questionnaire, provided by Sedex, the not-forprofit membership organisation which works to share sustainability data across supply chains. It covers four areas: employment practices; health and safety; business ethics; and environmental management. Responses are analysed using the Sedex risk tool, enabling us to assess the level of potential sustainability risk associated with each supplier. Over the last four years (2013-2016) we have assessed 236 advertising production and data collection supplier partners working with our companies in China, the UK and the US. This covers £236 million in annual spend, or approximately 15% of our total spend on advertising production and data collection. 76 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Supply chain Supplier risk monitoring We follow three key steps: Map key risks at Two key FTSE4Good country and/or categories countries of category level of advertising concern and production and other country focusing on: data collection risk analysis Select supplier • Social and environmental risks identified in Step 1 partners based • Location of supplier and/or category of on the following goods/services • Spend and/or volume of goods/services criteria: • Strategic value to WPP companies Assess selected Read and sign our Code Attend training supplier partners of Business Conduct workshops who are required to: Complete a self-assessment Be audited if questionnaire higher-risk Advertising production supplier partners Since 2013, we have assessed 213 supplier partners, the majority of which carry a medium sustainability risk as defined by Sedex. Based on the issues identified during this process, we hold supplier meetings and workshops and train supplier partners on the practical steps they can take to align with our Code of Business Conduct. In 2016, Maxx Marketing – an Ogilvy company specialised in the sourcing of promotional goods – joined our Sedex program and is using the platform to engage with key tier 1 supplier partners mostly in Asia. In the US, we are conducting audits for five higher-risk supplier partners and will work with these supplier partners to improve their social and environmental performance and correct issues identified during the audits. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 77 Data collection supplier partners Starting in 2014, we carried out a pilot, assessing 23 supplier partners that provide and/or manage data for Kantar, KBM and Xaxis. In addition to signing our Code of Business Conduct – Supplier Version and completing the Sedex questionnaire, these supplier partners were asked to read and sign the WPP Data Code of Conduct and complete a WPP-designed data security and privacy survey. Areas covered include supplier standards for collection, use, storage and transfer of data, physical security measures, testing, access controls and data security accreditations and certifications. This methodology is based on the WPP Data Health Checker (see page 35 for more information). We have worked with The Data Alliance, our horizontal team supporting our data businesses, on integrating key elements of this approach into the way we manage data collection supplier partners. Future engagement with data supplier partners will take place mainly via our operating companies. During 2016, our Group procurement team began working with the procurement team at Kantar, our data investment management group, to embed our standards in their global procurement program. We are reviewing seven categories of supplier starting with suppliers of translation services and survey incentives, used to increase consumer survey response rates. Read more about our approach to Privacy and our Data Code of Conduct on pages 34 and 35. Suppliers and spend covered by our supply chain risk program £236m 300 250 Number of supplier partners £200m 250 Number of supplier £160m 200 partners 200 Spend £m Spend £m 150 150 200 218 236 100 100 50 50 0 0 2014 2015 2016 78 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Supply chain Embedding sustainable procurement To broaden our efforts and encourage accountability at a regional and category level, we have established social and environmental action plans for each Group procurement team and Kantar’s procurement team for implementation in 2017. These action plans, which are specific to each team, have three components: 1. C ategory initiatives: Integrate sustainability objectives in the daily management of up to three categories of products and/or services. Initial examples include cleaning services in the UK and local couriers in Brazil. 2. T raining: All team members to receive online training on sustainability (including on the UK Modern Slavery Act). This will be completed in 2017. 3. R isk monitoring: Map key social and environmental risks for their categories, countries and regions as well as helping to implement Group initiatives in the areas of advertising production and data collection. We work with supplier partners to reduce the environmental impact of our procurement, to embed ethical standards and to increase diversity in our supply chain. This includes: •• L iving wage: We support the principle of the living wage, see page 52. Our UK companies have been mandated to pay the voluntary living wage set by the Living Wage Foundation for on-site contractors such as cleaning, security and catering staff by the end of the first quarter of 2017. We have issued guidance to our companies on the Responsible Procurement of Cleaning Services. •• D iversity: We incorporate diverse supplier partners in our supply chain, including small businesses and those owned by women and minorities. This enables us to comply with client requirements in markets such as the US, and can boost innovation and creativity. •• G reen goods and services: We have identified preferred supplier partners for our operating companies to use, which provide goods and services with better environmental credentials for energy, paper and waste management. See page 67. •• C arbon emissions: We have estimated the carbon emissions of our supply chain and work with supplier partners to target reductions in key areas. See pages 68 and 69. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 79 Social investment Within WPP and our operating companies, we have the expertise and resources to help charities and NGOs raise awareness of social issues and realise their aims. Through our pro bono work we offer organisations working in areas such as health, education and human rights the benefits of our professional communications services for little or no fee. Fast read Our goal We aim to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals and their ambition to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all through: •• Pro bono work, creative services provided for little or no fee •• Negotiating free media space for charity campaigns •• Charitable donations •• Volunteering and fundraising Business value The benefits of pro bono work flow both ways. As we support the vital work of charities and NGOs, we access exciting creative opportunities for our people, supporting their professional development. As part of their pro bono work, our companies produce many award-winning campaigns, which enhances their creative reputation. Companies with sustainability credentials have a higher reputation among the workforce – actual and prospective – and our social investment helps motivate our people. Sustainability impact By contributing to the success of charities and NGOs, we help to ensure that they can achieve their aims in a sustainable, long-term way. Our pro bono work is especially valuable because campaigns and awareness raising are key tools in enabling them to achieve their aims – and our input is often worth more than an equivalent cash donation. 80 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Social investment Challenges and dilemmas Social investment is carried out at a local level by our operating companies. As the parent company, WPP has limited control over the amount of time and resources donated. It is hard to measure the impact of our social investment, particularly as we work with so many different charity partners across our many locations. Management approach Our social investment falls within the broad themes of arts, education, environment, health, human rights and local community. Individual projects are decided by our local operating companies, but WPP, the parent company, helps coordinate some pro bono initiatives involving multiple WPP companies. External frameworks GRI indicators in this section: G4-22 Global Compact Principles: 1, 8 Progress on our KPIs in 2016 Performance in 2016 £12.5m in pro bono work £7.0m in charitable donations £19.5m total social investment, equivalent to 1.03% of reported profit before tax £22.8m worth of free media space negotiated by WPP companies £42.3m total social contribution, equivalent to 2.23% of reported profit before tax Key: Improved Decreased WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 81 Performance in 2016 In 2016, our social investment amounted to £19.5 million (2015: £19.4 million), equivalent to 1.03% of reported profits before tax (2015: 1.3%). Cash donations to charities stood at £7.0 million and the worth of pro bono work – based on fees the organisations would have paid for our work if we had charged commercially – at £12.5 million. The value of our social investment (pro bono work and charitable donations) increased by 0.5% on the previous year. Our companies also negotiate free media space for charity campaigns, enabling them to reach a wide audience. This free media space was worth £22.8 million in 2016 (2015: £20.8 million) bringing our total social contribution to £42.3 million (2015: £40.2 million). This is equivalent to 2.23% of reported profit before tax. We identified an error in our exchange rate calculation for free media space in 2015 and as a result have restated our data for 2015. The impact of our social investment Our support helps NGOs and charities to carry out important work in areas such as improving health and education, and protecting human rights. We have conducted research to understand the value of this impact to society. This shows that our pro bono work and charitable donations generated social benefits worth around £156 million in 2016, for example, by helping to improve health and well-being in communities. Read more on page 101. Pro bono contributions Charitable contributions Free media space £m £m £m 18 7 30 16 6 25 14 5 12 20 10 4 17.0 5.9 7.0 15 8 14.7 3 5.1 4.9 25.1 13.5 12.5 4.8 22.8 6 11.1 10 19.8 20.8 2 4 14.3 1 5 2 0 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 WPP companies undertook pro bono WPP companies made cash donations WPP media agencies negotiated media work worth £12.5 million in 2016. worth £7.0 million in 2016. space worth £22.8 million in 2016. Pro bono work by sector Charitable donations by sector Total social contribution % % £m 27.7 30.5 39.4 40.2 42.3 50 45 40 35 25.1 30 20.8 22.8 19.8 25 14.3 20 4.8 15 4.9 5.9 7.0 5.1 10 17.0 11.1 14.7 13.5 12.5 5 0 Arts 8 Arts 4 12 13 14 15 16 Education 21 Education 21 Free media space Environment 7 Environment 1 Charitable contributions Health 25 Health 20 Pro bono contributions Human rights 6 Human rights 8 Local community 33 Local community 46 82 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Social investment Volunteering and fundraising We encourage our people to take part in the work of local charities and community organisations and help raise funds for them. This also benefits our business by improving team working and engagement with our people. Around 49% of our companies have a formal volunteering policy and 56% organise volunteering activities for their people. Recent examples include: WPP company: Kinetic UK WPP company: Sentrix Health WPP company: Kantar Cause: Church Housing Trust Cause: National Brain Tumour Cause: Unicef Society The Church Housing Trust (CHT) provides modest grants to homeless Sentrix Health created an internal Kantar established the Brighter Futures people to help them get their lives back campaign to encourage people fundraising program for Unicef across on track. In 2016, Kinetic UK raised to participate in the NYC Brain all of its operating businesses in 2010. over £70,000 for the charity through Tumour Walk, in support of the Through this partnership, Kantar volunteering initiatives. Around National Brain Tumour Society. is helping to protect children in £20,000 of that money is being used A series of posters were developed Bangladesh, Bolivia, Malawi and to provide IT skills to help homeless by creative teams featuring artistic Mauritania from violence, exploitation people apply for jobs. interpretations of the left and right and disease. In 2016, Kantar raised sides of the brain. The initiative was over $348,646 for Unicef, of which inspired by the experience of a Sentrix $42,000 was for emergency donations employee whose father received a following Hurricane Matthew and diagnosis of stage 4 glioblastoma the Ecuador earthquake. in 2013 and passed away just over a year later, largely because of a lack of effective treatment options. Sentrix raised $3,300 for the organisation and the campaign took bronze at PM360 Pharma Choice Awards. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 83 Finding Common Ground for the Global Goals The goal of Common Ground – a collaboration between the six largest advertising and marketing groups – is to harness the power of communication to help tackle global sustainability challenges. Launched in June 2016 at the Cannes Lions Festival, with Ban Ki-moon, then UN Secretary-General, this new partnership in support of the UN Global Goals, sees the six companies set aside competitive differences to advance the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Each company has selected one of the Global Goals as their initial priority. WPP has chosen gender equality and has teamed up with UN Women. Gender equality is important in its own right and has knock-on benefits for tackling poverty and improving education and economic growth. Havas is focusing on climate change, IPG on safe water, Publicis on food, Dentsu on health and Omnicom on education. Many WPP companies are involved in Common Ground, providing pro bono communications services on a wide range of projects. Some projects, like #techmums, featured below, are concerned with empowering women through access to technology. Other projects are aimed at tackling stereotypes in the media and online, connecting women with smartphone technology in Uganda, making public environments safer and preventing violence against women. The six groups will report on their progress across the Common Ground projects at the Cannes Lions Festival 2017. Some of the initial projects involving WPP companies include: 84 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Social investment Opening doors with #techmums Since 2012, the UK charity #techmums has been offering a five-week course free of charge to mothers with no prior IT experience. The course covers a range of subjects from online safety to basic coding, and helps open doors to jobs and further education. Now, with support from WPP and Capgemini, the charity will be expanding its offering making its training available for free, online. Three WPP companies, Addison Group, Cognifide and Hogarth are helping to develop a brand identity, a marketing strategy and strong content. Dr Sue Black OBE, who founded the charity, aims to create one million #techmums across the globe by 2020. Rewriting the Code #RewritingTheCode aims to raise awareness of the obvious – and less obvious – attitudes that prevent girls and women around the world from achieving their full potential. The campaign, launched by global children’s charity Theirworld on International Women’s Day, was created by WPP company The Partners, with support from sister companies Kantar Added Value, Kantar Millward Brown, MEC and VML. #RewritingTheCode questions gender stereotypes and encourages the audience to consider the cultural codes that hide beneath the surface of our daily lives, shaping our experiences and holding back women and girls. “The aim of the #RewritingTheCode campaign is to expose the hidden codes and values that shape the world around us, and ask questions such as: ‘Why don’t girls around the world have equal access to education? Why don’t women have equal pay in the workplace?’ We want a future where no girl is left out of the classroom, the boardroom or the conversation. Working with The Partners and its sister WPP agencies gives us the chance to get the campaign seen and heard by a far greater number of people and make an emotional connection that results in real actions that help children around the world.” Sarah Brown Founder and president, Theirworld WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 85 Pro bono work by WPP data, PR and media companies Our research, PR and media companies around the world offer pro bono services to organisations working in areas such as health, education, human rights, community, the environment and the arts. The range of our activities is wide: see the selection of examples from 2016 right. Further examples of our pro bono work are published on our website Campaign: Campaign: – www.wpp.com/sustainability. Don’t Label G(IRLS)20 Summit Selected pro bono campaigns by WPP company: WPP company: our advertising agencies and our Mindshare Denmark Burson-Marsteller EMEA branding, direct marketing and Client: Fair Welcome Client: G(IRLS)20 digital companies are published in our Pro bono book, available Mindshare Denmark worked with G(IRLS)20 encourages G20 leaders at www.wpp.com/probono/2016/. the human rights charity Fair Welcome to recognise the female labour force to challenge stereotypes. They created as a key to economic growth. Bursona browser plug-in that changes Marsteller EMEA supported the discriminating words online to neutral G(IRLS20) Summit 2016 as media ones. This allows online sources of and communications partner, creating information to be objective, helping awareness around the empowerment people form their own opinions. of girls and women. Results: Results: ★★12.5m impressions ★★4m people reached ★★55,600 downloads of the ★★Widespread international plug-in, removing over media coverage 200m discriminating words Awards: ★★Global Cristal Awards 2016: Gold ★★Creative Circle Awards 2016: Silver ★★Global Epica Awards 2016: Bronze ★★Danish Marketing Association: Gold Video: wpp.com/dontlabel 86 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Social investment Campaign: Campaign: Campaign: #TakeOffTheTape I Am a Refugee Real Time Donations WPP company: WPP company: WPP company: MEC Manchester Coley Porter Bell Kinetic Germany Client: MIND Client: JCWI Client: Diakonia MIND enlisted the help of MEC Coley Porter Bell teamed up with In response to the refugee crisis Manchester to help tackle the stigma the Joint Council for the Welfare of many Germans donated generously surrounding mental health conditions. Immigrants (JCWI) to encourage a to Diakonia, a local charity. However, The team developed a digital campaign positive narrative around the impact many of the donations were either to show young people how important of refugees on UK culture at a time of unusable or not required when they it is to discuss mental health issues heightened sensitivity. Inspiration came arrived. To encourage people to donate before symptoms exacerbate. A series from the iconic blue English Heritage in a better way Kinetic created the first of campaign assets were created plaques which recognise historically real-time donation drive that told showing people how to get involved important people in Britain. They donors exactly what was needed and and encouraging social influencers erected plaques featuring influential when. Data was collected by on-theto join the movement. refugees who have settled and ground social workers and shared via contributed to life in the UK. They 160 live billboards reaching hundreds Results: also created a website highlighting of thousands of people. ★★42.5m twitter impressions the growing refugee crisis, sharing stories of refugees and calling for Results: Awards: ★★65% increase in donations peoples support. ★★2016 MPA Awards: Best Digital ★★78% increase in brand Agency Campaign, Big Bang Result: awareness and Best in Class ★★Tenfold increase in tweets including #iamarefugee Awards: Video: ★★Outdoor Advertising Awards: wpp.com/takeoffthetape over four months Gold Video: wpp.com/iamarefugee ★★Cristal Awards 2016: Gold Video: wpp.com/realtimedonations WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 87 WPP the parent company Our social investment is largely determined at local level where our operating companies are well placed to identify where our contributions can play a significant role. But WPP, the parent company, also makes donations to organisations working in the areas of education, the arts and young people. Our senior executives also act as communications advisors to many NGOs and non-profits. WPP, the parent company, also provides pro bono support directly to a number of charities. In 2016, these included: •• Academy of St Martin in the Fields •• Pearson Degree •• Education and Employers Taskforce/Inspiring the Future •• Place2Be •• FIA Foundation/Road Safety •• Prince’s Foundation •• Heads Together •• Rhodes Trust •• Icould •• Royal College of Music •• In Kind Direct •• St George’s Society (New York) •• Invictus Games •• Teach First •• JPO •• United Westminster Foundation •• Lifebox •• VCM Foundation •• Movement to Work •• WELL •• National Deaf Children’s Society •• RAF 100th Anniversary/Appeal 2018 WPP India CSR Foundation India is one of the world’s fastest-growing economies and an important market for WPP, but the country faces many social challenges and poverty is a major barrier to education for many children. We established the WPP India CSR Foundation in 2015, with a vision to “enable children and youth from vulnerable and marginalised communities to achieve their full potential through holistic child development with a focus on education, life skills and health”. The Foundation is investing £3 million to reach 10,000 children aged 11-18 over three years, with a focus on supporting education and vocational training. So far, 8,000 children from vulnerable communities across Mumbai and Greater Delhi have been reached through a range of interventions. These include increasing access to technology in schools, e-learning programs, upgrading school sanitary facilities and investing in a vocational centre for teaching technical skills. During 2017, the Foundation aims to work with schools to introduce computers into classrooms and enable more people from WPP companies in India to get involved as volunteers. 88 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Social investment A SELECTION OF Afrika Tikkun • Cape Town Center • Leukemia & Lymphoma Society ORGANISATIONS • Smile Train • Unhomeless Kids • United Way Adopt • Habitat for Humanity WPP COMPANIES • Do Good and Do More • The Tea Gardens • ASPCA • Off the Street Club • SUPPORTED Breakthrough.org • Daily Bread Food Bank • Everybody Wins! • Fund a IN 2016: Family • New York Cares • The Salvation Army • SOS Kinderdörfer • Garrahan Hospital • National Park Foundation • SAGE • Hole In The Wall Gang Camp • New Alternatives for Children • High Water Women • American Heart Association • Atlanta Humane Society • Can Jam-ThinkLA • Project Open Hand • The Wellspring Charity Foundation • LiftUp Atlanta • Meals on Wheels • Angel Tree Program, Covenant House: Helping Homeless Children & Youth • Portland Homeless Family Solutions • Oregon Food Bank • American Kidney Fund • Cardz for Kidz • RUOK? • Chicago Food Depository • Bowery Mission • Nelson Mandela Foundation • Unicef • Willing Hearts • The Lost Dogs’ Home Melbourne • Nourish Foodbank • Encore Community Services • Repack in Hunts Point • Holy Apostle Soup Kitchen • St. Clements Food Pantry • Community Kitchen of West Harlem • Gay Men’s Health Crisis • Little Sisters of the Assumption Family • Grand Central Neighborhood Social Services • American Red Cross • Project Sunshine • Sing for Hope • Career Gear • Big Brothers Big Sisters • Grand Street Settlement • Manhattan Child & Family Center • VISIONS • Harley House • Animal Rescue Coalition • Jewish Lifecare • Sean Casey Animal Rescue • Yorkshire Cancer Research • Denver Rescue Mission • Toys for Tots • Feeding Tampa Bay • Dubai Centre for Special Needs • Hands to Help Uganda • Knitting for Charity • Making a Difference Foundation • Sacred Heart Mission • Children’s Home Portland • Gift of Light • Shoebox Project, Mother’s Choice • Children in Need for Care • ELA Foundation • Build The Future Foundation • Comitato Letizia Verga • Red Door Shelter • Ottawa Community Housing • Dare to Care • Macmillan Cancer Support • Make-AWish Foundation • Haribon Foundation • United Way • New York Cares Coat Drive • Save the Children • Caritas Frankfurt • Hug a Baby • Rebuilding Together New York • Race Against Dementia • National Park Service • Hope Pick-Up • Ad Relief • Singapore Special Olympic Flag • New York Cares • Camp Ooch • Feed the Homeless • Food Centre Drive Bronx • MicroLoan Foundation • Community Kitchen • James J. Peters VA Medical Center • Gallop NYC-Therapeutic Horsemanship • Head Start • APEX for Youth • Blind and Visually Impaired • Hartley House • Senior Breakfasts • Animal Haven • Foodcycle • The Roby Charity • Operations Backpack • Futureversity • Scope • Publicidar Foundation • Anti-Cruelty Society of Chicago • Cancer Council • RSPCA • Samaritan’s Purse UK • CARE International • City Harvest • Clean City Together Toronto • Red Door Shelter • Caritas Frankfurt • American Cancer Society • Run For Charity • Haribon Foundation • Bethanien Kinderdorf • Acton Homeless Concern • Urban Roots • Project Onward • Bideawee • North Texas Food Bank • Muscular Dystrophy Association WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 89 Governance & management WPP is a large group with over 3,000 offices in 112 countries and we operate in a decentralised way, with many decisions made at operating company level. We aim to achieve consistently-high standards on sustainability across the Group and we provide a clear framework for our companies through our Group policies, including our Code of Business Conduct, Sustainability Policy, Data Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy Statement. Roles and responsibilities Paul Richardson, WPP’s Group finance director, is the Board director responsible for sustainability. He chairs our Sustainability Committee made up of senior representatives from Group functions, which reviews progress on key sustainability issues. Our central sustainability function develops strategy and coordinates data collection. It communicates on sustainability matters on behalf of the Group and works with Group functions (such as our talent team, legal, real estate, IT and procurement). The head of sustainability reports directly to the Group finance director. Strategic direction and policy frameworks for sustainability are established at Group level with implementation devolved to our companies. During 2016, we appointed two sustainability advisors centrally to support our operating companies on sustainability, build capacity and to audit compliance with the WPP Code of Business Conduct, Sustainability Policy and Human Rights Policy Statement. During 2017, we will launch a sustainability self-assessment questionnaire to all WPP offices to help us identify gaps in implementation focusing on governance, employment practices, environment and supply chain. The sustainability advisors will use the results of the assessment to identify gaps, prioritise companies for further engagement including on-site assessments and training and promote continual improvement. We track progress against our social and environmental performance indicators. Data is collected quarterly through our Group financial reporting system. Our carbon and people data is verified by Bureau Veritas, an independent assurance provider. 90 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Governance & management How we manage sustainability issues Parent company The parent company is responsible for setting strategy, policy principles WPP BOARD and guidance for Group finance Group CEO the operating director companies, and public reporting. FUNCTIONS Works with other Group functions Group – Communications sustainability – Compliance & Sustainability Legal Committee function – Finance – HR – IT – Procurement – Real estate Sustainability Sustainability issues auditors are included in the Brand Check process. Operating companies implement Group policies and Company – Communications – HR CEOs functions – Compliance & – IT guidance, report to Legal – Procurement the parent company – Finance – Real estate on progress and set more detailed/ relevant policies. Operating companies WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 91 Stakeholder engagement and materiality We interact with a wide range of stakeholders in the course of doing business and benefit from their views and insights. Our most important stakeholder groups are clients, investors and our people. Stakeholder feedback helps us to identify the priority sustainability issues for our business and to manage these effectively. We carried out a materiality assessment in 2014 and we updated this during 2016 through research with external stakeholders and senior people. The findings are summarised on page 12. We engaged with investors, rating agencies and benchmarking organisations on sustainability during 2016 including CDP, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, ET Carbon Index Research, La Financière de l’Echiquier, FTSE4Good, Generali Investments, Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index, Institute of Business Ethics, MSCI, STOXX Global ESG Leaders, Sustainalyitics, Trillium Asset Management and Vigeo. To raise investor awareness of our activities, we submit the Sustainability section of our Annual Report for share owner voting at our AGM. We are included in the FTSE4Good Index. We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and received a score of Ain 2016. Corporate governance The WPP Board of Directors is dedicated to the principles of corporate governance defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code. It also upholds our commitment to complying with the laws, regulations and guidelines that apply in the countries where we operate, such as the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, the NASDAQ rules and their related regulations. We seek to respect the guidelines issued by institutional investors and their representative bodies, wherever this is practicable. WPP operates a system of internal control, which is maintained and reviewed in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC guidance on risk management and internal control, as well as the relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Assessing and managing our risks The Board, with support from the Audit Committee, has overall responsibility for the system – internal control and risk management in the Group. Social, environmental and ethical risks are considered in the Group’s risk identification, management and monitoring processes. Our approach is summarised opposite. More detail is provided in our Annual Report including a list of principal risks and uncertainties, see www.wpp.com/annualreports/2016/risks. 92 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Governance & management Control environment and culture The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, ethics and behaviour and the culture embedded within the Group are all vital to the maintenance of the Group’s system of internal control. The Code of Business Conduct, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, sets out the principal obligations of all our people. Senior executives throughout the Group are required to sign this Code each year and all our people are required to complete the WPP How We Behave, Anti-Bribery and Corruption and Privacy & Data Security Awareness training modules, see page 28. The WPP Policy Book, which is updated with control bulletins, includes required practices in many operational, tax, legal and human resource areas. Breaches or alleged breaches of the Code are investigated by the director of internal audit, head of compliance, the Group chief counsel and external advisers where appropriate. Group companies are also required to follow the Data Code of Conduct and the Code of Business Conduct – Supplier Version. The Group has an independently operated helpline, Right to Speak, to enable our people to report issues that they feel unable to raise locally, and anonymously, if necessary, see page 28. The Compensation Committee reviews how the Group’s performance rewards support the risk management and internal control systems. Risk assessment The Group uses a three lines of defence model in relation to risk management. First, each operating company undertakes monthly and quarterly procedures and day-to-day management activities to review their operations and business risks, supported by Group policies, training and SOX and reviews within their network. Secondly, operating network reviews are formally communicated to the Group chief executive, the Group finance director and senior parent company executives in monthly reports and quarterly review meetings. At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive presents a Brand Check review of each of the business’ operations, including an assessment of risk. This includes the possibility of winning or losing major business, succession and the addition or loss of a key executive; introduction of new legislation in an important market; sustainability, including risks relating to marketing ethics, privacy and employment; political instability and changes in accounting or corporate governance practice. Thirdly, internal audit, with Audit Committee oversight and external resource as required, provides an independent review of risk management and internal control. Control activities and monitoring Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal control bulletins and accounting guidelines. The application of these policies and procedures is monitored within the individual businesses and by the director of internal audit, head of compliance and the Group chief counsel. Operating companies are required to maintain and update documentation of their internal controls and processes. The internal audit department was responsible for reviews and testing of the documentation and the relevant controls for a majority of the Group during 2016, the results of which were reported to the Audit Committee. Read more in our Annual Report, www.wpp.com/annualreports/2016/. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 93 Tax policy Tax revenues sustain national economies. We recognise our obligation to pay the amount of tax legally due in the territory in which the liability arises and comply with all legal requirements. At the same time, we have an obligation to maximise share owner value, which includes controlling our overall liability to taxation. However, we do not condone either personal or corporate tax evasion under any circumstances. The WPP Audit Committee, which is made up of independent non-executive directors, is responsible for overseeing our policies on tax and regularly reviews our tax strategy. The Group paid corporation taxes of £414.2 million in 2016, an increase on £301.2 million in 2015 following increased profits earned during the current year. Estimated employer social security-related taxes paid during 2016 were £660 million (2015: £625 million), and estimated employee social security-related taxes paid during 2016 were £375 million (2015: £360 million). Other taxes (primarily property taxes) paid during 2016 were £57.3 million (2015: £49.0 million). We are starting to quantify the wider economic impacts of our business and the benefits associated with our activities including tax payments to governments. More information is available on page 13. We maintain constructive engagement with the tax authorities and relevant government representatives, as well as active engagement with a wide range of international companies and business organisations with similar issues. We engage advisors and legal counsel to obtain opinions on tax legislation and principles. Where disputes arise with tax authorities, in areas of doubt or where legal interpretations differ, we aim to tackle the matter promptly and resolve it in a responsible manner. We have a Tax Risk Management Strategy in place which sets out the controls established and our assessment procedures for decision-making and how we monitor tax risk. We monitor proposed changes in taxation legislation and ensure these are taken into account when we consider our future business plans. Our directors are informed by management of any tax law changes, the nature and status of any significant ongoing tax audits, and other developments that could materially affect the Group’s tax position. Factors that may affect the Group’s future tax charge include the levels and mix of profits in the many countries in which we operate, the prevailing tax rates in each of those countries and also the foreign exchange rates that apply to those profits. The tax charge may also be affected by the impact of acquisitions, disposals and other corporate restructurings, the resolution of open tax issues, future planning, and the ability to use brought forward tax losses. Furthermore, changes in local or international tax rules, for example prompted by the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (a global initiative to improve the fairness and integrity of tax systems), or new challenges by tax or competition authorities, may expose us to significant additional tax liabilities or impact the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, which would affect the future tax charge. The Group has a number of open tax returns and is subject to various ongoing tax audits in respect of which it has recognised potential liabilities, none of which are individually material. The Group does not currently expect any material additional charges, or credits, to arise in respect of these matters, beyond the amounts already provided. 94 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Governance & management Annual Board and Committee Evaluation For 2016/17, the Senior Independent Director conducted the annual Board effectiveness review. The review covered Board organization and structure, Board meetings, Board performance and responsibilities, the Chairman’s performance and the performance of the three Board Committees. The review additionally covered the areas previously identified by the external evaluator, including Board membership and director succession planning (both executive and non-executive) and particular Board processes. The results of the evaluation and feedback from interviews with Directors were discussed by the Board at its meeting in April 2017. The review identified significant progress in WPP’s Board processes, to include in-depth engagement and discussions with management about business operations and shortand mid-term strategy and challenges, positive and informed interaction and collaboration among Directors, effective leadership by the Chairman, and overall effective Committee functioning and briefings to the full Board. The review also identified progress in certain aspects of director succession planning, which remains a focus as described below. The recommendations to improve Board effectiveness further over the next year focused on: i) Succession planning – further developing Board activities and process for both emergency and longer term succession plans for key senior roles at the Board level, including ongoing identification of leadership criteria and skill sets for such roles, and increasing Board knowledge of the talent pool, both internal and external, building on progress this past year ii) Training – development of both an induction programme for Board joiners and ongoing training and knowledge briefings for the Non-Executive Directors. iii) Board composition – further improving the contribution that the Board can make to the business, by assessing skill sets that will match WPP’s business strategy, best practice corporate governance requirements and stake holder expectations, so as to continue to attract the appropriate and diverse Non-Executive Director talent for future Board refreshment, while optimising Board and Committee size. iv) Use of Board time – good progress has been made, and the goal is to further develop the agenda to ensure that a proper balance of strategy, performance and governance issues are included through the annual cycle of board meetings, with increased time allocation for strategy, risk reviews, and the rapidly changing industry landscape. The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, will monitor and ensure progress on the implementation of the appropriate recommendations. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 95 Other information About this report Our 15th Sustainability Report explains how we manage the social, ethical and environmental impacts of our business and our performance during 2016. Data Data is for the calendar year 2016. The majority of our data is collected quarterly through our financial reporting system. Some people data is collected through an HR Survey issued to our global HR directors. Data from our financial reporting system covers all subsidiaries of the Group – 134,000 direct employees. A subsidiary is an entity which we control and/or have a majority shareholding. Associates and joint ventures, where the Group may have influence or joint control, but not outright control, are not included. Data in our financial reporting will include associate companies not covered in our Sustainability Report. Data from the HR survey covers 77% of the Group. We are working to improve the coverage of this survey. Our carbon footprint, some environmental and some people data has been externally assured by Bureau Veritas. Our per person carbon footprint figures are calculated using data for full-time equivalent employees (FTEs). As a result of an error identified in the currency conversion factors used to estimate our 2015 free media space data, we have restated the 2015 free media space figure to £20.7 million (previously £24.4 million). This reduced the 2015 total social contribution figure to £40.2 million. Case studies and examples from our companies are collected via an annual survey. Each WPP company has nominated a sustainability representative to compile this, and surveys are signed off by the company CEO before submission to WPP. Guidelines and reporting frameworks The content of this report is prepared in accordance with the core option of the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines. See our GRI G4 context index for a list of disclosures and their location in our Report. See pages 110 to 119. WPP are members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and this Report forms our second communication on progress. We provide an index on pages 107 to 109 which summarises our approach and progress on each of the UNGC’s 10 principles. Accessibility We aim to make our website, including our online Sustainability Report, as accessible as possible. In Q1 2017, our site was ranked third out of 494 company websites tested by Sitemorse for accessibility. See www.sitemorse.com. 96 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information Data summary Key data Basic Group info Units 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Number of countries 112 112 111 110 110 Number of offices 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 Benchmarks FTSE4Good Member Member Member Member Member CDP A97 B 98 B 95 B 81 B Economic Units 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Billings £m 55,245 47,632 46,186 46,209 44,405 Revenue £m 14,389 12,235 11,529 11,019 10,373 Headline PBIT £m 2,160 1,774 1,681 1,662 1,531 Market capitalisation at year-end £m 24,500 20,237 17,831 18,613 11,237 Staff costs £m 7,785 6,653 6,440 6,477 6,106 Taxation £m 389 248 300 284 197 Social investment Units 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Charitable donations £m 7.0 5.9 4.8 4.9 5.0 Arts % 4 4 9 6 6 Education % 21 23 22 20 19 Environment % 1 1 2 2 1 Health % 20 23 22 21 15 Human rights % 8 8 4 – – Local community % 47 41 40 21 24 Pro bono £m 12.5 13.5 17.0 14.7 11.1 Arts % 8 5 6 4 7 Education % 21 13 17 14 15 Environment % 7 5 5 6 5 Health % 24 37 39 29 18 Human rights % 7 5 2 – – Local community % 32 36 31 20 26 Social investment (excl. free media space) £m 19.5 19.4 21.8 19.6 16.2 As a proportion of profit before tax % 1.03 1.30 1.51 1.51 1.48 Free media space £m 22.8 20.7 25.1 19.8 14.3 Total social contribution (incl. free media space) £m 42.3 40.2 46.9 39.4 30.5 As a proportion of profit before tax £m 2.23 2.70 3.24 3.04 2.79 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 97 Our people Units 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Headcount Excluding people from associate companies 134,000 128,000 124,000 119,000 116,000 Including people from associate companies 198,000 190,000 179,000 175,000 166,000 Age 19 or under % 0 0 0 1 1 20-29 % 36 36 36 36 36 30-39 % 37 37 38 37 37 40-49 % 18 18 18 18 18 50-59 % 7 7 7 7 7 60 and over % 2 2 1 1 1 Gender WPP Board % women 29 29 24 29 19 Executive leaders % women 34 33 31 32 32 Senior managers % women 48 47 46 47 47 All staff % women 54 54 54 54 54 Ethnicity in the UK and US Executive leaders % minority 16 13 11 10 11 Senior managers % minority 21 20 19 18 18 All staff % minority 28 26 26 25 23 Training £m 45.1 41.1 38.2 40.0 38.1 Paid internships and apprenticeships 6,413 5,378 5,911 4,000 – Days lost due to sickness per person 3.2 3.0 3.2 3.5 3.4 Client work Units 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Revenue from clients who engaged with us on sustainability £bn 1.64 1.29 1.35 1.26 0.76 As a % of total revenue % 11.4 10.6 11.2 10.6 7.3 98 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information Environment Units 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Carbon footprint* Total CO2e emissions tonnes 249,782 264,774 281,389 279,859 283,321 Scope 1 emissions from stationary fuel combustion tonnes 7,851 8,135 9,748 11,305 9,840 Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity tonnes 115,021 123,218 138,348 136,171 140,446 Scope 2 emissions from purchased heat and steam tonnes 1,884 – – – – Scope 3 emissions from business air travel tonnes 92,445 98,885 96,590 95,879 96,080 Scope 3 emissions from other estimated impacts tonnes 32,581 34,536 36,703 36,503 36,955 Total CO2e emissions per person tonnes/FTE 1.86 2.07 2.28 2.35 2.45 Total CO2e emissions per £m revenue tonnes/£m 17.36 21.64 24.41 25.40 27.31 Office energy use Total energy use megawatt hours 339,037 354,018 359,620 380,906 369,255 Direct energy use (natural gas and heating oil) megawatt hours 37,174 38,287 44,847 52,532 45,673 Indirect energy use (purchased electricity) megawatt hours 301,863 315,731 314,773 328,374 323,582 kilowatt hours/ Energy use per person FTE 2,524 2,763 2,909 3,198 3,191 % electricity from renewable sources % 22 21 14 15 16 Business air travel Total business air travel million miles 571 588 560 538 490 Long haul million miles 297 316 306 303 346 Medium haul million miles 213 215 200 171 Short haul million miles 60 58 54 64 144 Business air travel per person miles/FTE 4,249 4,591 4,532 4,519 4,237 Paper† Total paper purchased tonnes 4,460 4,897 5,101 6,584 5,879 Paper purchased with recycled content or FSC/PEFC Certified % 23 31 – – – Waste and Recycling Total non-recycled waste tonnes 4,111 3,059 – – – Breakdown by category Incineration (energy recovered) % 16 22 – – – Incineration (non-energy recovered) % 17 9 – – – Landfill % 62 64 – – – Unknown % 5 5 – – – Total waste recycled tonnes 6,122 5,713 5,416 5,106 4,886 Breakdown by category Paper and cardboard % 73 71 73 81 82 IT waste % 2 2 3 3 3 Other waste recycled % 25 27 24 16 15 * Renewable electricity rated at zero emissions. † In 2015, we had to estimate our paper consumption. This year we are able to use actual data. This means it is not possible to compare performance year-on-year. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 99 Quantifying our impacts: methodology and results This section explains the results, principles, methods and data used in quantifying the economic, social and environmental impacts associated with our operations; see page 13 for a summary of the results. This analysis was carried out with Sustain Value, and is based on established social and environmental accounting techniques. This is the fourth year we have carried out this research to assess and quantify our impacts and the findings should be viewed in light of the following considerations: •• I mpacts: We have captured only a relatively limited selection of the important sustainability impacts associated with our business. There are still opportunities to expand this further to enable more comprehensive reporting. ••  ethods: To calculate our impacts we have used, wherever possible, recognized methodologies, models and M academic research. •• D  ata: We have used proxy data, from secondary sources and extrapolations, to address any data gaps. This means that findings in some areas are based on estimated figures. Below we explain in more detail the results and our approach to calculating each measure. Economic impacts We considered the benefits associated with our economic activities including salaries, payments to supplier partners, taxes to governments and dividends to share owners. As for last year, our analysis shows a significant direct positive contribution to economies as well as a significant multiplier effect from the salaries and payments we make, which enable our people to buy goods and services and our supplier partners to create jobs and spend in the economy. Gross value added: £12.4 billion economic impact The direct contribution our activities make to the worldwide economy is measured as Gross Value Added (GVA). This is calculated as the financial value of the services we sell minus the cost of all inputs directly related to delivery of these services. The value of services we produce stands at £12.4 billion for 2016/17. This income is used to cover operating costs and taxes, and dividends. Payroll: £7.1 billion in salaries and benefits We are a major global employer, offering many thousands of well-remunerated positions. The £7.1 billion we spend on salaries and benefits (excluding social security costs) provides a cash injection into local economies in the 112 countries in which we operate. Our contribution through payroll is calculated based on the aforementioned items as disclosed in the Group’s audited financial statements for 2016/17. Taxes: £1.5 billion paid to governments Payments of taxes to national and local governments, including corporation and overseas taxes (£414 million), employer and employee taxes (£1 billion) and other taxes (primarily property taxes) (£57 million), enables them to invest in local socio-economic development. Our contribution through taxes is calculated based on tax payments as disclosed in the Group’s audited financial statements for 2016/17. 100 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information Supply chain: £2.3 billion indirect economic benefit Our companies provide indirect benefits to economies across the world through procurement of a range of services. This spending provides many indirect benefits to the economy by supporting livelihoods and job creation. These calculations exclude our media spend on behalf of clients. In 2016, we spent an estimated £6.0 billion with our supplier partners. This figure was derived from data from our spend analytics system which tracks direct costs (advertising production and research operations) and indirect costs (facilities, IT, telecoms, travel and professional services). Our media spend on behalf of clients is excluded from these figures. The impact of our supply chain, our indirect economic impact, was calculated using a weighted average multiplier based on the 2014 analysis, which determined the total value of expenditure with supplier partners broken down by sector and type of spend. The spend for each sector was converted into GVA using gross value added data from relevant sectors obtained from national statistics such as the UK’s Office of National Statistics Annual Business Survey (ABS). There are two limitations associated with this approach. Firstly, data on supplier spend was incomplete for some WPP markets. Data was extrapolated to address these gaps. In addition, GVA sector estimates are not available for all countries and in these cases we have based calculations on UK data. To reflect the impacts arising in different countries we used purchasing-power parity indices from IMF datasets. Indirect client impact: not quantified The communications services we provide create a further indirect benefit by helping our clients to increase their revenues, which stimulates growth and helps create jobs. However, we also recognise that the associated increase in production and consumption will also result in other indirect environmental and social costs. We are still considering ways of measuring this. Social impacts Our companies support social and charitable activities through cash donations, by undertaking pro bono work (marketing advice and campaigns for little or no fee) and negotiating free media space for charity campaigns. This has an impact by helping charities to achieve campaign objectives, raise funds and recruit new members, and indirectly contributes to improving human health and community cohesion, and the protection of human rights and the environment. Our companies provide internship and apprenticeship opportunities, which equip people with skills and experience that enhance their future life prospects. In addition, our companies train staff at all levels that not only improves WPP’s performance, but also enhances the human capital (e.g. skills base) within the company. Pro bono work: £101 million social benefit The direct value of our pro bono work was £12.5 million in 2016, based on the fees that organisations would have paid for our work. When the full potential societal benefit is taken into account, the overall benefit to society may be in the order of £101 million. The benefits of pro bono work (primarily undertaken for the benefit of charities) are difficult to quantify. They include things such as helping to improve health and well-being in communities. Outcomes are often not measured and, if they are measured by the charity, results are not often shared with WPP. For the purposes of this assessment, we undertook a literature review of reports and papers (i.e. secondary data) to ascertain the average social return on investment (SROI) ratio generated by the same categories as those represented by the pro bono work undertaken. This includes arts, education, environment, health, human rights and local community. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 101 The average ratio calculated for each category was then applied for each of these categories to the annual direct value of pro bono work, in line with the approach adopted over the past two years. We believe this to be a conservative assumption, because pro bono work (costed on a time-sheet basis) is often worth more than the equivalent cash donation as WPP expertise is leveraged to create additional value above and beyond the time spent. Charitable donations: £55 million social benefit In 2016, the Group’s direct charitable donations were £7 million. These donations support important work in areas such as education, health, human rights, local community, environment and the arts. The overall value of social benefits resulting from these donations is estimated to be around £55 million per year. The approach to determining the additional societal value is based on the literature review of SROI ratios mentioned above, covering the same six categories. The average SROI ratios found for each category were applied to the direct spend for each of those same categories. We recognise that individual projects can deliver very different returns. However, in the absence of project-by-project reporting, this method provides a useful order-ofmagnitude indication of SROI. Free media space: £183 million of social benefit facilitated WPP has also helped negotiate free media space for our pro bono clients worth £22.8 million in 2016. This represents the cost saving to our pro bono clients for them not to have to purchase media space for their environmental and social campaigns. For the purposes of this assessment, we have assumed that free media space has an impact similar to that of the pro bono work and charitable donations, calculated to be around £183 million. As there is no breakdown of spend by category for this, we have applied an overall weighted average SROI ratio based on the ratios and spend for pro bono work and charitable donations. Internships and apprenticeships: £6 million social benefit In 2016, we provided 6,413 paid internship and apprenticeship positions across the Group. We estimate these create benefits worth £6 million annually, because some interns will be offered a position in a WPP company at the end of their internship and others are likely to find jobs elsewhere more quickly. The value is based on the same value multiplier as developed in 2014. This assumed that a certain proportion of interns find jobs at WPP or other companies and are therefore able to earn a monthly salary faster than they would have done without the internship. The approach takes into account the number of interns worldwide and the proportion likely to find a position at the end of their internship/apprenticeship placement and with the average additional income that the person would have earned as a result of the work placement. Further work is needed to calculate these benefits more accurately and to capture regional variation. Training: £45.1 million minimum societal benefit In 2016, WPP spent £45.1 million on training courses for staff at all levels, with additional travel, accommodation and subsistence costs of £7.6 million also being incurred. The £45.1 million represents a lower-end estimate of overall value as it only reflects course costs rather than the overall benefit that staff receiving the training will gain in terms of their enhanced human capital value. The latter will be manifested when they leave the company, along with the human capital gained through their on the job experience. It is also recognised that this training will generate additional value (i.e. SROI) for WPP from improved staff productivity and recruitment cost savings. These should effectively be captured through future enhanced gross value added (GVA) generated by WPP. We hope to include an estimate of additional added value to staff in subsequent reports. 102 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information Environmental impacts Climate change is our most significant environmental impact, but again this year we have also analysed impacts associated with water consumption and waste disposal. Greenhouse gas emissions: £5.4 million net cost to society Currently, businesses such as ours do not bear the environmental costs of mitigating their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This service is provided for free by nature or at the cost of future generations. The hidden cost of our emissions was £9.5 million in 2016. This calculation takes into account our GHG emissions from energy, business air travel, and other estimated impacts such as leased cars, taxis and couriers as well as the benefits resulting from our green electricity purchasing (zero emissions assumed). With our investments in renewable energy offsets included (see below), our net cost to society is £5.4 million. In 2016, WPP invested in renewable energy projects to offset 92,445 tCO2e emissions associated with climate change impacts of business air travel. Based on the assumed social cost of carbon, this represents a positive societal impact of £3.4 million. In addition, WPP purchased renewable energy certificates (RECs) in the US, equivalent to saving 11,867 tCO2e, with an assumed societal value of £0.4 million. The basis of the above GHG calculations is that each tonne of GHG released into the atmosphere damages society, the environment and the economy by impacting on, for example, climate, health, and the built environment. The economic cost of this damage is called the social cost of carbon. Many studies have identified a range of estimates for the social cost of carbon. The estimates span from 0 to over £400/tCO2e as they take into account uncertainties in climate and climate change impacts. For consistency, we applied the same approach and value as 2014 (i.e. based on the Stern Report), but adjusted upwards to allow for inflation (i.e. £36.96 tCO2e). For transparency, we split the value into the negative impact of our gross emissions and the positive impact of our carbon offsets. In addition, we assume zero emissions for the purchase of renewable electricity. We have been recording our emissions in line with international standards since 2006 and as part of our reporting process we capture scope 1, scope 2 and a number of scope 3 emissions. Water impacts: £1.3 million cost to society As with any other services company, our staff and office operations depend on water, which is increasingly recognised to have an unpaid-for societal cost. The societal cost of WPP’s direct water consumption is estimated to be in the order of £1.3 million. This is based on actual water consumption data from 11 offices located in water-stressed areas (an average 11.6m3 of water per person – using 2014 data) and an average assumed consumption rate of water for all other offices (15m3 per person per year). For each of the 11 office locations and for each country with an office, a water stress ratio (total water withdrawals to total renewable supply) was established from the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (for office locations) and from FAO AQUASTAT data (for countries). An indicative societal value for water was determined based on the PUMA (2012) water scarcity valuation approach, with values updated to 2016 values based on World Bank global consumer price inflation data. Actual market costs incurred for purchasing water are included within operational costs in the financial accounts. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 103 Waste disposal: £0.08 million cost to society Whilst 61% of WPP’s waste was recycled in 2016, the remainder was either sent to landfill or incinerated with or without energy recovery. The societal cost associated with the non-recycled waste is estimated to be around £82,000, which relates to GHG and other air emissions, leachate and other associated dis-amenity impacts (e.g. visual and odour). This value is based only on the non-recycled waste data, although it is acknowledged that the recycled waste will have an overall net negative impact too. Societal costs per tonne of incinerated (with and without energy recovery) and landfilled waste have been derived from Rabl, Spadaro and Zoughaib (2008), and updated using World Bank consumer price inflation data. Societal costs are estimated to be £50,000 for landfilled waste, £5,000 for incinerated waste with energy recovery, and £22,000 for incinerated waste with no energy recovery. Waste that is disposed of that is not allocated to any of the previous categories is assumed to have the same negative cost as the incineration without energy recovery (with a societal cost of £6,000). However, these values are based on average societal costs determined for European countries. More detailed country-specific costs could be estimated in future assessments. Actual market costs incurred for waste disposal are included within operational costs in the financial accounts. References •• UN FAO AQUASTAT, www.fao.org/nr/water/aquastat/water_res/index.stm •• PUMA (2012) Water use valuation method, http://pwc.blogs.com/files/about-water-valuation.pdf •• Rabl, A., Spadaro I.V., and Zoughaib A. (2008) Environmental impacts and costs of solid waste: a comparison of landfill and incineration. Waste Management Research 2008; 26: 147. •• Stern, N. (2007) Stern Review: The Economics of Climate Change. Cambridge University Press. •• WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, http://www.wri.org/applications/maps/aqueduct-atlas/#x=8.00&y=0.38&s =ws!20!28!c&t=waterrisk&w=def&g=0&i=BWS-16!WSV-4!SV-2!HFO-4!DRO-4!STOR-8!GW-8!WRI4!ECOS-2!MC-4!WCG-8!ECOV-2!&tr=ind-1!prj-1&l=3&b=terrain&m=group 104 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information Independent Verification Statement Bureau Veritas UK Limited (Bureau Veritas) has been engaged by WPP Ltd. (WPP) to provide limited assurance of selected sustainability data for 2016. This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below. Scope of verification The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the accuracy of the sustainability data listed below and included in WPP’s Sustainability Report (the report). Our work includes all global operations under WPP’s control for the period of 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 for the following indicators (Selected Information): GHG emissions & associated activity data •• Scope 1 and scope 2 emissions from WPP’s global operations •• Scope 3 emissions from business air travel Employment data •• Age and gender data •• Ethnicity data (UK and USA operations only) •• Health and safety data Waste management data •• Waste to recycling •• Non-recycled waste Assessment standard We performed our work in accordance with a comprehensive internal protocol that guides our verification activities. Our methodology is based on international best practice and incorporates the requirements of the most widely used assurance international standards including AA1000 Assurance Standard, ISAE3000, and ISO14064-3. Our conclusions are for ‘limited’ assurance as set out in ISAE 3000. Methodology As part of the independent verification, Bureau Veritas undertook: •• interviews with relevant personnel of WPP responsible for GHG emissions accounting, waste data and employment data; •• a review of WPP information systems and methodology for data collection, aggregation, and analysis; •• a review of information and calculations used to determine GHG emissions; •• a remote review of a sample of the Selected Information against the corresponding source documentation from 10 of WPP’s operations worldwide, the sample was selected based on air travel, energy consumption, geographical location and head count; •• audit visits to five of WPP’s operation: MediaCom Dusseldorf, H+K Strategies London, Westbourne Terrace Management Services Ltd. London, WPP Group USA Inc., Y&R Paris; and •• a review of the consolidated 2016 data to check end of year accounting and reliable transposition. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 105 Conclusion Based on the verification conducted by Bureau Veritas, there is no evidence to suggest that the GHG emissions assertions shown below, and the age, gender, ethnicity, health and safety and waste KPIs as stated by WPP in its 2016/2017 Sustainability Report: •• are not prepared in accordance with WPP’s relevant internal methodologies; and •• are not materially correct and a fair representation of the GHG emissions, waste and employment data for WPP. Reported GHG emissions Scope 1: 7,851 tonnes of CO2e Scope 2: 116,905 tonnes of CO2e (net, including the carbon reduction of green-tariff electricity & Renewable Energy Certificates) 146,846 tonnes of CO2e (gross, excluding the carbon reduction of green-tariff electricity & Renewable Energy Certificates) Scope 3: 92,445 tonnes CO2e (air travel) Such opinion is based on work undertaken and the limitations and exclusions defined in this statement. Limitations and exclusions Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information relating to: •• activities outside the defined reporting period; •• WPP estimates its other scope 3 emissions, including from leased cars, taxis and couriers, as an additional 15% of its total GHG emissions figure, added to the carbon footprint and reported as ‘other estimated scope 3 emissions’. These scope 3 GHG emissions were not subject to verification; and •• one of the 10 of WPP’s locations selected for remote data verification could not provide the relevant back-ups for waste and sickness days in due time and hence was not subject to verification. Observations and recommendations •• WPP has demonstrated a consistent and structured approach towards sustainability data reporting across operations and parameters. •• Several sites are not currently reporting all of the waste that they generate, due to a lack of available source information. In these instances, applying a consistent estimation would help to avoid gaps in the waste data. Statement of independence, integrity and competence Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises in quality, environmental, health, safety and social accountability with over 185 years’ history. Its assurance team has extensive experience in conducting verification over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes. Bureau Veritas operates a certified Quality Management System which complies with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Bureau Veritas has implemented a code of ethics across its business which ensures that all our staff members maintain high standards of integrity and independence. Bureau Veritas believes this assignment did not raise any conflicts of interest. Bureau Veritas UK Limited April, 2017 106 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information United Nations Global Compact Index “I am pleased to reaffirm WPP’s commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact covering human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are working to integrate these principles into our strategy, culture and operations, and we are committed to collaborating with our clients, suppliers, the UN and others on these issues and to sharing our progress with stakeholders through our Sustainability Report.” Sir Martin Sorrell, Group chief executive We joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2015, and are committed to its 10 principles covering the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report is our second Communication on Progress against the Global Compact Principles, covering the year 2016. This table provides a summary of our approach in each area and links to where further information and performance data can be found in our report. Human rights Location in and labour Summary of approach our reporting Principle One Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle for WPP and we take steps Human rights, Businesses should to prevent, identify and address any negative human rights impacts pages 30 and 52 support and associated with our business as well as looking for opportunities to positively Our ethical respect the promote and support human rights. standards, protection of page 28 internationally Our human rights policy statement reflects international standards and Diversity and proclaimed principles including the International Bill of Human Rights, the UN’s Guiding inclusion, human rights; Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Labour page 40 and Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Children’s Rights and Business Principles. Our commitment is also explained Health, safety Principle Two in our Code of Business Conduct, page 121, our Sustainability Policy, page 120, and well-being, make sure they and our Code of Business Conduct – Supplier Version, page 74. We updated a page 53 are not complicit number of other policies relating to employment and procurement during 2016 in human rights to reflect our commitment to human rights. abuses. Our people Principle Three Our main human rights impact is as a major employer in 112 countries and Businesses should we aim to embed respect for human rights into our employment practices. uphold the This includes providing safe workplaces, selecting and promoting our people freedom of on the basis of their qualifications and merit, preventing discrimination and association and encouraging diversity. We recognise the rights of our people to freedom the effective of association and collective bargaining and will not tolerate discrimination, recognition of the harassment or any form of forced, compulsory or child labour. We report right to collective our progress in areas such as diversity and health and safety in our bargaining; Sustainability Report. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 107 Human rights Location in and labour Summary of approach our reporting Principle Four Our people can report concerns or suspected cases of misconduct including Etchical the elimination of those relating to human rights through our third party-managed Right to Speak standards, all forms of forced facility, overseen by our internal audit department. page 28 and compulsory labour; Modern slavery Modern slavery, We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery, forced labour or human pages 31 and 75 Principle Five trafficking in any part of our business or supply chain. As part of our due Modern the effective diligence processes we have assessed the risk of modern slavery for WPP. Slavery Act abolition of child This found the risk of modern slavery to be very low in our direct workforce Transparency labour; and and among our strategic tier-one suppliers, those with whom we have a direct statement contractual relationship. During 2017, we will publish our first annual slavery www.wpp.com/ Principle Six and human trafficking statement in response to the UK’s Modern Slavery Act wpp/about/ eliminate that will contain more information on our approach. This will be publicly howwebehave/ discrimination available on our website. governance/ in respect of employment and Supplier partners Supply chain, occupation. We expect supplier partners to adopt similar human rights standards to our page 72 own and all major supplier partners are asked to sign our Code of Business Conduct – Supplier Version. This includes requirements relating to labour practices (such as wages, anti-harassment and discrimination and health & safety), human rights (including no child, forced or bonded labour), social impacts (such as anti-bribery and corruption) and other sustainability issues. We assess supplier partners in key areas of our supply chain on sustainability risks, including human rights risks. Wider impacts Social Our companies provide creative services to organisations involved in investment, protecting and promoting human rights, often on a pro bono basis. This pages 84 to 87 is our main opportunity to positively promote human rights. We report Pro bono book the value of this work and publish recent examples in our Pro bono book. www.wpp.com/ www.wpp.com/probono/2016/ probono/2016/ Location in Environment Summary of approach our reporting Principle Seven We aim for WPP to be a low-carbon and resource-efficient Group and we Environment, Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges such as page 56 support a climate change. Our approach is summarised in our Sustainability Policy, Supply chain, precautionary page 120. pages 67 and 72 approach to environmental We focus on: challenges; • Energy use and climate change: building and IT energy use, renewable energy purchasing, business air travel, videoconferencing and carbon offsetting Principle Eight • Resource use: paper, water and waste management undertake initiatives to We are close to meeting our target to reduce our per head carbon footprint to promote greater 1.8 tonnes, a 47% reduction since 2006. We report our progress annually. environmental responsibility; Supplier partners and We aim to select supplier partners who meet high environmental standards and we work with suppliers on environmental issues. 108 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information Location in Environment Summary of approach our reporting Principle Nine Working with clients Sustainability Encourage the Our companies work with clients on environmental campaigns designed to in marketing, development raise the profile of greener products and services and engage consumers on page 16 and diffusion of sustainability issues. We have also analysed the carbon footprint of our value Our wider environmentally chain and are exploring how we can work with clients to reduce the carbon carbon impact, friendly footprint of media campaigns. page 68 technologies. Pro bono book, Our companies provide pro bono creative services to organisations involved www.wpp.com/ in environmental protection. We report the value of this work and publish probono/2016/ recent examples in our Pro bono book. www.wpp.com/probono/2016/. Location in Anti-corruption Summary of approach our reporting Principle 10 The WPP Code of Business Conduct provides the framework for how we Our ethical Businesses should operate. It establishes the values and ethical standards that all our companies standards, work against must implement, including zero tolerance for bribery or corruption. It is page 28 corruption in all supported by detailed policies on anti-bribery and corruption, gifts and Supply chain, its forms, entertainment and the appointment of third-party advisors. page 74 including Code of Business extortion and Senior managers in all our companies and our business partners and major Conduct, bribery. supplier partners are asked to sign a copy of the WPP Code of Business page 121 Conduct each year to confirm they will comply with its principles. We have a Group-level committee that meets regularly to discuss ethical and compliance issues including risks relating to bribery and corruption. Our ethics training, ‘How we behave’, is compulsory for all our people. It covers topics such as diversity, human rights and avoiding misleading work. Our online training on anti-bribery and corruption covers the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act on issues such as hospitality and gifts, facilitation payments and the use of third-party advisors. All our people are required to complete both sets of training and over 120,000 have done so since the last update in 2016. Acquisitions and sensitive countries Our due diligence process for acquisitions and expansion into new markets includes a review of ethical risks including those relating to bribery and corruption, human rights or ethical issues associated with client work. We take steps to ensure that acquired businesses embed our policies and undertake our anti-bribery training. Supplier partners Supplier partners must comply with our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and our procurement professionals work with supplier partners to ensure our policy is implemented. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 109 GRI G4 content index The content of this report is prepared in accordance with the core option of the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines. We have also referred to the GRI Media Sector Supplement and include disclosures for the indicators relevant to our business. These are marked (M). However, the Media Sector Supplement has been developed primarily for content-generating organisations such as broadcasters and newspapers, and issues such as editorial independence and freedom of expression are not material for our business. This means the majority of the indicators in the Media Sector Supplement are not relevant to our reporting and are not included in this Index. General Standard Disclosures Comment Location in document GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from most senior decision maker. From our CEO, page 2 G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities. Sustainability and our strategy, page 8 Our sustainability priorities, page 11 Our materiality process, page 11 Our client work, page 14 Governance and management, page 90 Principle risks and uncertainties, www.wpp.com/annualreports/ 2016/risks ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation. WPP plc G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. WPP – What we do, www.wpp.com/ wpp/about/whatwedo/ G4-5 Location of the organisation‘s headquarters. WPP – Where we are, www.wpp.com/ wpp/about/whereweare/ G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation WPP – Who we are, www.wpp.com/ operates, and names of countries where either the wpp/about/whoweare/ organisation has significant operations or that are WPP – Where we are, www.wpp.com/ specifically relevant to the sustainability topics wpp/about/whereweare/ covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. WPP Annual Report and Accounts 2016, www.wpp.com/ annualreports/2016/ G4-8 Markets served (including geographic Introduction, page 1 breakdown, sectors served, and types of WPP – What we do, customers and beneficiaries). www.wpp.com/wpp/about/ whatwedo/ WPP – All countries, www.wpp.com/wpp/companies/ G4-9 Scale of organisation. WPP – At a glance, www.wpp.com/ wpp/about/wppataglance/ G4-10 (M) Total workforce by employment We do not currently Our people, page 36 contract and gender. report employee Our people/Gender balance, numbers by contract page 41 type or the number of freelance workers. 110 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information General Standard Disclosures Comment Location in document G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered Our people/Monitoring progress/ by collective bargaining agreements. Labour relations, page 54 G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. Supply chain, page 72 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting No major changes About this report, page 96 period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, during the year. ownership, or its supply chain. G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary United Nations Global Compact Index, approach or principle is addressed by the page 107 organisation. G4-15 Externally developed economic, Client work/Human Rights, page 30 environmental and social charters, principles, Our people/Diversity and inclusion, or other initiatives to which the organisation page 40 subscribes or which it endorses. Governance and management/ Corporate Governance, page 92 United Nations Global Compact Index, page 107 G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as Client work/Public policy and industry associations) and/or national/international lobbying, page 32 advocacy organisations in which the organisation: Client work/Privacy and data security, * has positions in governance bodies; page 34 * participates in projects or committees; Our people/Gender balance, page 41 * provides substantive funding beyond routine Our people/Disability, page 46 membership dues; or * views membership as strategic. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 All entities included in the organisation’s The data in our Our companies & associates, page 6 consolidated financial statements or equivalent Sustainability Report About this report, page 96 documents and whether any of these entities is covers all subsidiaries Annual Report and Accounts not covered by the report. of the Group. A www.wpp.com/annualreports/2016/ subsidiary is an entity which we control and/ or have a majority shareholding. Associates and joint ventures, where the Group may have influence or joint control, but not outright control, are not included. Data in our financial reporting will include associate companies not covered in our Sustainability Report. G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report Our sustainability priorities, page 11 content and the Aspect Boundaries and how the Our materiality process, page 12 organisation has implemented the Reporting Governance and management/ Principles for Defining Report Content. Stakeholder engagement and materiality, page 92 G4-19 All the material Aspects identified in the Our sustainability priorities, page 11 process for defining report content. Our materiality process, page 12 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 111 General Standard Disclosures Comment Location in document G4-20 The Aspect Boundary within the All Material Aspects Our sustainability priorities, page 11 organisation for each material Aspect. selected in this report Our materiality process, page 12 apply equally to all of About this report, page 96 our operations and entities as listed in G4-17, unless otherwise noted. G4-21 The Aspect Boundary outside the Our materiality Our materiality process, page 12 organisation for each material Aspect. assessment diagram Our sustainability priorities, page 11 (page 12) indicates the relative importance of each of our material issues to stakeholders. The material Aspects apply equally across stakeholder groups and geographies unless otherwise noted. G4-22 The effect of any restatements of Notes to carbon emissions statement information provided in previous reports, 2016, page 71 and the reasons for such restatements. Social investment/Performance in 2016, page 82 About this report, page 96 G4-23 Significant changes from previous There have been reporting periods in the Scope and no significant Aspect Boundaries. changes from previous reporting periods. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged Governance and management/ by the organisation. Stakeholder engagement, page 92 G4-25 The basis for identification and selection Governance and management/ of stakeholders with whom to engage. Stakeholder engagement, page 92 G4-26 The organisation’s approach to stakeholder Our sustainability priorities, page 11 engagement, including frequency of engagement Our materiality process, page 12 by type and by stakeholder group, and an Governance and management/ indication of whether any of the engagement Stakeholder engagement, page 92 was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been The topics raised by our Our materiality process, page 12 raised through stakeholder engagement, and stakeholders are included Our sustainability priorities, page 11 how the organisation has responded to those on our materiality matrix Governance and management/ key topics and concerns, including through its and the issues of high Stakeholder engagement and reporting. The stakeholder groups that raised importance to our materiality, page 92 each of the key topics and concerns. stakeholders are all addressed in our Materiality, page 12 Sustainability Report. The issues covered in our reporting are all topics that are of interest to our two most important external stakeholder groups – clients and investors. We do not report on the specific points raised by individual stakeholders. 112 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information General Standard Disclosures Comment Location in document REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. About this report, page 96 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Sustainability Report Archive, www.wpp.com/wpp/cr/sustainabilityreport-archive/ G4-30 Reporting cycle. About this report, page 96 G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding Get in touch, inside back cover the report or its contents. G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the About this report, page 96 organisation has chosen; the GRI Content Index Assurance statement, page 105 for the chosen option and the reference to the GRI Index, page 110 External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. Online GRI Index www.wpp.com/ sustainabilityreports/2016/gri G4-33 The organisation’s policy and current Carbon emissions statement, page 70 practice with regard to seeking external assurance About this report, page 96 for the report. Independent Verification Statement, page 105 GOVERNANCE G4-34 (M) The governance structure of the Annual Report and Accounts organisation, including committees of the highest www.wpp.com/annualreports/2016/ governance body. Identify any committees Governance and management/Roles responsible for decision-making on economic, and responsibilities, page 90 environmental and social impacts. Corporate governance, page 92 Our client work/Our ethical standards/ Ethical decisions in our work, page 29 Our client work/Public policy and lobbying, page 32 G4-36 Whether the organisation has appointed Environment/Management approach, an executive-level position or positions with page 57 responsibility for economic, environmental and Supply chain/Management approach, social topics, and whether post holders report page 73 directly to the highest governance body. Government and management/Roles and responsibilities, page 90 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 (M) The organisation’s values, principles, Our client work/Our ethical standards and norms of behaviour such as codes standards, page 28 of conduct and codes of ethics. Code of Business Conduct, page 121 Sustainability Policy, page 120 Human Rights Policy Statement, pages 123 to 124 Our client work/Sustainability in marketing, page 16 G4-58 The internal and external mechanisms for Our client work/Our ethical standards, reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful page 123 behaviour, and matters related to organisational Supply chain, page 74 integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 113 General Standard Disclosures Comment Location in document SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-DMA for all material economic impacts Our overall approach to managing material sustainability issues – Governance and management, pages 90 to 91 From our CEO, page 2 WPP Annual Report and Accounts, Letter to share owners, www.wpp. com/annualreports/2016/how-weredoing/strategic-report-to-share-owners/ Our management approach for material issues relating to employment – Our people/Management approach, page 37 INDICATORS BY ASPECTS CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated WPP Annual Report 2016 – Our and distributed Financial Statements, www.wpp.com/ annualreports/2016/financials Quantifying our impacts, page 13 G4-EC2 Financial implications, risks and Environment, page 56 opportunities due to climate change Principle risks and uncertainties, www.wpp.com/annualreports/ 2016/risks Market Presence G4-EC6 Portion of senior management hired Our people/Diversity and inclusion/ from the local community at significant locations Nationalities and local recruitment, of operation. page 44 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 (M) Development and impact of We provide pro bono Quantifying our impacts, page 13 infrastructure investments and services supported services, donate money G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, to charity and negotiate including the extent of impacts. free media space on behalf of pro bono clients which can have a positive social impact. G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, Quantifying our impacts, page 13 including the extent of impacts. 114 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information General Standard Disclosures Comment Location in document CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-DMA for all material environmental aspects Our overall approach to managing material sustainability issues – Governance and management, pages 90 to 91 Our management approach for material issues relating to our environmental impact – Environment/ Management approach, page 57 Our management approach for material issues relating to our supply chain – Supply chain/Management approach, page 73 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Environment/Our carbon strategy/ organisation. Building energy use, page 62 Environment/WPP’s carbon emissions statement, page 70 Data summary, page 97 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the Environment/Our carbon strategy/ organisation. Air travel, videoconferencing and offsetting, page 65 Environment/Our wider carbon impact, page 68 Data summary, page 97 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. Environment/Our carbon strategy/ Building energy use, page 62 Environment/WPP’s carbon emissions statement, page 70 Data summary, page 97 G4-EN7 (M) Reduction in energy requirements of Environment/Our wider carbon products and services. impact, page 68 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions This data is externally Environment/Our carbon strategy/ (scope 1). assured. Performance in 2016, page 60 Environment/WPP’s carbon emissions statement, page 70 Data summary, page 97 Independent Verification Statement, page 105 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) This data is externally Environment/Our carbon strategy/ emissions (scope 2). assured. Performance in 2016, page 60 Environment/WPP’s carbon emissions statement, page 70 Data summary, page 97 Independent Verification Statement, page 105 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 115 General Standard Disclosures Comment Location in document G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Data for business Environment/Our carbon strategy/ emissions (scope 3). air travel is Performance in 2016, page 60 externally assured. Environment/WPP’s carbon emissions statement, page 70 Environment/Our wider carbon impact, page 68 Data summary, page 97 Independent Verification Statement, page 105 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. Environment/Our carbon strategy/ Performance in 2016, page 60 Environment/WPP’s carbon emissions statement, page 70 Data summary, page 97 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Environment/Our carbon strategy/ emissions. Performance in 2016, page 60 Environment/WPP’s carbon emissions statement, page 70 Data summary, page 97 Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type Waste to recycling data Environment/Resource use and waste/ and disposal method. is externally assured. Waste, page 68 Independent Verification Statement, page 105 Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of Environment/Our carbon strategy/ environmental impacts of products and services. Air travel, videoconferencing and offsetting, page 65 Environment/Our wider carbon impact, page 68 Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts Environment/Our carbon strategy/ of transporting products and other goods and Air travel, videoconferencing and materials used for the organisation’s operations, offsetting, page 65 and transporting members of the workforce. Environment/Our wider carbon impact, page 68 Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain/How we select supplier screened using environmental criteria. partners, page 76 Supply chain/How we monitor risks, page 76 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Environment/Our wider carbon environmental impacts in the supply chain and impact, page 68 actions taken. 116 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information General Standard Disclosures Comment Location in document CATEGORY: SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-DMA Our overall approach to managing material sustainability issues – Governance and management, pages 90 to 91 Our management approach for material issues relating to employment – Our people/Management approach, page 37 Our management approach for material issues relating to our supply chain – Supply chain/Management approach, page 73 Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee We do not currently Our people/Appraisals and hires and employee turnover by age group, report turnover rates. performance development, page 51 gender and region. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates Our people/Diversity and inclusion/ after parental leave, by gender. Flexible working and support for working parents, page 43 Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, Health and safety data Our people/Health, safety and occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, is externally assured. well-being, page 53 and total number of work-related fatalities, by Independent Verification Statement, region and by gender. page 105 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal Health and safety data Our people/Health, safety and agreements with trade unions is externally assured. well-being, page 53 Training and Education G4-LA9 (M) Average hours of training per year per We report training spend Our people/Training and employee by gender, and by employee category. per person and by gender development/Performance in 2016, but not by category. page 50 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Our people/Training and lifelong learning that support the continued development, page 50 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular We do not report data by Our people/Training and performance and career development reviews, by gender. development/Appraisals and gender and by employment category. performance development, page 51 Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Our data on age, gender Our people/Diversity and inclusion, breakdown of employees per employee category and ethnic diversity is page 40 according to gender, age group, minority group externally assured. Independent Verification Statement, membership, and other indicators of diversity. page 105 Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain/How we select supplier screened using labour practices criteria. partners, page 76 Supply chain/How we monitor risks, page 76 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 117 General Standard Disclosures Comment Location in document Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour Our people/Monitoring progress/ practices filed, addressed, and resolved through Employment infringements, page 54 formal grievance mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS G4-DMA for all material human rights related Our overall approach to managing aspects material sustainability issues – Governance and management, pages 90 to 91 Our management approach for material issues relating to human rights – Our client work/Management approach, page 15 Our management approach for material issues relating to our supply chain – Supply chain/Management approach, page 73 Our management approach for material issues relating to employment – Our people/Management approach, page 37 Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant Human rights issues are Supply chain, page 72 investment agreements and contracts that include covered in our Code of human rights clauses or that underwent human Business Conduct – rights screening. Supplier Version, which supplier partners are asked to sign. G4-HR2 (M) Total hours of employee training on Human rights issues, Our client work/Our ethical standards, policies and procedures concerning aspects of including in relation to page 28 human rights that are relevant to operations, the impact of advertising Our client work/Human rights, including the percentage of employees trained. on human rights, are page 30 covered in our online ethics training. Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination We do not report separate Our people/Monitoring progress/ and corrective actions taken. data on this. Any cases Employment infringements, page 54 involving allegations of discrimination against our people are included in the data on employment infringements. Forced or Compulsory Labour G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as Our client work/Human rights/Modern having significant risk for incidents of forced or slavery, page 52 compulsory labour, and measures to contribute Modern Slavery Act Transparency to the elimination of all forms of forced or Statement www.wpp.com/wpp/ compulsory labour. about/howwebehave/governance/ Supply chain/Our standards for supplier partners, page 74 118 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information General Standard Disclosures Comment Location in document Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage Our client work/Human rights, of operations that have been subject to page 30 human rights reviews or impact assessments. Supply chain/How we select supplier partners, page 76 Supply chain/How we monitor risks, page 76 Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that Supply chain/How we select supplier were screened using human rights criteria. partners, page 76 Supply chain/How we monitor risks, page 76 SOCIETY G4-DMA Our overall approach to managing material sustainability issues – Governance and management, pages 90 to 91 Our management approach for material issues relating to our client work – Our client work/Management approach, page 15 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on Our client work/Our ethical standards, anti-corruption policies and procedures. page 28 Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions WPP the parent company Our client work/Public policy and by country and recipient/beneficiary. does not make political lobbying, Political contributions, contributions. page 33 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-DMA Our overall approach to managing material sustainability issues – Governance and management, pages 90 to 91 Our management approach for material issues relating to our client work – Our client work/Management approach, page 15 Marketing communications G4-PR7 (M) Total number of incidents of nonWe do not currently report Our client work/Our ethical standards/ compliance with regulations and voluntary data in this area. Compliance with marketing codes concerning marketing communications, standards, page 29 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated We do not currently Our client work/Privacy and data complaints regarding breaches of customer report data in this area. security, page 34 privacy and losses of customer data. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 119 WPP Policies WPP Sustainability Policy We believe our business can make a positive contribution to society and the environment by managing our activities with care and by working with responsible organisations that promote social and environmental causes. Our operating companies are required to comply with this Sustainability Policy and report performance to the parent company quarterly. We recognise that many different stakeholders have an interest in our business and we welcome discussion of our policies and performance. Social investment WPP companies are encouraged to: •• Undertake pro bono work for not-for-profit organisations involved in tackling social and environmental issues. •• Make appropriate financial and other donations to social and environmental organisations. Managing relationships In all our relationships we will be open, honest and transparent and will not pay or receive bribes or inducements of any kind. Employee development WPP companies: •• Will select and promote our people on the basis of qualifications and merit, without discrimination or concern for race, religion, national origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age or disability. •• Will support training and career development for our people. •• Will provide a safe and civilised workplace free from sexual harassment or offensive behaviour. Marketing ethics WPP companies: •• Will comply with applicable regulations and self-regulatory codes of practice in the countries in which they operate. •• Will not knowingly create work which contains statements, suggestions or images offensive to general public decency and will give appropriate consideration to the impact of our work on minority segments of the population, whether that minority be by race, religion, national origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age or disability. •• Will not undertake work designed to mislead in any respect, including social, environmental and human rights issues. 120 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information Environment WPP companies will respect the environment by minimising their impact from: •• Energy use •• Transport •• Consumption of paper and other resources •• Water use •• Managing any significant sustainability risks in our supply chains. WPP sets quantitative targets for reducing our key environmental impacts. We aim to minimise the environmental impacts associated with the advertising and communications campaigns we create for clients. Our operating companies are encouraged to help achieve these goals. Human rights In our business activities we aim to prevent, identify and address negative impacts on human rights and we look for opportunities to positively promote and support human rights, including children’s rights. WPP companies must comply with our Human Rights Policy Statement which reflects international standards and principles. We support the right of our people and their families to basic human rights, including the right to organise, the right to collective bargaining, the right to fair conditions of work, freedom of opinion and expression and freedom from forced labour and child labour. We expect our suppliers to adopt human rights standards consistent with our own. WPP Code of Business Conduct WPP and its companies operate in many markets and countries throughout the world. In all instances, we respect national laws and any other laws with an international reach, such as the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the Modern Slavery Act, where relevant, and industry codes of conduct. We are committed to acting ethically in all aspects of our business and to maintaining the highest standards of honesty and integrity. •• We, the officers and staff of all companies in the WPP Group (the Group), recognise our obligations to all who have a stake in our success including share owners, clients, staff and suppliers; •• Information about our business shall be communicated clearly and accurately in a non-­discriminatory manner and in accordance with local regulations; •• We select and promote our people on the basis of their qualifications and merit, without discrimination or concern for race, religion, national origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age or disability; •• We believe that a workplace should be safe and civilised and that employment must be freely chosen; we will not tolerate sexual harassment, discrimination or offensive behaviour of any kind, which includes the persistent demeaning of individuals through words or actions, the display or distribution of offensive material, or the use or possession of weapons on WPP or client premises; WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 121 •• We will not tolerate the use, possession or distribution of illegal drugs, or our people reporting for work under the influence of drugs or alcohol; •• We will treat all information relating to the Group’s business, or to its clients, as confidential. In particular, ‘insider trading’ is expressly prohibited and confidential information must not be used for personal gain; •• We are committed to protecting consumer, client and employee data in accordance with national laws and industry codes; •• We will not knowingly create work which contains statements, suggestions or images offensive to general public decency and will give appropriate consideration to the impact of our work on minority segments of the population, whether that minority be by race, religion, national origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age or disability; •• We will not undertake work which is intended or designed to mislead, including in relation to social, environmental and human rights issues; •• We will consider the potential for clients or work to damage the Group’s reputation prior to taking them on. This includes reputational damage from association with clients that participate in activities that contribute to the abuse of human rights; •• We will not for personal or family gain directly or indirectly engage in any activity which competes with companies within the Group or with our obligations to any such company; •• We will not give, offer or accept bribes, whether in cash or otherwise, to or from any third party, including but not restricted to government officials, clients and brokers or their representatives. We will collectively ensure that all staff understand this policy through training, communication and by example; •• We will not offer any items of personal inducement to secure business. This is not intended to prohibit appropriate entertainment or the making of occasional gifts of minor value unless the client has a policy which restricts this; •• We will not accept for our personal benefit goods or services of more than nominal value from suppliers, potential suppliers or other third parties; •• We will not have any personal or family conflicts of interest within our businesses or with our suppliers or other third parties with whom we do business; •• No corporate contributions of any kind, including the provision of services or materials for less than the market value, may be made to politicians, political parties or action committees, without the prior written approval of the WPP Board; and •• We will continue to strive to make a positive contribution to society and the environment by: maintaining high standards of marketing ethics; respecting human rights in our business, supply chain and through our client work; respecting the environment; supporting community organisations; supporting employee development; and managing significant corporate responsibility risks in our supply chain. Our Sustainability Policy and Human Rights Policy Statement provide more detail about our commitments in these areas. 122 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Other information WPP Human Rights Policy Statement Introduction Respect for human rights and compliance with relevant law are fundamental principles for WPP and our companies. In our business activities we aim to prevent, identify and address negative impacts on human rights and we look for opportunities to positively promote and support human rights, including children’s rights. We are guided in our approach by international standards and principles including the International Bill of Human Rights, the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Children’s Rights and Business Principles. We are members of the United Nations’ Global Compact. This policy statement explains how human rights are relevant to our business and the steps we take to protect human rights. It applies to all WPP subsidiaries and should be read in conjunction with the WPP Code of Business Conduct and Sustainability Policy. What Human Rights issues means to WPP The main ways that human rights are relevant to WPP are: Employees We respect the human rights of all employees, including permanent, temporary and contract workers. We select and promote our people on the basis of their qualifications and merit, encouraging diversity. We expect all employees to be treated without discrimination or concern for factors such as race, religion, national origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age or disability. We seek to provide safe workplaces. We recognise the rights of our employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We will not tolerate harassment or any form of forced, compulsory or child labour. Suppliers We expect our suppliers to respect the human rights of their own employees and suppliers and to meet human rights standards that are consistent with WPP’s. All major suppliers are asked to sign the Supplier Version of our Code of Business Conduct, which includes human rights requirements, and they are expected to apply these requirements to their own supply chain. Client work WPP companies will not undertake work designed to mislead on human rights issues. Where relevant, we will work with our clients on human rights issues and comply with client policies in relation to human rights and marketing. Work for human rights organisations Communications campaigns can be used to raise awareness of human rights issues and to encourage action to protect human rights. Our agencies provide creative services to organisations involved in protecting and promoting human rights, often on a pro bono basis (for little or no fee). WPP the parent company supports and encourages this involvement. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 123 Our policy To embed our commitment to protect and promote human rights, WPP and its companies will: •• Comply with all relevant laws and support international human rights standards. •• Reflect our commitment to human rights in our policies and procedures. •• Take steps to identify, prevent or address human rights impacts. This includes integrating human rights into our risk management processes. •• Provide training for our employees on human rights. •• Operate a grievance mechanism to enable employees and suppliers to report human rights concerns. •• Publish our Human Rights Policy Statement and report on our approach to human rights. •• Regularly review and update our approach to human rights. •• Take steps to support and promote human rights, including through our pro bono work. Responsibilities Our Group finance director has responsibility for overseeing our approach to human rights. Each WPP company is expected to comply with this policy and to implement the procedures needed to meet its requirements. It is the role of the parent company to communicate this policy to all WPP businesses, to provide support and guidance for WPP business leaders and employees on human rights and to integrate human rights considerations into Group-level policies and procedures where relevant. Reporting a concern WPP employees can report any human rights concerns via our Right to Speak facility. This is managed by a third-party and overseen by our Internal Audit function. Suppliers and other stakeholders can report any human rights concerns in relation to WPP and its companies via an independently-managed phone line. This is overseen by our Legal and Internal Audit functions. Details are provided on our website. 124 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/2017 Get in touch We’d like to know what you think about our report and sustainability at WPP. Please get in touch sustainability@wpp.com. To talk to our companies about sustainability, contact: WPP news and updates Addison Group Landor addison-group.net landor.com You can sign up to receive WPP’s public monthly online news bulletin at wpp.com/subscriptions Burson-Marsteller MEC burson-marsteller.com mecglobal.com Become a fan on Facebook Cohn & Wolfe OgilvyChange facebook.com/wpp cohnwolfe.com ogilvychange.com Follow us on Twitter Geometry Global OgilvyEarth twitter.com/wpp geometry.com ogilvypr.com/ogilvyearth Watch us on YouTube Grey OgilvyNoor youtube.com/wpp grey.com ogilvynoor.com Connect with us on LinkedIn GroupM PSB Green linkedin.com/company/wpp groupm.com psbresearch.com Hill+Knowlton Red Fuse Strategies Communications hkstrategies.com redfuse.com Kantar Added Value Scholz & Friends added-value.com Reputation s-f.com/reputation Kantar Futures thefuturescompany.com The Partners the-partners.com Kantar Millward Brown VML millwardbrown.com vml.com Kantar TNS Wunderman tnsglobal.com wunderman.com Written and produced by WPP Consultancy by BDH Sustainability Kinetic Y&R Group’s Designed by Addison Group addison-group.net kineticww.com INSPIRE © WPP 2017 yrgrp.com/inspire This report is printed on Amadeus 100 Silk which contains 100% recovered fibre. This is Process Chlorine Free (PCF) bleached. It is FSC® certified. Printed in the UK by Pureprint using vegetable inks throughout. Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral® company. Cover illustration Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the by Pablo S. Herrero Brecha (Opening) Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Salamanca, Spain Stewardship Council® (FSC) chain-of-custody certified. wpp.com
