Energy for a sustainable future Sustainability report 2016 Our geographic footprint Energy for a sustainable future Our geographic footprint Sweden ° Anholt (400MW) Denmark Studstrup Kyndby Herning  Horns Rev 1 (160MW) ° Asnæs ° Middelgrunden (20MW) Skærbæk 2x Horns Rev 2 (209MW) ° Esbjerg Svanemøllen H.C. Ørsted Avedøre 1&2 ° Nysted (165MW) Walney Extension (659MW) ° ° Barrow (90MW) ° Westermost Rough (210MW) ° Gode Wind 1 (330MW) Walney 1&2 (367MW) ° West of Duddon Sands (389MW) ° ° Gode Wind 2 (252MW) ° Burbo Bank Extension (258MW) ° Hornsea 1 (1,200MW) °B  urbo Bank (90MW) ° Borkum Riffgrund 1 (312MW) ° Race Bank (573MW) ° Borkum Riffgrund 2 (450MW) REnescience Northwich ° Lincs (270MW) Germany Borssele 1&2 (700MW) ° Netherlands Symbols United Kingdom ° Gunfleet Sands 1&2 (173MW) In operation °L  ondon Array 1 United States – Business development Taiwan – Business development Under construction (630MW) Enecogen Business development (MW) Total wind farm capacity In operation ° Formosa 1 Under construction ° Bay State Wind ° Ocean Wind Sale of power and/or gas Power distribution in Denmark 1 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 2 Introduction by our CEO Energy for a sustainable future “ We are the energy company in Europe that has come the furthest in the green transformation Leading the green transformation 2016 was the warmest year on record, and the concentration of CO2 in In 2016, we decided to divest our oil and gas production activities. This the atmosphere is at the highest level ever measured. To slow down means that over the coming years, we will be phasing out the production climate change, we must transform ­society with CO2-neutral solutions. of oil and gas as well as the use of coal. Gas is a flexible fuel that emits This also applies to the way we produce energy. Energy must be based only half as much CO2 as coal, and we therefore still believe that gas can on renewable sources rather than fossil fuels. At DONG Energy, we want play an important role in the transition to a green future. We will thereto lead the transformation to renewable energy, while at the same time fore continue to trade, transport and sell gas. operating a sustainable business, which is respectful of society, the environment and people. In 2016, we achieved the best results ever for employee safety and job satisfaction. It makes me proud, because it is a sign that our company is We are the energy company in Europe that has come the furthest in characterised by a strong culture and robust processes. the green transformation. In 2016, green power and heat accounted for 50% of our energy generation. And we have reduced our CO2 emisIn 2016, DONG Energy’s Board of Directors approved an updated policy sions with 52% since 2006. We now raise the bar with new ambitious on sustainability – our Sustainability Commitment. In the policy, we targets. By 2020, our CO2 ­emissions must be reduced by 78% relative commit to running our business in a way that supports the UN Sustainable to 2006, rather than our previous target of 6 ­ 0%. And by 2023, we Development Goals. Moreover, for the tenth consecutive year, we commit want to achieve a 96% reduction. to promoting the UN Global Compact principles on respect for human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. The transformation is driven by our investments in offshore wind farms and our conversion of power stations to biomass. By 2025, our ambition In this report, we describe how we work with sustainability. is for our installed offshore wind capacity to be able to supply green electricity to 30 million people. This development is partially driven by a continuously declining cost of offshore wind. And we want to continue the conversion of our power stations from coal and gas to ­su­stainable biomass. We have now set ourselves the target to be completely rid of Henrik Poulsen coal by 2023. CEO 3 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 4 Contents Energy for a sustainable future Contents DONG Energy Sustainability Commitment 3 Introduction by our CEO We want sustainable energy to empower people, businesses and societies to unleash 6 DONG Energy Sustainability Commitment 7 Business model their potential without having to worry about harming the planet or reducing the 9 Our strategy for sustainable development opportunities for future generations. 11 Green energy 15 Smart energy 19 Sustainable working life We want to contribute to creating a world that We want to help our customers use energy We want to contribute to creating a sustainable runs entirely on green energy and enables people smarter and more efficiently, enabling them to working life where our employees thrive and find joy to lead sustainable lives. make the most of the energy they buy. in their work. As a company, we commit to operating in a way that creates progress in their work. We commit to treating all people with respect, to work­ towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Through our commit­ ing against discrimination in all its forms and to be an inclusive ment, we want to help preserving the environmental, social and organisation, which respects individual characteristics such as gender, economic assets that are fundamental for society and important to our age, sexual orientation, nationality, religious and political beliefs. long-term value creation. To guide the way we work with sustainability, we adhere to the UN Global Compact principles on environment, labour Rule of law and anti-corruption and human rights and anti-corruption, as well as sustainable economic The rule of law and absence of corruption are a precondition for sound development. business and well-functioning societies. We commit to complying with all applicable laws and regulations and to working against corruption Environment and bribery in all their forms. We have zero tolerance of bribery, fraud 13 Offshore wind has global potential 17 Timing your energy use matters 21 Good management promotes well-being In our work to minimise our environmental impact, we prioritise three and other types of inappropriate business behaviour. We pledge to 14 The end of coal 18 Close partnerships for savings 22 Not a question of snooping areas: climate change, biodiversity and resource management. We uphold sound business practices in our organisation and to promote commit to taking action to combat climate change, promoting access such practices amongst our business partners. to sustainable energy and advancing energy efficiency. We strive to reduce the cost of green energy because cheaper green energy Economic development 23 How we work technologies will increase the share of renewables in the global All societies need energy to develop. We commit to promoting affordable, energy mix. In our own operations and in our supply chain, we commit reliable and modern energy systems, which will support the sustainable 24 Our sustainability governance to protecting the ecosystems, sourcing from sustainably managed development of societies. We maintain and modernise our energy assets, 25 How we develop sustainability programmes forests and avoiding, minimising or restoring biodiversity loss. As for and we provide innovative and competitive energy solutions to our 27 Addressing issues through programmes the natural resources that we rely on in our business, we commit to customers. We recognise the role that tax plays for society to develop pursuing recycling and reuse to create more sustainable consumption sustainably. We commit to complying with the intent and the letter of tax 29 Our sustainability programmes and production. law and not using contrived or abnormal tax structures. 31 Energy supply Labour and human rights Dialogue 33 Climate and environment With a significant number of employees and a global supply chain, we Sustainability is an area in constant development. We commit to 35 People can make a positive difference in many people’s lives by enforcing labour reporting on our sustainability policies, targets and progress – and 37 Communities and human rights. We commit to safeguarding and strengthening labour to engaging with our stakeholders to better understand how we can and human rights, to promoting safe working conditions, mental health continuously improve our sustainability performance and contribute to and well-being and to giving our employees good learning opportunities a more sustainable world. This report constitutes DONG Energy’s compliance with the statutory disclosure on corporate social responsibility, see the Danish Financial Statements Act §99a, and the gender distribution on management levels, see the Danish Financial Statements Act §99b. 5 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 6 Business model Energy for a sustainable future Business model We are active across the entire power and heat value chain. We rely on key resources to create value for our customers, shareholders, employees and society at large. Our strategy for sustainable development supports that we contribute to sustaining and developing these key resources. Key resources Core activities Value creation Energy assets Develop and construct Operate and maintain Sell and optimise Energy products We are leading the green transformation by investing Our assets produce energy for society, while a reliable in new renewable technologies. grid ensures high security of supply to our customers. Develop and build Own 21 offshore wind farms of Utilise our partnership Natural resources offshore wind farms which we operate 16. In addition, model and crystalise value Sustainable energy We rely on natural resources such as biomass as well as we have six wind farms under By developing green energy sources we reduce CO2 locations with attractive wind speeds and seabed conditions. Wind Power construction. emissions and contribute to mitigating climate change. Human resources Highly skilled people We rely on a highly skilled workforce to operate our business. By investing in our employees we get safe, healthy, engaged and skilled employees. Convert our power stations Own and operate ten power Enter into long-term Stakeholder engagement from coal or gas to sustainable stations in Denmark and one heat contracts with our We depend on constructive relations with our key stakeholders biomass plant in the Netherlands heat customers and sell Stakeholder support to ensure supportive framework conditions for our business. power into the market More satisfied and loyal customers and broader stakeholder support. Bioenergy & Innovative culture Thermal Power We continuously develop cost-competitive energy solutions Innovative solutions through innovation. Innovation to reduce the cost of electricity from offshore wind ensures the competitiveness of the technology and development of new sustainable solutions. Financial capital We finance our large investments through cash flow from Modernise our power distribution Operate and maintain our Manage the Group’s overall operations, debt and divestment of partnership interests. grid in Denmark grid infrastructure energy portfolio and provide Financial return gas, power and energy Growing operating profit and increasing investor returns solutions for our customers create a robust financial platform for future growth. Distribution & Customer Solutions See pages 29-38 for our targets and performance. Our value creation enables us to sustain and develop our key resources 7 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 8 Our strategy for sustainable development Energy for a sustainable future Our strategy for sustainable development Our vision and mission Leading the energy transformation by delivering green, independent and economically viable energy solutions. Our purpose We want sustainable energy to empower people, businesses and societies to unleash their potential without having to worry about harming the planet or reducing the opportunities for future generations. We want to lead the transformation to renewable energy. We want to contribute to creating a world where people can use energy as a natural part of their everyday lives Priorities Green energy Smart energy Sustainable working life without the risk of climate change and limiting the opportunities for future generations. We prioritise three areas where we make the biggest contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We want to contribute to creating We want to help our customers use We want to contribute to creating a a world that runs entirely on energy smarter and more efficiently, sustainable working life where our green energy and enables people enabling them to make the most of the employees thrive and find joy in to lead sustainable lives. energy they buy. their work. Sustainability Energy supply Climate and environment People Communities programmes 20 sustainability programmes Deployment of offshore wind Green transformation Workplace safety Good business conduct are the foundation of our Reducing the cost of offshore wind Sourcing of certified biomass Employee health and well-being Responsible business partners sustainability strategy. We have Greener power stations Energy savings Performance and development Local engagement categorised the programmes into four subject areas, depending Modernising the grid Protecting biodiversity Employee satisfaction and motivation Responsible tax management on which type of resource each Customer satisfaction Resource management Employee diversity Better reputation programme contributes to sustain and develop. It is important for us to operate a sustainable business that respects Where we create most value Energy assets Natural resources Human resources Stakeholder engagement society, the environment and people. Our sustainability approach is All our sustainability programmes contribute to creating a more expressed in our Sustainability Commitment adopted by our Board of ­sustainable society. Across the programmes, we have chosen three Directors in 2016. The Sustainability Commitment supports the UN’s ­priorities that are especially important to us: Innovative culture 17 Sustainable Development Goals. • Green energy: We want to contribute to creating a world that runs Financial capital Sustainability programmes entirely on green energy and enables people to lead sustainable lives. We contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals through 20 sustainability programmes, and we manage our efforts and continuously • Smart energy: We want to help our customers use energy smarter Our policy Sustainability Commitment measure our progress according to these programmes. The sustainability and more efficiently, enabling them to make the most of the energy programmes are the foundation of our sustainability strategy. they buy. The 20 programmes are categorised into four subject areas that are • Sustainable working life: We want to contribute to creating a fundamental to our sustainability work: sustainable working life where our employees thrive and find joy in their work. Our contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals • Energy supply: Programmes that develop our energy assets and contribute to a green and stable energy supply. This report describes our progress within all 20 sustainability pro­ Contribution through Contribution outside grammes with particular focus on the three priorities. In the following, sustainability programmes sustainability programmes • Climate and environment: Programmes that limit climate change you can read cases about the way we work – including some of the and protect natural resources. challenges we meet, and how we address them. Our 20 sustainability programmes contribute to 14 of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. See a full mapping of our We address three Sustainable sustainability programmes, priorities and the Sustainable Development Goals on dongenergy.com/sdgs. Development Goals through our work, but without working strategically with them • People: Programmes that develop human resources. Discontinuing activities through programmes. As a consequence of the decision to divest our Oil & Gas business, • Communities: Programmes that support our stakeholder relations. all results from these discontinuing activities are shown separately in the supplementary data appendix for this report, available on dongenergy.com/ Through our sustainability programmes, we work on sustaining and sustainabilitydata2016. All results in the present report exclude Oil & developing the six types of resources that we depend on to operate and Gas, also historically, to ensure comparability. develop our business: energy assets, natural resources, employees, an innovative culture, stakeholders and financial capital. On pages 7-8, we illustrate how the six resources are integrated into our business model. VERY HIGH CONTRIBUTION HIGH CONTRIBUTION MODERATE CONTRIBUTION LOW CONTRIBUTION 9 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 10 Green energy Energy for a sustainable future Green energy The cost of green technologies is now on a par with coal and gas Cost comparison for new investments across technologies in north-western Europe1 'Levelised revenue of electricity' estimated at the year of contracting , EUR/MWh, 2016 prices Offshore wind Solar PV Onshore wind Imagine that your everyday life were based on 100% sustainable energy. You could use energy and live your life without having to ­ 50% worry about contributing to climate change. To get there, we need to change the global energy systems to green energy. That is now 'Levelised cost band' starting to happen and offshore wind plays an important role. for coal and gas power 2 160 78 68 68 60 57 2012 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Reference price Borssele 1&2 Kriegers Flak Borssele 3&4 Tenders High-wind sites Netherlands 1 Denmark 1 Netherlands 1 Germany 1 Germany 1 Sources: BWE, BMWI, NEV, IEA, DEA and Energinet.dk. 1. The estimate for technology costs is based on 'Levelised revenue of electricity' (LROE), which is the average of revenue over the lifetime of the asset, and which consists of market revenue (based on official national wholesale price forecasts) and subsidy revenue (strike price). Revenue has been discounted using a socioeconomic discount rate. To make offshore wind costs comparable across countries, the costs estimates have been adjusted to a full project scope which includes transmission and development costs. 2. 'Levelised cost band' indicates the level of cost of coal and gas fired power stations and is based on CO2 and fuel prices from IEA, World Energy Outlook 2016, 'New Policies Scenario' (baseline scenario). Tackling climate change with green energy Cheaper renewable energy What we do The global mean temperature and the concentration of CO2 in the The cost of renewable energy is coming down rapidly. Since 2012, the At DONG Energy, we contribute to creating a world based entirely — Green transformation: Through offshore wind and sustainable atmosphere are both at the highest levels ever measured. Since the Paris cost of onshore wind has dropped by around 20%, while cost of solar has on green energy through five programmes: biomass, we significantly increase our green energy production agreement took effect in 2016, the international community has begun dropped by around 60%. In the same period, the cost of offshore wind and reduce our CO2 emissions. a common path to address this ­challenge, working towards keeping the energy has dropped by more than 50%. — Deployment of offshore wind: As the market leader in building global temperature rise below 2°C. offshore wind farms, we help mature offshore wind into a technology In 2006, 83% of our power and heat production was black, mainly based The significant cost reductions mean that renewable energy is now that can be scaled globally. on coal, and only 17% was green. In 2016, 50% of our power and heat More than one third of global CO2 emissions come from power generapproa­ching a point where it can start to compete head-on with conven­ production was green. We have built enough offshore wind capacity to ation. To reduce emissions, the world must replace the existing fossil-­ tional power production. This will make renewable energy the natural — Reducing the cost of offshore wind: We reduce the cost of offpower 9.5 million people. And we have reduced our coal consumption by based energy system with a renewable energy system. This is now choice and one of the most efficient ways to fight climate change. shore wind to continuously strengthen its competitiveness against 73%. In these ways, we have halved our CO2 emissions since 2006. We starting to happen, but there is still some way to go. Towards 2030, more other energy technologies. are well under way in our green transformation, but we are not there yet. than 80% of new power production capacity built in Europe is expected As cost declines, offshore wind attracts increased attention from new We have therefore decided to phase out all coal from our power stations to be green. That will double the share of green power production in markets and investors. Offshore wind is therefore seeing strong and — Greener power stations: We convert our coaland gas-fired power towards 2023. The biomass we use to replace coal must be sustainable Europe to 37% by 2030. Outside Europe, the share of green power increasingly global growth as a clean, efficient and scalable technology. stations to sustainable biomass. so that the incineration is CO2 neutral and biodiversity is protected. production is significantly lower, namely 7%, but it is expected to Towards 2020, offshore wind is expected to be the fastest growing almost triple towards 2030. renewable energy technology in Europe with an expected average growth — Sourcing of certified biomass: We document that the biomass rate of 23% a year. Offshore wind has evolved from being a niche tech­ is sustainable by implementing our sustainability requirements no­logy to becoming a mainstream investment object among some of the through certification of suppliers. world’s largest energy companies and investors. 11 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 12 Green energy Energy for a sustainable future The end of coal Fast technological development The offshore wind technology is developing fast, and that has enabled significant reductions in cost. We have reduced our coal consumption by 73% since 2006. We are now taking the next step as Boeing 747-8 we aim to phase out coal completely from our power and heat generation by 2023. We replace Length: 76m coal with biomass and through our sourcing, we need to ensure that the biomass is sustainable. We are converting our power stations to gene­ To get certified, the biomass producers have In 2017, we will continue our work to implement rate green power and heat based on sustainable to comply with a number of requirements. our sustainability requirements. Since August biomass instead of coal and gas. The biomass Among these is their ability to trace the raw 2016, 61% of our sourced biomass has been is wood pellets and wood chips, primarily made material back to the original source and docucertified as sustainable. In 2017, our target from residue products like branches and twigs, ment that it is sustainable. is that 60% of the biomass we buy during 113m thinning trees, as well as sawdust from the furnithe year must continue to be certified as ture and sawmill industry. This has a considerThird-party auditors conduct regular control sustainable. By 2020, our target is 100%. able impact on our carbon footprint. We have visits to check if the producers meet the require­ reduced CO2 emissions from our power and heat ments in, for instance, the SBP standard. It can generation by 52% since 2006, and our target is be a challenge for producers to document the a 96% reduction by 2023 compared to 2006. traceability of especially sawdust and other Vindeby Middelgrunden Horns Rev 2 Anholt Westermost Rough Burbo Bank Extension re­sidue products from production of wood Our sustainable biomass programme Year: 1991 Year: 2001 Year: 2010 Year: 2013 Year: 2015 Year: 2017 We have now defined a new target of phasing materials. Moreover, many suppliers have not Diameter: 35m Diameter: 76m Diameter: 93m Diameter: 120m Diameter: 154m Diameter: 164m ensures that: out coal completely from our production by been used to the requirement of documenting Height: 35m Height: 64m Height: 68m Height: 82m Height: 102m Height: 113m Capacity: 0.45MW Capacity: 2.00MW Capacity: 2.30MW Capacity: 3.60MW Capacity: 6.00MW Capacity: 8.00MW 2023, because coal is the type of fossil energy sustainability by means of certification: • trees are continuously replanted, ensuring­ causing the highest amount of CO2 emissions. that the size of the forest is stable or “It’s been a valuable process. The bioenergy increased. This enables the forest to con­ti­ When replacing coal with biomass, it is sector has been driving the development of nuously capture and store CO2 emitted from essential that the biomass is sustainable. The sustainability in the entire wood and forestry incineration of wood pellets and wood chips Offshore wind has global potential incineration of biomass must be CO2 neutral, and biodiversity needs to be protected. That is why we introduced the Sustainable Biomass industry in the Baltics,” says Raul Kirjanen, CEO of Graanul Invest, a supplier of biomass to our power stations. • the forest ecosystems and biodiversity are protected in order to safeguard forest health and vitality Partnership (SBP) certification scheme in 2016, Offshore wind plays an important role in the green transformation and is now beginning to developed in collaboration with other European “It’s good to secure the sustainability docu• social and labour rights are respected. see growth in regions outside Europe. At DONG Energy, we have contributed significantly to energy companies. The SBP scheme enables mentation so nobody can be in any doubts as Read more About our sustainability requirements in developing offshore wind to what it is today – for instance by reducing the price considerably. us to verify that the biomass we buy meets our to whether the biomass is sustainable,” DONG Energy’s Programme for sustainable biomass sourcing sustainability requirements. he concludes. on dongenergy.com/biomass. We installed offshore wind turbine no. 1,000 and 2 Offshore Wind Farms in the Netherlands. notably higher compared with onshore wind. Our green transformation in autumn 2016. We are the first company to We previously set a target to reduce the cost This means that offshore wind generates power reach that milestone. Towards 2020, we will of offshore wind to EUR 100/MWh by 2020; for a significantly higher number of hours Renewable energy share of our Our coal consumption continue to build a number of large offshore we surpassed that target in 2016 – four years in a year relative to onshore wind. Offshore power and heat generation* (million tonnes) wind farms that will increase our total installed ahead of schedule. wind has the potential for supplying energy 6.2 capacity to 6.7GW. Our ambition is to install 11-12GW offshore wind by 2025 – the equivalent Anders Lindberg elaborates: “Our standard to hundreds of millions of people. The task at hand is to make the technology global. 1.7 0 73% of around 30 million people’s annual power consumption. concept for offshore wind farms is one of the factors helping us to reduce cost. The concept We would like to contribute to this. We are 50% provides economies of scale and contributes to developing projects on the east coast of the 2006 2016 2023 target “By installing 1,000 offshore wind turbines, optimum utilisation of wind turbine capacity. USA and in 2016, we opened an office in 2016 we’ve gained unique experience in how to build Another case in point is that our engineers Taiwan to explore the Asian market. Our CO2 emissions* and operate these offshore 'power stations',” have designed lighter foundations that require (gCO2e/kWh) says Anders Lindberg, Senior Vice President, less steel, making them less costly.” Expanding outside Europe puts new 462 96% Wind Power. demands on us. We must get to know the 17% 224 The cost of electricity from offshore wind in Offshore wind offers many advantages besides the falling cost. Offshore wind does not take up new communities that we will become part of. We must also, to some degree, build up local 52% 20 Europe has been reduced by around 50% since land or cause inconvenience for neighbours. supply chains in collaboration with the rest of 2012. We contributed to that milestone in 2016 And due to strong wind speeds at sea, the the industry to support efficient sourcing and 2006 2006 2016 2023 target by winning the right to construct the Borssele 1 utilisation of the total energy potential is keep the cost down. * In 2016, we changed the calculation method for our renewable energy share and CO2 emissions from our power and heat generation. The changes are introduced on the basis of the Greenhouse Gas protocol’s recommendations and are implemented for all historic performance data and the targets for our CO2 emissions. Read more about these changes to accounting practice in the data appendix for this report on dongenergy.com/sustainabilitydata2016. 13 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 14 Smart energy Energy for a sustainable future Smart energy Energy efficiency and renewables are equally important in reducing emissions to meet the global 2°C target Potential for reducing global CO2 emissions through different means GT CO2 emissions 38 – It might not be something you give a lot of thought to, but it does Expected scenario 1 actually matter how or when you use energy, whether as an individual 34 – Energy efficiency or as a company. Energy efficiency is an important tool to reduce CO2 emissions and save money. And intelligent software can enable 30 – customers to utilise the green power when it is plentiful. Renewables 26 – 2°C scenario 1 Fuel switching Nuclear 22 – Carbon capture and storage (CCS) Other 18 – 2010 2020 2030 2040 Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2016 1. The International Energy Agency (IEA) defines a 'New Policies Scenario' shown in this chart as 'Expected scenario', and a '450 Scenario' shown as '2°C scenario'. The rewording is based on IEA’s definitions. Less is more Smarter use of green energy What we do Smart energy begins with energy efficiency. Energy-efficient initiatives Smart energy is also about using energy at the right time. As our pro­ At DONG Energy, we work to help our customers use energy smart Our energy consultants help businesses and residential customers find have been around for longer than renewable energy, but they are still duction of wind and solar power is steadily increasing, we have to find and more effectively through two programmes: new ways of using energy in a smart and efficient way – for the benefit as relevant as ever. It is really a matter of common sense. When you ways to use energy effectively when it is plentiful. of both the climate and the wallet. One of the ways is through our more save energy, you save CO2. In fact, energy efficiency and renewable — Energy savings: We help business and residential customers save than 80 climate partnerships with Danish companies. energy have the same potential when it comes to reducing global CO2 One way is to electrify more of the things we use in our everyday lives energy to save CO2 and money. emissions. – for instance cars that run on electricity instead of petrol. Another Radius is piloting a battery solution in Copenhagen to examine the way is to use more energy at times when green power is abundant and — Modernising the grid: Our distribution company Radius maintains opportunities to store excess energy generated by local solar panels, for When you save energy, you also save money. Improved energy efficiency power prices are lower. It saves you money and helps move the green and develops the power grid, for example by investing in smart instance. From 2017, Radius will also install smart meters that register enables businesses to reduce costs and become more competitive. And transformation forward. A third way is to install batteries in the grid to meters. consumption every hour. The new meters will enable all customers to households, saving money on the energy bill, can choose to spend their store renewable energy. Rethinking energy in these ways enables us all follow their own energy consumption and save money in the future, as money on other things. to use energy more intelligently, which can help build the sustainable each customer can decide to move parts of their energy consumption to cities and communities of the future. times with low demand. 15 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 16 Smart energy Energy for a sustainable future Close partnerships for savings Through our more than 80 climate partnerships, we work with Danish companies to help them reduce their energy consumption. One climate partner that has achieved particularly good results is the biotech company Novozymes. Novozymes has been our climate partner since companies can reduce both their carbon In 2017, we’ll continue our energy-saving 2008. Compared to back then, today Novozymes footprint and their energy bill by implementing initiatives with our partners. We also see good is saving more than 200 million kWh annually energy-saving projects, for example by opportunities to strengthen the cooperation – the equivalent of around 60,000 Danish installing new lighting solutions, through heat with existing climate partners around their households’ annual power consumption. At the recovery and the installation of power and heat activities outside Denmark. same time, the company has reduced their CO2 stations on a miniature scale. emissions by 237,000 tonnes. “We experience that many companies focus on “The climate partnership gives us the specific implementing energy-saving projects. However, energy-saving solutions we need to realise our for some, it may be difficult to prioritise it “ CO2 targets. We get access to competences enough,” explains Palle Yde Poulsen, Head of that enable us to identify and implement Energy Solutions in Distribution & Customer energy projects much faster than would Solutions, adding: otherwise have been possible,” says Kent The climate partnership Mølsted, Environmental Manager, Novozymes. “It’s our task to help our business partners gives us the specific achieve energy savings. Together with the energy-saving solutions But the CO2 savings were not the only savings. company, we work to identify the potential The average payback period of these projects savings and in that regard any obstacles to we need to realise our CO2 is only 2.5 years, which has led to substantial implementing the specific saving initiatives. targets annual cost savings for Novozymes. The Together, we find the solutions, prioritise them Kent Mølsted energy-saving potential is great, and most and launch the most attractive projects.” Timing your energy use matters Environmental Manager, Novozymes Remote smart meters are a key element of the green transformation. They can help integrate locally produced green power into the grid and make us all pay more attention to our electricity consumption. Towards 2020, our distribution company Radius will How our climate partnerships work replace around one million electricity meters in Danish homes. Customers read conventional electricity of electric vehicles and heat pumps and with says Søren U. Schmidt, Lead Business meters once a year, but the new remote-read people producing local green energy from Developer, Radius. meters register consumption on an hourly rooftop solar panels or wind turbines in their basis. This makes it easier being an electricity gardens. The local grids simply must be able Towards 2020, Radius will replace the elec­­tri­customer and enables you as a customer to use to transport more power. city meters in around one million homes in an electricity during those hours when the price is area covering North Zealand, the Copenhagen lowest. Indeed, the price goes up when many “There are two ways of addressing this Metropolitan Area and parts of central Zealand. customers use a great deal of electricity at the challenge. We can develop and strengthen It will be quite an undertaking to finish the job same time. Conversely, the price falls at times the grid to ensure that it can cope with the on time – while at the same time ensuring a with low demand or ample power generation, new load situations. This would require large pleasant experience for our customers. In 2016, DONG Energy identifies how Climate partners implement The financial savings can be used to Certificates guarantee that the for instance in very windy conditions. This investments and could cause inconveniences we started a pilot project to test the IT systems climate partners can save energy energy-saving projects and achieve purchase renewable energy certificates* heat and power consumption of our allows customers to reduce their electricity bill. and irregularities for local residents. Alter­ and the way we meet our customers. We will at Danish production sites and financial savings. from DONG Energy’s offshore wind climate partners is covered by green na­tively, we can encourage customers to be be rolling out the new meters from 2017 and offices. farms and power stations. energy. Smart meters also help the grid keep pace with flexible and use electricity at other times of towards 2020, and around 130 electricians will the green transformation. The pressure on local day, thereby levelling the load on the grid. replace 1,500 electricity meters a day. * A renewable energy certificate is a guarantee of origin that proves that a given share of energy is produced from renewable sources such as wind, solar or biomass. When buyers purchase certificates, they are guaranteed that an amount grids will intensify with an increasing number The latter is the more intelligent solution,” of green energy corresponding to their power and/or heat consumption is produced, as defined by EU legislation. 17 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 18 Sustainable working life Energy for a sustainable future Sustainable Well-being and efficiency are impaired long before sick leave working life EFFICIENCY Support Handle Be visible The manager’s role TEMPERATE Balance between demands and resources WARM • High activity level and Just like energy, our working life must be sustainable too. As a Increasing pressure • Slight reduction in produc­­­potential of high-quality of work OVERHEAT workplace, we must create the framework for a sustainable working Continuous pressure tivity and quality of work • Tendency towards lack of • Motivation • High engagement life, giving our employees the satisfaction and surplus energy to lead MELT DOWN • Feeling of lack of competences clarity and overview • Risk of conflict in the team • Job satisfaction and feeling of control good lives and to spend time with their friends and families. Long-term pressure • Inefficiency • Lack of trust in own abilities • High energy levels BURN OUT • Poor prioritisation and more • Putting out fires errors Intense, long-term pressure • Low well-being, sadness • Cognitive and emotional • Increase in sickness absence exhaustion • Significantly reduced working capacity Early stress symptoms: Severe stress symptoms: Stress symptoms: Zone of development and Eg, physical and mental Eg, difficulties sleeping, Eg, eating, walking and talking learning breakdown headaches and stomach aches, faster, irritability Often long-term sick leave fatigue, growing concerns WELL-BEING Source: Adapted from Marie Kingston and Marie Friis Andersen: 'Stop stress – Handbook for managers'. A limitless working life Consequences What we do Working life is changing. Today, many of us can take work home because A sustainable working environment is very important. People who thrive At DONG Energy, we continuously strive to create a sustainable — Employee health and well-being: We offer our employees healthy it is in our heads, in our smartphones and on our laptops. Our tasks are at work are happier and have more energy to lead good lives and to be working life through three programmes: food, exercise opportunities and advice on mental balance and often continuously evolving, and so it is difficult to sense when good is present with their family and friends. For companies, this means that sleep. good enough. We are hard-pressed in constantly changing organisations. the employees stay longer in their jobs, are less absent and create better — Performance and development: We strive to give our employees And we set high standards for ourselves. As a society, we have only results. Companies with a good working environment achieve better opportunities for both professional and personal development. We Our annual employee survey shows that our efforts have a positive recently begun to understand the implications of these developments financial results. Conversely, a poor working environment can lead to believe that performance and well-being go hand in hand, and so effect. For example, our employees rate their immediate managers and for the well-being of individuals – and what it takes to create the right anxiety, poor health and stress for individual employees. For employers, we focus on good management and an appreciative culture. collaboration with colleagues considerably higher compared to the averages framework for a sustainable working life. this means increased absence, poor retention and a inferior results. for companies in the countries where we operate. The share of employees — Employee satisfaction and motivation: We strive to build a good who have experienced stress is also lower than the Danish average. This and healthy working environment. We focus on the areas that we is a strong starting point. But we can do even better. We do not have all know are most important for our employees’ job satisfaction. Our the answers to the question of how to create a sustainable working life. structured follow-up process supports that we make continuous Far from it. We want to build on our experience and develop and test new progress. ideas together with others who also see this as the way to go. 19 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 20 Sustainable working life Energy for a sustainable future Good management promotes well-being Good management is important. Experience tells us that it is the key to a healthy culture characterised by high levels of well-being and performance. For a long time, we have focused on preparing managers under a bonus scheme, 20% of their still want to do even better. That is why we are our managers for the important task of bonus now depends on their managerial and now offering our managers training in how to managing employees. All our managers collaborative skills and their ability to serve as prevent, identify and address signs of stress complete one or several manager development a good role model for their employees. – and how they can support a sustainable programmes at our management academy. working life. Here they learn about management values, how “The manager is not only assessed based to prioritise their time and how to motivate on results, but also on how the results are and develop employees. Our managers work to achieved. This is a good basis for discussing “ clearly define roles and responsibilities, ensure future performance and how we can develop a well-balanced workload, set clear targets, each individual and the overall company follow up and promote good collaboration. culture,” says Hanne Blume, Head of HR in DONG Energy, about the new initiative. The manager is not only We can see the results in our annual employee assessed based on results, survey. On a scale from 1 to 100, our employees In 2017, we will continue our focus on the but also on how the results give their immediate manager a score 16 index sustainable working life through efforts, points above the Danish benchmark. including how to prevent and address and are achieved In 2016, we decided to focus even more on our managers’ ability to create well-being. For addressing stress in our organisation. Even though our employees experience less stress compared with other Danish companies, we Hanne Blume Head of HR, DONG Energy Not a question of snooping Sleep is just as important as food and drink to ensure a good working life. This is why we offer our employees knowledge and tools to help them sleep better. But is it okay for a company to get involved in employees’ sleeping habits? Sleep is crucial to the restitution of the body sleep? Are we perhaps turning sleep into yet In 2016, we collaborated with Ashridge Our employees’ ratings of their immediate manager * and brain. Some people have difficulties another of the countless areas where you have Executive Education in London on a research falling asleep or have poor sleep quality. This to perform? project to learn more about how we can also goes for some of our employees. In 2016, support our employees in establishing we introduced the 'Goodnight' app to our “In my view, this isn’t overstepping the mark. healthy sleeping habits. The results of the 79 82 64 78 63 79 64 78 62 employees. The app provides simple, practical In the modern world, it’s easy for employees to study concluded, among other things, that 63 advice on how to improve sleep quality. bring work home, working until late at night. Our responsibility as an employer is to make it our employees experienced significant improvements in stress level and sleep just by For many people, it helps to be reminded of clear to our employees that we’d much prefer participating in the study and getting access the importance of sleep and that sleeping them to sleep than to work. Neither DONG to sleep-improving advice on our corporate Rating of immediate less than seven hours a day is unhealthy. For Energy nor anybody else receives data via the intranet. And no participants experienced manager others, this is not enough, if the causes of app about our employees’ sleep quality, so any worsening on the parameters that were poor sleep quality are anxiety or pressures we’re not snooping,” says Hanne Blume, Head measured in the study. My immediate manager My immediate manager My immediate manager My immediate manager of work, for example. That is why our focus of HR, continuing: creates a working culture gives me the constructive has clearly explained how I motivates my department characterised by trust and feedback I need to do my am expected to contribute to achieve good results. on sleep is only a supplement to all our The results from the research project on sleep openness. job well. to my department meeting other efforts to create the framework for a “I agree that some people may feel that our will help us develop future activities. In 2017, its goals. sustainable working life, such as our focus on advice turns sleep into yet another area we will also work on developing more focused good management. where they have to perform. But most of our initiatives, for example targeting shift workers employees see it as a great help and as a relief and families with young children. But are we overstepping the mark by asking that we’re helping in this way. And that tells me * The figures are from our annual People Matter survey and are an average of all ratings of immediate managers across the organisation. DONG Energy Danish benchmark our employees to do such a private thing as that we’re doing the right thing.” 21 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 22 How we work Energy for a sustainable future How we work Our sustainability governance At DONG Energy, responsibility for our sustainability performance lies relevant, our sustainability programmes consist of policies and with the business at the relevant levels of the organisation, with the pro­cedures, p ­ erformance indicators and targets and due diligence Our sustainability work is based on a total of 20 Board of Directors as the highest authority. Sustainability programmes actions. are at the core of our sustainability governance. sustainability programmes. We have divided them into Our Sustainability Committee oversees that we live up to our Sustain­ability four areas: 'Energy supply', 'Climate and environment', We currently have 20 sustainability programmes that address the Commitment and monitors the progress of our programmes through ­material issues we have identified in our ongoing engagement with continuous reporting. The first full year of meetings for the ­Committee 'People' and 'Communities'. The programmes contribute stakeholders (see page 25). We have defined individual owners of our was in 2016, following its establishment in 2015. to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and to sustainability ­programmes, either in the business units or in our Group functions. Owners have the responsibility of ensuring progress and In a continuous effort to strengthen our sustainability reporting, our protecting and developing resources that are valuable reporting on the sustainability programmes. independent Internal Audit function has, in 2016, audited selected programmes and assessed our sustainability risk identification process. to us and to society. We have highlighted ten of the Each year, we review whether the sustainability programmes still The conclusion was that our processes and controls are sufficient to ­ programmes in our three priorities on the previous pages. ­adequately address our material issues. When they do not, we establish new programmes or update existing programmes. Where possible and ensure that the examined sets of programmes are measured and recognised in accordance with the applied accounting practice. Through all the programmes, we manage our progress by measuring, taking action and reporting on the risks Sustainability organisation and opportunities we identify as most important for our Board of Directors Audit and Risk Committee business and for society as a whole. Approves the sustainability targets in our corporate strategy and supervises their A board committee, appointed by the Board of Directors. achievement. Supervises the integrity of the sustainability reporting, the presentation hereof in Approves Sustainability Commitment, annual sustainability report and annual risk the financial annual report and the internal control systems for non-financial data. memo which includes the most important sustainability issues. CHAIR CHAIR Benny Loft, Member of the Board Thomas Thune Andersen Group Executive Management Compliance Committee Approves sustainability programmes. Appointed by Group Executive Management. Proposes the sustainability programme targets that are part of our corporate strategy Monitors at two annual meetings that we comply with laws, rules and standards to the Board and monitors target achievement. that apply to our business area, including within sustainability. CHAIR CHAIR Henrik Poulsen, CEO Henrik Poulsen, CEO Sustainability Committee Appointed by Group Executive Management. Oversees at six annual meetings that we live up to our Sustainability Commitment; approves material issues; reviews sustainability strategy, supports sustainability programmes; approves sustainability reporting. CHAIR Marianne Wiinholt, CFO Business units and Group functions Develops and ensures progress of sustainability programmes by: Internal Audit function • developing policies and procedures • defining and measuring performance indicators Verifies the effectiveness of our sustainability programmes with particular focus • setting targets that are not part of our corporate strategy on compliance and validity of data. • conducting due diligence to continuously align scope of programmes. Sub-committees provide guidance and authority at non-executive level. 23 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 24 How we work Energy for a sustainable future How we develop sustainability The following programmes relate directly to our major human rights risks: • Protection of data on our employees and customers • Respecting human rights in our supply chain —› We have initiatives across the business aimed to protect data on —› Responsible business partners our employees and customers. We will gather these initiatives in a programmes • Safe working conditions for our employees and suppliers —› Workplace safety programme during 2017 to be better able to disclose how we work with data privacy. • Diversity and equality at work —› Employee diversity Our programmes include processes to mitigate the negative impacts • No negative impact on the local communities we operate in on human rights, which we as a company may have or contribute to. We As a company, we have both positive and negative impacts on society. Ongoing dialogue —› Local engagement report on the programmes on pages 29-38. with our stakeholders gives us insight into the various impacts and their implications for what is expected of us as a company. This helps us define the sustainability issues that are important to us and to society. Through our sustainability programmes, we work systematically to address the risks and opportunities that the sustainability issues hold. Sustainability issues 2016 VERY HIGH 1. Safety and well-being 2. Cost of green transformation Dialogue gives us insight • Attention from stakeholders: To which degree is the issue on the 3. Climate change Ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders is key to staying abreast of agenda in our dialogue with stakeholders? developments in society and in what our stakeholders expect of us. Dialogue enhances our understanding of how we influence society and • Importance to DONG Energy: To which degree is the issue relevant of developments in the framework for producing, supplying and trading to our strategy and activities? 4. Transparency and accountability energy. Attention from stakeholders is used as a proxy for the degree to which In our daily work, we gain insight into the expectations of our the issue holds risks of negative impacts on the environment, climate, stakeholders through one-on-one meetings, round-table discussions, social conditions, employee conditions, human rights, anti-corruption and Attention from stakeholders public events, social media and research. Some of the topics we discuss bribery. We rank the issues in a matrix by score. If the score is more than with our stakeholders are: 5 on both axes, the issue is important enough to merit a sustainability 15. Business partner conduct 10. Energy efficiency 7. Tax practices 5. Security of supply programme. The programmes provide a systematic framework for 11. Local content 6. Reputation • Customers: Our customers’ satisfaction with the products and mitigating risks and developing opportunities. A programme may, for 12. Community impact services we provide. example, contribute to expanding a market, strengthening the robustness • Employees: How we can ensure that DONG Energy continues to be of the business or protecting the environment. HIGH an attractive place to work. • Trade organisations: The green transformation of the energy Human rights are integrated into our approach industry. Human rights are an integral part of our efforts to develop and ensure 17. Employee discrimination 13. Resource use and handling 8. Sustainability of biomass • Politicians: Support of the green transformation through our the progress of our sustainability programmes. Our approach adheres 14. Talent development 9. Customer experience activities. to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which • NGOs: How to document the sustainability of the biomass we use at establish companies’ responsibility for respecting human rights. our power stations. Accordingly, we have relevant policies and procedures in place for due • Trade unions: How we ensure that the work at our Danish construction diligence and mechanisms ensuring mitigation of negative impacts on sites is carried out under Danish salary and working conditions. human rights. 16. Biodiversity impact • Authorities: How legislation and regulation can support suitable development of the energy industry. We commit to respecting human rights in our Sustainability Commitment. We also have a specific policy for our engagement in local See our stakeholder engagement policy on dongenergy.com/ communities and a policy for our expectations of business partners, MEDIUM stakeholderengagement. including in the area of human rights. From sustainability issues to programmes To ensure due diligence, we must identify, prevent, mitigate and MEDIUM HIGH VERY HIGH We use the insight provided by our stakeholders to prepare a bi-annual account for how we address our human rights impacts. Every two years, status of risks and opportunities of major significance both to society we conduct a separate risk analysis of negative impacts on human Importance to DONG Energy and to us. We call them sustainability issues. This overview enables us to rights covering both our own operations and our supply chain. We decide how to address each issue with due diligence. We take a systematic then integrate the most important human rights risks identified into approach to the material issues through our sustainability programmes. our sustainability issues. We proceed to take a systematic approach PROGRAMME AREAS: Material to the issues through our programmes. Therefore, we have found it issues Energy supply We determine the significance of each issue by means of a qualitative most expedient to integrate our measures aimed at respecting human Climate and environment assessment of the extent and weight of the impacts. We place each issue rights into the relevant sustainability programmes rather than having a People on a scale from 1 to 10 with two dimensions: separate human rights programme. Communities 25 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 26 How we work Energy for a sustainable future Addressing issues The overview below ranks our material issues according to PROGRAMME AREAS: their position in the matrix on page 26. We address each issue Energy supply through programmes Climate and environment by mitigating risks and developing opportunities through our People sustainability programmes. Communities ISSUE ATTENTION FROM STAKEHOLDERS IMPORTANCE TO DONG ENERGY PROGRAMME TO ADDRESS ISSUE ISSUE ATTENTION FROM STAKEHOLDERS IMPORTANCE TO DONG ENERGY PROGRAMME TO ADDRESS ISSUE 1. Safety and well-being are prerequisites to live We have a basic responsibility to ensure the Workplace safety (pp. 35-36) 10. Energy efficiency reduces CO2 emissions and saves Helping our customers save energy and improving Energy savings (p. 33) Safety and a good life and to counter risks of accidents safety and well-being of our employees. Employee health and well-being (p. 36) Energy efficiency money for business and residential customers alike. our own energy efficiency strengthen our customer well-being and stress. relations and support our strategic focus on reducing CO2 emissions. 2. Green energy must be cheaper than black energy The falling cost of offshore wind supports a Reducing the cost of offshore wind (p. 32) 11. Local communities and policy makers expect Building strong and competitive local supply Local engagement (p. 37) Cost of green to make green energy the natural choice when growing market and helps turn this risk into Local content energy infrastructure projects to contribute to local chains and local support benefits our business’ transformation building new energy capacity. an opportunity. development, growth and employment. ability to operate in local markets. 3. The past three decades have successively broken Our green growth strategy gives us a strong Green transformation (pp. 33-34) 12. Companies should minimise inconveniences Engaging with local communities is important to Local engagement (p. 37) Climate change global warming records. The world must combat position in the market for renewable energy Community impact for residents and other stakeholders in mitigate risk of local discontent, potentially leadclimate change to ensure a liveable planet for technologies, which helps turn this risk into a local communities when they build energy ing to costly delays in construction projects. future generations. business opportunity. infrastructure. 4. Organisations need to be transparent and Solid governance and a strong ethical culture Good business conduct (pp. 37-38) 13. Efficient and circular use of resources saves society Minimising our use of resources and recycling our Resource management (p. 34) Transparency and accountable for their actions in order to counter support the long-term value of our company Resource use money and reduces strain on finite resources. waste is a good business case. accountability risks of corruption and bribery in their own and helps earn the public’s trust. and handling operations and supply chain. 5. Reliable and abundant energy supply is key Our most fundamental task as an energy Deployment of offshore wind (pp. 31-32) 14. When a company develops employees’ Attention to employee development creates better Performance and development (p. 35) Security of supply for modern society to function. company is to ensure security of supply for Greener power stations (p. 31) Talent development competences, employees will feel more satisfied results and increases the likelihood that talented Employee satisfaction and motivation (pp. 35-36) our customers. Modernising the grid (pp. 31-32) and contribute to strengthening the skills of and skilled employees stay with us. society’s workforce. 6. To earn a good reputation, companies need to Positive relations with our stakeholders and the Better reputation (p. 38) 15. Companies have a big impact on human and labour Engaging with business partners improves our Responsible business partners (p. 38) Reputation add value to society and act responsibly. public are the basis for our ability to operate. Business partner rights, environment and anti-corruption through relationships and gives us a more reliable supply conduct their supply chains. chain with less risk of unforeseen and costly delays. 7. Companies are expected to contribute to the A responsible approach to tax is essential to Responsible tax management (pp. 37-38) 16. To preserve the balance of nature, it is important to Protecting biodiversity is a prerequisite for us to Protecting biodiversity (pp. 33-34) Tax practices societies they are a part of through responsible tax the long-term sustainability of our business in Biodiversity impact protect biodiversity. develop and operate any energy infrastructure practices. the countries where we operate. project. 8. Not all biomass is sustainable. Only sustainable To live up to the Danish Industry Agreement, Sourcing of certified biomass (p. 34) 17. Any discrimination reduces opportunities for people Diversity can attract more talent and improve Employee diversity (p. 36) Sustainability biomass ensures CO2 reduction and protection of we need to ensure that the biomass we use is Employee to pursue their ambitions. innovation due to different perspectives. of biomass biodiversity. documented as sustainable. discrimination 9. Our residential, business or distribution Satisfied customers are more likely to choose Customer satisfaction (p. 32) Customer experience customers expect to receive good customer and keep us as their supplier. service from their power utility provider. 27 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 28 Our sustainability programmes Energy for a sustainable future Our sustainability This overview shows targets and 2016 performance for our sustainability pro­­grammes. On the following pages, we describe how we work with each progamme. PRIORITIES: programmes Green energy See all data with accounting practices and extended development explanations Smart energy on dongenergy.com/sustainabilitydata2016. Sustainable working life Energy supply People PROGRAMME INDICATOR TARGET 2016 PROGRAMME INDICATOR TARGET 2016 Accidents with absence per million working hours (LTIF) 2020 target: ≤1.5 1.8 01. Deployment of offshore wind Installed offshore wind capacity (GW) 2025 ambition: 11-12 3.6 11. Workplace safety Fatal accidents (number) 2020 target: 0 0 02. Reducing the cost of offshore wind Levelised revenue of electricity (EUR/MWh) — Borssele 1&2: 78 12. Employee health and well-being Satisfaction with health initiatives (scale 0-100) 2017 target: 80 78 Coal share of fuels in thermal power and heat generation (%) 2023 target: 0 46 03. Greener power stations Coal consumption (million tonnes) 2023 target: 0 1.7 13. Performance and development Satisfaction with learning and development (scale 0-100) 2020 target: 80 76 04. Modernising the grid Security of supply (power cuts per customer, SAIFI) DK average: 0.5 0.49 14. Employee satisfaction and motivation Employee satisfaction and motivation (scale 0-100) 2020 target: 77 76 Residential customers 2020 target: >80 76 Top management (top 50) 2020 target: >22 16 05. Customer satisfaction Satisfaction score (scale 1-100) Business customers 2020 target: >75 75 15. Employee diversity Women in management (%) Leadership Forum (top 50-400) 2020 target: >25 20 Distribution customers 2020 target: >80 83 Other managers 2020 target: >32 25 Climate and environment Communities PROGRAMME INDICATOR TARGET 2016 PROGRAMME INDICATOR TARGET 2016 2020 target: 100 06. Green transformation CO2 emissions from power and heat generation (gCO2e/kWh) 2023 target: 20 224 16. Good business conduct Substantiated whistle-blower cases (number) — 3 07. Sourcing of certified biomass Certified wood pellets and wood chips sourced (%) 2020 target: 100 61 17. Responsible business partners Closed improvement points (number) — 16 08. Energy savings Accumulated energy savings at customers since 2006 (TWh) — 3.2 18. Local engagement — — — 09. Protecting biodiversity Significant environmental incidents (number) — 8 19. Responsible tax management Global income tax paid in 2016 (billion DKK) — 3.2 10. Resource management Waste for recycling (%) — 95 20. Better reputation Reputation among the Danes (scale of 0-100) 2020 target: >55 48 29 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 30 Our sustainability programmes Energy for a sustainable future Energy supply Deployment of offshore wind 01. Corporate strategy Reducing the cost of offshore wind 02. Corporate strategy Through the following programmes, we develop The world must transform to green energy to combat climate change. Offshore wind represents Installed offshore Equals annual Cost is an important parameter in the competition with other energy technologies. Since Levelised revenue of electricity wind capacity power consumption EUR/MWh, 2016 prices our energy assets and thereby the foundation a scalable and efficient green technology and GW Million people 2012, we have reduced the price of offshore is an important element in the green trans­for­ wind by around 50%, and we have thereby of a green and reliable energy supply. When mation. surpassed our target of reducing the costs we construct offshore wind farms and convert We are the company that has installed the most by 35-40% in 2020. We maintain a strategic objective of continuously reducing the cost of our power stations from coal and gas to offshore wind turbines globally. In 2016, we reached the milestone of wind turbine no. 1,000. electricity from offshore wind. REFERENCE PRICE sustainable biomass, we contribute to the green Today, our installed offshore wind capacity can We reduce cost by applying a standard concept cover 9.5 million people’s annual power con­ to our offshore wind farms. This leads to transformation of society. At the same time, sumption. economies of scale. We also strive to increase we maintain a high security of supply for our By 2020, we expect to almost double our installed the capacity of wind turbines and cables and 11-12 reduce the volume of raw materials, eg in the customers. capacity relative to 2016 from 3.6GW to 6.7GW, exceeding our strategic target of 6.5GW for 2020. 2025 ambition ~30 foundations. At the same time, we constantly BORSSELE 1&2 optimise our approach to procurement, instalBy 2025, our ambition is to have a total installed lation and maintenance as well as financing. capacity of 11-12GW, equalling of around 30 million people’s annual power consumption. 3.6 2016 9.5 160 78 In 2016, we won the right to build the two Dutch offshore wind farms Borssele 1 and 2 with our lowest tender price so far at 72.7EUR/MWh for 15 years. The stated levelised revenue of The increase in installed offshore wind capacity from 3.0GW in 2015 to 3.6GW in 2016 is attributable to Gode Wind 1 and Gode Wind 2 in Germany, which were commissioned in 2016. 1.7 2012 4.5 electricity over lifetime at 78EUR/MWh is a proxy for the cost of electricity from offshore wind. See also footnote 1 in chart on page 12. 2012 2016 Greener power stations Corporate Modernising the grid Corporate Customer satisfaction Corporate strategy strategy strategy 03. 04. 05. Coal is the energy source with the highest CO2 Coal share of fuels Coal Denmark’s security of supply is among the best Security of supply A high level of customer satisfaction is key to Satisfaction score emissions from incineration. Our target is to in thermal power consumption in the world, so naturally our customers expect a Power cuts per customer (SAIFI) retaining existing customers and attracting Scale 1-100 phase out coal completely from our power and and heat generation Million tonnes reliable energy supply. This requires a smoothly new ones. Being our customer must be easy, heat production by 2023. % functioning grid without interruptions. Our target and all customers must have a good experience is that our customers should experience no more dealing with us. RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS In 2016, we completed the conversions of power cuts than the average Danish electricity unit 3 at Studstrup Power Station and unit 1 In 2016, we introduced new initiatives for our ≥80 customer. at Avedøre Power Station from coal to wood 0 residential customers to ensure that all cus76 pellets. In 2017, we will complete the conversion of the Skærbæk Power Station from gas 0 Our distribution company Radius maintains and develops the grid. In 2016, we implemented a 0.5 tomers are treated in an open and competent manner. At the same time, we tailor communi76 AVERAGE IN DK to wood chips. With the decision to phase out 2023 target new IT system to monitor the grid, enabling quick cation and self-service solutions to the needs of BUSINESS CUSTOMERS all use of coal towards 2023, we need to find a repair of technical problems. individual customers. For our business custom≥75 future solution for our last two coal-fired power ers, we aim at partnerships beyond just selling Radius is also turning the grid into a greener and 75 stations: Asnæs Power Station and Esbjerg power and gas. We see a rising demand for 1.7 more intelligent energy system. Radius is looking 75 Power Station. Our portfolio of power stations will be able to 46 into possible ways of storing energy and how we can contribute to moving energy consumption to 0.49 solution-oriented green products, and we want to support that. I 2016, DONG Energy Eldistribution DISTRIBUTION CUSTOMERS 2016 changed name to Radius. The new name makes supply green district heating to the equivalent 2016 periods with a high production of green energy. ≥80 it easier for our customers to distinguish between of around 930,000 Danes by 2019. our sales company and our distribution company. 83 78 The increase in distribution customer satisfaction is affected The completed conversions of power stations in 2016 increased 1.6 0.35 the share of sustainable biomass in the power and heat pro­ by an adjustment of the method for following up on disruption duction from our power stations and reduced the share of coal 48 The number of cable errors has increased in 2016, which has of supply. In 2015, only customers who called the service 2020 target from 48% in 2015 to 46%. However, our total coal consumption lead to more power outages compared to 2015. One of the centre regarding disruption of supply were asked about their 2016 increased from 1.6m tonnes in 2015 to 1.7m tonnes in 2016 due to causes was a high level of contruction and digging activities in 2015 satisfaction. In 2016, the target group has been expanded to 2015 a higher total power generation from our power stations. 2015 Copenhagen, which the cables are sensitive to due to their age. be more representative for this customer group. 31 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 32 Our sustainability programmes Energy for a sustainable future Climate and environment Green transformation Sourcing of certified biomass Read more: Corporate dongenergy.com/biomass Corporate strategy strategy 06. 07. Through the following programmes, we contribute As an energy company, we have a responsibility to reduce our CO2 emissions. CO2 emissions from power and heat generation As we phase out coal from our Danish power stations, we increase the use of biomass. The Certified wood pellets and wood chips sourced to limiting climate change and preserving natural We have previously had a target of reducing the gCO2e/kWh biomass we use must be sustainable so that the % incineration is CO2 neutral and biodiversity is resources. We reduce our CO2 emissions by CO2 emissions from our power and heat proprotected. duction by 60% in 2020 compared with 2006. building offshore wind farms and by replacing We now raise the bar with a new reduction We have joined the Danish Industry Agreement 100 462 on sourcing of sustainable biomass. In order to coal and gas with sustainable biomass at our target of 100gCO2e/kWh in 2020 and 20gCO2e/ kWh in 2023. Since 2006, that will be a reduccomply with the agreement, we document sus2020 target 406 power stations. And we help our customers save tion of 78% by 2020 and 96% by 2023. tainability by means of certification, including the certification scheme Sustainable Biomass energy so they also emit less CO2. Moreover, we We reduce CO2 emissions by building offshore wind farms and converting our power stations 341 Partnership (SBP). need to respect nature when we produce energy. from coal and gas to sustainable biomass. 282 280 The agreement is phased in until 2019. By then, the target is that 90% of the sustainable biomass We have a responsibility to protect biodiversity 61 In 2016, we participated for the first time in the 224 sourced for our power stations must be certified. Carbon Disclosure Project survey, as part of our 2016 and minimise our waste. climate reporting. We got a B score and are now At DONG Energy, we take a step further with a target to source 100% certified biomass by 2020. aiming to improve it in 2017, eg by adjusting 100 our emission calculation method to the standard in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Our CO2 emissions from heat and power generation were 20 slightly higher in 2016 in comparison with 2015 where it Since the Danish industry agreement on sustainable biomass amounted to 220gCO2e/kWh. This is primarily due to larger electricity generation based on coal and gas at our power stations. 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2020 target 2023 target came into force on 1 August 2016, 61% of the biomass we have received has been certified sustainable. This is higher than the 40% for 2016 that the agreement requires. 0 2015 Energy savings Protecting biodiversity Policy: dongenergy.com/QHSEpolicy Resource management Policy: dongenergy.com/QHSEpolicy 08. 09. 10. Our customers want a lower energy bill and a Accumulated energy savings at We operate our business respecting the surSignificant environmental incidents As a company, we are responsible for using na­ Waste management reduced carbon footprint. We have helped them customers since 2006 rounding environment and biodiversity. Number tural resources as efficiently and responsibly as % with that since 2006. TWh possible. This also makes good business sense. Our specialists conduct thorough environmenWe invite our business customers to join our tal impact assessments before we construct For example, our engineers focus on reducing INCINERATION LANDFILL RECYCLING 3.2 climate partnership programme. Via specific 1 95 new offshore wind farms or other installations. the resources used to construct new offshore energy-saving measures, we work with our Based on data, we investigate the potential wind farms. We also take measures to ensure 4 customers to reduce their energy consumption. impact of our activities on animal species, that our own waste is recycled where possible. populations and plants. And we take preventive As part of our 'Get a lower energy bill' project, We have developed a technology that enables measures if our findings prove the need. we offer advice to private customers on how to Corresponds to recycling of organic household waste. A waste save energy. The project involves a number of We also monitor our operations. 97% of the sites treatment plant based on our REnescience 340,000 test families who provide us with insights on which energy savings initiatives work best for Danes’ annual power and heat consumption 2016 we operate are ISO14001 certified. By the end of 2017, our target is to achieve this certification for 8 2016 technology will be completed in the UK in the first half of 2017. REnescience turns household our private customers. all sites operated by us, including all our offices waste into fractions that can be used for green with more than 20 employees. The certification energy production or recycling. 2.8 means that we assess our environmental risks and continuously implement improvements when necessary. If an accident occurs, we have procedures in place to remedy the situation. Corresponds to We have continued to prioritise achieving energy savings for our customers. This includes opening a new office in Aalborg 300,000 Danes’ annual power 2015 Of the eight significant environmental incidents in 2016, three occurred in Bioenergy and Thermal Power compared to zero in 5 2015 The total amount of waste decreased from 2015 to 2016. There were no significant changes to the split between waste 2016 and recruiting more energy efficiency advisors. and heat consumption 2015. The causes were fly ashes and spillage of oil products. for recycling, incineration and landfill. 33 34 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 34 35 Our sustainability programmes Energy for a sustainable future People Workplace safety Employee health and well-being Policy: dongenergy.com/QHSEpolicy Corporate strategy 11. 12. Through the following programmes, we develop Whether our employees are installing wind turbines at sea or sitting in an office, they must Accidents with absence per million working hours We want to contribute to creating a sustainable working life for our employees. We offer a range Satisfaction with health initiatives Scale 0-100 human resources. Most importantly, we need return home safely. LTIF of health initiatives in the areas of exercise, nutrition and sleep. to ensure that every employee returns home Our target is to reduce accidents with absence safely every day. It is also important for us to to 1.5 per million working hours (LTIF) by 2020. We have continuously improved our LTIF from 2.5 Our target is that the health initiatives get a satisfaction score of 80 out of 100 in the annu2.0 1.8 sustain and develop a healthy and diverse working year to year and in 2016, we reached our best al employee survey in 2017. safety result ever with an LTIF at 1.8. We also ≤1.5 environment that promotes well-being. Good have a constant objective of completely avoidIn 2016, questions on stress was included in our annual employee survey for the first time. 80 2017 target ing fatal accidents. We have not had a fatal management needs to motivate and help our accident since December 2012. 8% of our employees responded that they felt quite much or very much stress. This is below employees develop their competences. In our efforts to prevent accidents, we give the Danish average of 15%, but we can still do priority to three areas: safety culture, safety better. We therefore also developed a training 2014 2015 2016 2020 target systems and suppliers. In 2016, we conducted programme for our managers on how to a safety culture survey among our employees and selected suppliers. We will use the survey prevent and address stress among employees. The training programme will be implemented 78 2016 Fatal accidents to focus our efforts on the areas where we can in 2017. Number expect the greatest effect. Our LTIF decreased from 2.0 in 2015 to 1.8 in 2016. We have 0 0 0 0 In 2016, we have introduced new health initiatives focusing not had any fatalities since 2012. A great amount of our incidents are categorised as slips, trips, and/or falls, which we continously work to reduce. 2014 2015 2016 2020 target on sleep and mental balance as well as the physical work environment. This has increased employee knowledge of and satisfaction with our health initiatives. 76 2015 Performance and development Employee satisfaction and Corporate Employee diversity strategy 13. motivation 15. 14. As a company, we depend on our ability to Satisfaction with learning and If our employees are not satisfied and motiEmployee satisfaction and motivation Diversity creates a dynamic, innovative and Women in management attract, develop and retain talented employees. development vated, we cannot perform as well as we want Scale 0-100 inspiring working environment. We focus on % We annually survey our employees’ perception Scale 0-100 to as a company. This prompts us to focus on recruiting broadly and on offering all em­ployees of opportunities for learning and development. creating a stimulating and positive working equal opportunities for development. We 100 Our target for 2020 is a satisfaction score of 80 DONG ENERGY BENCHMARK environment. DONG ENERGY BENCHMARK especially seek to appeal to women to attract out of 100 for learning and development. more applications from them. We have a policy We measure employee satisfaction and motiand targets for women in management on 45 – A TOP MANAGEMENT (TOP 50) 80 – In 2016, we decided that 20% of managers’ vation on an annual basis. Our target is a score bonuses should be based on their behaviour. of 77 out of 100 for employee satisfaction and 77 – three different parameters: 'Top management' (top 50), 'Leadership Forum' (top 50-400) and 40 – B LEADERSHIP FORUM (TOP 50-400) C OTHER MANAGERS Going forward, those managers receiving motivation in 2020. 2020 target 2020 target 'Other managers'. With a share of women on bonuses will therefore not only be rewarded for In each department, the manager follows up on the Board of Directors of three out of eight in 35 – their results, but also for their leadership and the survey by preparing joint action plans and 2016, we comply with the statutory requirement >32 interpersonal skills and their ability to act as 30 – conducting individual development dialogues. for equal distribution. We do therefore not state a role model. By the new initiative, we wish to 26 a further target for women on the Board. 76 66 76 67 C 25 25 promote a working culture where results and 25 – >25 23 well-being go hand in hand. In 2016, we conducted a survey to ascertain B 22 20 >22 2016 2016 2016 2016 whether, among our employees, women and men 20 – 18 In order to support competence development, 17 perceive their opportunities for personal and pro16 we have our own tailored training programmes A fessional development differently. The conclusion 15 – for managers, specialists, project managers was that there was no significant difference. and talents. Our employees assess their job satisfaction every year. In 2016, 10 – Our employees were more satisfied with their learning and development in 2016 due to a stronger culture of mutual learning. Also employees experienced clearer development 74 65 they stated that they believe our reputation has improved significantly. This has had a positive effect on job satisfaction. Another contributing factor is that immediate managers are 74 67 The total number of women in management positions is unchanged from 2015 to 2016; however, the total management population has grown within the period, which has resulted in a 0 – goals and more constructive feedback from colleagues. 2015 2015 assessed very positively. 2015 2015 small decline in the percentage of female managers. 2014 2015 2016 2020 target 35 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 36 Our sustainability programmes Energy for a sustainable future Communities Good business conduct Responsible business partners Read more: Read more: dongenergy.com/goodbusinessconduct dongenergy.com/responsiblepartners 16. 17. Policy: Code of Conduct: dongenergy.com/goodbusinessconductpolicy dongenergy.com/codeofconduct Through the following programmes, we support Good business conduct is a prerequisite for earning the trust of our customers, stakeholdSubstantiated whistle-blower cases Number We work with more than 22,000 suppliers and joint venture partners from all over the world. Open and closed improvement points Number the relations to our stakeholders. We wish to ers and shareholders. We have ongoing meaSome places have less strong practices for sures aimed at maintaining an ethical company compliance with international standards for contribute positively to the societies we are a part Opened in 2016 culture, such as training of all employees, human and labour rights, the environment and Closed in 2016 of, and naturally local communities expect our management and the Board of Directors. anti-corruption, compared with Denmark. In those places, we help our partners live up to investments to generate growth and employment. Our policy on good business conduct is the basis of our work. This policy manifests our the international standards. We need to behave responsibly, and we want to zero tolerance of corruption, fraud and other As a first step, business partners must always types of improper business conduct. Control accept our Code of Conduct. We perform risk Open by end-2016 make sure our business partners do the same. mechanisms ensure compliance with the 3 2016 screening of contracts to identify the business Open by end-2015 policy. We have a Compliance Committee and partners we want to prioritise. We then assess an independent Internal Audit function that in which areas of our Code they must improve, 16 closely monitors the area. Employees and by means of questionnaire-based surveys or business partners can report serious concerns by visiting them. In the identified areas, we 20 to our whistle-blower hotline. In addition, our work together to prepare and implement an employees should always feel free to approach improvement plan. their immediate manager in the event of grey areas for good business conduct. In 2016 we closed one very significant improvement point 6 15 19 concerning anti-corruption. We closed 15 significant In 2016, two cases were about conflicts of interest and one improvement points: 14 due to satisfactory improvements case about kickbacks from suppliers. The cases have had 2015 by the business partner and one due to discontinuity of the consequences for the employment of the implicated persons. commercial relationship. Local engagement Policy: dongenergy.com/localengagement Responsible tax management Policy: dongenergy.com/taxpolicy Better reputation Corporate strategy 18. 19. 20. The local communities in which we are present How we engage locally Society is dependent on taxes in order to funcGlobal income tax paid in 2016 A good reputation is important for operating our Reputation among the Danes expect us to show consideration for local tion. And as a company, we depend on social Billion DKK business. We generally enjoy a good reputation Scale 0-100 residents and to contribute to growth and infrastructure, robust judicial systems and a in our international markets, whereas it is lower employment in the community. well-educated workforce. in Denmark. We want to change that. We want to show our stakeholders that we are a trustworthy We conduct public consultation processes At DONG Energy, we have a policy for how we company that adds value to society. where this is required and expected before we manage tax. We aim to always comply with build new energy infrastructure in an area. the letter of the law as well as the legislators’ We have set a target for our reputation score Moreover, we are in dialogue with key local intention with the law. At the same time, we among the Danish population of at least 55 out >55 48 Jobs Dialigue players, such as the local authorities, business have a close dialogue with stakeholders and 47 of 100 in 2020. We have identified four parti­ organisations and NGOs. The dialogue conother companies about what responsible tax 3.2 cularly important areas: We must ensure a high tinues for as long as we are present in the area. management means for a company like ours. level of integrity in our business, continue the This enables us to keep tabs on developments green transformation, help our customers save We have implemented processes and systems and build relations of trust. It also enables us energy and be an attractive place to work. to ensure that our internal invoicing complies to prevent or address situations that would with legislation. At the same time, relevant We launched our 'Make Denmark greener' otherwise generate disagreement. employees are trained in our tax policy, we campaign in 2016. As part of this campaign, In 2017, we will establish common local comply with tax legislation in the markets we invited the Danes on offshore wind safaris engagement guidelines. This is particularly where we operate, and we continuously assess and toured the country with a virtual offshore relevant now as we move into new markets in tax-related risks. wind safari experience to bring the Danes even the US and in Taiwan. closer to our work. Economic Collaboration activity with Based on the results of the activities in Denmark and retaxation Our reputation is affected by indicators such as trust and companies on the divestment of 50% of Race Bank and Burbo Bank influence on society. In connection with our IPO in June 2016, Extension, we have paid DKK 3,182 million in taxes for 2016. we saw a brief uptake of +2 points. 2015 2016 2020 target 37 Sustainability report DONG Energy DONG Energy Sustainability report 38
