Communication on Progress Jan 2016 to Jan 2017 Information Matrix Co.,Ltd 27.1.2017 This is our communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. CEO Statement of continued support in 2015 We, Information Matrix, believe that for a company to be successful it should not be only concerned by profit. A commitment to responsible ways of working has been embedded in the way Information Matrix does business since it was found in 2000. Today, Information Matrix has been an active subscriber to the UN Global Compact since 2013. In our experience, our continued commitment to the ten principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption of the UN Global Compact into our strategy and operations. we strive to implement initiatives in line with the latest United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. And we also committed to share this information with our stakeholders and the general public and to the submission of our annual communication on progress to the United Nations Global Compact. Thaung Su Nyein Chief Executive Officer 1 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment,Policy and Goals Information Matrix emphasizes to support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The protection of Human Rights is embedded in our numerous operating processes and control mechanisms. We made further progress implementing Information Matrix’s commitment to respect human rights as set out in our position on human rights, in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and Children’s Rights and Business Principles. Implementation Given the nature of our business as a media company, we recongise that we have a great no. of potential human rights impacts. We have initiated work streams in our working enviroment where we can and should do more, in 2015 we made significant progress. We have used the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework as tool to drive continuous improvements in our human rights mangement. We continued use Internal Information System (IIS) for all employees to submit their complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment. These complaints are revised by top management and discussed immediately. We seeks to ensure a healthy and safe working enviroment for all employees regrdless of where they work. We hav a zero injury mind set. 2 Measurement ot outcomes We carried out periodic review of results by senior management and the results show there is no cases of human right violations, complaints and breached during this report period. Labour Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment,Policy and Goals Information Matrix strives to ensure that the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are upheld, that the company does not engage in forced and compulsory labour and child labour, and that the company works to ensure diversity and non-discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Company employee’s handbook clearly state that it covers polices concerning our employee rights and responsibilities, and their compensations and benefits. We are continuing to refine our employee handbook yearly renewal as needed and incorporate the Global Compact. We will ensure a diverse work force working in a healthy and safe working environment. Implementation In Information Martix, we expect our suppliers to respect internationally recognised human rights including labour rights, as described in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and encourage them to work with all the Principles of the UN Global Compac. This obviously inclues child labour. 3 Non-discrimination and equal opportunities are the foundation for our approach to promoting diversity, which focuses on gender and nationality. These priorities are reflected in our diversity policy and the tragets. We consider diversity to also include experience, competences and cultural background. Measurement ot outcomes We carried out periodic review of results by senior management to abide by the local labor law. Zero complains from employees regarding company employee’s handbook and there is no child labour and force labour during the report period. Environment Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environment responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment,Policy and Goals Repect for the environemnt is central to our approach to sustainable development. UNGC enviromental principles are incorporated in our Code of Ethics and Buisness Conduct.We always reduce our use of resources and the environment impact from our activites. 4 Implementation Information Martix prioritise the safety no only for the safety of the people but also for the environment. Our management committee conduct safety training for all employees to be responsible for the environment and the communities. Management committee takes action by setting up the operation procedures for practcing the waste management hierarchy – reduce, reuse and recycling. Given the nature of our business as a media company, we promote and raise environmental awareness for our readers by putting one full page for the environment special reports every week. Measurement ot outcomes No cases of impacts on environment and no complaints are reported during the report period. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment,Policy and Goals Information Matrix supports the 10th UN Global Compact Principle on anti-corruption and we are committed to anti-corruption and maintaining high business eithics standards. The broad scope of business ethics in Information Matrix covers anti-corruption, fraud, bribery, off-label promotion, and transparency. Implementation We are fully committed to fair and open business conduct in our business society. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are actively engaged with other companies and nongovernmental organizations in the fight against corruption. We always open and transparent dealings with our stakeholders, and it supports our commitment to conducting our business with integrity. 5 Reporting, Monitoring and Eduction components that we always train our employee to avoid anti-corruption status. Through our training and guidelines, our employee are made aware of their responsibility to act with integrity at all times. If there is any inconsistency, we will comply with the higher standard. We continue to work with external organizations in furthering our commitment to transparency. Measurement ot outcomes No disciplinary taken action on any of our employees. 6 7
