This is a heading The Jyske Bank Group's sustainability initiatives and report on corporate social responsibility 2016 Evocative image from the MurMal (Mural) project in Aalborg. The project beautified an industrial area and created apprenticeships for 13 trainees from the vocational school TECHCOLLEGE Aalborg. About this report In this report, you will find the Jyske Bank Group’s sustainability policies and objectives. The report will also provide you with insight into the projects in which we have been involved in 2016 as well as the results that we have achieved. This report forms part of Jyske Bank’s Annual Report 2016. In addition, this report has the following function: 1. The report gives a systematic account of the Jyske Bank Group’s core business areas and of how we incorporate CSR into these. We also report on how we work with risk areas in our CSR initiatives and our policies in this field. 2. This translated English version of the report forms the basis for our first Communication on Progress (COP) reporting to the United Nations’ Global Compact. The Jyske Bank Group became a Global Compact member in December 2016, and the Group will prepare its first COP reporting in the spring of 2017. 3. The report also includes the Jyske Bank Group's reporting on the UN's Global Goals for Sustainable Development, in which we account for how we will contribute to meeting the goals in the 2030 agenda and highlight the development goals on which we especially focus in our commitment to sustainability. 4. We are always pleased to receive feedback on our CSR initiatives. Questions or comments can be sent to: csr@jyskebank.dk Contents 3 Preface: A bank with multiple objects 4 The Jyske Bank Group and CSR 5 • CSR focus in the Jyske Bank Group 6 Climate and environment 6 • Climate and environment policy 7 • Climate and environment initiatives 9 Anti-corruption and bribery 9 • Anti-corruption and bribery policy 10 Human rights 10 • Human rights policy 11 A sustainable business 11 • Responsible advisory services 13 • Responsible investments 15 • Responsible credit granting 16 Sustainable commitment 16 • The Group’s CSR initiatives is about involvement 18 • HR policy 19 • Employee relations 21 • Social initiatives policy 22 • Sustainable cities and local environments 25 • Sustainable communities 27 • Sustainable environment 29 • Overview: Projects and social initiatives 31 The UN's Global Goals for Sustainable Development 34 Glossary 2 Preface A bank with multiple objects The expectations and requirements that result in such a ticket of admission being issued are increasing, but if the ticket is issued, we can then also reap the benefits from a The Jyske Bank Group has a responsibility to run a sound business perspective: More loyal clients, more motivated and sustainable business. With the new CSR legislatiemployees, goodwill from public authorities, trusting on, which entered into force in 2016, we and other large business partners and better press coverage. Danish companies have an obligation to account for our policies and initiatives in a number of CSR areas, includWe will primarily engage ourselves in the built-up environing environment and climate, social issues and employee ment with the ‘HOUSE’ as the pivot. This applies to private relations, human rights as well as anti-corruption and houses and corporate premises as well as social housing. bribery. We are happy to do so, as we have much to report. Our goal is to help create improvements and improve the sense of community where people work and live. We will Fortunately, corporate social responsibility is not only dicmeet this goal in efficient partnerships with other compatated by law. The Group’s values also incorporate CSR, and nies, the public sector and civil society. CSR also provides the correlation between financial, social and sustainable a natural entitlement to operate a business and contrifactors inherent in these values forms the framework for butes to supporting our relations with clients, society, our business-driven CSR. And we are well on the way to stakeholders and our own employees. meeting our CSR objectives, which this annual report hopefully shows, with new initiatives, successful projects and The ambition to contribute to society is a whole-hearted more rigorous processes. act on our part. Especially because we can see that our contributions come back to us with compound interest. But the Group’s CSR initiatives should not only be seen as And this is actually the core of corporate social responsibia product of our way of doing business. In these years, we lity and of running a sustainable business. are experiencing increasing expectations from both clients and investors regarding our corporate social responsibiliI hope that you will enjoy reading about our CSR initiatity. And we see the same expectations from our employees ves in the past year. as well. We have joined a number of international initiatives in 2016: we have become a member of the United NaAnders Dam tions’ Global Compact, and we have also started working Managing Director and CEO with the UN’s Global Goals for Sustainable Development. Both initiatives will help create a sustainable global society for the next generations. Naturally, we must still make money, issue loans, hire employees, train them etc. But today we are faced with even more concurrent objectives, and we need constantly to be able to adapt to the requirements of the outside world, including requirements for corporate social responsibility. The truth is, in fact, that we simply have a much larger number of objectives today than we did 20 or 50 years ago. But is corporate social responsibility actually a new concept? The very idea of contributing to the community is almost as old as mankind. And, today, companies have just as much need to be a part of the community as our single nomadic ancestors had. As then, it is both sensible and a ticket of admission to the community to contribute a little more than what is in your own interest. 3 The Jyske Bank Group and CSR The Group supports the need of private individuals, comCSR for all panies and institutions – and consequently also society During 2016, the Jyske Bank Group has actively involved – for financial services that are simple, foresighted and reemployees from all levels in the Group, and we have sponsible. The Group’s business area consists of the provilaunched a number of initiatives aimed at strengthening sion of financial products as well as other related products the involvement in both the daily work and the more straand services. Jyske Bank has 3,981 full-time employees tegic work with CSR. During the year, the Group establisand a nationwide branch network of 99 branches, making hed a CSR Steering Committee on which a wide selection it the third-largest bank in Denmark. Through the Jyske of managers are represented. The Steering Committee Bank Group’s own subsidiaries, the Group offers conventimeets once every quarter to discuss new proposals for onal mortgage financing (BRFkredit A/S) as well as object policies and measures for the Group's CSR work. In adfinancing and leasing (Jyske Finans A/S). Furthermore, dition, all managers and union representatives receive a we offer our clients life assurance and pension insurance CRS newsletter four times a year, which is sent out via our policies in collaboration with PFA Pension as well as other own intranet, as this provides the opportunity for a direct mortgage credit products in collaboration with DLR Kredit. dialogue. Stakeholders In 2016, we also launched a climate and environment The Jyske Bank Group's shareholders, clients and emplocampaign in which the Group's employees have actively yees are the bank’s most important stakeholders, and a participated in improving the Group’s environmental footmutual balance must be achieved by: print. The campaign generated nearly 800 interactions from our employees, which, among other results, have The shareholders receiving an attractive, risk-adjusted lead to changes in the standard settings of the Group’s long-term return computers, so that we now use less paper in our day-toThe clients receiving advice, products, services and day activities. At the same time, there is a good two-way prices that are among the best on the market communication between the employees and the Group CSR Department on the intranet. Here, all measures and The employees having an attractive workplace with news are shared, and there is ample opportunity to proviopportunities for development de feedback and present proposals for improvements. In general, the Group CSR Department has experienced great The Group's values interest and commitment from employees for the DepartHolistic approach and common sense ment’s measures in 2016. • We act on the basis of a holistic perspective CSR governance The Group CSR Department is, together with the Board of Open and honest Executives, responsible for ensuring that the Jyske Bank • We are open and honest in words and actions Group acts in accordance with the applicable legislation in this area, and the Department is the coordinator for Different and unpretentious the overall CSR initiatives throughout the Group. The CSR Department is responsible for communication and imple• We think and act differently, and behave in an unpretenmentation of policies and measures. The Department also tious manner works with the Group's external projects, including our many valuable partnerships. Equal respect and commitment • We have empathy and we show commitment Efficient and persevering • We strive to make progress, and we meet the objectives that we have set for ourselves. The Group’s values are the most immutable part of our business. A number of guiding principles bind us together and guide our actions. The aim is that our stakeholders perceive our values in practice when they encounter us in different contexts. 4 The Jyske Bank Group and CSR CSR focus in the Jyske Bank Group It is precisely here that our business contains the greatest risks and potential for making a difference – in both positive and negative terms. As one of the largest financial groups in Denmark and with 3,981 employees, we, as a company, have an obligation The Group is one of the cornerstones of the Financial to society. We endeavour to run a responsible and proper Stability (Finansiel Stabilitet) scheme, and we therefore business regarding all aspects of our activities in accorplay an important role in ensuring financially responsible dance with our values and with due consideration for our growth in society. It is therefore important to us that our clients, employees, shareholders, investors and society as clients can trust that we will participate in preventing fia whole. The Group has an ambition to integrate responnancial crime, such as money laundering and tax evasion. sibility in its business and to promote sustainability in its At the same time, we must support human and labour operations and development. This means that we work to: rights when we make investments and endeavour to make products available to those of our clients who focus on • ensure a sustainable and responsible business through this. our advisory services, investments and credit policy As a group, we must assume a co-responsibility for our • create a workplace which ensures welfare, scope for clients' financial security and for providing professional development and equal rights for our employees advisory services with regard to the individual client's • reduce the Group's negative impact on the climate and possibilities and risks. Last, but not least, we acknowenvironment ledge that our success is dependent on our employees’ • undertake social responsibility through social initiaticapacity, competence and skills, and we therefore also ves, particularly in the built-up area. focus on creating attractive conditions for our employees, so that we can attract and hold on to the best employees. Under the heading ‘Sustainable Commitment’, we take By focusing on these areas in our business, we create a active social responsibility. We do so through the way in positive knock-on effect not only on the bottom line, but which we run our business and through the social proalso on the society of which we are a part. jects in which we become involved. We want to exploit the competencies and resources that we naturally have at our Plan for 2017 disposal in the company for the benefit of society. In 2017, we want to create a close dialogue between our stakeholders, employees, management and external For us, CSR is, in fact, not about making donations to players aimed at identifying the areas that Jyske Bank can randomly chosen charitable purposes. CSR is strategy, address in relation to risk assessment and the CSR work. management, involvement, which, holistically, result in Such a process will make our initiatives even more focusustainable commitment. And when we engage ourselves sed, thus increasing the benefit for both the Group and the in CSR projects which are a continuation of our product rest of society. portfolio, we can create improvements and build relations, for both the Group and our stakeholders. Assessment of risks and opportunities A sustainable commitment also means that we, as a group, pay particular attention to the areas in which we have the greatest impact on society. 5 Climate and environment Climate and environment policy In the Jyske Bank Group, we know that our business and KPIs and objectives for 2017 activities impact the climate and environment, and that, In 2016 to a great extent, we can actively decide whether we will leave a positive or negative environmental footprint. Our • In 2016, as one of the first Danish players, we have aim is therefore that we must actively seek to become more established a fund with corporate bonds (Special sustainable in all our procedures – both internally and KL), which, among other activities, screens and externally. avoids investments in companies that carry on business in the field of fossil fuels. As at the end of One of the areas in which the impact on climate and December 2016, the newly established fund had environmental conditions is most obvious is the way in assets of DKK 267.5m. which we make investments on behalf of our clients. As • Our paper consumption has been reduced by apco-signatories of UN PRI, we will continue to include ESG proximately 4 million sheets. issues in our investmentconsiderations and decisions, • In 2016, BRFkredit in Lyngby delivered 4.4 tonnes including when we find profitable investments that also of food waste to be converted into biofuel, resulsupport green and sustainable measures. In other words, ting in a CO2 reduction of 1.7 tonnes. we will continue our strong focus on ESG factors. • 307 computers have been recycled through the 'Computer Donation’ project, and furniture and But we do not only focus on climate and environment via other equipment have been donated to the headour investments and business. We will also contribute to space youth counselling centres and Muhabet (a the overall climate and environment agenda by involving drop-in centre for mentally ill refugees and immiour employees and business partners in order to increase grants). awareness of these issues and, in a best-case scenario, contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. In 2017 • The Group is expecting increased client interest in the newly established corporate bond fund, which we will match. • We have ambitions to expand our food-waste-into-biofuel scheme so that it will include our head office in Silkeborg and our branches in Vesterbrogade in Copenhagen. • We are introducing paperless client handling in relation to statements of account, annual statements, custody account statements etc., and we will therefore reduce our paper consumption by approximately 1.5 million sheets. • We will give 300 computers to non-profit purposes and continue to donate used equipment to the greatest possible extent. 6 Climate and environment Climate and environment initiatives Used computers and furniture are reused to the greatest possible extent and are given a ‘new lease on life’ in social projects. For example, we have donated furniture and As a group, we support a sustainable environment in all computers to headspace, a counselling service centre our procedures – both internally and externally. scheme for children and young people, as well as to ForInternally, we are constantly striving to reduce the eningernes Hus in Gellerup and the multicultural drop-in Group’s environmental impact, and we continuously ascentre Muhabet Aarhus. We also gave 50 computers to sess how we can optimise our consumption of water, elethree Red Cross asylum centres, which were selected by ctricity, waste and recycling. Employees in the Group will our clients via an online poll. be involved in the relevant initiatives and contribute with their own initiatives and ideas. Externally, this especially In 2016, the Group donated a total of 307 computers to entails investments in relation to climate and environdifferent projects distributed throughout Denmark. ment (Read more about investments on p. 13). Electricity and water In 2016, the Group CSR Department conducted an interIn the Group, we prioritise installations and solutions nal campaign aimed at raising climate and environmental in which the environmental impact is minimised. When awareness among employees and managers. This awarewe establish or replace sanitary appliances, electrical ness was to translate itself into tangible and measurable installations and IT equipment, this is always done with results, and the campaign was implemented through indue consideration for the environment. In recent years, formation, involvement and collection of ideas and input. we have replaced a large number of light bulbs with LED bulbs. In 2016 alone, 1300 new LED bulbs were instalThe campaign was kicked off by CEO Anders Dam and was led. This resulted in a reduction of approximately 58,500 followed up with news, competitions and gimmicks focukWh/year, equal to approximately DKK 117,000. sing on various issues: paper consumption, food waste, reuse as well as electricity and water consumption. The In connection with the replacement of computers and campaign generated much positive feedback and many screens throughout the Group in 2016, reductions in constructive proposals from managers and employees. As energy consumption will be achieved in subsequent years. visible results of the campaign, the printer settings were Such reductions will be achieved through a reduced need changed to avoid unnecessary paper consumption, and for electic power, refrigeration and the abolition of UPS in sorting of waste for conversion into biofuel was commenthe branches (backup). ced in the canteen in the Lyngby branch. End to paper letters to clients Four representative Jyske Bank branches were selected The Group works continuously to reduce the amount of to compete on reducing electricity consumption as much printed materials. In line with digitisation and increased as possible and showing the way forward. The result was use of digital signatures, it has become possible to reduce that, compared with the same period the year before, electhe number of print copies throughout the Group. tricity consumption was reduced by an average of approximately 9%, and the winning branch reduced its electricity In 2015, Jyske Bank printed a total of 29,011,220 sheets. consumption by 16.5%. The number decreased to 25,006,099 sheets in 2016. BRFkredit has calculated a consumption of approximately Waste and recycling 8,000,000 sheets in 2016, but a large reduction is expecPaper and cardboard waste in the Group is carefully sorted ted in the course of 2017, as it will commence digitisation and recycled in cooperation with an external supplier. of offers to the clients. Metal waste is likewise handed in for recycling. In 2016, a new station has been set up at the headquarters in In 2017, we expect a further reduction of 20% in Jyske Silkeborg, where soft and hard plastic, cardboard, bottBank. The reason is that, as from the end of 2016, we will les, batteries and recycled paper are sorted. In addition, not automatically send statements of account, annual a number of collection sites for cans with and without a statements and custody account statements by surface deposit have been created. mail, but instead post them in our netbank. This also means that, at the end of 2016, we avoided sending approximately half a million annual statements by letter post. 7 Climate and environment In 2017, we will reduce the amount of letters with stateThe Group's canteens make a targeted effort to reduments of account by approximately one million as well as ce food waste in all processes, and the employees are approximately half a million contract notes. encouraged to follow this agenda. In the Group's canteen in Lyngby, the employees sort the food waste, which is subsequently collected and converted into biofuel by a Eco-friendly suppliers and products business partner. In 2016, this amounted to 4.4 tonnes, In Jyske Bank’s webshop, several of the products are ecowhich is equal to a CO2 reduction of 1.71 tonnes. labelled with the Nordic Swan Ecolabel, including paper, Furthermore, a biogrinder was installed in the canteen stationery, soaps, napkins etc. The same applies to almost at Stagehøjvej in 2016, which has resulted in 7 tonnes of all advertising material regardless of whether it is prorecycled organic food waste. duced in our own printing shop or at an external printing house. In addition, we will expand our food sorting scheme in 2017 to the headquarters in Silkeborg and to Jyske Bank’s In 2016, a new contract was introduced for all the Group's branches in Vesterbrogade in Copenhagen. This means new suppliers, under which they must sign a number of that, in 2017, the three largest Jyske Bank locations will principles, including for environmental responsibility: ‘The sort many tonnes of food waste and convert the food waSupplier must use a precautionary approach in relation to ste into biogas via external business partners. environmental challenges and take measures to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The Supplier must act in accordance with relevant local and internationally recognised environmental standards. The Supplier must minimise his impact on the environment and continually improve his results in the environmental field’. Food chosen with care The Jyske Bank Group’s canteens wish to serve tasty and nutritious meals to the employees. In so far as possible, local Danish seasonal produce is used and endeavours are made, wherever possible, to avoid using prefabricated ingredients. This enables analysing the actual ingredients used in the meals and makes it easier to avoid unnecessary additives. 8 Anti-corruption and bribery Anti-corruption and bribery policy The Jyske Bank Group will run a business that is responsible, honest and in compliance with the legislation in force KPIs and objectives for 2017 in all the countries in which we operate. In addition, as a central player in the financial sector, we have a responsibility actively to combat corruption, tax evasion, bribery, In 2016, we have money laundering and other forms of financial crime. Our • implemented a value-based client-related tax pobusiness must not support such activities. This policy licy. This means that we do not provide aggressive covers our clients, employees and investments. tax consultancy, but guidance which is in harmony with the legislator’s intention with the tax rules We must meet the international ’best practices’ in this • had focus on improving the data quality in our work field – including UNGC and PRI principles. We must conon prevention of money laundering, and the work tinuously improve our initiatives and processes in the on this process will continue in 2017. field of anti-corruption and bribery. Corruption, money laundering, and other types of financial crime form part of our screening when we make investments, and we also In 2017, we will work together with relevant partners on establishing a • finalise the implementation of the last relevant screening practice in relation to tax evasion. We want to parts of the European Union Fourth Anti-Money create a secure and confidential framework which makes Laundering Directive it possible for our employees to report offences that are • continue the process of introducing the Common not in accordance with the Group’s policy in the area. Reporting Standard (CRS) and report relevant information to the Central Customs and Tax Administration (SKAT). 9 Human rights Human rights policy The international human rights are incorporated in the KPIs and objectives for 2017 Danish labour market model and are thus also a basis for the Group’s activities. Due to the Group’s geographical location and affiliation under Danish legislation, human rights do not In specific terms, this means that we respect human take up much space in the report on this year’s CRS rights internally in the Group, where equal status, inclufocus. Most CSR dilemmas regarding human rights sion, labour rights, safety and health are rooted in our are related to employee relations (read more on p. 19) policy. and investments (read more on p. 13). Externally, we observe human rights via our screening of investments for our clients, based on ESG principles, and through our supplier management, in which compliance with human rights is a key marker. We thus assume a co-responsibility for strengthening human rights worldwide, as we believe that market forces can contribute to stimulating a positive development. 10 A sustainable business Responsible advisory services A value-based tax policy means that we do not provide aggressive tax consultancy, but advice which is in harmony with the legislator’s intention with the tax rules. We use a As a bank and mortgage credit institution, we take co-recorresponding value-based approach to tax law issues in sponsibility in relation to our clients’ finances. We do other client contexts, for example in connection with the this through clear guidelines for our credit policy for both granting of credit. clients and guarantors and through advisory services that ensure the clients of a good overview of their possibilities Money laundering and financing of terrorism and risks. Last, but not least, this is ensured by thoroughly The Jyske Bank Group wants to prevent money laundering checking that our clients do not use the bank for criminal and the financing of terrorism in any and all respects and, purposes. to this end, the bank collaborates with the authorities. Such prevention is ensured through, among other meaClient-related tax policy sures, continuous training and education of employees, Jyske Bank Group’s tax policy objective is to live up to its cross-organisational processes and guidelines, systematic corporate social responsibility and meet legitimate expemonitoring and reporting. ctations for a proper and honest business conduct which reflects the Group's values. In the course of 2016, Jyske Bank has implemented the Common Reporting Standard (CRS) and has worked on the The Group complies with the tax legislation in force in the implementation of the requirements in the European Unicountries in which we operate. In Denmark, this includes on Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, which enters that we comply with the rules on reporting of the clients’ into force from 1.7.2017. affairs to the Central Customs and Tax Administration (SKAT), the rules in the Executive Order on Best Practice Whistleblower scheme for Financial Institutions for, for example, tax advisory The Group has established a whistleblower scheme, which services, the Ministry of Taxation’s recommendations for provides employees with the opportunity to report serious cross-border tax advisory services and the notification offences or suspicion hereof for further investigation interrequirements in the Danish Act on Measures to Prevent nally in the Group. The purpose is to prevent and pursue Money Laundering (Hvidvaskloven) in case of suspected irregularities or unlawful acts, including tax evasion. • financial crime, such as bribery, fraud, forgery, corruptiAbroad, the Group complies with local legislation, incluon or the like ding the tax legislation in force. In order to ensure tax • irregularities in the areas of accounting, internal actransparency, Jyske Bank only collaborates with clients counting control and auditing where Jyske Bank either receives documentation of the • serious circumstances involving an employee, for client’s tax reporting, or where Jyske Bank handles the tax example threats or violence. reporting. The Group does not participate in tax evasion or aggressive tax planning. Helping private individuals to get a grip on their perIn the course of 2016, we have introduced a value-based sonal finances client-related tax policy, which ensures that we provide As a part of the financial sector, we, as a group, have a the tax consultancy about our products and services that co-responsibility for helping to strengthen the underwe are under an obligation to provide. We also provide standing of financial and economic affairs in society and more extensive tax consultancy in areas such as successihelping clients who, for a period of time, find it difficult to on and the Danish business tax scheme, but the advisory get a grip on their personal finances. We do this in several services are of a general nature without specific recomdifferent ways through special advisory services, teaching mendations. If our clients require such recommendations, and counselling, for example if there is a prospect of a sale we refer them to external consultants. ordered by the court. 11 A sustainable business Financial insight for young clients One in two youngsters lack a basic understanding of their personal finances, and more than 50,000 young persons in Denmark are caught in a debt trap and are registered as bad payers in the RKI register of bad payers. This is not just a problem for the individual young person, but also for society in general. Jyske Bank therefore has a special advisory concept targeting clients between 18 and 27 years of age. All branches have customised products and special advisers to service this target group. Moreover, Jyske Bank participates in various initiatives aimed at teaching young persons to manage their own finances, including student fairs, holding of travel arrangements with focus on travel budgets for young persons as well as a wide range of local initiatives. Last, but not least, the Jyske Bank Group participates actively in Pengeugen (Money Week), which is a joint project between FinanceDenmark (Finansrådet) and the Danish Mathematics Teachers’ Association (Danmarks Matematiklærerforening). The purpose of Money Week is to give young primary school pupils a good basic understanding of personal finances, and thus make them better equipped to make sound choices. In 2016, 66 advisers from Jyske Bank gave lessons in a total of 120 schools. This corresponded to more than 20% of the guest lectures at Danish schools in 2016. 12 A sustainable business Responsible investments Danish Social Investment Forum (DANSIF) In Jyske Bank, we take responsibility in connection with Jyske Bank is a member of the Danish Social Investment investments. This entails that considerations in relation Forum (DANSIF), which is a forum for professional inveto the environment, social issues and corporate governanstors, consultancy firms and other entities dealing with ce (ESG) are included in the investment decisions. responsible investments. DANSIF acts as a place for exchange of experiences about ESG investments, and we Selecting investments on the basis of a principle of reparticipate in its annual survey in this field. sponsibility is a highly complicated matter. There is little agreement on a definition of responsible investments. Screening of companies Investors, authorities, media, politicians as well as Jyske Bank has entered into an agreement with an exterspecial interest organisations and industry associations nal adviser (Global Engagement Service – GES), which have different perceptions. Jyske Bank therefore wants to regularly reports on the development in companies that assess for itself the companies and industries in which it seriously violate international standards or conventions. is socially responsible to invest. In order to be able to assess the reports, decide on the contribution to the collaboration with other investors on Responsible initiatives in which we are involved active ownership and to act in situations with ESG chalJyske Bank has joined the UN Principles for Responsible Inlenges, Jyske Bank has established an internal committee, vestment (PRI). PRI is a global initiative aimed at promowhich can quickly be convened to decide on Jyske Bank’s ting responsible investments, established by a number of stance on the individual investment or the individual the world’s largest investors in cooperation with the UN. company. PRI is based on a joint declaration on taking social responsibility in connection with investments and compliance Investment in government bonds with six central principles for responsible investments: In December 2013, CSRGov, the Danish Council for Corporate Social Responsibility (Rådet for Samfundsansvar), 1. We will incorporate ESG issues and active ownership issued ‘Guidelines on Responsible Investments in Governinto investment analysis and decision-making procesment Bonds’. The guidelines call on compliance with two ses. principles: 2. We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices in the hand1. International sanctions and prohibitions from the UN ling of investments. and the EU must always be observed. Jyske Bank com3. We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by plies with this principle. the entities in which we invest. 4. We will promote acceptance and implementation of the 2. The investors must, in so far as possible, themselves principles within the investment industry. examine the conditions in countries in which there may 5. We will work together to enhance the effectiveness in be a significant risk of infringement of human rights. Jyimplementing the Principles. ske Bank meets this requirement, and we demand that our suppliers provide a description of their approach to 6. We will report on our activities and progress towards this principle. implementing the Principles. Jyske Bank conducts an annual 'Reporting and Assessment Process’ in accordance with the PRI guidelines. Parts of the report are published on the PRI website. 13 A sustainable business The dialogue with the companies promotes New focus on fossil fuels and investments responsibility and accountability During 2016, there has been increasing focus from media, investors and clients on investments in companies with Jyske Bank participates, together with other investors, in a activities related to fossil fuels (oil, gas and coal). number of dialogues with companies concerning violations of international conventions and standards. The In line with the increased focus on fossil fuels, Jyske Bank work is done via GES. acts as adviser on a global equity fund in the investment association Investeringsforeningen Jyske Invest. In the course of 2016, Jyske Bank participated, together Since June 2016, the investment fund does not invest in with other investors in GES Engagement, in 139 dialogues companies engaged in activities related to fossil fuels. In with companies concerning violations of international addition, in November 2016, Jyske Bank became adviser conventions and standards. 65 of these dialogues conon a global bond fund with a focus on corporate bonds in cern companies in Jyske Bank’s portfolios. 48 of these the investment fund Jyske Invest. This fund also screens cases concern human rights and labour rights, nine cases and avoids investments in companies engaged in activiticoncern environmental issues and eight cases concern es related to fossil fuels. corruption. Furthermore, both funds do not invest in companies enIn the course of 2016, seven cases in Jyske Bank’s portgaged in activities related to weapons, tobacco, alcohol, folios have been solved and thus closed. In addition, very gambling or adult entertainment. positive results can be ascertained in the form of progression of the specific cases and a willingness to enter into a dialogue by the companies responsible in 19 of the cases. In 42 cases, there have been partly positive commitment results, whereas there have been poor or no results in four cases. In the course of 2016, a number of cases with companies involved in the production of cluster weapons and landmines have also been solved. 14 A sustainable business Responsible credit granting Financial enterprises constitute an important part of the Danish economy. The Group is therefore responsible when CASE: DIVORCE GAVE FINANCIAL PROBLEMS we grant credit. We are in the money lending business, but Jesper contacts Team Bolighjælp as he and Lone are we also need to have the money repaid. Our activities thus getting divorced. They have had their house for sale have interlocking interests with our clients. This means for about one year and, to begin with, Lone lived in that we do not simply wish to sell the largest possible the house. But since she moved out, the house has loan. We want to meet our clients’ financing requirements been unoccupied. In cooperation with Jesper’s bank, within a realistic framework in which the clients have the Team Bolighjælp urges Jesper to move back into the opportunity to repay the loan and which gives the clients a house and thus try to avoid a sale by order of the disposable amount on which they can live. court. A detailed budget is prepared for both Jesper and Lone, and negotiations are conducted with two This principle is not just good business ethics, but also different banks, which can fortunately also see the responsible credit granting. This makes demands on our advantage of avoiding a sale by order of the court. advisers and our granting of credit; the two matters go hand in hand. It may thus be good consultancy to say ‘no’ After many conversations about the importance of to a credit request, and a ‘no’ may be decided on the basis not raising any more small loans, but rather to make of a correct social attitude. repayments on commitments with the banks, a solution is entered into in which deferred repayment is granted on every second payment on the mortgage Help when clients have difficulties meeting their loan. In addition, the interest on one bank commitmortgage payments ment is zeroed for the next 1½ years, so that only Team Bolighjælp (Team for financial assistance for homerepayments on the principal are made, and the reowners) in BRFkredit steps in when clients have lost the payments are halved on the other bank commitment. overview of their financial situation and are in arrears Jesper’s bank helps him manage his budget account. with their mortgage payments, for example because they The initiatives contribute to creating a brighter future have been divorced or have lost their job. for the clients. They are making repayments on their debt and will thus eventually be able to sell the house The team makes great efforts to solve these financial without a loss. Most importantly, the clients now problems. For example, the team helps the clients regain believe that it can be done. an overview of their financial situation and to enter into individual agreements on debt repayment, also with other creditors. In 2016, Team Bolighjælp has been in contact with between 300 and 400 clients, and we have succeeded in finding a solution for two-thirds of them. By far the majority of these clients have been given the opportunity to remain in their homes. In a few cases, the best solution has been to sell the property at a loss and enter into an agreement on settlement of the loss. All other solutions than a sale by order of the court are socially beneficial to both the client and BRFkredit. 15 Sustainable commitment The Group’s CSR initiatives are about fication and communities contributes to the positive development of these areas. In our external commitment, commitment – both internally and we thus focus on sustainable cities and neighbourhoods externally (p. 22), communities (p. 25) as well as the environment and resources (p. 28). Partnerships are the driving force in our projects. Companies are the engine of society, which starts things We implement our projects through resourceful partnersand puts people to work. The companies create develophips. In fact, we believe that when the right content is ment and prosperity and must, of course, make money. combined with the right team, composed of clients, citiBut should it not by now be clear to many that companies zens and employees, we hopefully achieve a positioning can do more than this? Companies have a raison d’être that extends beyond our products and far into society. that goes beyond the underlying spreadsheets – they have multiple purposes. We therefore involve both our clients and employees from a wide section of our business when we engage in social And there are many good reasons for a company to uninitiatives. This strengthens our client relations, creates dertake a responsible and sustainable commitment in greater responsible awareness among our employees and society. International surveys clearly show that especially makes our projects stronger in the long run. We have theyoung people have corporate social responsibility high on refore laid down four principles for how we create social their list of priorities when they choose a career and proinitiatives (p. 21). ducts. CSR is thus not just an obligation dictated by law or demanded by investors. It is also a clear requirement from Sustainable commitment is also about sustainable the employees and consumers of the future. And this meawareness ans that it also becomes a question of running a profitable In 2016, we have also focused on a number of initiatives and sustainable business in all respects. that combine money considerations with a consideration for the surroundings, and where the individual employee Jyske Bank is the ‘Homeowners’ Bank’ and BRFkredit is ‘A can make a big difference, by simply making small conGood Friend of the House’, and this has a clear impact on scious changes to his or her everyday life, such as turning the way in which we run our business, and, in particular, off the lights, printing on both sides of the paper, avoiding on how we involve ourselves in society. In 2016, we have food waste etc. This year, we therefore launched an intertherefore further strengthened our CSR initiatives precinal climate and environment campaign with four focus sely by focusing on the HOUSE, the built-up area and local areas in which we, as a group, had already been engaged, communities. This is our way of showing responsibility. but where we can achieve much more, especially if we think creatively and pull together. The four selected areas Urbanisation, depopulation and well-being are the were: paper consumption, food waste, recycling of waste key catchwords and furniture and equipment as well as our consumption Urbanisation is a fact. And with urbanisation comes new of electricity and water. challenges. For how do we create holistic residential areas and communities in densely populated areas where You can rightly say that replacing a light bulb with a people with very different lifestyles, cultures, family and low-energy bulb does not make a significant impact from housing conditions are to live together? The problem is an overall global climate perspective. But even a small particularly well known in disadvantaged neighbourhoods. difference is important, not least for the way we think But urbanisation also makes it difficult to create thriving and act in the day-to-day work, as it is the same mindset local communities for those who choose to live outside that will subsequently help kick off green and sustainable the large cities. investments and measures that can really make a difference in the overall climate and environment agenda and Through sustainable commitment, we wish to contribute future-proof our business. to a positive development in both large cities and small towns. We have many years of experience in improving residential areas, and we know that focusing on beauti16 Sustainable commitment The necessary global outlook 2016 was also the year in which the Group strengthened its international involvement. Even though we have long used the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in our investments, we have, this year, decided to become a member of the United Nations’ Global Compact and work actively with the UN's Global Goals for Sustainable Development. To us, these measures show that we are not afraid to assume responsibility in our business – even though this gives us more global exposure than before. In the future, the media and critical consumers will make even greater demands, and, for the companies, it is fortunately still the case that CSR and what drives the sustainability strategies are means to sharpen the competition and hold on to clients and employees. Last, but not least, CSR forms part of our raison d’être. 17 Sustainable commitment HR policy In the Jyske Bank Group, we want to be a workplace that KPIs and Objectives for 2017 creates lasting relationships in a productive, trusting and informal work environment characterised by well-being In 2016, we and positive energy. An overall objective for us is to create as many profitable workplaces as possible. It is an impor• completed our first employee satisfaction survey. tant principle for us to show corporate social responsiThe survey placed us within the best 25% in the bility within the limits set by the market economy under sector in terms of satisfied and loyal employees which we operate. • secured a stable share of female leaders at just over 30% In a cooperation between management and employees, • focused on retaining employees via the initiative we continuously develop new initiatives to ensure a good 'Træd Tidligt Til' (Step In Early). and healthy workplace. We want to give our employees the opportunity to develop, both professionally, personally In 2017, we will and from a management perspective, to make them attractive and valuable in the job market. • regularly monitor the number of women in our management group in order to maintain a share that As an employer, we are aware that our social responsibilimatches the rest of the financial sector ty is centred around contributing with access to jobs and • regularly monitor the remuneration difference education for young people, among others. We believe between men and women to ensure equal pay for that diversity in the workforce contributes to performance equal work and development. To a great extent, we reflect the sur• maintain the number of mentally deficient and rounding society and our employees represent a multitude mentally vulnerable employees in the Group. of educational backgrounds, ages, genders, personalities, cultures and experience. We cooperate with and involve the employees' collective representatives in important employee matters, both ad hoc and via the formal cooperation bodies, and we fully respect employees' right to organise. 18 Sustainable Commitment Employee Conditions Employees with reduced working capacity takes care of BRFkredit In 2016, the Group's first ever employee satisfaction surIn 2005, BRFkredit entered into cooperation with Jobog vey was carried out. 95% of the employees completed the Aktivitetscentret Sandtoften, (a job and activity centre) survey. The survey reported high employee satisfaction about cleaning jobs at BRFkredit. Sandtoften offers jobs among the employees in the Jyske Bank Group – in fact, for people with mental disabilities and the initiative is run we are placed within the best 25% in the sector. The survey by the Municipality of Gentofte. In 2016, seven persons revealed some dissatisfaction with processes and systems with mental and physical disabilities were employed in in certain parts of the Group. We will allocate resources to cleaning jobs at BRFkredit in Lyngby. Moreover, seven remedy this in 2017. persons suffering from cognitive and mental disorders are employed in the team that keeps BRFkredit's outdoor Working Environment areas at Klampenborgvej in Lyngby. Through this cooperaWith a view to strengthening efforts to secure a good tion programme, BRFkredit is leading the way in offering working environment, the Group has appointed working persons with reduced working capacity the possibility of environment consultants, placed centrally in the organihaving a meaningful everyday life, colleague-to-colleague sation. In order to secure the working environment locally, networks and the possibility of performing useful and working environment groups have been established in the valued work. individual branches from a principle of proximity. Flexible Jobs Programme Also, a dialogue-based workplace assessment is offered as In the Jyske Bank Group, we have 20 employees hired unan alternative to the traditional form-based workplace asder the flexible jobs programme which is equivalent to 10 sessment. This method ensures open and honest dialogue full-time employees. These are primarily long-time Jyske and supports employee participation as well as the emploBank Group employees whose working capacity has been yees' involvement in their own working environment. reduced as well as a few employees who were hired directly for a new position under the flexible jobs programme. To Inclusion the extent possible, the Group strives to retain employees We believe that diversity in the workforce contributes to if they fall ill or have an accident. innovation and idea generation. To a great extent, we reflect the surrounding society and our employees represent a multitude of educational backgrounds, ages, personalities, cultures and experience. In 2016, the Group's measures to prevent and handle absence due to illness were scrutinised with a special focus on long-term illness. This has resulted in stronger focus in 2017 on specific cases in order to maintain a close and systematic dialogue between the person absent due to illness and his/her leader to ensure the employee's return to work as well as job retention. Moreover, in 2016 a management tool was introduced to prepare leaders to take action at an early stage when employees show initial signs of job dissatisfaction. The aim of the tool is to help prevent job dissatisfaction and absence. 19 Sustainable Commitment Training Programmes and Apprenticeships Voluntary Work The Jyske Bank Group looks very positively on employees' An important part of the social responsibility of employers social and voluntary commitment in their local commuis to contribute to young people's access to jobs and educanities. Therefore, employees may, to a reasonable extent, tion and to give the employees the opportunity to develop use the Bank's resources, e.g. print, email, telephones, to make them attractive and valuable in the job market. At conference rooms, etc. in connection of such voluntary the same time, there must also be prospects of permanent work. employment. Employment of newly qualified employees still accounts for a significant part of the Group's recruitJyske Bank supports the work on voluntary debt counselment, although we have seen a decrease in the rate due to ling instigated by the Danish Ministry for Children and generally lower employment in the financial sector. In order Social Affairs and a number of organisations by offering to stimulate the interest in competence development and advisers time off with pay covering 50% of the time they ensure coherence between public and private study prospend on such work. A number of advisers from Jyske grammes, the Group has since 2010 awarded ECTS credits Bank, corresponding to the Bank's market share, take part for in-house training courses. in the programme. In 2015, five new graduates were employed as trainees in Jyske Bank has established Jyske Bank's Medarbejderfond Retail & Commercial Banking, Denmark, where they take (an employee foundation), of which one purpose, among part in a formal training programme. We intend to repeat others, is to support current and former employees of the the programme every two years with the employment of Group. five new trainees in 2017. For the basic financial training programme, the following number of employees were alHealthcare located in 2016 in Retail & Commercial Banking, Denmark and BRFkredit: The Jyske Bank Group has an overall focus on employee health in the workplace. For instance, healthy food in the canteens and a fruit buffet are offered, and via the Trainee positions 2016 intranet all employees have access to short exercise Financial trainees (BRFkredit) 4 programmes – with and without resistance bands – that may help reduce and prevent physical strain on and pain Financial Management degree holders 28 in shoulders and neck, for instance, due to PC work. Also, Bachelors of Financial Management and ideas have been launched as to how employees can be Services 6 more physically active at work, for instance by conducting Total number of basic financial training meetings standing up. programmes 38 In addition, Capital Markets and Finance & Risk Management hire newly educated graduated when needed who typically take part in tailored training programmes. Last but not least, in 2016 the Group had a total of 54 graduates employed in trainee positions working on specific compliance tasks within money laundering. 20 Sustainable Commitment Social Initiative Policy HUSET (the house) and the built-up area is the focal point KPIs and Objectives for 2017 of the Group's social initiatives. In practice, we want to help establish better local environments and thus hopefully also improvements for the individual citizen. As 'the In 2016, we homeowners' bank' and 'a friend of the family', we find • included 50 apprentices in our MurMal (Mural) it only natural to be involved in areas where we already project. 13 of the apprentices later earned a peroperate professionally. By strengthening communities we manent apprenticeship can help boost local areas. However, we can only do this • arranged 12 field trips with local nature clubs together with citizens and other players within the fratogether with Save the Children Denmark mework of our partnerships. Overall, our social initiatives • prevented food waste in cooperation with fødevahas three dimensions: A social dimension, a partnership reBanken (foodBank) dimension and an urban renewal dimension. • supported the Muhabet drop-in centre financially and socially through mentoring When we select social initiatives, the following principles are considered: • launched three Projekt NaboRum (Neighbourhood) in Aarhus • Our commitment must make a significant difference in • donated 307 computers to charity organisations the projects we decide to get involved in. and supplied furniture and other equipment to • We cooperate with our clients and stakeholders in areas cooperation partners, including headspace and where we already operate professionally. Muhabet. • We enter into specialised partnerships with other companies, the public sector and players from local commuIn 2017, we will nities. • include 50 apprentices in the MurMal project and • We contribute with the resources available in our comcreate at least 20 apprenticeships pany and we commit to processes that can contribute • continue our nature club cooperation with Save to improvement for individuals as well as local commuthe Children Denmark nities/society. • continue our close cooperation with both Muhabet and fødevareBanken and help them increase their In the following three sections – Sustainable Cities and professional network and competences Local Environments, Sustainable Communities and Sustai• complete three NaboRum projects and initiate five nable Environment – we provide a detailed description of more projects in Denmark selected projects and social initiatives. • donate 300 computers via our computer donation programme. The above list is merely a selection of important KPIs for our social initiatives. We were engaged in many more projects in 2016. You can read more about the projects on the following pages. 21 Sustainable Commitment Sustainable Cities and Local EnvironAs a result, 13 of the apprentices earned a permanent apprenticeship. A result made possible by the fact that the ments apprentices was able to demonstrate their skills to a lot of people. As 'The homeowners' bank', ’a good friend of the house’ Last, but not least, we have created a mural that beautiand with our large commitment to the social housing fies the grey industrial area in Aalborg and helps to make sector, we find it natural to be present where our clients the area more vibrant and inviting for the citizens. Det spend most of their time – in their own homes and in the Røde Bånd (the red ribbon) is step one in a major urban local community. Therefore, in 2016 we have taken the renewal project taking place at the Nørresundby area of initiative for a number of projects, the aim of which are to the port of Aalborg and will thus be a landmark for 'the create sustainable cities and local environments, greatly new Aalborg' for many years to come. helped by committed residents and skilled partners from both the public sector, the private sector and civil society. Facts about Det Røde Bånd (the red ribbon) MurMal (Mural) and apprenticeships in Aalborg In the autumn of 2016, the Jyske Bank Group together With its 1,200 m2, it is most comprehensive MurMal with several cooperation partners launched the most project in Northern Europe. comprehensive MurMal (Mural) project in Northern Europe at the port of Aalborg: Det Røde Bånd (the red ribbon). The 18,000 litres of paint was used for the mural. artist behind the project is Søren Elgaard and the painting covers the entire area of 1,200 m2 on the old Hedegaard The mayor of Aalborg used a photograph of the artsilo by the Limfjord. The wall painting was brought to life work on his Christmas cards. by 50 students from the local technical college, TECHCOLLEGE Aalborg. The project brought together many students from TECHCOLLEGE, including media graphic designers, MurMal is a project with a long tradition in the Group. BRFpainters, bricklayers, carpenters, electricians, blackskredit conducted the first MurMal project in 2010, and the miths and chef apprentices. project has since become a key part of the Group's social commitment. When we conduct a MurMal project, we do A total of 50 apprentices from TECHCOLLEGE took it on the basis of three overall dimensions and objectives: part in the project, 13 of whom now have a permanent apprenticeship. 1. Intersectoral partnerships must be the driving force of the project. 2. The social dimension must be the motivation for the project. 3. Our commitment must create better and more inclusive local environments with a focus on community. In Aalborg, our three-tiered approach has resulted in a productive partnership with Flügger A/S, Det Obelske Familie Fond, TECHCOLLEGE Aalborg, the Municipality of Aalborg, Aalborg Havn A/S and Hedegaard A/S. In relation to the social dimension, we specifically helped 50 TECHCOLLEGE students away from the standard practical training and out into the real world. At the beginning of the project, many of the young people did not have an apprenticeship, which is a mandatory part of their education. With MurMal, they have now experienced a real-life workplace which has given them valuable work experience and at the same time something to be proud of. 22 Sustainable Commitment Projekt NaboRum (Project Neighbourhood) creates communities in Aarhus This year, we launched Projekt NaboRum with the purpose of creating better communities and more sustainable Ambitions for 2017 local environments in Denmark. The projects involve the citizens from start to finish, and the neighbours in the Both MurMal and Projekt NaboRum will be very visiarea where the project is carried out act as their own proble in next year's objectives and strategy. ject managers. Next year, we will carry out more MurMal projects Projekt NaboRum was launched during Aarhus Festival with special focus on the ambition of the Danish Week 2016 where we held a public competition and anBusiness Forum for Social Responsibility (VFSA) to nounced three winning projects in the Aarhus area. The help disadvantaged young people get an education participants were local residents who had come up with or a job. Our 2017 MurMal projects will therefore be suggestions for projects centred on community in their targeted at young people in grades 8-10 at risk of not local area. The three winners are: getting an education or a job. • Boligforeningen Herningvej 1, a residence hall that will 2017 will also be the year where we complete our get a joint barbeque and communal area in the spot three pilot projects in connection with Projekt Nawhere an old garbage container used to be; boRum in the Aarhus area. Moreover, in 2017 we will launch five new projects in at least three Danish • Grundejerforeningen Hasselbakken, a houseowner's cities. association that will have their common areas re-established, in part by creating a recreational area by a nearby lake and in part by upgrading of a nature-based playground; • Foreningen Kulturgyngen, a socioeconomic association in Aarhus that will get a multi-purpose scene in their own backyard available to other volunteer associations. Jyske Bank contributes to Projekt NaboRum via our long-standing experience in the built-up area, our strong business network, project management experience and communicative capacity. We are well underway with the projects which in 2016 included dialogue with the residents and subsequent guidance. The physical execution of the projects is expected to commence in 2017, where we will also initiate new NaboRum projects across the country. 23 Sustainable Commitment 24 Sustainable Commitment Sustainable Communities has been enthusiastic about the project from the very first trip: We took a trip to Utterslev Mose (local bog Everyone needs to feel that they are part of a community. area) which is located within walking distance from the Many, however, find that they are not. More than 210,000 families' housing block. The trip went really well, and all Danes feel permanently lonely. The issue, being subject to the participants were very pleased and grateful for the taboo, is made worse by the fact that people do not have day. The group of volunteers realised how little it actually anyone to talk to about it. The Jyske Bank Group wants to takes to give these families a great experience. It was the take part in addressing this problem. Therefore, we are a perfect kick-off to the many trips to come, said Maiken part of the Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (the People's Petersen. Movement Against Loneliness) and support projects that strengthen communities for those who need it the most. The project will be rounded off in 2017 with an evaluaWe see a lot of coherence between communities, the tion and a conference where the lessons learned will be environment and sustainable local environments, and a presented and shared with the purpose of inspiring other recurring theme in our social initiatives is that we want to associations and families with children in Denmark. contribute to strengthening communities. Muhabet – a safe community Save the Children – outdoor communities Fragrant food, hot tea and a safe atmosphere. This is what In cooperation with Jyske Bank and three housing associwelcomes guests every day at Muhabet – a drop-in centre ations, in 2016 Save the Children Denmark created three for mentally ill immigrants and refugees who are often nature clubs for families with children in disadvantaged difficult for the established welfare system to reach. Since residential areas in the northwestern part of Copenha2009, BRFkredit has helped Muhabet with professional gen, Nivå and Roskilde. The clubs are run by volunteers counselling and networking, for instance in the form of lefrom Save the Children Denmark, and the target group is gal assistance and securing a financial foundation. Muhafamilies in need of new networks and positive experiences bet annually receives 10 tonnes of surplus food and serves which the parents themselves do not have the resources approximately 14,000 delicious three-course meals a to give to the children. The families are invited for walks year made from surplus food which primarily comes from in the woods, bonfires, fishing trips or other activities in fødevareBanken (foodBank) but also from local business nature creating a setting for happy times and a sense of owners. community. The trips also serves as inspiration to families, so that they become better at making use of nature The Jyske Bank Group represents competences which a close to where they live. volunteer-driven organisation such as Muhabet does not have. Therefore, it is very valuable when employees in BRFkredit and Jyske Bank assist with e.g. legal assistance, fundraising, recruiting, communication and events. In 2016, Muhabet together with Jyske Bank and fødevareBanken held a number of debates about their partnership and the related social alliances. For instance at Folkemødet on Bornholm (the people's political festival), Kulturdagene (cultural days) in Nykøbing Mors and at Aarhus Festuge (Aarhus Festival Week). The result is a stronger network and positive feedback. In the autumn, Muhabet became a member of FolkebevæJyske Bank is involved in the project both financially and gelsen mod Ensomhed (the People's Movement Against with professional advice and sparring and will participaLoneliness) of which the Jyske Bank Group is also a memte in select activities in 2017. In 2016, four Jyske Bank ber. Together with fødeVarebanken (foodBank) and Jyske employees participated as volunteers in the clubs, and Bank, this spring Muhabet is hosting a dinner in connectithroughout the year, there has been a total of 12 trips in on with the national campaign 'Danmark spiser sammen' the three clubs with the participation of between 12 and ('Denmark eats together'). In this connection, Muhabet 30 children and parents each time. Feedback from both will also launch communal dinners for older people of a volunteers and the families has been very positive. different ethnic background. In connection with several of the year's activities, Jyske Bank has provided valuable Maiken Petersen from Jyske Bank is participating as a advice to Muhabet in several areas. And the partnership of volunteer in the northwestern part of Copenhagen. She fødevareBanken, Jyske Bank and Muhabet has proved its worth and has been further strengthened. 25 Sustainable Commitment Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (the People's MoveStorbylandsbyen (CityVillage) – inclusion and comment Against Loneliness) munity In 2015, the Jyske Bank Group partnered with more than In 2013, on Marienlystvangen close to Skejby Hospital, 60 organisations, associations, schools, municipalities Østjysk Bolig, the Municipality of Aarhus and Socialt and companies to establish Folkebevægelsen mod EnsomUdviklingscenter (SUS) (a social development centre) hed with the common objective of highlighting the issue launched the project StorbyLandsbyen (CityVillage), of loneliness and put it on the agenda in the minds of the which, in brief, is an inclusive environment where 20 Danes and at Danish workplaces. The vision of Folkebevæsocially disadvantaged or homeless people and 20 regular gelsen mod Ensomhed is to decrease the number of people residents live side by side in an inclusive environment. who feel lonely by 50% by 2020. In order to achieve this, Together with a social janitor, the housing association's members commit to making an extra effort to prevent residents – resourceful people and disadvantaged people loneliness. alike – create a good social environment in the housing association branch. The idea is that the community is Since they became a member in 2015, the Jyske Bank responsible for helping the socially marginalised residents Group has played an active role in establishing and get a normal everyday life to prepare them to manage by developing Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed and breathemselves in the long term. king down the stigma of loneliness, among other things through the national campaign 'Danmark spiser sammen' With the wish to support community, BRFkredit became ('Denmark eats together'). Jyske Bank has been a member involved in the project and acted as lender for the conof both the Coordination Committee, defining the frastruction in 2013. In the subsequent years, the Jyske Bank mework and approving the joint actions, and the Steering Group has supported Storbylandsbyen with activities to Committee, monitoring the financial aspects and develsupport the community. Among other things, we have oping initiatives. constructed a common barbecue area and arranged communal rooms for the residents. In 2016, Jyske Bank was in As part of the Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed's national dialogue with the residents and the persons responsible campaign in week 17 'Danmark spiser sammen', BRFkrefor the project on a regular basis. A visit to Storbylandsbydit and Jyske Bank invited their neighbours for lunch at en in November 2016 clearly showed that the anchoring Klampenborgvej in Lyngby. In the afternoon, together with of the successful pilot project is intact. It has been a long volunteer associations from the Municipality of Lyngby-Taand instructive process with many challenges, but the arbæk we invited all the local citizens for coffee and a talk community and the setting for the involved parties far about the many opportunities of becoming part of the outweigh the problems. The project has proved to be a clubs and associations and thus get a sense of community successful pilot project from which to retrieve experience in the local area. Jyske Bank's employees also participated for similar projects in the future. actively as volunteers at a large dinner event in connection with the campaign in Aalborg. In addition, Lene Hjorth, CSR Manager at Jyske Bank accepted the award 'Årets Folkehjælper 2016' ('people aide of the year') on behalf of Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed in August 2016. Dansk Folkehjælp (Danish People 's Aid) presented the award to Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed for their work with drawing attention to a problem in society, which is bigger than most people think, and for coming up with ideas for how to fight loneliness. 26 Sustainable Commitment Sustainable Environment In February 2016 at the Jyske Bank Group's Management In Denmark, we discard tonnes of electronics, furniture, Forum in Herning, participants were served dishes made clothing and food every year which could have been of from surplus food from fødevareBanken. As a result of value for other people. This is a waste of resources. At an internal request from Corporate CSR, 277 employees Jyske Bank, we are therefore committed to ensuring that chose to take out a personal membership of fødevareBanour used computers and furniture are passed on when ken The new memberships correspond to 3,400 meals to we no longer have use for it. This way, we protect the be distributed by fødevareBanken At the same time, the environment and at the same time we make a difference memberships paved the way to a total funding value of for associations, drop-in centres and reception centres, approx. DKK 500,000. among others. When it comes to food waste, we work together with the non-profit organisation fødevareBanken (foodBank) which distributes fresh surplus food to socially disadvantaged children and adults in Denmark. It is common sense when surplus resources are redistributed to people in need. fødevareBanken (foodBank) – give food and people a second chance fødevareBanken's results 2016 The Jyske Bank Group has worked together with fødevareThe work of fødevareBanken has major significance for Banken since 2013, contributing with financial support, both people and the environment. In 2016, approximaprofessional advisory services, network for clients and the tely 100 volunteers redistributed more than 800 tonnes business community and assistance with communication of food from food donors to approximately 116 recipient and marketing tasks. organisations in Denmark. This corresponds to 1.9 million meals and is an increase of 30% compared to 2015. Enormous amounts of food are discarded every day in the food industry which is a waste of resources and an unneNew life to computers and furniture cessary impact on the environment. At the same time, the most disadvantaged people in our society are often denied When we update our IT equipment, we make sure that our the possibility of a daily, nutritious meal which is of deciused computers, to the extent possible, are distributed to sive importance for their health. fødevareBanken fights to the benefit of others. Once reset and refurbished, they are change this. donated to associations and organisations doing extraordinary social efforts. In 2015/2016, the Group donated a Since 2009, fødevareBanken has received surplus food total of 505 computers to more than 30 different recifrom food producers, agriculture, supermarkets and whopients, i.a. drop-in centres for the homeless, homework lesalers. The food is distributed by volunteers from various cafés in disadvantaged residential areas, reception organisations working for and with socially disadvantaged centres, centres run by volunteers as well as residential people, including children, women and men in crisis, hoinstitutions. Our used furniture is also donated to good meless people, drug addicts and mentally ill people. Every causes. In 2016, headspace, Kofoeds Skole, Muhabet and day, approximately the tonnes of fresh surplus food are Foreningernes Hus in Gellerup received furniture from the delivered to the organisation. Group. This year's cooperation with fødevareBanken In January 2016, on Facebook we invited our clients to suggest potential recipients for ten of the bank's used In 2016, Jyske Bank and fødevareBanken participated in computers. Our clients' desire to help refugees was so several debating events; Kulturdagene (cultural days) in overwhelming that the Group decided to donate 50 comNykøbing Mors, Aarhus Festuge (Aarhus Festival Week) puters to the Danish Red Cross' reception centres. and Folkemødet on Bornholm (the people's political festival), among others. Jyske Bank has sponsored clothes for We're very pleased that you thought of the asylum the many volunteers at fødevareBanken and has also supseekers and welcomed them in this way. You're supporported fødevareBanken's national campaign 'Giv mad og ting people who really need it. We're very grateful, Anne mennesker en chance til' ('Give food and people a second la Cour, Head of the Asylum Department at the Danish Red chance'). The campaign, which has been made pro bono by Cross, wrote in a letter to Jyske Bank. the advertising agency Advance, was distributed via Jyske Bank's media, including Facebook, netbank and advertising screens in branches all over Denmark. 27 Sustainable Commitment HIGHLIGHTS FROM OUR ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PARTNERSHIPS • 307 used and reset/refurbished computers were donated to social causes • Three lorries of used furniture were donated to social causes • The advertising film 'Giv mad og mennesker en chance til' ('Give food and people a second chance') was shown on all the Group's screens in the branch network • 277 employees became private members of fødevareBanken (foodBank) • Four events held in cooperation with fødevareBanken • A film about fødevareBanken and the cooperation with Jyske Bank 28 Sustainable Commitment Overview: Projects and social Computer donation programme Also this year, the Group is donating used furniture and initiatives computers to social causes: Drop-in centres, cafés, reception centres, NGOs, etc. A total of 307 computers and Below is a brief overview of all our projects and initiatives three lorries of furniture (p. 7). in 2016. Pengeugen (Danish Money Week) – personal finances Loneliness on the agenda on the school agenda Through the steering group, the Jyske Bank Group has Once again, Jyske Bank participated in FinanceDenmark's played a key role in establishing Folkebevægelsen mod initiative Pengeugen (Danish Money Week) which aims to Ensomhed (the People's Movement Against Loneliness) equip children and young people to manage their persowhich today counts more than 60 organisations and comnal finances. 66 consultants from 56 different branches panies and in 2016 won the Danish People's Aid's award taught students at a total of 120 schools all over Den'Årets Folkehjælper' ('people aide of the year') (p. 26). mark (p. 12). fødevareBanken (foodBank) – from food waste to meals Three new Project NaboRum in Aarhus The Group cooperates with fødevareBanken which rediJyske Bank announced the first three winners of Projekt stributes fresh surplus food to socially disadvantaged NaboRum (a project involving the meighbourhood) which children and adults. Among other things, Jyske Bank has will create better and more exciting local areas better provided financial support, new clothes for all volunteequipped for accommodating communities. The residents ers and supported the nationwide campaign 'Giv mad og contribute with ideas and volunteer working capacity. mennesker en chance til' (give food and people a second Jyske Bank is involved in the individual projects from start chance) (p. 28). to finish through the employees. Moreover, we contribute with the resources and networks at our disposal in the Monas Hus (Mona's House) organisation (p. 23). The Jyske Bank Group supports Kulturmøde (cultural days) in Nykøbing Mors and is therefore, in collaboration with strong partners, creating a cultural centre called Monas Events Hus (Mona's House) to help establish a setting for the Aarhus Festuge (Aarhus Festival Week) cultural life in the local area. During Aarhus Festuge (Aarhus Festival Week), the Group Muhabet turned the spotlight on the development of urban spaces, Muhabet is a multi-cultural drop-in centre with special sharing economy and the business models of tomorrow focus on mentally ill refugees and immigrants, many of and social alliances. whom are traumatised by war and having fled their own country. The drop-in centre is a welcoming and homely 'Danmark spiser sammen' ('Denmark eats together') place offering solidarity and togetherness. For eight years, As part of Folkebevægelsen mod ensomhed (the People's the Jyske Bank Group has mentored Muhabet and advised Movement Against Loneliness), the Group participated in the board of directors and the staff and helped create a the national campaign 'Danmark spiser sammen' ('Denstrong foundation for fundraising and networking activitimark eats together'). The group invited local citizens and es (p. 25). associations for lunch and coffee at Klampenborgvej in Lyngby and participated with voluntary capacities at the Nature clubs with Save the Children Denmark People's Movement's large dinner in Aalborg. Jyske Bank cooperates with Save the Children Denmark and three housing associations on arranging outdoor experiences and networks for families with children in disadvantaged residential areas in the northwestern part of Copenhagen, Nivå and Roskilde (p. 25). Scandinavia's largest mural In November, we completed a 1,200 m2 mural at the Hedegaard silo at the port of Aalborg. For the seventh time, the Jyske Bank Group was the instigator behind converting a dull façade into a colourful mural while at the same time establishing internships and permanent apprenticeships for the benefit of apprentices from the local area (p. 22). 29 Sustainable Commitment Folkemødet on Bornholm Jyske 3-bold (the people's political festival) Jyske 3-bold, a ball game, was launched by Jyske Bank in Jyske Bank participated actively in Folkemødet on Born2005 and has since developed into an annual event. The holm and co-hosted, together with FinanceDenmark, idea is simple: Bring children to small playing field, simple debates about the social responsibility in the financial rules and focus on the joy of the game rather than the sector. Moreover, the bank was involved in several panel results. In 2016, 14 events where held with the participadebates on circular economy and the development of socition of about 9,000 children between the age 6-9 years. oeconomic companies. Jyske Bank provides healthy snacks and mineral water which the hosting sports clubs sell to the participants and Christmas card donation the clubs earn the profit from these sales Each event is For the twentieth time, BRFkredit donated money to chilarranged in close cooperation with units of Dansk Bolddren and young people corresponding to the value of the spil Union (Danish Football Association) and local football savings from no longer sending Christmas cards, by post clubs all over Denmark. or by electronic channels. In 2016, the donation went to the headspace – a free and anonymous advisory service Annual rally, Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed for vulnerable children and young people. (the People's Movement Against Loneliness) At the annual rally for Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed, Lyngby Vidensby (Lyngby City of Knowledge) Jyske Bank contributed with a workshop on loneliness and – Bike Town loneliness/community at workplaces. Jyske Bank supplied clothes for the bike guides and coffee for the new students in Lyngby who took a guided tour of the city. Conferences on socioeconomics To mark the end of a project supported by the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment, Jyske Bank hosted two well-attended conferences on business opportunities and partnerships between traditional and socioeconomic companies. Nykøbing Mors Jyske Bank hosted a debate about the social alliances of tomorrow together with Muhabet and fødevareBanken (foodBank) as well as a singing event in the bank. Sportscar event Since 2004, Jyske Bank has supported the Sportscar event to collect money for the Danish Children's Cancer Foundation and other organisations with a focus on children and young people suffering from life-threatening illnesses. Each year, they organise events where both the public and the children who are ill with cancer and their families get to experience unique sports cars and go for a ride in them. Jyske Bank sponsors of one of these cars and assist in arranging the events around the country. 30 The UN Sustainable Development Goals The Jyske Bank Group and the UN SusOur five priorities are: tainable Development Goals In 2015, more than 150 of the world's leaders adopted the new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, including a number of goals and priorities aimed at solving major global issues within economic, social and environmental challenges. These ambitions and priorities have We must end hunger, achieve food security and improved been set out in 17 overall Sustainable Development Goals, nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. also known as the Global Goals, as well as a number of intermediate aims, which both governments, companies and civil society must take part in realising by 2030. We must promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable The Jyske Bank Group supports the Global Goals. We see economic growth, full and productive employment and the new Global Goals as an example of the importance decent work for all. of our efforts and as an incentive to make demands on ourselves and the way we operate our business. In other words, we see the Global Goals as a strategic lever for our CSR efforts and as a foundation on which to set future We must make cities and human settlements inclusive, standards in our dialogue with investors, clients and other safe, resilient and sustainable. stakeholders. There is no doubt that the financial sector plays a key role in fulfilling the 17 goals – both though investment, We must promote peaceful and inclusive societies, provilending policy and the way we operate our business. At de access to justice for all and build effective, accountable the same time, we also know that the Jyske Bank Group and inclusive institutions at all levels. naturally does not operate alone but in cooperation with others in a sometimes complex and obscure world. Therefore, we are not in a position to adopt all 17 Global Goals. We have decided to put special focus on five Global Goals, We must strengthen the means of implementation and but we hope that we in the long term will be able to work revitalise the global partnership for sustainable developwith more of the Global Goals. ment. 31 The UN Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goal 2: End hunger Sustainable Development Goal 11: Sustainable cities We work consciously to minimise our food waste in the and local communities Group while at the same time fighting poverty in DenSustainable Development Goal 11 constitutes the cormark. We do this through food waste conscious canteens nerstone in the Group's external CSR efforts – the so-caland food waste campaigns internally in the group but led social initiatives. Our cooperation with HUSET (the especially through our partnership with the socioeconohouse), the built-up area and the local community is the mic company fødevareBanken (foodBank) which in 2015 foundation for our social initiatives as it is directly linked alone supplied 1.9 million meals to socially disadvantaged to the core business of the Group (p. 21). Because not only people (p. 27). In brief, we work with Sustainable Developdo we provide home loans and bank loans; we also create ment Goal 2 via our lending policy and our social initiaticommunities in which our clients can live and thrive. This ves. benefits our client as well as our business. More specifically, we work with the intermediate aims 11.3 and 11.7 when we create more sustainable and Sustainable Development Goal 8: Decent work and inclusive local environments. Projects such as MurMal economic growth (Mural) (p. 22) and Projekt NaboRum (Project NeighbourIn many aspects, Sustainable Development Goal 8 is the hood) (p. 23) are great examples of how the Jyske Bank foundation of our business. The goal focuses on decent Group works actively with inclusive and sustainable cities work for all and good regulatory framework for sustaiand local communities. Other examples are the Group's nable economic growth. In the Group, we work actively to commitment to Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (Peopensure the best conditions for all our employees and to le's movement against loneliness) (p. 26) and the Save create a workplace that ensures well-being, development the Children Denmark project 'Out of the housing block, opportunities and equal rights for all (p. 19). into nature' (p. 25) with particular focus on the many lonely people and disadvantaged children. As a bank, we have a key role in ensuring the economic growth in society. We must be available for innovative entrepreneurship and at the same time help young people and socially disadvantaged people into the job market. Sustainable Development Goal 16: Peace, justice and We do this, among other things through our commitment strong institutions to the EY Entrepreneur of the Year Award (EOY), where The Jyske Bank Group works actively with Sustainable we participate in the role as main partner to EY. The EoY Development Goal 16, including intermediate aims 16.4 Award celebrates Denmark's most innovative and skilled and 16.5, which deals with limiting the flow of illegal developing companies. Jyske Bank participates actively in money and organised crime as well as reducing the level the screening of the nominated companies. of corruption and bribery. We are aware that our sector is the eye of the storm in these matters and thereby constiMoreover, several of our departments contribute with tutes a significant business risk for us. This is also why advise to the start-up companies to ensure that they we engage in a joint responsibility to actively fight money have the best foundation for growth in order to survive as laundering, tax havens, bribery and corruption (p. 9). a company. Among other things, Jyske Bank’s branch at Kongens Nytorv in central Copenhagen participates in the We perform this work every day. We train our employees 'Investor Ball' where business advisers teach the students and make high demands for screening and documentatiin the economic affairs relevant to start-ups. on. And in several areas we follow an even stricter compliance policy than dictated by the law – especially in the tax At the same time, we must also take our part of the rearea (p. 9 and 11). sponsibility for the financial stability in Denmark which is done through responsible clients and credit policies (p. 11-15). 32 The UN Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals Sustainable Development Goal 17 is directly linked to our social initiatives – namely our partnerships (p. 16 and 19). We are therefore working with partnerships every day to bring private, public and civil players together to work on issues across Denmark. This approach generates far better results and enables us to realise our sustainable visions and, by extension, the Global Goals. We are not only a part of a Danish community. The Jyske Bank Group is also part of an international community where our obligations within the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and UN Global Compact (UNGC) (p. 9 and 12) are our way of engaging in an international partnership with the objective of realising the Global Goals. 33 Glossary 1. The UN Global Compact Jyske Bank is a member of the UN Global Compact initiative, which means that we are obliged to comply with the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The principles provide an international joint foundation for companies' work with corporate social responsibility and sustainability. 2. VFSA Jyske Bank is a member of the Danish Business Forum for Social Responsibility (VFSA). The managing director of the Group is chairman of VFSA. The objective of VFSA is to get corporate social responsibility on the political agenda as well as inspire more companies to make an effort to prevent, retain and facilitate the return to marginalised groups in the Danish labour market. 3. PRI Jyske Bank has signed the UN Principles for Responsible Investment which consists of six principles for responsible investment. The objective is to get companies to incorporate the investment implications of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into their investment and ownership decisions. 4. DANSIF Jyske Bank is a member of DANSIF which is a forum for institutional investors with an interest in responsible investment. The objective is to spread and exchange experiences among the members of the Society as well as to facilitate a diversified debate on ESG. 5. FATCA Jyske Bank complies with the American FATCA rules which were implemented in Denmark in 2014. The rules imply new standards for tax reporting and exchange of tax information across national borders. For Jyske Bank, this means we must report any US taxpayers in the client base. 6. CRS Jyske Bank operates in accordance with the OECD Common Reporting Standard (CRS) which is a further development of the FATCA rules. The CRS cooperation means that Jyske Bank has a reporting obligation on all clients residing in one of the 90 countries that have adopted the Agreement. 34
