UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 JANUARY STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Mater reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Henrik Marstrand CEO & Founder, Mater Design ABOUT: We have a strong vision to create timeless and beautiful design, based on an ethical business strategy. we strive to avoid and minimise any adverse impact on society, by following ethical and sustainable production criteria and creating products that will both stand the test of time and inspire the consumer to cherish and savour them. HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Vision We respect human rights as an absolute. It is still our policy to support people and local craft traditions. We are driven by our values supporting transparency and do not wish to engage in any form of human rights violations. Mater is still fully committed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Of cause, we fully comply with Danish legislation regarding Human Rights and employees of Mater also plays a significantly role in ensuring adherence to the Ten Principles. Our activities with regards to labour is to promote a healthy and safe workplace for our employees and push responsibility through our value chain by setting requirements to our suppliers and partners to adopt responsible labour practices. Progress In regards of our supply chain we will never accept any kind of Human Rights violations. It has never been necessary, but our Code of Conduct ensure us the right to take proper action if any violation of Human Rights occur. We select our suppliers with consideration to their policies in regards of all of UN Global Compacts principles as well as demanding that our rapidly growing base of committed production partners are properly certified. We try to engage into dialogue with our supply chain about the importance of CSR and support them to find ways to make improvements. All factories have been through an initial assessment and dialogue, and it is standard practice to follow up on potential improvements at the factories. Results Since last year we conducted an internal employee satisfaction survey. The results are satisfying all around, but we can of cause always improve. This survey gave us an idea about what to improve first. We will conduct next survey in 2019. We are in dialogue with one of our suppliers from India to collaborate on a project to improve working conditions. We will pay for the expenses and hope that this programme is possible to implement with other suppliers and it will motivate sustainable business principles within our production chain. ENVIRONMENT Vision We care about using resources responsibly in our designs, as well as the quality of the materials we use, their durability, the timelessness of the pieces and the conditions in which they are manufactured. Whenever possible, we try to combine both craft traditions and the environment. Much of our sustainable work is considered in correspondence to the impact we can achieve. activities that we believe we can influence and affect. This is how we believe we can create real value all around. By our ethical choice of material use such as renewable or certified wood, recycled materials and low energy light sources we use and encourage the diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies and techniques in our design collection. A design collection that are used for both commercial and residential purposes. We want to inspire people to engage in sustainability thinking and lessening the stimuli of unethical consumption behaviour taking environmental considerations into the equation. Progress We have many different views upon responsible business behaviour. Some of our products use primarily recycled material. The majority of our wooden designs are made with FSC certified wood and some designs just (also) rethink how different material can be used for a better and longer use. Mater is founded and driven by this concept and has been successfully adopted by our employees and designers. We continually monitor and seek to improve our performance and use of material both locally, abroad and on-site locations by regularly focusing on recycling, water efficiency, pollution prevention and energy savings. Results We believe that our products speak for themselves. Very few of our products has little to no verifiably sustainable footprint. We take pride in making beautiful designs with material others don’t “believe in”. Nature can be both magical and magnificent if you learn to appreciate it and look at the opportunities. We are looking forward to present a new range of designs for 2017 and hoping what just some of our many projects we have in the melting pot will succeed. SELECT PRODUCTS Ray Pendant Lamp Sometimes innovation and technological development creates opportunities not previously available. We are very proud of our new Ray Pendant Lamp that encompasses the above description. The Mater Ray Lamps are a stunning new lighting series, combining oak and steel in a beautifully innovative contrast. The Ray collection has a strong aesthetic reference to Nordic minimalism and materials, yet utilises low energy. The wooden globe shade is mounted inside the steel shell with magnets so that the user can position the beam of light in any direction. Due to the low generation of heat it is possible to combine wood and a light source so close. The lamps are designed for LED bulbs and only compatible with the energy class A, A+,A++ and support our environmentally friendly technology approach. Imago Wall Hanger | Upcycled iron The collection of wall hangers is available in three sizes, constructed from upcycled cast iron derived from old engines and other cast iron waste. An upholstery over wood version is also available, with Kvadrat Textiles. There is also the possibility of our ‘designer’s choice’ limited edition, crafted from leather off cuts from Sorensen Leather. The design also accommodates a standard hanger on the wall fixture. SELECT PROJECTS Descarted leather, fungi texture and recycled glass As on many other occasions, we are fortunate to have such innovative and imaginative designers associated with our Brand. In 2017 we have three projects in the pipeline. One of our projects is to make a lamp of discarded leather. Discarded leather is categorized as solid waste and therefore it is really bad for the environment so we are really thrilled about it. The leather is a residue from the production of shoes. It is treated with environmentally friendly products and therefore a little more sensitive to smudge. That’s not an issue when used as lamp material so we are looking forward to showing you the result. Second project is to find the perfect use of a new type of wooden material. To be more precise we have discovered the beautiful and natural design fungus can create in certain types of wooden materials. The effects of decay and texture from the fungus inside the wood create very dramatically natural designs and some beautiful changes like special patterns of dark lines and sometimes discoloration. Last but not least we came across a special type of recycled glass from our suppliers in India. We have the material and know its limits and possibilities. The material enables us to work with some interesting colours and we hope to make something of this in 2017. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Mater has a zero-tolerance policy in regards to bribery and corruption. Our dedication to addressing and advancing anticorruption and uphold our business integrity aspect is embedded in Maters values, code of conduct and policies. As a principle in our policy facing unethical conduct we feel obligated to lead an investigation if any suspicion towards corruption is detected. Progress Mater will always undertake and participate in the progress towards eliminating and abolish corruption in our business, from our engagement with local communities to our global supply chain. Vision We have, to our knowledge, not had any incidents to report, and we continue to show a zero-tolerance.
