2017 Sustainability Report 08 KEPCO Profile We contribute to the development of the Korean economy by developing electric power sources and supplying electricity in a stable manner. 22 10 Sustainability Sustainable Core Issues Management We identify core issues We implement sustainable related to our sustainable management based on sound management activities, and corporate governance report them in a balanced as well as integrity and way. ethics culture. 72 Performance Data We transparently report our economic, environmental, and social performance. Contents 04-09 22-71 Overview Sustainability Core Issues 04 CEO Message 24 Sustainable Management Strategy 06 KEPCO Highlights 26 Issue 1. Creating the new energy ecosystem 08 KEPCO Profile 34 Issue 2. Securing leadership in the energy market 42 Issue 3. Taking the lead in responding to climate change 50 Issue 4. Strengthening partnerships with stakeholders 64 Issue 5. Enhancing employee values 10-21 72-77 Sustainable Performance Data Management 73 Economy 12 Corporate Governance 75 Environment 14 Ethical Management 77 Society 16 Risk Management Cover Story 18 Stakeholder Communication and Engagement 20 Materiality Test 78-91 Appendix 79 Support for Global Initiatives 80 Independent Assurance Statement 82 GHG Emission Verification Statement 83 GRI G4 Index 88 Major Subsidiaries The cover design of the 2017 Sustainability 90 Memberships and Awards Report embodies KEPCO’s determination to grow into a global energy company by 91 About This Report expanding its business to include the new energy industry and eco-friendly energy as a Smart Energy Creator. In particular, it depicts KEPCO’s sustainable future through eco-friendly and futureoriented elements, such as wind power generation and electric vehicles. 03 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CEO Message We take the lead in the new energy ecosystem through change and innovation and fulfill our social responsibilities as a public company, all in our efforts to grow together with our stakeholders. President & CEO of KEPCO Cho Hwan-eik September 2017 04 OVERVIEW CEO MESSAGE Dear stakeholders, I extend my deepest thanks to you for your unwavering support and encouragement for Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO). For more than a century, KEPCO has been supporting industrial development in Korea by providing a highly efficient, high-quality electricity supply. In preparation for the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the new climate regime, we have been focusing on building a new energy ecosystem by expanding our business to include new energy industries and eco-friendly energy. We will continue to faithfully fulfill our social responsibilities as a public company, and put more efforts into stable demand and supply of electricity as well as the nation’s economic development. We will grow into an energy platform business, and thus lead the new convergence industry. An ‘era of singularity,’ in which technology goes beyond human beings, is drawing near. As everything connects and converges, boundaries across industries such as finance, telecommunications, and automobiles, are rapidly collapsing. That is why 2017 will be the first year of our evolution into ‘Digital KEPCO,’ as we launch our innovation to develop into an ‘energy platform’ provider, leading the Fourth Industrial Revolution. This strong platform will enable us to more conveniently and quickly provide electric power services such as the smart grid, the micro grid, electric vehicle charging, and the Internet of Things (IoT), which in turn will help to improve peoples’ lives. We will supply electricity in a more efficient and safer way through large-scale energy conversion. The Paris Agreement has put greater emphasis on countries’ responsibilities regarding climate change and reducing emissions of CO2. In Korea in particular, citizens are showing greater interest in health and the environment, especially with the annual inundation of fine dust every spring. The Korean government is now changing the country’s power mix, which was heavily dependent on fossil fuels and nuclear power, more towards eco-friendly renewable sources, including wind and solar power. KEPCO will therefore develop technologies to reduce greenhouse gases and fine dust, while maximizing energy efficiency. We will achieve win-win development by making the Energy Valley a success. We aim to attract 500 energy-related companies to Bitgaram Innovation City, create 30,000 jobs, and secure 105 key strategic technologies by 2020. We relocated our headquarters to Naju at the end of 2014, and by September 2017 we had successfully attracted 237 companies to the Energy Valley. In addition, we are supporting youth employment, having created approximately 6,800 jobs through our youth internships and the Employment Stepping-stone Program. We are hoping to create a virtuous cycle through which people, companies, and the local economy grow in partnership, and develop Bitgaram Innovation City into a world-renowned energy hub. We will earn trust by stabilizing our power generation facilities and through service innovation. We will optimize our transmission and distribution facilities to ensure a stable electricity supply throughout the nation. We also regularly inspect our disaster response systems in readiness for natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes. In addition, we will build an ICT infrastructure and develop technologies to block threats from cyber attacks, which has the potential to cause severe chaos. Moreover, we will think from the perspective of our customers – citizens and companies – and listen to their opinions with an open mind. We have fully reformed our progressive electricity billing system for households after 40 years, and any other systems that need to be modified will be improved in a reasonable and fair manner. We will continue to communicate closely with all our stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, and shareholders. I ask for your continued interest and support. Thank you. 05 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEPCO Highlights We made improvement to our management performance and earned global recognition for our sustainable value for the future by making continuous progress in all economic, social, and environmental aspects. Reformed the progressive electricity billing system for households from 6 stages to 3 KEPCO simplified the six-stage progressive electricity billing system for households to a three-stage system. Households in the highest stage were levied 11.7 times more than the minimum rate, but will now be levied only three times more than the minimum rate. This reform of the billing system has helped to ease the burden on customers. Recipient of the gold prize in the social media innovation sector’s communication/PR category at the ‘Asia-Pacific Stevie Awards’ KEPCO was honored with the gold prize Top-ranked in the electricity supply for its excellence in providing electricsector of the World Bank’s ity and energy-related information and ‘2016 Business Environment Survey’ engaging in active communication via the for the third consecutive year company’s blog as well as Instagram and Facebook accounts. KEPCO’s Facebook KEPCO was ranked No. 1 in the world for page was noted for having the greatest three consecutive years in the Business number of followers among public comEnvironment Survey by the World Bank, panies at around 120 thousand. thus earning recognition as a company that provides electricity supply services in the most convenient, quickest manner. World No.1 in the electric utility category of ‘2016 Forbes Global 2000’ Inauguration Ceremony of the KEPCO became the first Asian electric 'Power Big Data Center' utility company to be ranked as the KEPCO opened the Power Big Data Center world’s No. 1 in the 2016 Forbes Global to disclose public data in the field of electric 2000. It also became the first public compower and to promote the use of big data pany in Korea to be listed in the global on electric power in the private sector. By top 100. the end of the year, the Center will disclose information on electricity usage by month, year, and use for as much as the last decade, and also disclose real-time electricity usage information upon receiving user consent. 06 OVERVIEW KEPCO HIGHLIGHTS Successfully hosted ‘BIXPO 2016,’ the Bitgaram International Exposition of Electric Power Technology KEPCO held BIXPO 2016, an international exposition of electric power technology that drew the enthusiastic participation of electric power companies and experts from across the globe. Through the event, we expanded our global network and publicized the excellence of Korea’s new energy industry. Established the Conference Of KEPCO Group Companies to cope with climate change and was selected as an outstanding CDP* Company KEPCO launched the COK11 (Conference Of KEPCO Group Companies to cope with climate change) climate change response council in order to actively meet the government’s policy on reducing national greenhouse gas emissions and to take groupwide measures on current issues, such as the need to respond to climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. * CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project Became the first in Korea to receive the most renowned award for technology innovation, the ‘CIO 100 Awards’ KEPCO became the first in Korea to receive a CIO 100 Awards, the world’s most renowned award in technology innovation, by building a smart grid through the next-generation Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) project. 07 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEPCO Profile We contribute to the national economy through the development of electric power sources and the stabilization of supply and demand for electricity. Furthermore, we are taking the lead in the global energy market through continued innovation in order to realize sustainable growth. COMPANY OVERVIEW KEPCO is a market-oriented public company that was estabMajor Businesses lished for the purpose of promoting the development of electric power sources, stabilizing the supply and demand for electricity, and contributing to the development of the national economy. We are a global electric power company that consists of ten domestic power generation companies and Group companies and 30 overseas investment Electric power generation, Development of Overseas business related companies and subsidiaries. In 2016, KEPCO supplied transmission, substations electric power to the electric power and distribution resources industry electricity to 22,550,000 households across the nation in a stable manner, and our cumulative electricity sales stood at 497,039 GWh – 56.1% for commercial use, 21.9% for general use, 13.7% for households, and 8.3% for others. Research and Investment and funding, Company Profile technology development and business involved with using corporate real estate Company Name Korea Electric Power Corporation Date of establishment January 26, 1898 55, Jeollyeok-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do, Address Korea Business Value Chain Total assets (consolidated basis) KRW 178 trillion Sales (consolidated basis) KRW 60 trillion Thermal power subsidiaries Korea South-East Power Korea Midland Power Independent power producers Korea Western Power Number of employees (regular workers basis) Korea Southern Power Korea East-West Power 20,957 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power persons Electricity sales volume 497,039 GWh Companies with power purchase agreement Community energy suppliers 08 OVERVIEW KEPCO PROFILE Global Network ● Overseas office ■ Overseas subsidiary China Office Europe Office Liaoning North America Office Inner Mongolia Iran Office Chitose Gansu Shanxi Colorado Amman, Fujeij Rabigh Southeast Asia Office Japan Office Shuweihat Norte Malaya, Ilijan Egbin Middle East Office Cebu Nghi Son Indonesia Africa Office Australia * As of June 2017 Overseas business Group companies and invested companies KEPCO E&C KEPCO KPS KEPCO Nuclear Fuel Company KEPCO KDN Large-scale customers Korea Power Transmission Distribution Customers Exchange Sales and customer services General customers Substations 09 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainable Management 12 Corporate Governance 14 Ethical Management 16 Risk Management 18 S takeholder Communication and Engagement 20 Materiality Test 10 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT 11 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Governance BOD OPERATION Status of the subcommittees Classification Name Tenure Expertise Composition of the BOD 6 years Energy and President & CEO Cho Hwan-eik KEPCO’s Board of Directors (BOD) is composed of seven (2012-2018) electricity executive directors (standing), including the CEO, and eight Controller & 2 years Lee Sung-han Audit Auditor General (2016-2018) non-executive directors (non-standing). For non-executive directors, we choose candidates with extensive industry Executive Vice President 2 years Energy and Kim Si-ho of Domestic Operations (2015-2017) electricity experience and expertise to enable flexible, professional Standing Executive Vice President 2 years Energy and responses to the diversifying management environment. Directors Lyu Hyang-reol of Overseas Operations (2015-2017) electricity A Chairman of the Board is appointed from among the (Executive Directors) Executive Vice President 2 years Energy and non-executive directors for greater fairness and transHyun Sang-kwon & Chief Strategy Officer (2015-2017) electricity parency in BOD operations. Executive Vice President 2 years Energy and Park Sung-chul & Chief Sales Officer (2015-2017) electricity Process for the appointment of directors Executive Vice President 2 years Energy and Directors are appointed in compliance with matters stipu& Chief Power System Moon Bong-soo (2015-2017) electricity Officer lated in the ‘Act on the Operation of Public Organizations’ 3 years and ‘KEPCO Articles of Association.’ When appointing Ahn Choong-young Win-win growth (2014-2017) the CEO, KEPCO recruits candidates through an open 3 years Labor and recruitment, which is followed by a recommendation by Lee Kang-hee (2014-2017) environment the Nomination Committee, Public Institution Operation 3 years Economy and Cho Jeon-hyeok Committee, and an annual general meeting (AGM), (2014-2017) accounting a request made by the Minister of Trade, Industry and 3 years Choi Ki-ryun Energy economy Energy, and appointment by the President for a three-year Non-standing Directors (2014-2017) term. Executive directors are appointed by the CEO after (Non-executive Directors) 3 years Energy Sung Tae-hyun a resolution at an AGM for a two-year term. The Standing (2014-2017) (Superconductivity) Commissioner is recommended by the Nomination 3 years Energy Koo Ja-yoon (2014-2017) (Power engineering) Committee, approved by the Steering Committee, requested by the Minister of Strategy and Finance, and 2 years Kim Ju-suen Law (2015-2017) appointed by the President. Non-executive directors are 2 years Economy and recommended by the Nomination Committee, approved by Kim Ji-hong (2016-2018) management the Steering Committee, and appointed by the Minister of * As of June 2017 Strategy and Finance, and serve a two-year term. Diversity of the BOD To guarantee that the BOD is Independence of the BOD KEPCO guarantees the independence of the diverse and balanced, we are diversifying the scope of BOD so that the Board can faithfully perform its role of checks and balances. institutions that recommend candidates. We ensure the We strictly review whether a non-executive director candidate has a special balance of the BOD by appointing directors with substantial relationship with KEPCO by verifying whether a candidate falls under any reasons knowledge and experience in such diverse fields as the law, for disqualification that are stipulated in the Commercial Act*. Furthermore, we economy, media, academia, and labor, and by considering have established a regulation to ensure that non-executive directors constitute a diversity factors, such as nationality, race, and hometown. majority of the BOD, and thus strengthen their decision-making authority. In particular, the Nomination Committee manages a human resource pool of female executives as part of our efforts to Expertise of the BOD KEPCO considers the expertise in the relevant business recruit and recommend more female candidates. in the process of reviewing documents of executive candidates, in order to ensure the expertise of the BOD, and actively appoints energy experts. Even after their appointment, directors take part in regular training and visits to electric power facilities in Korea and abroad to enhance their industrial expertise. Additionally, directors are regularly provided with materials on industry trends and major management issues. 12 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT We are bolstering our corporate governance through the fair and transparent operation of the BOD. We also guarantee the expertise, diversity, and independence of the BOD, thus respond to changing business environments in a flexible and professional manner. BOD ACTIVITIES Status of the subcommittees Name Composition Roles 2016 Performance The BOD deliberates on important matters such as management goals and the budget in accordance with the Articles of IncorHeld 11 times, 93.9% Audit 2 Non-standing directors, Audit and participation rate, 25 cases poration and the BOD regulations. A director who has a special Committee 1 Standing director investigation decided, 14 cases reported interest with a BOD agenda item is not permitted to vote on that particular item. The minutes written after the conclusion Held 3 times, of BOD meetings are disclosed to stakeholders by posting them 94.3% participation rate, Nomination At least a majority of Recommendation recommended candidates on KEPCO’s website except for special matters, such as confiCommittee non-standing directors of executives for a standing commissioner dential business information. and non-standing director There are various institutional mechanisms in place to ensure 3 Held 12 times, that BOD activities take place smoothly and dynamically, Management Non-standing 100% participation rate, directors 47 cases pre-deliberated such as an operational performance assessment system, the Professional Pre-deliberation publication of a ‘Monthly Brief’ to distribute management Committee 2 Held 7 times, information, workshops to reinforce the professionalism Overseas Non-standing 100% participation rate, of newly appointed non-standing directors, and assistance directors 8 cases pre-deliberated for management-by-conducting tours. In addition, we have established the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Participation rate in 84.6% and Professional Committee in the BOD to guarantee BOD meetings management engagement by non-standing directors and to reinforce deliberation. Evaluation and compensation of the BOD The CEO of KEPCO signs a management pact with the Participation rate of 82.3% non-standing directors Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy on the management goals that should be achieved during the CEO’s tenure. The progress that is made in implementing the pact is assessed by the Performance Appraisal Board for Public Corporations. Executive directors sign a management contract with the Number of BOD meetings CEO on management goals that should be accomplished, and receive incentives based on their performance. They are remunerated under the remuneration limit approved at the AGM. The reappointment of non-executive directors is determined based on performance assessment results. They 21 times are also provided with a service allowance based on internal Decided/reported agenda 78 regulations. * Major reasons for disqualification as a non-executive director pursuant to the Commercial Act cases · Directors, executive directors, and employees who are engaged in the regular business of the relevant company; or directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees who have engaged in the regular business of the relevant company within the last two years Composition of shareholders · The principal, his/her spouse, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants, in cases where the largest shareholder is a natural person · Directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of the corporation, in cases 5 where the largest shareholder is a corporation 4 1 · The spouses, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants of directors, auditors, and 1 KDB Bank 32.90 executive directors 2 Foreigners 30.74 · The directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of a parent company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company 3 % 3 4 Government National Pension Service 18.20 6.50 · Directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of a corporation which has a significant interest in the relevant company, such as business relations with the 5 Others 11.66 company 2 · Directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of another company for which directors, executive directors; and employees of the relevant company serve as * As of December 31, 2016 directors and executive directors 13 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ethical Management ETHICAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Vision Compliance with ethical regulations KEPCO established ethical regulations as well as special antiDevelop into a trusted and corruption measures for compliance with ethical standards, respected KEPCO with integrity and implemented the ‘knock-down scheme’ for those Midto long-term strategy practicing corruption and a ‘clean HR reform’ for executives assigned to duties during which irregularities may occur. In addition, we became the first public corporation to carry out the ‘disclosure of the real names of people who Fully establish a worldStrengthen capabilities to Establish a strict discipline practiced corruption,’ and strengthened the standards for leading culture of ethics control corruption as a public corporation disciplinary measures against people who actively engage Implementation tasks in unfair and illegal conduct. We thus enhanced our ability to practice ethical management in order to fully establish a Fully establish an Control corruption Effectiveness in Highest integrity ethical culture in advance anti-corruption level culture of integrity. · Preemptively · Promote the internal · Identify tasks to · Come up with respond to the report system work together with measures to improve Complaint-handling and Improper Solicitation partner companies integrity · Review discipline tailored multi-channel reporting systems and Graft Act among those in · Improve the system · Eradicate conduct · Take the lead in authority in vulnerable areas that undermines KEPCO has set a voluntary reporting system, the irregularity practicing human credibility report center, an onsite report center, and other various rights management channels for reporting corruption. To prevent the exposure of whistleblowers’ identities, we outsourced the operation Dedicated team of the anonymous report system, which is available any Integrity Audit & Inspection Personnel in charge of Solicitation time. Also, complaints that are received through various T/F Office the code of conduct Prevention Officer channels, such as phones and the Internet, are managed Establish corporateBuild a culture of Comply with the Provide training and in an integrated way through an in-house reporting wide integrity policies integrity and control code of conduct counseling on the system called Sinmungo. The complaint-handling system corruption and provide ethics Improper Solicitation counseling and Graft Act is operated transparently and reasonably through the independent review of the ‘KEPCO ombudsmen,’ which Code of ethics consists of outside personnel. Fully establish an ethical Fully establish an ethical Punish unfair and illegal mindset management system conduct 5 codes of ethics, including 4 codes of ethics, including 3 codes of ethics, including the code of conduct for inspection regulations and guidelines on requesting Number of complaints handled and timely-handled rates employees enforcement policy disciplinary action Number of complaints handled (Unit: Case) Rate of complaints timely handled (Unit: %) Channels for reporting irregularities 98.7 Number of cases reported Identification Reporting 98.3 Classification disclosure method Note 97.1 2014 2015 2016 Internal/voluntary Real name or 3 5 – Online Intranet report anonymous 2,943 2,923 2,818 Irregularity Website outside 112 72 37 Anonymous Online report center the company Onsite Reporting Provide a sealed 14 – – Anonymous report center postcard postcard Anonymous External 31 95 82 Anonymous Online report system consignment 2014 2015 2016 14 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT We are striving to grow into a global ethical company by building an ethical management system on the company level. Furthermore, various activities are underway in our efforts to spread a culture of integrity. INTEGRITY AT KEPCO Activities to respond to the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act Establishing a preemptive response system Build infrastructure Internalize Review execution for the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act capability With the enforcement of the Improper Solicitation and Graft • Enact and amend internal • Publish a casebook • Simulation drills to respond Act in September 2016, we established and are implementing regulations • Provide trainings on the to the Improper Solicitation preemptive response strategies. We specifically established and Graft Act (Participated • Build an external lecture Improper Solicitation and and internalized an infrastructure for observance of the law, reporting system Graft Act (31,425 persons) by 19,521 employees and 21 and inspected execution capabilities to prevent potential violations. internal audit organizations) • Designate a solicitation By making such improvements to the anti-corruption and prevention officer integrity culture and mindset of all employees, we achieved (22 persons) zero cases of violation of the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act in 2016. Spreading a culture of integrity Activities to spread Major achievements in 2016 a culture of integrity Spreading a culture of integrity KEPCO shares outstanding cases with staff, our integrity • Signed an agreement on a Bitgaram integrity-exercising network, Build an integrity with the participation of 10 organizations partners, and citizens through activities aimed at promoting ecosystem in the Bitgaram Innovation City • Held the Bitgaram Integrity Culture Festival: Participated in by and spreading ethical management. Furthermore, in 1,980 persons, including staff and local residents partnership with public organizations, local governments, and civic groups in the Bitgaram Innovation City, we are Host the KEPCO Integrity Concert jointly with the • Provided emotional training, such as role plays and congratulatory building an integrity ecosystem and holding an integrity Anti-Corruption & performances: Completed by 1,010 persons concert, thereby demonstrating our strong commitment to Civil Rights Commission integrity. Build a system that discloses integrity and • Established a voluntary unfair and illegal activity prevention ethics information, such as atmosphere: The system visited by 10,496 persons the corruption status Run a voluntary property • Demonstrated commitment to anti-corruption and integrity: registration system Registered by 393 persons for high-ranking executives BUSINESS CASE Bitgaram Integrity KEPCO holds the ‘Bitgaram Integrity Culture Festival’ Culture Festival together with organizations, the local government, and local residents in the Bitgaram Innovation City, with an aim to build an integrity cluster and spread our strong resolve to act with integrity. Held for the third time in June 2017, the Festival serves as a role model for the promotion of a culture of integrity and establishment of an integrity ecosystem as an integrity culture brand rather than a one-time event. An opportunity to spread the integrity mindset is created by various events held by organizations that participate in the Integrity Culture Festival, such as an integrity concert, film, music concert, and mentoring. The Integrity Culture Festival is becoming a local festival for all citizens with participation from the local Opening ceremony of the Bitgaram Integrity Culture Festival government and several local civic groups. 15 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Risk Management ESTABLISHING THE RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Laying a foundation to stably execute Risk management system future strategies by establishing the FRM System Management strategy direction KEPCO has established a risk response system to preemptively manage risks that may arise in the process of achieving our strategic goals. We, in particular, established the FRM system to preemptively manage financial risks that Build an energy Provide global Lead the new Enhance can become a practical threat to management activities, platform solutions climate paradigm sustainability and also to strengthen our ability to respond to the diversifying management environment. Risk factors In 2016, we redefined eight key risk indexes (KRI), including Power purchase risk Power market risk Financial risk oil price, bituminous coal price, exchange rate, and system marginal price (SMP). We also have established a contingency plan which sets forth detailed countermeaInvestment risk Political risk Inevitable disaster sures according to risk level. In addition, the Financial Improvement Committee determines risk levels, shares KRI Management system information through our internal portal and broadcasting system, and carries out other monitoring and internal Establish and operate Establish and operate sharing activities. the Business Continuity the Financial Risk Management (FRM) Management (BCM) Identification of key financial risk factors H High Priority level occurrence, Low damage Material risks • Oil price, coal price, Financial sensitivity system marginal price (SMP) (Damage severity) • Selling prices, selling costs Mid-level • Sales growth rate • Exchange rate • Earning at risk (EaR), Low Cash flow adequacy ratio (CFaR) Low-level occurrence, Probability of occurrence Low risk High damage Frequency (Frequency of occurrence) Damage H Assessment Assessment Method Selection Item (Risk Mapping) of 2016 KRIs 16 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT We have been strengthening internal and external trust-based communication through various communication channels. In addition, we are enhancing the rights and benefits of our stakeholders, and share social values with them. Strengthening measures to respond to Risk Type uncertainties by establishing the BCM System Category Risk type KEPCO is operating a global standard BCM system to Management effectively respond to uncertainties, such as disasters and · Deteriorating annual profit risk earthquakes, and to develop work restoration capabilities. The BCM system was established in October 2016, which · Electricity supply shortage due to a sharp increase in demand was followed by the practical operation at our Headquarters · Electricity supply interruption due to a power grid failure Disaster · Electricity supply interruption due to cyber attacks and the Gwangju-Jeonnam District Division. We acquired · E lectricity supply interruption due to disasters, catastrophes and ISO 22301 certification in February 2017, and we are now earthquakes, and epidemics expanding the BCM system to all business sites. · PR activities in response to a crisis in the electricity sector We also operate a crisis management portal, which is used PR ·D  amaged corporate image due to a large-scale corruption for real-time risk monitoring and information sharing. We incident involving company employees categorize risk types in four sectors – management risk, PR, disaster, and conflict – and manage various potential risks in · Complaints regarding transmission and substations Conflict · Obstacles to power supply due to labor-management conflict a preemptive manner. We have also designated a dedicated department for each risk type, and the departments enact and manage crisis management manuals. If a crisis is identified, countermeasures are taken at each organization according to the five-stage procedures. BUSINESS CASE Management of KEPCO thoroughly analyzes various change factors that surround the corporate business environment. In particular, we identify emerging emerging risks risks that may arise over the shortto mid-term and establish effective strategies to manage the risks. Key risk factors Potential impacts on business Risk mitigation actions • Leakage of customers’ •  Strengthen the encryption of personal information and conduct personal personal information information impact assessments • Malicious code infection; • Use big data technology to establish a security control system and damage and leakage • Build a three-layer email hacking defense system (ATP defense system) Information of management materials due to an external cyber •  Adopt an individual and organization information security mileage system, security risk attack and provide training to all staff •  Establish a situation management infrastructure that is based on the latest ICT to further advance the disaster management system •  Continually inspect and improve the disaster response manual, situation • Power supply and demand management system, and equipment management system for quick recovery failure due to disaster or and minimization of damage in the event of a disaster Disaster and catastrophe •  Became the first public organization to develop a technology to provide catastrophe risk an earthquake impact assessment •  Develop the ability to respond to crisis situations through disaster response training 17 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stakeholder Communication and Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Communication In 2016, KEPCO established a ‘stakeholder engagement Results of the stakeholder communication are shared with policy’ with the goal of promoting stakeholder rights the management through a weekly meeting that is held to and interests, and creating value for stakeholders. share information on pending issues with the management. We categorized stakeholders into ten major groups – Also, they are reported to the BOD every quarter to citizens/customers, local communities, shareholders, the continually monitor the issue resolution status and reflect government/National Assembly, media, academia/experts, feedback. For issues that have top-level importance and domestic partners, overseas partners, employees, and the urgency in relation to the electric power business, such labor union – and operate a communication channel in as the construction of a power transmission facility and accordance with each group’s major area of interest and key electricity supply & demand crisis in the summer and winter, areas. the CEO makes field visits to share opinions with stakeholders on pending issues. By doing so, we are setting ways to resolve issues through cooperation. Stakeholder group Key areas l trust Internal mutua on ed bas es gi Citizen Pu te nion s/C or u ust rs Lab stra om er ue s Align the ication vis mun ion unities om Em yc plo wi mm wa ye l co es th ca oLo tw Stakeholders rs rtne d Shar n an Overseas pa eholders Share visio ion t informa ve artn Go na rn ers tio Na l A men cp sse t / esti mb m ly Do ts per Medi a ia/Ex Academ External Enh s anc sue e the or is understanding of maj 18 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT We enhance the rights and benefits of our stakeholders and continue to create and share values by having a dialogue with them through various communication channels. Communication efforts by stakeholder Communication Stakeholder Major interest Directions to share core values Communication and responses channel • Citizen suggestion contest to provide customized • Social media services from the citizen’s perspective Citizens / Provide benefits, Build a foundation to support business; (1,763 cases received, 15 cases chosen) • Meetings Customers Form public opinion and identify customers’ needs • Contests • Customer satisfaction survey conducted by the Korean government, and independently conducted by KEPCO Institutionalize conflict management Property rights, • Public Hearings to fundamentally resolve complaints; • Contribution activities that satisfy the cultural activity Local Joint development, • Social and establish a win-win system in needs of local communities communities Environmental contributions which local residents and relevant (Bitgaram Theater, concert, etc.) rights organizations participate • IR Provide information preemptively; • IR conferences and investor presentations at home and Corporate value, • Public disclosure Shareholders and manage market sentiments abroad (25 in total including 8 overseas activities in Continued growth • Annual general and anxiety New York and others) meeting • Establish a friendly policy and legislation environment Government / Policy direction, Establish a KEPCO policy and legislation by holding presentations for citizens (5 times) and National Public interest environment, and a support foundation coordination meetings on responding to National Assembly Assembly policies External • Seminars Lead public • Meetings for media, correspondents’ meetings, opinions, • Forums Offer advertisement and issues, and and press releases Media Public rights and • Cooperation form friendly public opinions • Operate the press and risk management communication interest channels system • Expert forum: Electricity economy (4 times, 89 persons); Academia / Promote the Form a consensus on ‘changes in Electricity Power Act (2 times, 100 persons); and new Experts energy industry the business,’ and build friendly forces energy industry (7 times, 214 persons) Win-win growth, • Onsite VOC Domestic Build a ‘sharing economy ecosystem,’ • Collect onsite VOCs of SMEs and select improvement Cooperation for • Briefings partners including fair trade measures exporting • Build an ecosystem Overseas Joint contracts, • Regular exchanges Enhance competitiveness in winning • Hold the BIXPO 2016 expo (around 52,000 people contracts; and strengthen the personnel from 43 countries; and export counseling worth USD partners Provide finance • Benchmarking network 1.12 billion • Internalize the vision and core values at the company level: Empathy Up! Vision Concert tour (960 persons) • Direct report to the • Direct communication with the CEO: 4 direct CEO Form a consensus on vision and communication emails, 5 special lectures for 943 Continued growth, Employees • Vision portal strategies; and innovate the corporate employees, 9 meetings to share information on Self-esteem • Management culture pending issues at business sites suggestion portal • Training to strengthen innovation capabilities: Strategic leadership training for 60 persons, creative innovation training for 1,303 persons Internal • Labor• Communication efforts: 4 meetings of the management labor-management council, 7 meetings for collective Enhance council bargaining, 3 meetings of the labor-management Communicate and form a consensus joint committee, 4 wage negotiation meetings, 465 Labor union the rights of union • Collective based on mutual trust management briefings members bargaining • Foster 354 onsite experts for labor-management • Workshop relations 19 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Materiality Test Materiality test and the selection of core reporting issues KEPCO conducted internal and external stakeholder surveys, analysis STEP 3 Select and report core issues of international standards, benchmarking of advanced companies, and media research, in order to identify core sustainable management issues. A final selection was made on ten core issues. In addition, based on the core issues that were derived from this detailed Consideration was made on their meaning, analysis, we conducted a materiality assessment and implemented the scope, aspect boundary, reporting period, and prioritization process in accordance with GRI G4 Guidelines. We then reporting boundary, and thus we structured the transparently report results and relevant activities through this report. issues in the contents of the report. In addition, we reported our positive and negative impacts and performances on the economy, society, and environment in a reasonable and balanced STEP 1 Build the issue pool manner. We also operate diverse communication channels, including a survey of readers’ Based on economic, environmental, and social opinions, to enable stakeholders to express their influences on our overall business activities or opinions. the assessment and decision-making of stakeholders, we composed a potential issue pool with 36 issues. Analyze global standards Review internal materials • Analyze requirements of global •R eview internal policies and standards regrading sustainable activities report management and identity issues • Review the KEPCO company • Analyze Global Reporting magazines Mapping of core issues into this report Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines, • Conduct interviews with ISO 26000, Sustainable Core Issue Composition of the Report Page staff in relevant teams Development Goals (SDGs), etc. Issue 1 8 26-33 Creating the new energy Conduct benchmarking Conduct media research ecosystem • Identify core issues and • Review articles reported from activities of companies – January 2016 to June 2017 renowned for outstanding through the media Issue 2 sustainable management – • Review types of articles and 9 Securing leadership in 34-41 in the same industry major issues the energy market • Identify sustainable management trends at home and abroad Issue 3 5 6 Taking the lead in responding 42-49 to climate change STEP 2 Prioritize the issues Issue 4 A survey of stakeholders, including customers, 1 10 Strengthening partnerships 50-63 employees and partner companies, was with stakeholders conducted to prioritize the derived potential issue pools. Based on that, we identified our sustainable management level, and carried out Issue 5 2 3 the materiality test by incorporating impact on 64-71 4 7 Enhancing employee values stakeholders’ decision making and business relevance. 20 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT We identified core issues regarding our sustainable management based on the analysis of international standards, benchmarking, and stakeholder surveys, and report them in a balanced way in accordance with international reporting principles. Materiality test matrix* Promote communication with Stakeholder interests Expand the development of eco-friendly technologies local communities and the regional economy 1 6 3 Build the disaster safety 2 management system Build a great Actively respond to 5 workplace the new climate regime 4 Develop talents and Accelerate entry into Provide safety trainings from strengthen the HR capacity a global market prevention perspectives and 7 internalize safety culture 10 Select and evaluate partner companies in a fair and Secure the soundness of Strengthen R&D to create transparent manner 8 new growth drivers corporate governance Secure the stability of 9 the electric power supply Improve energy efficiency Build a cooperative labor-management Build a win-win growth system for relation based on trust Manage and reduce the partner companies and communication greenhouse gas emissions Build an ethical management and Establish a social contribution strategy Strengthen a portfolio such as anti-corruption system system on the company level the energy new industry Preemptively manage risks Economy Society Environment and safety Business relevance * We conducted the materiality test based on stakeholders’ interest as well as the impact on decision-making and business relevance, and thus identified 10 core issues with higher priority. Subject of Impacts Impacts of the Issue Core Issue GRI Aspect Government Shareholders Local Partner Internal Customers / Related Cost Income Risk / Investors communities companies institutions Promote communication with local communities Local ● ● ● and the regional economy communities Labor Build a great workplace ● ● practices Occupational health Build the disaster safety management system ● ● ● ● and safety Training and Develop talents and strengthen the HR capacity ● ● education Energy Actively respond to the new climate regime ● ● ● ● Emissions Expand the development of eco-friendly R&D ● ● ● ● technologies Provide safety trainings from prevention Occupational health ● ● ● ● ● perspectives and internalize safety culture and safety Strengthen R&D to create new growth drivers R&D ● ● ● ● Secure the stability of the electric power supply Energy ● ● ● ● Select and evaluate partner companies Procurement practices ● ● ● in a fair and transparent manner 21 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Core Issues 24 Sustainable Management Strategy 26 ISSUE 1 Creating the new energy ecosystem 34 ISSUE 2 Securing leadership in the energy market 42 ISSUE 3  Taking the lead in responding to climate change 50 ISSUE 4 Strengthening partnerships with stakeholders 64 ISSUE 5 Enhancing employee values 22 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES 23 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainable Management Strategy MISSION & VISION With the emergence of the new energy industry and the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, KEPCO established its vision as an innovative ‘value creator’ in the global energy industry. Guided by this vision, we strive to contribute to the stabilization of the supply and demand for electricity as well as the development of the national economy. Mission Contribute to the stable supply of electric power and the development of the national economy Secure leadership in the electric power market Create new values of the grid Strategic tasks FUTURE Future-oriented F Build the energy platform Strategic Expand the profits direction from overseas INNOVATION businesses Innovation & challenge I Lead the new energy business Provide global solutions Smart Energy RESPECT Creator, Respect customers R Core value KEPCO Lead Vision the new climate regime RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL S Develop convergent and clean technologies Enhance Build the energy hub sustainability TOGETHER T Communication and harmony Establish a future-oriented organization and system Practice socially responsible management 24 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT STRATEGY KEPCO established sustainable management performance indices in alignment with our management mission and vision, and has been managing execution status and goals with an aim for the systematic sustainable management from a long-term perspective. In addition, we put in place the Corporate Strategy Team under the Corporate Planning Department as a dedicated team to corporate sustainability management for the systematic execution of sustainable management. Performance and goals of sustainable management Strategic direction Strategic tasks Execution status Future goal Performance index Unit Goal for Achievement in Goal for Midto long-term goal for 2016 2016 2017 2020 Load factor % 77.9 72.4 77.9 76.1 and above Stabilize the electric Black out time Minute 9.90 9.61 9.34 7.92 Creating power supply Capacity of electric power economic · facilities completed for MW New 5,198 5,338 6,138 value Create growth overseas businesses drivers for the future Secure core strategic Case, accumulated 54 54 69 134 technologies Rate of undergrounding % 16.9 17.1 17.6 21 and above electric distribution lines Expand green Realizing management Transmission and 3.73 and % 3.59 3.72 3.72 and below eco-friendly · distribution loss factor below energy Respond to Renewable energy climate change MW New 180 198 542 capacity GHG emissions 1,000 ton CO2eq 1,610 1,398 910 1,590 Customer satisfaction level Point 91.5 85.2 86.7 90.3 Rate of preferential purchase of products % 70.5 70.6 70.7 70.9 Enhance manufactured by SMEs customer Strengthening Export performance values partnerships of SMEs in overseas USD 10,000 31,837 34,153 35,954 38,000 · with expansion Practice stakeholders sharing and Number of companies coexistence attracted into the Bitgaram Company 150 177 250 500 Energy Valley Support for the launch of Company New – 1) 100 300 startups Secure futureTalents with capacity to Person 971 971 1,075 1,314 oriented drive future growth Pursuing talents Female employment rate % 20 and above 21.2 20 and above 20 and above a people· oriented Safety accident victims Person 108 and below 65 94 58 Create a safe workplace and happy Employee satisfaction 2) workplace Point 76.4 75.2 76.1 80 level 1) Begun in 2017 2) Based on the average performance of the most recent three years 25 ISSU E 01 Creating the new energy ecosystem OUR APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE KEPCO has been transforming into a Digital Utility based on cutting-edge technologies and convergence-based new energy Investment in the new energy industry businesses, with an aim to take the lead in responding to sharp changes in the electric power industry. By successfully completing our transformation into ‘Digital KEPCO,’ we plan to lead the new paradigm of the Fourth Industrial Revolution KRW 2,639.8 billion and create a new energy market. R&D expenses RISK OPPORTUNITY • Policy restrictions on public companies and increased competition in the energy industry • Experiences in the new energy industry (renewable energy, ESS, smart grids, etc.) • Global trend towards the KRW 446.6 billion • Increase in electricity purchase energy paradigm conversion expenses due to the expansion Fund size for the new energy industry of high-cost power generation 500billion sources • Increased demand for the digitalization of electrical grids KRW 26 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES INVESTMENT TO BECOME A LEADER NEW ENERGY INDUSTRY FIELD OF THE NEW ENERGY INDUSTRY KEPCO has identified new energy industry areas that are in line with the government’s policy direction and is moving forward with commercialKEPCO aims to go beyond ICT and build an energy platform-based ization. By doing so, we have been developing new growth engines for electricity business ecosystem in which electric energy and relevant the future and cementing our position as the leader of the new energy services converge and are connected. Specifically, we have been creating ecosystem. new value through business models by expanding the new energy industry and developing platform-based connected services. To this end, we invested KRW 2,639.8 billion in 2016. New Energy Industry Field Renewable ESS EMS EV Smart grid IoT & Big data energy NEW ENERGY INDUSTRY BUSINESS MODEL Clean and smart infrastructure Expanding EV charging stations KEPCO became the very first in Building the AMIs KEPCO plans to build the advanced metering infraKorea to develop quick electric vehicle (EV) chargers, and is actively structure (AMI) through which we provide real-time information about expanding the infrastructure that is needed to promote the dissemithe electricity usage and electric rates to customers, thereby encournation of EVs. In partnership with private companies, we established a aging voluntary demand management. This will also enable suppliers to special purpose company (SPC) for charging services in August 2015, accurately forecast demand and manage loads. In accordance with the to provide EV charging services and charge a service fee. We have been government’s master plan for electrical grids, we have built the AMI for conducting a charging infrastructure construction project since 2016, approximately 3.3 million households as of the end of 2016. This has thus building a foundation to promote EVs in Korea and create future enabled the remote reading of customers’ electricity usage by time slot demand for electricity. as well as real-time provision of accurate information, thereby enhancing customer convenience and stability in the electric power supply. Status Status of building the infrastructure for EV charging 278 urban life-type charging stations, and (Unit: Unit) 1,594 apartment-type complexes, and launched paid charging services Quick chargers * As of August 2017 507 Total 1,386 Goal Standard chargers Plan to build 307 urban life-type charging stations and 879 4,000 apartment-type complexes * As of the end of December 2016 27 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Building ESS facilities for frequency regulation The energy storage energy usage efficiency. It accomplishes this by making the electrical system (ESS) stores electric power so that electricity can be used later grid more intelligent and advanced through the convergence of electric when it is needed. It can be used in diverse fields, including demand power technology and ICT. From 2009 through 2013, we took part in management, new & renewable energy expansion, improvement in a construction project in all five areas – transmission and distribution, electricity quality, and frequency regulation. In particular, ESS replaces consumer, transportation, new & renewable, and electric power service the frequency regulating reserve, which used to be handled by coal – in the Jeju Smart Grid Test-bed, and successfully completed the generators, thereby stabilizing generator output, ultimately leading to business model development and standardization project. By leveraging a substantial reduction in annual electricity purchase expenses. In 2014, the technologies and experience it gained from the Jeju demonstration we installed Korea’s first 52 MW ESS at the West-Anseong substation project, the KEPCO consortium, which consists of 15 organizations, is and Sin-Youngin substation, and launched the commercial operation of implementing the ‘participation in smart grid deployment project’ led by a frequency regulation ESS in 2015. the Korean government as a business model for AMI-based electricity services and energy consulting. We plan to complete the establishment Expanding the smart grid A smart grid is a next-generation of business models that are in line with the characteristics of each region electrical grid that provides high-quality electricity services and optimizes together with participating local governments by 2018. Functions of an ESS Composition of the smart grid station Peak power reduction Power conversion system Photovoltaic (PV) (PCS) Long-term characteristics Wind turbine (WT) Smart lighting ESS Monitor the charging status Advanced metering of EVs infrastructure (AMI) Short-term characteristics Building automation Smart appliance system (BAS) Frequency control; and Stabilization of generator SG station operation Distribution automation capability center system (DAS) Renewable energy Solar power business KEPCO is undertaking the Miryang solar power Offshore wind power business In accordance with the governbusiness, which is a benefit sharing-type renewable energy business. ment’s comprehensive plan for 2.5 GW offshore wind power in the We build and operate solar stations on rooftops and land located near Southwestern Sea, KEPCO has been conducting a 60 MW Southwestern transmission lines, and share the profits with participating residents. We Sea offshore wind power business together with six power generation are also conducting a solar power business that uses a school rooftop companies. We are also taking part in the development of the offshore through an SPC that was established in 2015 together with six power wind power business in the Saemangeum region (99.2 MW) and Hallim, generation companies. We plan to complete the installation of 300 Jeju (100 MW). Our wind power business in Gansu, China marked MW facilities at 2,500 schools by 2020. In 2016, we placed an order for the beginning of our overseas offshore wind power business. We are construction at 273 schools and completed the construction of a solar operating wind power plants (total of 1,314 MW) in Gansu, Inner power station at two schools. For our overseas business, we commenced Mongolia, and Liaoning. Construction was commenced for the wind construction for a 28 MW solar power project in Chitose, Japan, and power business in Fujeij, Jordan (89.1 MW) in December 2016. acquired a 30 MW solar power plant in Colorado, U.S. We are thus solidifying our stature as a global clean energy business operator in overseas Energy-independent islands The energy-independent island is a countries as well. new energy business model that involves replacing electricity production and supply on islands in Korea with eco-friendly energy that combines Fuel cells As part of our future growth projects, KEPCO established an SPC renewable energy with ESS. As a leading example, KEPCO established in cooperation with Daegu Metropolitan City in 2016 for the joint develan SPC in 2015 to build the Ulleungdo eco-friendly energy-independent opment of a 60 MW fuel cell business, and the relevant business is underway. island, and signed a power purchase agreement (PPA) with Ulleung 28 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES Enerpia in 2016. We are thus changing high-cost diesel generators as the smart factory and smart campus. Investments amounting to KRW on islands into such clean energy sources as photovoltaic, wind, and 500 billion will be made over the next decade into the smart factory, in geothermal power. particular, in order to build 2,000 K-iEMS (KEPCO Energy Management System) – an integrated energy management system. Energy efficiency improvement Improving efficiency through an ESCO KEPCO strives to improve Big data·IoT energy efficiency by supplying high-efficiency facilities. In June 2016, Big data KEPCO focuses on enhancing market convenience by we established a separate corporation and invested approximately KRW providing public information in the field of electric power by using big 150 billion to start the energy service company (ESCO) business. In data. Since the opening of the Big Data Center in 2016, we have been 2017, we signed an MOU with Samsung Electronics for a pilot project posting integrated electric power information. Our plan is to build a on peak management using smart home appliances as well as for the big data integration platform and to execute big data analysis tasks, development of an energy Internet of Things (IoT) cooperation business such as an analysis of the economic feasibility of renewable energy and model. selection of optimal locations for EV charging stations. Smart city KEPCO has been expanding the ecosystem of the new IoT KEPCO has set in place a comprehensive management system for energy industry and building a city-level integrated management system. electric power IoT, and is thus developing a smart access control system, As a leading example, such projects as the Bitgaram Energy Valley Smart electric power facility monitoring, and social safety net services. We are City, a carbon-free Island (CFI) at Jeju, and the LH Collaboration Smart taking the lead in realizing an ‘energy Internet’ by taking such measures Energy City are underway. as installing IoT terminals and sensors in Jeonju (9 million units) and building a nation-wide IoT infrastructure to collect big data on electric K-EMS In partnership with other companies, including LG Uplus, power. KEPCO has been developing business models for energy efficiency, such BUSINESS CASE Transforming Dubai into KEPCO held a groundbreaking ceremony for a pilot project of a cutting-edge energy city the city-level ‘smart grid station’ in May 2016, and has been conducting activities to transform Dubai into a cutting-edge energy city. The smart grid station (SGS) optimizes energy management in a building. It converges and connects air-conditioning and heating, photovoltaic power, ESS and AMIs with ICT. We plan to build an SGS worth USD 2.8 million (around KRW 3 billion) in the Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) building, in partnership with six SMEs in the domestic new energy industry, including AnyGate and Destin Power. Groundbreaking ceremony for a pilot project of the city-level smart grid station The unprecedented entry of KEPCO acquired a 30 MW solar power plant in Colorado and the solar power business into began full operation in April 2017. the US electric power market This acquisition has significance in that it is our first entry into the US electricity market, which is the largest in the world. The entire amount of the electricity produced will be sold to the Public Service Company of Colorado. We expect to generate sales of USD 230 million (around KRW 250 billion) during a business period of 25 years. Domestic equipment will be used, such as installing an ESS and increasing panels on idle sites within the complex. By doing so, we can achieve the effect of increasing exports by around KRW 15 billion. We plan to use this business as a basis for carrying out new development business with domestic equipment companies in North America, such as the renewable energy and the new energy industry. Solar power plant in Colorado, U.S. 29 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FORMING THE FUND TO INVEST IN LEADING THE NEW ENERGY INDUSTRY THE NEW ENERGY INDUSTRY THROUGH TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT KEPCO plans to form a fund to invest in new energy-related businesses, KEPCO will secure future growth drivers by developing 10 major amounting to KRW 2 trillion by 2017, with an aim to establish and strategic technologies and KEPCO 4.0 technologies in preparation for develop an ecosystem for the new energy industry. In 2016, we invested the Fourth Industrial Revolution. KRW 500 billion, based on which we will encourage the private sector to invest in the new industry and play a key role to promote the new R&D expenses and R&D/sales for the year ratio industry. R&D expenses (Unit: KRW million) 0.74 Overview and status of the fund for new energy businesses R&D expenditure/sales for the year ratio (Unit: %) Size KRW 500 billion 446,609 Investment Management of parent funds and sub-funds method Parent funds Energy Infra Asset Management Co., Ltd. 0.34 0.33 Venture company and start-up (2): LB, BSK Sub-funds Corporate growth (1): Songhyun Investment 200,674 191,997 * As of August 2017 2014 2015 2016 10 major strategic technologies Creative & Innovative Technologies New materials for New power Clean thermal power Carbon capture Offshore wind electric power transmission (Ultra super critical utilization storage power technology CO2 / oxy-fuel power generation) Efficient & Smart Technologies Superconductivity Micro grids Energy storage ICT convergence Smart grids systems Major KEPCO 4.0 technologies Development of core technologies Sensor IoT Cloud Big data AI Robot Develop 33 sensors Acquire the international Transform the entire Establish a KEPCO big Develop basic AI Develop unmanned for power generation, standard for the work process into data platform technologies including robots and drones to Strategies transmission, in-house developed a cloud system Build infrastructure to status diagnostics monitor and inspect substations, and protocol electric power facilities to secure distribution Identify new business store and analyze big Develop machine Build infrastructure for models base on the data learning technologies Become the first public technologies Develop the energy IoT cloud corporation to develop harvesting technology AI-based chatbots to secure sources for the sensors 30 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES SPECIAL PAGE KEPCO Technologies in the Smart City KEPCO has been creating unlimited opportunities and values through a smart city where our ecofriendly technologies and information and communications technologies are converged. We will realize a sustainable city of the future and enhance the quality of customers’ lives by focusing on the establishment and promotion of a smart city which is a key platform for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. 31 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Shifting into a Digital KEPCO MEGATRENDS IN THE ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY KEPCO conducts monitoring of the constantly-changing electric power industry environment and identifies opportunities and risk factors to develop our competitiveness for the future. In particular, we choose megatrends in the electric power industry that influence sustainable management, after which we analyze the trends and reflect the results in our management activities. · Changes in Changes in the value chain and traditional business manpower structure of the electric areas and manpower power industry · Expansion of the BTM* structure · Emergence of new industries Slower increases in electricity demand have resulted in changing roles performed by KEPCO as an electric power supplier. Emergence of new technology-driven Due to the reduction in the existing industries business scope and the formation of a new energy market, changes are expected in The application of convergence the overall human resources management technologies, such as AI and IoT, to from recruiting to developing. the electric power business has been spreading, and new markets related to EV UTILITY INDUSTRY and ESS are also expanding. In addition, there is an emergence of companies that have new business models, such as energy efficiency and distributed generation. MEGA TRENDS * Behind-the-Meter: An energy market behindthe-meter such as AMI, ESS, and IoT · Emergence of energy · Importance of sustainability prosumers · Increase in environmental expenses · Focus on customized · Expansion of distributed generation services Substantial change in the energy mix Spread of the energy democracy An emphasis is being placed on sustainability that considers economic Consumers have an increased sense of feasibility, the environment, and safety. sovereignty. Furthermore, the main agents There is also a steady rise in the volatility of of energy supply and consumption are distributed generation, due to the growing changing to mainly consist of consumers. diversity of electric power resources and Consumers especially place importance loads, as well as the increasing complexity on personal identity, demand customized of power systems. services, and pursue cost-effectiveness in energy consumption. VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS Interview Q We are entering into the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution that is based on convergence and hyperwith Professor connection among industries. Please share your opinions Sang-kyun Cha on how this will influence the electric power industry. Chairman of The Fourth Industrial Revolution is breaking down boundaries the Digital KEPCO among different industries and bringing about substantial change in the competition system. For example, Tesla, which is famous for Committee EVs, has been expanding investments in the development roof top solar, ESS, and other areas through technological convergence, thereby steadily establishing itself as an energy company. The Prof. Sang-kyun Cha, emergence of such companies will pose a significant threat to Director of SNU Big Data Institute existing electric power companies, such as KEPCO. 32 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES SPECIAL PAGE DIRECTIONS TO SHIFT INTO A DIGITAL KEPCO Against the backdrop of the emergence of disruptive innovation technologies, as well as market and consumer changes, and also under the eco-friendly energy policy paradigm, KEPCO is seeking ways to shift into a Digital KEPCO by developing business models and establishing digital infrastructure. By doing so, we will take the lead in the Fourth Industrial Revolution and drive the nation’s growth. Goal Secure new business Improve the efficiency and flexibility Establish an agile, leadership of the electric power system flexible organization [Independent business team-level [New business sales of 30% by 2030] [20% share of renewable energy by 2030] responsible management] Directions DIGITAL BUSINESS MODELS DIGITAL SERVICES DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES DIGITAL INFRASTRUCTURE Solution businesses (EMS, ESS, EV) Customer convenience-centered Secure key personnel in digital Provide high-quality electricity marketing using digital technologies, technology and strengthen through the hyper-connected and Platform businesses including big data convergence capabilities smart grid (Data transaction, Energy Strengthen the organization for Establish a customized rate system Build an energy platform to promote marketplace, Virtual power plant) corporate-wide digitalization new energy businesses and services Direct participation in renewable Strengthen customer experience Secure key technologies and build Build a smart city for the energy management through digital an innovation ecosystem convergence and demonstration of technologies, including AI and Innovate work processes and new technologies and new business Export of new businesses augmented reality (AR) the corporate culture models → Secure core talents and → Provide intelligent and → Build a foundation for → Create convergent-type future technologies customized services digitalization businesses Flexibility, expandability, Establish a management Increase customer loyalty Create new value chain stability Build a new electric system based on future Secure market dominance power grid system insight Future businesses Renewable energy business Platform business Energy solution business SUPPLY NETWORK RETAIL What would be the most critical capability to take the KEPCO has been developing a platform and business models Q lead in the Fourth Industrial Revolution? Also, please Q in new business areas, including big data, EMS, EV, as well as comment on what efficient strategies there are to renewable energy power generation. Please comment on develop such capabilities. KEPCO’s future direction and roles. I think the most important thing is to secure innovative talent in KEPCO has been supplying stable, high-quality electric power and has preparation for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. To secure the outstanding talent and business know-how, in addition to substantial suitable talents who create innovative digital solutions, you should electric power data. I believe it is now time for KEPCO to identify ways to train internal employees and have them develop new perspectives. contribute to national economic development by using these strengths, There is also a need to foster experts in different fields and to such as building a new energy ecosystem. For example, KEPCO can recruit outstanding talents from overseas. An important task is to provide a foundation for the new energy industry by increasing AMI determine how the shift into Digital KEPCO will be achieved based supply, and can create greater added value by developing new business on this human capital. models using AI, big data, and cloud. 33 ISSUE 02 Securing leadership in the energy market OUR APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE KEPCO has been achieving continued growth by bolstering the original competitiveness of the electric power industry and Transmission and substation loss factor taking advantage of new opportunities in the global energy market. We continue to conduct activities that are aimed at increasing stability and efficiency in electric power supply and demand. We also plan to increase the number of contracts we win for our overseas business, such as those related to 3.59% renewable energy, to gain a foothold in the global energy market in advance. Demand forecast accuracy RISK • Reduced sales of operating businesses due to falling oil OPPORTUNITY • Integrate with next-generation technologies related to the 98.85% prices and other factors Fourth Industrial Revolution • Global economic downturn • The new energy business and intensifying competition in industry market is forecast to Overseas sales overseas markets grow sharply • Increasing possibility of an electricity supply and demand crisis, such as due to a natural disaster KRW 5.1trillion 34 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES STABLE SUPPLY OF ELECTRIC POWER Setting the goal of electricity supply and demand Resolving the instability of the distributed generaKEPCO establishes and implements business goals and detailed plans tion system every year to ensure that an annual 22.94 million households enjoy the KEPCO has been building an electric power infrastructure that satisfies stable supply of electricity. the government’s eco-friendly energy mix policy. We are moving forward with ‘zero restrictions in the renewable energy power generation system’ to respond to a sharp rise in renewable energy sources and Goal potential demand for small-scale renewabl energy power generation. By Realize stable electric power supply and improving the standard of connection to power plants, the connection demand, and create customer value capacity of one 154 kV transformer was increased from 25 MW to 50 MW. We are also expanding the renewable energy connection infrastructure by install more transformers and constructing a G-platform Corporate-level KPI dedicated to renewabl energy. We plan to establish and execute Adopt a Enhance measures to improve facilities and develop power transmission system in Manage our efforts to expand renewabel power generation system. customer-oriented convenience in the load rate rate system electricity use G-platform Station Execution tasks in 2016 AS IS To Be Ease the progressive Take the lead in policy Prevent electricity electricity billing system improvements to meet supply and demand for households international standards crises Substation A Increase the percentage Increase energy welfare Expand the amount of of people benefiting from for the underprivileged energy reduction Renewable energy the welfare system generation plant G-platform Station Improve the social Increase citizen-centered Expand eco-friendly welfare-type rate system services energy businesses Substation B ...... Establishing a response scheme to overcome Renewable energy generation plant electricity supply and demand crises Renewable energy generation plant KEPCO operates a supply and demand response system on a regular basis to prevent supply and demand crises, such as a natural disaster, and to ensure stable supply and demand of electricity. In preparation for earthquakes, we Enhancing reliability in electric power supply established supply and demand stability measures and low-voltage resolution through the smart grid measures for nuclear power plant stoppages and each accident crisis scenario, We built and are operating a next-generation SCADA*-based intelligent and thus established response strategies for each type of crisis. To prepare for electrical grid as a countermeasure against a rise in grid uncertainty that supply and demand crisis situations that arise from continuous heat waves, results from an expansion of new technologies, including renewable all KEPCO employees are carrying out emergency response activities, with the energy and ESS. This has allowed real-time electrical grid analysis, resulting CEO and the management taking the lead. In this way, we are overcoming in increased reliability in supply, including early detection of abnormal supply and demand crises and achieving supply and demand stability. In signs and quick recovery. Also, we are continually enhancing grid reliability addition, we make improvements to the demand forecasting system and through scientific facility replacements based on big data analysis. analysis model by enhancing predictor variables, including temperature, humidity, and discomfort indexes. This is how our demand forecast accuracy *Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition: This system enables remote monitoring and control level remains one of the highest in the world. of around 1 million power facilities. It was built and is operated at the corporate-wide level. It consists of around 3,000 pieces of equipment, including servers. Comprehensive measures on earthquake disaster prevention for electric power facilities Scientific facility replacement Strengthen seismic Improve earthquake Systemize manuals and standards observation systems training Time-Base Time+Condition · More than 765 kV · Build more meters · Establish manuals to (magnitude 6.3 → 7.0) (15 → 57) respond by magnitude Replace after a Predict life cycle · Less than 345 kV · Analyze damage · Make earthquake certain amount of and replace (magnitude 6.3 → 6.6) impacts at all drills a regular exercise time substations (twice per year) 35 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROVIDING HIGH-QUALITY ELECTRIC POWER SERVICES Providing world-leading electric power quality Establishing a wider system operation center KEPCO focuses on providing high-quality electric power through In 2016, KEPCO established a metropolitan system operation center at activities to prevent failures, and minimizing disaster and accidentfour district divisions, in order to professionalize feeding operations. related damage through continuous inspections and response activities. In recognition of these efforts, KEPCO was ranked the world’s No. 1 Unification of Unify dispersed operation work among for three consecutive years in the electricity supply sector of the World operation organizations departments into an ‘integrated department’ Bank’s ‘Business Environment Survey’ in 2016. This proved to be another opportunity to demonstrate that KEPCO is a world-class company that Developing Add training groups to address the shortage in professionals in power provides electricity supply services in the simplest and quickest manner. converter professional training Activities to prevent facility failures Diagnosis using next-generation technologies Diagnosis using IoT KEPCO has been making equipment diagnosis • Earthquake resistance evaluations of techniques smarter by using IoT. In 2016, we built an electricity IoT key electricity facilities (7 sites) sensor-based distribution facility diagnosis, facility monitoring system, • Inspection of the emergency response and self-diagnosis test-bed in Daegu, Gwangju, and Naju, and are in the Respond to disasters and system and facilities (260,000 sites) demonstration phase. By developing an unmanned surveillance robot accidents for electric power conduit pipes, we have established a real-time surveil• Honorary patrols on islands and mountainous areas (156 persons) / lance system that enables remote surveillance and control through IT Quick restoration from typhoons equipments. Facility diagnosis based on ICT convergence KEPCO operates • Instantaneous voltage sag measures a facility diagnosis system that uses ICT, breaking away from existing (5 cases of dualization) methods. We improved the distribution line inspection system by devel• Expansion of supply capacity and oping and operating drones. Through such systems as the cable joint Improve system changes (15 sites) gas analysis system and the diagnosis system for underground facilities system operations • Expansion of intelligent extra-high inside manholes, we are systematically managing electric power facilities voltages and low voltages that are scattered across the nation. • Transmission loss factor: 1.59% / Distribution loss factor: 2.03% Expanding electricity supply regions KEPCO carries out its electricity supply business based on requests • Replace wires of transmission lines, and made by local governments for remote and isolated regions where it is make other such improvements difficult to supply electricity due to geographical constraints. In 2016, (789 cases) we completed providing an electricity supply for 14 households in Reinforce • Replace the oil-filled cables that cross remote and isolated regions. As of the end of March 2017, there were vulnerable the Han River (1.2 km) a total 310 households in remote and isolated regions without access facilities • Improve electric power facilities at to the transmission and distribution grid, including 111 households that traditional markets (730 sites) did not meet the necessary requirements in the Act on the Promotion • Overhaul public power lines in city of Electrification in Agricultural and Fishing Villages. We plan to steadily centers (293 districts) decrease this number by making continuous investments in facilities and expanding decentralized generation (micro grids) in isolated regions. • Inspect heavy-load operating facilities in the summer (64 sites) Strengthen • Assessment activities at worksites field under a planned power outage management (927 sites) • Drills to respond to breakdowns (118 sites, 259 persons) Drone for checking facilities 36 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES EXPANDING THE PROFITS OF GLOBAL BUSINESSES Building a global KEPCO energy belt As of the end of June 2017, KEPCO is carrying out 34 projects in 22 countries around the world in various sectors, including thermal power, nuclear power, renewable energy, transmission and distribution, and new businesses. In addition to making diverse efforts to develop business models for long-term convergence-based new businesses, we are increasing our influence in the global renewable energy market and Power plant in Al-Qatrana, Jordan expediting the establishment of the ‘global KEPCO energy belt.’ These projects globally publicized our technological prowess and Generating revenue through expansion of know-how, contributing to expanding our business area in the Philippines. the overseas power generation market We successfully completed the Norte II gas-fired combined power generKEPCO has been solidifying its stature as a large-scale independent power ation (433 MW) project in Mexico in 2013, heavy fuel oil power generation producer (IPP) in the Asian power generation market. We expanded our (1,204 MW) project in Rabigh, Saudi Arabia and Shuweihat S3 gas-fired reach to include the Middle East, Latin America, and Africa. We have come combined cycle power generation (1,600 MW) in 2014, and the diesel into rank with global companies and are continuing remarkable growth. internal combustion generation project in Amman, Jordan in 2015. By doing so, we have demonstrated our excellent technological prowess and In the Philippines, we successfully completed a performance restoration project execution capabilities all throughout the globe. In addition, KEPCO and operation project for 650 MW heavy fuel oil power generation in was chosen as a preferred bidder for the coal-fired power plant (630 MW) Malaya which was our first overseas power generation project. We are construction* and operation project in Thabametsi in the Republic of generating stable revenue by handling efficient operation of a 1,200 MW South Africa. By entering the African IPP market for the first time, we built gas-fired combined cycle power plant in Ilijan and a 200 MW fluidized bed a foundation to further advance our overseas business. coal-fired power plant in Cebu. * KEPCO participated as a consortium with Japan’s Marubeni Corporation. Each company’s share ratio is 24.5%, and the share of a local business owner is 51%. BUSINESS CASE Leading energy cooperation KEPCO has been implementing the ‘Midto Long-Term in Northeast Asia through Northeast Asia Super Grid Project’ to lead the era of the Super Grid energy cooperation in Northeast Asia. As part of our efforts to realize the super grid, we completed ‘a preliminary Northeast Asia super grid system feasibility study and joint research on power grid interconnection between Korea and Russia’ together with Russia in 2015. Based on this Russia achievement, an MOU was signed in March 2016 among four countries – Korea, China, Japan, and Russia – on a ‘preliminary feasibility study and joint research on system connection.’ We plan to fully launch multi-party research, establishment of business models, and other such activities in 2017. This project is expected to serve as a foundation for creating our major new growth engine, and substantially contribute to peace and joint Mongolia prosperity in Northeast Asia. Internal preliminary investigation / Development Signing of an MOU for joint research stage Korea 2013-2016 Selection of a pilot project / Joint feasibility research Japan China Establishment of a business model / Execution Basic design for the business stage 2017-2020 Commencement of commercialization 37 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Diversifying the overseas power transmission and logical prowess across the entire cycle of the nuclear power plant operation distribution business business, including design and construction. We thus laid the foundation to win additional contracts for our overseas nuclear power plant business. KEPCO has successfully completed transmission and distribution consulting projects in Nigeria, Cambodia, Pakistan, and other countries, based on our Overseas sales and net income outstanding technological prowess and network. Backed by our extensive experience in the transmission and distribution business, we are conducting Sales (Unit: KRW billion) around 20 projects in 16 countries and globally publicizing our outstanding Net income technologies, breaking away from the previous consulting-oriented transmission and distribution overseas business structure. In 2016, we won a 498.7 contract for a smart distribution construction project in Dominica thanks 467.0 to our capacity in smart grid. We also acquired an opportunity to carry out 437.3 an intelligent substation construction project in Bhutan that is a Koreantype substation to which an IT system is applied. Through our convergence 5,087.6 transmission and distribution business, we have successfully performed as 4,859.4 a test-bed for new energy businesses. Successful execution of the overseas nuclear power 3,957.8 plant business In 2016, KEPCO signed an investment agreement for nuclear power plant operation in the UAE. This investment agreement is of the world’s largest in scale, and will result in KRW 54 trillion in sales over the next 60 years. It has generated stable overseas business revenue and has proven our techno2014 2015 2016 Overseas power generation facilities Thermal power New and renewable energy 16,583MW 1,468MW Operation | 12,465 MW Construction | 4,118 MW Operation | 1,017 MW Construction | 451 MW 23,651MW (Based on share: 7,968 MW) Nuclear power (EPC) 5,600MW Construction | 5,600 MW * As of the end of June 2017 38 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES SPECIAL PAGE Leading the EXPANDING THE BASE FOR ENTRY INTO THE GLOBAL RENEWABLE ENERGY MARKET Renewable Energy Since the Paris Agreement (COP21) in December 2015, there has been increased Business interest in responding to climate change, leading to a rise in demand for greenhouse gas reduction. Accordingly, we are tapping into new overseas markets and expanding our renewable energy business. Overseas renewable energy power generation business KEPCO has been solidifying its reputation as a clean energy business operator both inside and outside Korea. China Japan Jordan Beginning with a wind power project in Gansu, We commenced construction for a 28 MW In 2013, we won a contract for an 89 MW wind China in September 2005, we are now operating photovoltaic power plant in Chitose, Japan in power project in Fujeij, Jordan, and commenced a total of 1,314 MW wind power plants in China, April 2016, and secured a base for entry into construction in 2016. Construction is slated for including Inner Mongolia and Liaoning. Japan’s photovoltaic energy market. Commercial completion at the end of 2018. It is the first operation of the power plant was begun in July overseas wind power project in which KEPCO 2017, and the construction will be completed in owns 100% of the shares and has been particiOctober 2017 after test operations. pating since the development phase. This project Gansu 99 MW wind power built a foundation for increased contracts in the Inner Mongolia 990 MW wind power global wind power IPP market. Liaoning 225 MW wind power Hokkaido 28 MW solar power Fujeij 89.1 MW wind power U.S. In 2016, we made inroads into the U.S., which We formed a consortium with LG CNS in 2017 is the world’s largest advanced electric power and was chosen for the solar power and ESS market, by acquiring a 30 MW solar power plant power plant construction and operation project in Colorado. in Guam. Colorado 30 MW solar power Guam 60 MW solar power 39 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Global Network STATUS OF OVERSEAS BUSINESS KEPCO is conducting 34 projects in 22 countries across the globe, including Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, North America, and Africa. China Jordan Shanxi (Coal 8,820MW) China wind power/PV (1,321MW) Al-Qatrana (Gas 373MW) – Inner Mongolia (990MW) Amman (Diesel 573MW) – Gansu (99MW) Fujeij wind power (89MW) – Liaoning (225MW) Vietnam Nghi Son (Coal 1,200MW) Europe Office China Office Iran Office Japan Hokkaido PV (28MW) Southeast Asia Office Japan Office Middle East Office UAE Africa Office Barakah nuclear power Nigeria (Nuclear power 5,600MW) Egbin (Gas 1,320MW) Shuweihat S3 (Gas 1,600MW) Saudi Arabia Rabigh (Heavy oil 1,204MW) South Africa Philippines U.S. Thabametsi (Coal 630MW) ilijan (Gas 1,200MW) Guam PV (60MW) Cebu (Coal 200MW) Naga (Coal/Heavy oil 350MW) Australia Bylong (Coal) 40 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES 5.1 34 7,968 SALES PROJECTS SHARE Oversees power generation Overseas sales facilities in operation or in 2016 KRW trillion In 22 countries under construction MW NEW AND RENEWABLE ENERGY 5 projects in 4 countries U.S. Colorado PV (30MW) THERMAL POWER 12 projects in 9 countries North America Office NUCLEAR POWER 1 project in UAE Dominican Republic Power distribution construction POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION 15 projects in 13 countries Mexico Norte II (Gas 433MW) RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 1 project in 1 Australia * As of June 2017 41 ISSUE 03 CO 2 Taking the lead in responding to climate change OUR APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE Since the Paris Agreement in 2015, there has been emphasis Reduction of GHG emissions on corporate responsibilities and roles in responding to climate change, such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions. To take measures, we formulated a master plan for reducing GHGs, and have put in place a GHG reduction roadmap as part 60,000 tons of CO eq 2 of a joint effort with KEPCO Group companies. With a sense of responsibility towards the environment, we are applying R&D for GHG reduction eco-friendly smart technologies throughout the electricity industry value chain to enhance energy efficiency. By doing so, we take the lead in realizing sustainable energy. 22 cases RISK OPPORTUNITY • Increasing demand for the • Build an eco-friendly corporate Environmental investment and expenditures reduction in GHG emissions image and gain the public’s 4,858.5billion with the advent of the new trust climate regime • Strengthened regulations and • Gain a competitive edge in eco-friendly technologies such KRW monitoring of environmental as CCUS, and thus expand pollutants, including fine dust relevant businesses 42 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES STRENGTHENING INFRASTRUCTURE TO RESPOND TO CLIMATE CHANGE Strategies to respond to climate change Korea set a national mitigation target of 37% compared to BAU by 2030 percentage at 590 million ton CO2eq. KEPCO and KEPCO Group compaat the Paris Agreement. In 2016, national GHG emissions* reached 690 nies have set ambitious reduction goals based on the master plan for GHG million ton CO2eq, of which the energy industry accounted for the highest reduction, and are actively engaging in related activities. *2  016 National Greenhous Gas Inventory Report by Greenhouse Gas Inventory & Research Center of Korea Master plan to reduce GHG emissions Vision The Most Valuable Green KEPCO Goal • Reduce GHG emissions by 40% compared to 2007-2009 by 2020 • Create a new growth engine by commercializing GHG emission reduction technologies • Build a corporate image as a leading eco-friendly company by strengthening carbon management Execution Respond to climate change in Strengthen carbon management strategies Develop and apply GHG the electric power industry; and and enhance our corporate image reduction technologies play a role as a control tower as an eco-friendly company Building the Carbon Asset Management System KEPCO has established the Carbon Asset Management System (CAMS) monitoring, and establishing an optimal CER management portfolio. We to analyze the current state of corporate-wide GHG emissions and also built a connection system with all KEPCO Group companies, and manage carbon assets. Through CAMS, we are analyzing certified have been coming up with joint measures in relation to the implemenemission reduction (CER) trading data, engaging in real-time GHG data tation of the CER trading system since 2017. Carbon Asset Management System Build an integrated Manage the emissions Support the transactions of Estimate GHG emissions GHG inventory trading scheme the emissions trading scheme • Substation SF6 emission/ • Establish an inventory for • Manage GHG reduction • Support applications for CER collection integrating data on GHG projects assignment • Distribution SF6 emission/ emissions • Manage the current status of • Provide support in relation to collection assigned CER an optimal portfolio for trading • Amount of fuel used by remote • Manage the current status of CER generation facilities offset CER • Support CER trading • Amount of fuel used for heating • Manage the transaction of simulations and electricity in the company the emissions trading scheme 43 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENERGY AND GHG MANAGEMENT Responding to the emissions trading scheme As a company subject to GHG emissions trading system (ETS) allocation, Our GHG emission reduction efforts and performance were recognized KEPCO has been participating in the ETS for the first plan period (2015by the Korea Productivity Center and Carbon Trust, which is a non-profit 2017). We collected and refined SF6 gas from power facilities, and thus organization in the UK that was established to pursue the shift to a reduced approximately 60 thousand tons. In addition, in order to secure low-carbon economy. We acquired and are maintaining the Carbon Trust CER through our overseas GHG reduction projects, we conducted a Standard (CTS), which is a global certification for carbon management. feasibility test for a renewable energy micro grid project in Bhutan. With an aim to contribute to the nation’s GHG reduction target for 2030, we Activities to save energy identified 22 GHG reduction technologies and are conducting R&D. Our KEPCO has been active in energy-saving activities, such as the efficiency plan is to invest KRW 185.8 billion through 2018. improvement of energy facilities and the promotion of the renewable energy supplies. To this end, we operate the ‘Energy Portal System’ Global certificates for GHG reductions which enables quick and accurate monitoring of corporate-wide energy KEPCO has been disclosing data on corporate carbon emissions and usage, and thus regularly manage and monitor energy usage. We will relevant policies to 822 investors across the globe by submitting an open continue to increase energy efficiency, such as improving building and report for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) climate change inforfacility performance, expanding renewable energy, and saving energy, mation. In 2016, we were chosen by CDP as a ‘global leader’ in carbon thereby taking the lead in reducing GHG emissions. management in recognition of our efforts to enhance transparency in disclosing GHG information and achieve results in GHG reduction. Energy-saving and GHG reduction activities Introduce the SF6-free utilities Purify and reuse SF6 • Develop 154 kV-level SF6 gas-replacing gas • Collect, purify and reuse SF6 gas • Expand the use of eco-friendly 23 kV switchgear • Expand the dissemination of the SF6-free power-distributing switch ENERGY Replace with high-efficiency LED lights Build the K-BEMS SAVING • Replace all lights with high-efficiency LED • Build the K-BEMS business sites lights by 2020 (completed the construction of 121 sites) Build the energy self-sufficient island Expand the zero-energy company buildings Promote eco-friendly cars • Eco-friendly power generating of the • Maximize insulation performance and • Promote the low emissions eco-friendly ‘renewable energy + ESS’ (6 islands) minimize energy use by leveraging new vehicles (220 units per year) → Minimize the diesel power generation and renewable energy (5 buildings per year from 2017) 44 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES Expanding the investment in new and renewable energy As a public company in the field of energy, KEPCO has been increasing such as a photovoltaic power project that uses idle resources and a wind investments in eco-friendly energy. In particular, we have been facilitating power project in which regular citizens participate. the domestic renewable energy market by developing diverse projects, Renewable energy business in Korea Project name Project overview Facility size Southwestern Sea offshore wind • Phase 1: Test-bed 60 MW Offshore wind power (60 MW) power (Demonstration) (Dec. 2012) • Phase 2: Plan to develop a pilot complex at the 400 MW level • Create a track record for the model of an eco-friendly energy Solar power (0.6 MW), self-sufficient island wind power (6 MW), Ulleungdo eco-friendly energy • Phase 1 (2017): Solar power, wind power, ESS etc. small hydro power (0.6 MW), self-sufficient island (Sep. 2015) • Phase 2 (2020): Geothermal energy (4 MW) geothermal energy (12 MW), • Phase 3 (2025): Geothermal energy (8 MW), operation (-2045) ESS (19.5 MWh) • Resolve civil complaints against the construction of 765 kV Light of Hope solar power in transmission lines Solar power (2.57 MW) Miryang (Mar. 2016) • Construction (-Jun. 2017), operation (-2036) • For 2,000 schools Solar panels on school roofs • Under construction at 273 schools Solar power (200 MW) (Jun. 2016) • Construction (-2020), operation (-2040) Fuel cell power plant in Daegu • Flagship project selected by Ministry of Science and ICT (Jan. 2015) Fuel cells (60 MW) (Dec. 2016) • Construction (-2020), operation (-2038) BUSINESS CASE Establishing an A・C・E-Farm, KEPCO signed an MOU with South Jeolla Province and the Jeonnam a future farm that uses Agricultural Research & Extension Services in June 2016 for a field test of renewable energy the A∙C∙E-Farm, which converges agriculture and energy, and is carrying out relevant activities. The A∙C∙E-Farm is a future greenhouse model of farm house installation that enables the supply and control of electricity that is used for agricultural purposes at controlled horticulture farms by utilizing renewable energy, such as photovoltaic energy, ESS, and the energy management system (EMS), without using fossil fuels. We are looking for an air-conditioning and heating energy supply model used in the greenhouse by crop, while the Jeonnam Agricultural Research & Extension Services is researching ways to use ICT and water curtain cultivation facilities inside a greenhouse to reduce energy that is used for crop cultivation while increasing production. Overview of the empirical study in the A∙C∙E-Farm Farm 1 Farm 2 Heating and cooling ESS and efficiency Research and Non-photosynthetic Photosynthetic plants system using enhancement development of Signing an MOU with South Jeolla Province for a field such as tomatoes geothermal energy system PV new materials plants such as test of the A·C·E-Farm and hot waste water mushrooms 45 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IMPROVING THE ECO-FRIENDLINESS OF THE VALUE CHAIN Power generation Joint response to eco-friendliness with KEPCO Group power generation Production phase Construction and operation of power generation facilities We are also striving to improve generation facilities and apply for coexistence with local communities KEPCO Group power eco-friendly technologies to the operation of overseas plants. By doing generation companies conduct an environmental impact assessment in so, we comply with the environmental standards of each country and consideration of the natural environment and traffic near a power plant reduce pollutants from our power plant operations. that is newly built or expanded as well as a follow-up environmental Water resources protection KEPCO responds to water resource risks impact assessment for five years after completion of construction. The by managing water usage. We built a water supply system with dams results are reported to the government every year. In this way, we are across the nation, such as Hwacheon Dam, Chuncheon Dam, and Uiam minimizing damage to local communities and the natural environment Dam, through the Han River Water Management Center by forming the located near power plants. integrated management council for the dams and weirs of the Han River Management of discharged pollutants The Group’s power generwatershed. We also reduced the use of tap water by more than 53% ation companies monitor air pollutant emissions through the smokestack by applying water-saving sanitary fixtures in the headquarters building. tele-monitoring system (TMS). They have expanded the use of clean In addition, rainwater-recycling facilities are used for 100% usage of energy sources and are operating DeSOx, DeNOx, and dust collection rainwater for landscaping. facilities in an effort to reduce sulfur oxide, nitrogen oxide, and dust. Our domestic business has no exposure to water risk, such as water Furthermore, wastewater from the power generation process is collected shortages or water pollution. In the case of our overseas business, we in one place for physical and chemical treatment at comprehensive use seawater instead of underground water for coolants to minimize wastewater treatment facilities. Also, the entire amount of desulfurized exposure to water risk in areas near our overseas power generation gypsum that is produced from coal-fired power plants is recycled for the business, such as the Philippines (Cebu, Ilijan) and the Middle East raw material needed for cement. (Al-Qatrana). In the case of thermal power plants in China, excluding wind power plants in China (Inner Mongolia, Gansu, Liaoning), use heavy water by recycling wastewater. BUSINESS CASE Protecting biodiversity KEPCO carries out an environmental impact assessment for the construction of all transmission and substation facilities to forecast environmental impacts and set measures to reduce them. In addition, we publish corporate-wide guidelines on environmental impact assessments for transmission and substation facilities and a management manual for compliance with legal matters, in addition to sharing cases of violation of environmental regulations and providing training to prevent recurrences. Additionally, we appoint external environmental experts to strengthen environmental impact assessments. When relocating our headquarters to Naju Innovation City, we applied a biotope area ratio of 47.8% to build a new corporate building. Furthermore, we have established more than 15 biotopes, which serve as habitats for animals and plants. Protecting biodiversity by phase Pre-construction phase Environmental impact assessment phase Construction and completion phase • Conduct an environmental impact • Investigate habitats by focusing on • Appoint a manager and conduct assessment endangered species, indigenous species, a follow-up environmental impact • Disclose the result of the environmental specific species, and species that inhabit assessment impact assessment at www.eiass.go.kr the area in groups • Post construction, restore damaged • Predict the likely impact and establish habitats through discussions with measures to reduce the impact the local government 46 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES Power transmission and distribution Construction and Sales Systematic management of demand for electricity operation of eco-friendly electric power generation facilities Transportation phase Sales phase Expanding the construction of eco-friendly power facilities Establishing a demand control strategy based on stable electricity KEPCO focuses on building eco-friendly power facilities by developing supply and demand KEPCO contributes to stabilizing electricity equipment and construction methods that are in harmony with the supply and demand by actively and systematically managing the demand surrounding environment. We have been increasing the use of tubular for electricity. We recently established a new demand control strategy steel poles that consider outward appearance and applying eco-friendly in tandem with the increased stabilization of supply and demand, and coating to steel towers. In addition, we have been improving the are switching from the conventional supply and demand measures for aesthetic urban landscape by mandating communication lines to be emergencies to market-oriented autonomous demand management. In buried along with distribution lines. 2016, we worked to install a new concept-based SC-ESS* to enhance the system stabilization of large-scale power plant complexes, and Processing PCBs in waste transformers KEPCO has established applied new technologies for stable electricity transport between Korea’s the management system to eliminate poly chlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), eastern coast and the metropolitan area. with an aim to actively execute the national implementation plan of the Stockholm Convention. Waste transformers that are to be disposed are Saving energy by improving energy efficiency KEPCO helps strictly controlled based on the PCBs management process, and those households reduce their energy use by providing incentives for highly with a PCBs concentration level of no less than 2 ppm are processed by efficient home appliances. In addition, we established the ‘KEPCO companies that specialize in PCBs. Energy Solution,’ which is an energy service company (ESCO), as part of our efforts to build a foundation for energy reduction. * ESS to improve the stability of voltage and phase angle, which cause power outages 1 2 Provide KRW 95.8 billion worth of high-efficiency household Establish ‘KEPCO Energy Solution’ appliances as incentives – an ESCO Diversification of energy efficiency projects, Investment in facilities for customers who lack breaking away from the industry-centered the required technologies and funds to share the approach to include households outcome related to energy reduction costs Facilitate the consumption of eco-friendly products and Perform pioneering roles to promote the national economy Saved 43,411MWh of energy and Zero burden on customers / promote investments in the private by providing 350,000 reduced 20,000 tCO2eq of GHG Provide full cycle services ESCO business air conditioners, 180,000 refrigerators, etc. 47 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DEVELOPING ECO-FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Commercialization of CCUS As a result of strengthened GHG After completing the construction of a 10MW wet CO2 capture facility, regulations, the market size of carbon capture utilization and storage which is the largest in Korea, at the Boryeong Thermal Power Plant in (CCUS) technology is forecast to substantially grow from KRW 8.2 2013, we have been engaging in test operation of the facility, which trillion in 2015 to KRW 20.7 trillion in 2030. Because the technology can captures a daily 200 tons of CO2. Full commercialization is planned for be applied to petrochemical, fertilizer, and cement factories and steel2020. The demonstration plant that was established at the Boryeong works, in addition to power generation plants, the estimated market Thermal Power Plant has achieved a consumed energy level of 2.8 GJ/ size is anticipated to grow considerably once commercialization is fully tonCO2, which is needed to accomplish a CO2 removal rate of at least launched. 90%* and a CO2 separation purity level of 99.9%. Durability and credibility were certified through continuous operation of more than 5,000 * T he removal rate can be raised to 100%, but this requires more energy consumption. As such, hours through 2016. the removal rate is maintained at 90% as an optimal level from the economic perspective. CCUS process Flue gas CO2 Thermal Capture CO2 Store CO2 power station (Compress/Transport/Storage) Securing SF6 reduction technologies KEPCO developed a technology to go beyond the previous cycle of collection-purification-reuse, we are to collect SF61) gas, which accounts for around 80% of our total GHG conducting a research project for management of the entire SF6 cycle to emissions, and increased the collection rate from the previous 80% to enable decomposition of SF6 when there is no need for usage. 97%, thereby reducing emissions. We are developing the green gas for grid (g3)2), which is an alternative gas for SF6, and plan to use it for the 1)  ulfur hexafluoride is one of GHGs, and its global warming potential (GWP) is 23,900 times S commercialization of SF6-free gas-insulated switch gear in 2021. Aiming higher than that of CO2. 2) Environmentally friendly alternative to SF6 Managing the entire phase of SF6 Collect Present Purify Future SF6 Reuse Develop SF6-free GIS No need Decompose for SF6 SF6 Develop alternative technologies 48 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES SPECIAL PAGE Joint Response of KEPCO The 11 KEPCO Group companies, including KEPCO, launched the Conference Of KEPCO Group Companies to cope with climate change to Group Companies to take the lead in preparing for the shift into a low-carbon management system in the electricity sector and to contribute to meeting the national Climate Change GHG reduction goal. The Council effectively responds to the new climate regime by jointly establishing a GHG reduction roadmap and improving the performance of aged power plants, and also engages in activities that are needed to ensure the leadership in the new energy industry. Measures to reduce fine dust As part of joint measures against climate change, we Measure Build a system and disclose implemented fine dust reduction measures for early and analyze data information achievement of the government’s fine dust reduction goal. We plan to improve environmental facilities and Develop and install a direct Build an information system substantially increase fine dust measurement centers emission measurement device for each power generation by investing KRW 7.5 trillion in the next five years, with for fine dust generated from company, and an integrated an aim to achieve a 50% reduction in fine dust that is coal-fired power generation management system for the generated from coal-fired thermal power generation. KEPCO Group companies Install 28 new fine dust Furthermore, the results of fine dust measurements measurement centers Disclose real-time emission will be transparently disclosed through an integrated information on fine dust management system. A 'Fine Dust Response Council' Set a measurement belt by generated from coal-fired power that consists of the management of the KEPCO zone, and analyze the spread generation Group companies was established for comprehensive and impact inspection and management of the execution status. Developing a carbon management Areas of carbon management diagnostic index diagnostic index KEPCO developed the quantitative and qualitative Management Adaptation standards to improve energy efficiency in each field, in an effort to respond to climate change and bolster our competitiveness in managing carbon. We set diagnosis indexes based on internal and external environmental analysis, and conducted feasibility assessments on transmission and distribution, sales, and overseas businesses. Our plan is to establish diagnosis standards and operation measures to carry out carbon management Reduction Evaluation diagnosis. Establishing a GHG reduction roadmap KEPCO and other Group companies formed a taskforce team that consists of experts from the 11 companies. The team is drawing up a 2030 GHG reduction roadmap. Directions to establish a GHG reduction roadmap Set an ambitious Ensure economic Establish specialized Form social goal efficiency strategies consensus Align reduction strategies of Forecast expenses by year Establish an optimum plan Set reduction goals by scenario the Group companies with and reduction plan for each value chain the government’s policies Analyze the gap between reduction Look for strategies that minimize Build R&D strategies for Share best practices with goals and capabilities reduction costs reduction technologies the Group companies Consider internal and Reflect reduction costs in electric Establish a system to verify Publicize the reduction efforts of external risks rates in a timely manner reduction results the Group companies to citizens 49 ISSUE 04 Strengthening partnerships with stakeholders OUR APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE In response to the increasing awareness of citizens and social Annual system average interruption demand towards the electric power industry, KEPCO is fulfilling duration index 9.61minutes its fundamental mission to ‘supply high-quality and stable electricity’ while also improving customer value. In addition, we have been enhancing a sense of happiness among people through continuous communication and win-win activities with local communities and partner companies. Preferential purchase rate of products manufactured by SMEs 70.6% RISK OPPORTUNITY • Diversification of customer • Establish a positive corporate demand and increased level of image and secure the trust of expectations customers • Strengthening of laws and • Build a virtuous ecosystem regulations related to fair trade in the electric power industry Expenditures in social contributions 10,831million and win-win growth through coexistence and • Increased possibility of civil cooperation with partner complaints and conflict in the event of a lack of communication companies • Fulfill social responsibilities by KRW with local communities supporting local communities 50 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES ENHANCING CUSTOMER VALUE Re-establishing the Innovation System to improve Training to enhance the customer service mindset KEPCO has services for citizens put in place a program to help its employees internalize and enhance their service mindset. We discuss measures to promote consumer KEPCO has established an innovation system for enhanced customer rights and interests through the ‘consumer group leader meeting’ services, based on which we identify and implement detailed strategic tasks. which is aimed at facilitating customer communication. Also, a ‘service innovation resolution event’ is held for employees who are at customer contact points, such as meter readers. We also built a one-stop work Recover people’s livelihood through Ease the burden material-sharing portal system, thereby improving work efficiency and system innovation on customers strengthening service providing-related capabilities. • Implement a customized rate system that reflects the citizens’ perspective Providing smart services KEPCO enhances customer convenience • Establish a system to strengthen by providing simple and useful services. the social safety net • Improve work standards to resolve inconveniences that citizens experience Renewal of the Smart KEPCO App Innovate technologies through High quality the convergence among technologies Expand diverse services that use ICT electric power services • Provide high quality electric power • Automatic recognition and reporting of failures using GPS, realthrough the IoT time settlement and payment of electricity bills for moving, QR • Operate customerand eco-friendly electric code-based payment of electricity bills, etc. power facilities • Strengthen energy welfare by using ARS instant consultation for elderly customers new ICT technologies Provide services that enhance convenience for senior Realize the happy energy of customers in step with the aging population Provide smart services communication and consideration • When a customer aged 65 or above calls the customer center, • Innovate processes to enhance citizens’ immediately connect the customer to a consultant convenience • Expand non-face-to-face services by Power Planner and Electricity Housekeeping Book using smart devices • Provide customized services that meet Provide electricity usage information by using customers’ needs mobile applications and the Internet • Power Planner: provide real-time electricity usage information • Electricity Housekeeping Book: provide usage pattern analysis, Providing customized services that meet customers’ needs We rates, power-saving tips, and other services pursue customer satisfaction by providing easy and convenient services. In 2016, we expanded the scope of the ‘customized bill for seniors,’ in tandem with the increasingly aging population, to include all customers aged 65 or more. This bill was previously sent to customers who wanted customized bills. With the number of apartment households reaching 10 million, we implemented the ‘system of customer selection of meterreading day’ which enables customers who reside in apartment buildings to change their meter-reading day. Also, for customers who use large amounts of electricity, we provided ‘energy consumption diagnosis consulting’ which includes an electricity usage pattern analysis, rate comparison, and rate plan diagnosis, and thus increased their satisfaction. Promoting communication with customers KEPCO focuses on close communication with citizens by leveraging social media networks. In addition to operating ‘Love Electricity’ blog reporters, we are using such social networking sites as Facebook and Instagram, and are also diversifying our communication channels, such as by publishing a webtoon series. A voice of customer (VOC) system was set up at our customer centers and business sites across the nation to build a system to receive and handle customer complaints. Renewal of the Smart KEPCO App 51 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Welfare services to ease the burden on ordinary citizens KEPCO STRENGTHENING THE MANAGEMENT strives to guarantee the basic energy rights of the underprivileged. By making system reforms that can be truly felt by citizens, we are enhancing OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION the welfare benefit rate and contributing to easing the burden of citizens. PROTECTION Establishing the information security system Efforts to satisfy basic energy rights KEPCO has put in place a preemptive information security management system to protect the national electrical grid and customer information • Interface administrative information with external from such cyber security threats as ransomware and malicious code. By organizations, including the Ministry of Health and Welfare, upgrading the security system of the power control system, information and analyze big data to identify beneficiaries system, and Internet services and building a security infrastructure for the • Provide visiting beneficiary identification services, such as the new energy industry, we enhanced major infrastructure and information welfare benefit connection service for customers who move system security. In addition, we are implementing timely measures and improvements for vulnerabilities that are identified through continued security diagnoses, resulting in enhanced cyber security levels. Implementation of a daily life support system • Provide financial support for the installation of additional Activities to strengthen information security meters to the underprivileged (exemption from the The application of new information security technologies has allowed us to installation fee) preemptively respond to various security attacks. As a leading example, we • Promote PR activities on various welfare systems, including are operating a big data-based security control system that has strengthened electrical bill support for those in energy welfare blind spots prior response capabilities through real-time cyberattack analysis and prior detection of unusual signs. Also, our email attack defense system, which • Immediately execute a support system for areas hit by a consists of three steps, ensures 100% blockage from malicious code threats, disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, or typhoon, to share which reach up to 250,000 annually. As part of our efforts to prevent the burden of citizens leakage of important management information, we expanded the installation of wireless wiretapping detection systems. Thanks to these efforts, there was no case of information security-related violation in 2016. Major activities in 2016 Expanding the undergrounding of transmission and distribution Provide training to information security personnel lines to meet citizen demand We are expanding our underground Provide information security training through the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy and external professional training organizations line projects to improve citizens’ daily life environment and the landscape. When a transmission line is built, areas that are closely related to the Provide training to all employees daily life environment, such as areas near villages and schools, are chosen Online training through the cyber security education system and onwith priority for underground lines in consideration of residence and site circuit training the environment. We are reducing the burden of relevant costs that are Run the information security mileage system borne by local governments by implementing a five-year, zero-interest Early establishment of the voluntary security culture amortization plan after underground line construction is completed. Also, construction costs are being reduced by developing new cables and minimizing the construction of tunnels as part of efforts to minimize underDrills to respond to cyber crisis ground line project costs. In addition, we are continually executing internal Drills on hacking mails for all employees, twice per year underground line projects for vulnerable facility sites to strengthen disaster prevention and stability. Hacking defense contest Contest on removing vulnerabilities targeting ICT and information Undergrounding rate of transmission and distribution lines security personnel, once per year Transmission lines (Unit: %) Distribution lines Encryption of personal information KEPCO proactively complies with the Personal Information Protection Act. In 2016, we completed the encryption of 270 million cases of 16.0 16.6 17.1 personal information and conducted major personal information impact 11.1 11.3 11.3 evaluations on unique identification and sensitive business information. Thanks to these efforts, we achieved an excellent rating in a personal information management assessment carried out by the Ministry of the Interior and Safety for the second consecutive year and recorded zero 2014 2015 2016 cases of personal information leakage. 52 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES SPECIAL PAGE Providing Customized Major reform of the progressive electricity billing system for households in 40 years Services, Responding In 2016, KEPCO made a major reform for the progressive electricity billing system for households in 40 years. This desire for reform was to Citizens’ Needs satisfied after collecting opinions from all levels of society. Ahead of the reform of the progressive electricity billing system for households, we communicated with various stakeholders and listened to their opinions in relation to the progressive electricity billing system to reach a national consensus. We then substantially reduced the previous six stages to a three-stage progressive electricity billing system to satisfy consumer needs, and thus eased the burden of citizens amounting to an annual KRW 987 billion. Expanding the basis for understanding • Conduct face-to-face PR Establishing the customer-oriented Promoting communication with citizens activities by implementing a system in which the billing system • Carry out crowdsourcing management is in charge of the media PREVIOUS to realize a future electric 6-stage, 11.7 times power industry that is • Make contributions and created together by citizens have interviews on related and KEPCO issues • Hold idea contests on the overall electric power industry, and conduct surveys on the corporate image and Monitoring of public opinion satisfaction levels Collecting AFTER REFORM • Respond to the media jointly stakeholders’ 3-stage, 3 times with the government, and opinions operate the PR taskforce team 24 hours a day • Take immediate measures against distortion of the facts and exaggerated reports Listening to the voices of • Stage: Stage 1 is the essential usage amount (200 kWh); stakeholders stage 2 is the average usage amount (400 kWh); • Operate the support team for the change of electricity billing system, such Forming and stage 3 is the high consumption stage as the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy TF and other taskforce teams a consensus (more than 400 kWh) which include stakeholders among citizens • Rate:  Stage 1 is the average rate of the previous stages 1 and 2; • Collect citizens’ opinions by holding stage 2 is the previous stage 3 rate; public hearings on the reform plan and stage 3 is the previous stage 4 rate Customized electric bill support for those who need social care KEPCO provides practical energy welfare to people who need social care, such as the energy-underprivileged, households with newborns, and students. Energy-underprivileged Households with newborns Reform the electricity billing system for education In 2016, we reformed the rate for electricity that is • Double the electricity bill discount • Support the promotion of • Expand the scope of the discount used for educational purposes so that classrooms amount for the disabled and basic childbirth by providing an system from the elementary, are no longer extremely hot or cold at around 20 livelihood security recipients electricity bill discount to middle, and high schools to households with a baby that is include kindergartens thousand elementary, middle, and high schools. Focus • Ease the financial burden of less than one year old – provide households that use large amounts was placed on making continuous system improvea 30% discount, with a monthly of electricity depending on the ments, such as by creating the discount system ceiling of KRW 16,000 electricity usage environment, such for households with newborns and increasing the as households with three or more children discount amount for the welfare discount system. We 3 • Increase the electricity bill discount eased the electricity bill burden, which amounted to a rate for social welfare facilities, total of KRW 316 billion, for 440 thousand households such as senior citizen centers and daycare centers with newborns, 2.34 million energy-underprivileged, and 20,000 households, including elementary, middle, Improving electric power infrastructure on islands including Jodo and high schools. (Existing: 2,480 → Extension: 4,300 kW) places 53 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EXECUTION STRATEGIES FOR WIN-WIN GROWTH KEPCO has redefined the electric power industry’s duty as ‘creating a major mutual growth implementation strategies – ‘Enhance capabilities sharing economy ecosystem’ in accordance with the emergence of the for technology innovation,’ ‘Create an ecosystem for win-win growth,’ Fourth Industrial Revolution and the era of the new energy industry. We and ‘Strengthen support for overseas sales.’ thus carry out win-win cooperation activities that are based on three 3 execution strategies for win-win growth Strategies Enhance capabilities for Create an ecosystem for Strengthen support for technology innovation win-win growth overseas sales Major • Expand R&D support • Short-term: Management support to • Strategic expansion of sales routes activities • Promote the use of R&D outcomes improve the self-sufficiency of partner • Support the opening of KEPCO’s global companies network • Long-term: Create an ecosystem • Diversify support projects for of the new energy industry capacity enhancement Major • R&D support for SMEs – • Operation of the Bitgaram Creative • 125 KEPCO Trusted Partner-certified achievements 22 cases, KRW 14 billion Economy Innovation Center and companies • Purchase of SME products – KRW 20 billion worth of support • USD 340 million worth of exports by KRW 80.5 billion projects for startups KTP-certified companies SUPPORT FOR THE WIN-WIN GROWTH OF SMES KEPCO became the first public company in 1993 to launch an support to SMEs in their efforts to enter and export to overseas markets, organization that is dedicated to SME support and has been leading such as by creating the Export Cooperation Department and holding mutual growth activities since then. After relocating our headquarters to BIXPO. In addition, we focused on providing practical support for SMEs the Bitgaram Innovation City in 2014, we have been providing systematic as follows: Helping the capacity enhancement of SMEs Classification Activities Achievements in 2016 • Adopt the win-win payment system for circulation of the payments for delivered Win-win goods to secondary and tertiary partner companies • Build an electronic system in partnership with 5 banks payment • Select target partner companies, sign an agreement with primary partner • Provide KRW 1 billion for the purchase of materials companies, and make preparations for the full adoption of the system Human • Provide training to foster export experts at SMEs, such as experts in contracts, resources • 3 times per year; completed by 60 people trade documents, and practical affairs related to FTAs development Quality • Provide support in relation to quality, environmental, and safety certification of • Total of 85 cases; support KRW 690 million certification exported electric power equipment and test costs • Special major media PR on the overseas market entry support project Special PR • 42 times in total; participated by 700 companies • PR tour on the export support system • Conference on devoting efforts to promoting exports in the electricity industry (CEO made known his determination to focus on exports) • Share strategies to promote exports and seek joint Conferences • Meeting with CEOs of the Korea Federation of SMEs, meeting on promoting overseas expansion exports in the field of electricity 54 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES KEPCO Trusted Partner R&D support for SMEs to secure technological capacity KEPCO Trusted Partner (KTP) is a system in which KEPCO’s export In an effort to enhance the technological capabilities of SMEs, KEPCO promotion brand usage rights are given to outstanding SME partners has been focusing on innovation consulting and the adoption of smart to enhance the overseas marketing capabilities of partner companies. plants since 2014 to increase SME productivity. We are also helping SMEs In 2016, we helped them through our overseas offices and subsidiaries to strengthen technological competitiveness through export-connected by providing office space, work facilities, local information, and other R&D and collaborative R&D. kinds of export support, and expanded the hosting of export promotion conferences and exhibitions. We also selected 41 companies in the new energy industry, such as the smart grid and an ESS, and supported a total Consulting and support for smart factories of 125 companies. Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 (2014) (2015-2016) (2016-2017) Support of Support of Support of KRW 0.2 billion for KRW 0.2 billion for KRW 0.7 billion for 20 companies 25 companies 30 companies • Provide consulting • Provide financial • Expand support as an internal support for for small project industry innovation secondary and tertiary partner • Support the companies adoption of (strengthen the productivitybenefit sharing Efforts to promote the export business of the electric power industry improving facilities system) and smart plants R&D support KTP-certified emblem Sales of SMEs Purchasing cost of KEPCO Increased by Decreased by KRW 226.7 billion KRW 167.3 billion BUSINESS CASE Project to foster startups in KEPCO became the first public company to launch a large-scale the new energy industry startup-fostering system, and plans to identify and foster 300 companies in five years by 2020. Diverse support is being provided to the chosen startups, including financial support of up to KRW 200 million, office space at the Bitgaram Creative Economy Innovation Center, use of KEPCO’s demonstration and test centers, and mentoring by technical experts in different areas. In 2016, we signed an MOU with the Large & Small Business Cooperation Foundation and others regarding the Win-Win Supporters Youth Business Startup Support Program, and established the Creative Economy Innovation Center, thereby building a foundation for business startup support in the new energy industry. Identify a company Fore-R&D Core-R&D Post-R&D Commercialization Global expansion • Proposed by a • Establish • Cooperate with • Move forward with • Profit consulting • Target market company development professional commercialization • Marketing support research • Proposed by KEPCO strategies technologies • Support • Support for (provide promising • Analyze validity • Support R&D demonstration and overseas expansion technologies) • Create a business expenses testing model • Improve business models 55 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FAIR SELECTION OF PARTNER COMPANIES Rebuilding the SRM KEPCO has made improvements to the supplier relationship management with the detailed registration process, quality and technology regis(SRM) system to fairly manage the qualifications of partner companies’ tration requirements, and purchase outlook. In 2016, mentoring was bidding participation. By doing so, we are preventing the possibility of provided to a total of 31 companies, through which we secured 20 undermining the fairness of the bidding qualification management process, additional new suppliers. In addition, we considerably eased the supplier such as that caused by human error. We also manage partner companies’ registration criteria by collecting partner companies’ opinions through bidding qualifications in a more transparent and impartial manner by hearings and other channels, and thus reduced the burden on alreadysending SMS text messages and emails with each work-handling progress registered companies and lowered the entry barrier for new companies. and engaging in real-time system-based disclosure of information. Discovery of new companies and lowering of the CSR assessment of partner companies entry barrier for partner companies KEPCO has put in place a computer system to evaluate the sustainability KEPCO has been implementing the ‘visiting mentoring system’ to level of partner companies in economic, social, and environmental areas, discover new partner companies. Relevant departments, including and are conducting onsite inspections for high-risk suppliers. For companies the Procurement Department and Technology Planning Department that engage in improper conduct, such as a regulation violation, we are formed a joint one-stop support team, to provide mentoring programs placing restrictions, such as a bidding restriction for a certain period, after a for SMEs that sought to be registered as new suppliers to help them resolution by the Reward and Punishment Committee. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS In 2012, KEPCO became the first public institution to establish the ‘Code By specifying ethical, environmental, and social standards, we provide of Conduct for Suppliers’ which incorporates the ten principles of the UN guidance for compliance with the Code of Conduct for Suppliers for all Global Compact and OECD and ILO labor and environment guidelines. contracts signed by companies participating in bidding. Detailed guidelines of the Code of Conduct for Suppliers Ethical standard Social standard Environmental standard • Prohibit the provision of money, • Comply with tax and • Comply with environmental valuables, and bribes labor regulations and safety laws and regulations • Prohibit collusion and illegal • Provide legal labor • Expand eco-friendly subcontracting • Prohibit child labor technologies • Prohibit solicitation • Prohibit discrimination • Offer a safe work environment • Obligation to offer ethical training based on gender, race, etc. • Practice environment-focused to employees management 56 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES SPECIAL PAGE Successfully Hosting the BIXPO 2016 KEPCO holds export-promoting events and overseas exhibitions, uses the offices of its overseas subsidiaries to operate permanent PR halls for SMEs, and takes other measures with an aim to support exports by SMEs in the field of electric power. Establishing a foundation for win-win growth through the BIXPO KEPCO became the first public company to hold a joint growth exposition in 2013, which was followed by the holding of the ‘Bitgaram International Exposition of Electric Power Technology (BIXPO) Winwin Growth Exposition’ in 2016. BIXPO is the world’s only international exposition in the field of electricity and energy. A new technology exhibition, international conference, international invention contest, CTO forum, and joint growth exposition were held simultaneously. BIXPO drew the participation of an estimated 2,400 overseas electricity experts from 43 countries and around 50,000 visitors, making it the world’s largest technology exposition in the field of electric power. Also, 179 companies from Korea and abroad attended this event in 2016 to strengthen technological cooperation among the companies. Korean companies were presented with an opportunity to enter overseas markets. KEPCO provided diverse support to 62 SMEs, including support for participation in BIXPO, operation of an exhibition booth, and business meetings with overseas buyers. We helped the SMEs publicize their outstanding technologies and products, and create new business opportunities. Eight SMEs in Korea, including PLC Korea, signed export contracts, MOUs, and technology investment contracts that amounted to around USD 10.32 million or around KRW 12 billion. The contracts also covered traditional electric power equipment, but new energy industry products and technologies, such as the smart grid, ESS, and solar power, accounted for 73% of the total contract amount at USD 7.56 million, which enabled SMEs in the new energy industry to build a foundation for overseas market entry. Achievements through BIXPO (including export contracts, technology investments, etc.) KRW12 billion Participated in BIXPO 179 companies 57 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EXECUTION STRATEGIES FOR SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS KEPCO established five key values and detailed strategic goals, and built a comprehensive system to realize the ‘expansion of energy welfare’ based on the KEPCO Social Service Corps (307 nationwide, around 20 thousand employees), and is taking the lead in practicing social responsibility management. Vision Smart Energy Creator, KEPCO Slogan Light to the World, Love to Neighbors CSR goals Walking together in happiness with citizens, leading the socially responsible management of KEPCO Core values Win-win growth with Eco-friendly Specialized CSR Customized CSR Global contributions local communities preservation Links to SDGs Provide sustainable and Establish social Sustainable economic Guarantee health and Prevent impacts caused affordable energy infrastructure; development; improve welfare for by climate change promote sustainable quantitative and people of all ages and take emergency industrialization qualitative jobs as well measures as job security STRATEGIC SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES Specialized CSR Expanding energy welfare KEPCO’s ‘support program for solar Electricity bill support KEPCO provided welfare discounts for power generation facilities’ is our flagship social contribution program that electricity bills that totaled KRW 274.8 billion to 2.4 million households, reflects our business characteristics. Electricity sales profits were used to including low-income households and the disabled. In addition, electricity build solar power plants for free at social economy organizations, and we bill support was given to the underprivileged to remove welfare blind installed solar power panels at social welfare facilities and underprivileged spots and expand energy welfare, such as increasing energy voucher households, free of charge, to further reduce their electricity bills. In recipients and raising the amount given. Funds that were raised by all addition, the ‘profit-sharing school solar power generation project’ was staff members were used to carry out the ‘sharing energy with love’ implemented at 2,000 schools (200 MW) to contribute to addressing project. We provided support amounting to KRW 300 million to 2,389 excessively high and low temperatures in classrooms. Through the Energy households in 2016, recording a cumulative total of KRW 3.2 billion to of Love, Briquette Sharing, we delivered 2 million briquettes to the 24,020 households. underprivileged as part of our efforts to expand energy welfare. Free installation of solar power generation facilities for the underprivileged Classification Solar power station Solar panel Social economy Social welfare center and Beneficiaries organizations underprivileged households Number of 19 87 beneficiaries Power generation 1,165kW 177kW capacity Completion ceremony of the 1st solar power plant of a social enterprise 58 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES KEPCO119 Disaster Relief Squad The KEPCO 119 Disaster Relief CSR to support the financial independence of low-income Squad is the only disaster relief organization among public companies in individuals KEPCO contributed to realizing social values and creating Korea. It has been operating three teams – lifesaving, medical support, jobs by providing funds to youth business startups, overseas sales and field support teams – for each of six zones across the nation. In 2016, channel support, management fund support based on crowdfunding, the Squad took part in site restoration after an earthquake in Gyeongju and other support to promote social economy organizations, such as and a typhoon in Ulsan, and supported national events, such as the Safe social enterprises. We also offered financial support, low-interest loans, Korea Drill. Also, training is provided regularly throughout the year to and management consulting to chosen social economy organizations. around 200 Squad members in relation to rescue equipment use and Funds that were gathered by collecting small amounts from the wages emergency rescue so as to maintain and strengthen relief capabilities. of employees were used to support the independent lives of low-income individuals, such as those in small business startups. Customized CSR Support for the independence of low-income individuals Customized CSR for youths and children In 2016, we established Number of selected and operated energy-specializing curriculums, such as those on new Classification Beneficiary Funds supported companies electric power industry and green growth, thus building a system for Startup financing 5 companies KRW 100 million supporting the free semester system and actively supporting student Overseas sales experiential activities. Experiential activities were conducted on 169 16 companies KRW 100 million support Social economy occasions in 2016, including those at the Jeju Smart Grid PR Hall and a organizations visit to the Electricity Museum. A total of 12,912 students were given Management fund support based on 15 companies KRW 300 million occupational experience opportunities. We also contributed to improving crowdfunding the welfare of youths and children by operating a class to obtain a Startup financing Small businesses craftsman electricity certificate for youth detention centers inside prisons and operating fund run by low-income 6 companies KRW 130 million and by handing out smartbands. support individuals Customized CSR for seniors and the disabled In partnership with Gwangju Metropolitan City, KEPCO engaged in pilot implementation of a social safety net system that enables preparation against emergency situations as well as prevention of missing persons using electricity IoT, targeting 50 seniors living alone and seniors suffering from dementia. Our plan is to increase the scope to cover 500 persons in 2017. We also provided support for the installation of 8,000 highly efficient lighting fixtures at Sorokdo National Hospital and replacement of 150 village streetlamps as part of efforts to remove welfare blind spots for seniors and the disabled. Signing ceremony to support management fund of crowdfunding for social enterprises VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS I hope there will be continued interest in projects through which we discover and foster next-generation leaders, and expand the public procurement market in order to promote the emergence of innovative social enterprises. The Social Solidarity Bank is a leading organization to related to the new energy industry) and Global Light-Up provide social finance in Korea, and helps the underprivi(overseas sales channel support), and thus provided social leged become financially independent. We are conducting enterprises in the growth phase with an opportunity programs that support and provide funds for the growth to independently find solutions for sales channels. In of startups by the underprivileged, a college student tuition particular, KEPCO Energy Funding – a support project for loan program, and a program that involves supporting the development of the new energy industry, including funds, mentoring programs, and management consulting solar and renewable energy – is a good example of for the growth of social enterprises. support programs for social enterprises through which We have been working with KEPCO since 2012 to improve KEPCO fulfills its social responsibilities as a global public the management of social enterprises and to help the company in pursuit of win-win growth. I look forward to underprivileged become independent by supporting them the continued interest so that social enterprises can enter start their own businesses. In 2017, we shared KEPCO’s the maturity phase through the establishment of long-term overseas business experience and resources through such investment and support policies that are based on the Doo-jin Kang, General Manager, the KEPCO projects asDoojin Kang ┃ Energy Funding Department Head, Social Solidaritycharacteristics (crowdfunding Bank of the next-generation energy industry. Social Solidarity Bank 59 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Win-win growth with local communities KEPCO has been pursuing win-win growth with local communities based on cooperation with local governments and social groups, KEPCO by building a win-win platform in the Gwangju-Jeonnam Bitgaram became the first public institution in September 2016 to receive the Innovation City. As an outcome of executing win-win growth activities ‘Presidential Citation for Promoting the Local Industry.’ Win-win growth performance in the Bitgaram Innovation City Classification Projects Achievements Relocated Create roadside Bitgaram flower paths in the Innovation City 1 km / KRW 30 million institutions Innovation City tour in connection with the power generation Group companies 160 persons / 4 times Cooperation Local autonomous Bitgaram Energy Valley tour program for attracted companies 60 persons / 2 times with relevant entities Saeddeul Village program to support farming and fishing villages 15 villages / KRW 60 million institutions Help local college students carry out volunteer activities in Vietnam 30 persons / KRW 100 million Social associations Install a smart platform for the convenience of local residents 2 places / KRW 90 million Cultural and art performance for local residents 9 times in total (New year’s concert, musical, busking, etc.) Communication Tour of headquarters for the general public and students 3,000 persons / 52 times with local communities One Department-One Village sisterhood exchange events (Give a helping hand during the busy season, invite to cultural performances, hold the One Mind 36 times in total Event, etc.) Education support at childcare centers 140 persons / 20 centers After-school career path experience program 180 persons / 9 times Visit by youths from multicultural families to their respective mother country 100 persons / 2 times Customized to local communities Give scholarships to the underprivileged and prevent the four major social evils KRW 40 million 24 times in Bitgaram Theater: Free showing of the latest films for the culturally total (6,520 persons / underprivileged (Donate KRW 3,000 to the local community per spectator) KRW 49 million) Protecting victims of One four social Department evils One Village activities Headquarters tour 60 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES Global contributions KEPCO college student overseas volunteer group KEPCO provides Joint labor-management overseas volunteer group KEPCO college students, who will shape the future of Korea, with significant practices global sustainable management by expanding overseas experiences through which they can be aware of the importance of volunteer activities. In 2016, we dispatched 119 members of the a life enjoyed together with others. In 2016, in an effort to fulfill our overseas employee volunteer group to three countries – Laos, responsibilities as a global company, KEPCO chose 90 college students Kazakhstan, and the Philippines. The volunteer group established sports for overseas volunteer activities and sent 30 of them to each of three facilities, including playgrounds, painted on walls, repaired schools and developing countries – Bhutan, Indonesia, and Vietnam, to repair school libraries, supported classes for children, including a Korean culture class, and village facilities, install solar power streetlamps, and carry out other and held field days, thereby sharing happiness. contribution activities. Overseas customized volunteer work KEPCO has been implementing Performance of the Eye Love Project in 2016 the ‘Eye Love Project’ which provides eyesight recovery surgeries to lowincome patients, who are in danger of blindness, at home and abroad. By (Unit: Person) • Examination • Operation doing so, we give them a gift of the light of the world. In 2016, visits were made to five countries, including Nigeria, to provide medical treatment to 2,103 persons and eyesight recovery surgery to 323 persons, thus Nigeria presenting ‘the light of dreams and hope to the entire world.’ •279 •99 Botswana •4 KEPCO college student overseas volunteer group Bhutan – Indonesia •773 •55 China •285 •80 Power plant tour for multicultural families – llijan, the Philippines Vietnam •766 •85 Examination Operation Total 2,103 323 Eye Love Project – China 61 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Eco-friendly preservation Eco-friendly facilities to support the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Green management KEPCO carried out the ‘Beauty Pole Street Winter Games KEPCO provided 150 EVs and 26 EV chargers in Establishment’ project to improve the daily living environment for local order to help realize the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Winter Games’ residents and to enhance the image of the electricity business by building core value as an eco-friendly event. Also, as part of our efforts to build eco-friendly facilities. After choosing special/cultural streets, areas in eco-friendly electric power facilities to realize the vision of a green which there are many civil complaints, and areas near schools, we carried growth-based Olympics, we built underground distribution lines and out around 4,000 scenery-improving construction projects in Jeonju. In indoor substations. For the successful hosting of the Olympic Winter addition, a win-win cooperation MOU was signed with the Jeju Special Games, we are operating a regular support organization that consists of Self-Governing Province to create an eco-friendly island. A total of 120 39 staff members from the Electricity Planning Team and 49 employees open EV charging stations were built at the Jeju International Airport and from the Electricity Measure Headquarters. collective housing areas. Expenditures in social contributions (Unit: KRW million) 10,831 Agreements to support eco-friendly facilities for the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Winter Games 5,811 Carbon management KEPCO created the KEPCO Forest together 3,592 with citizens by planting 30,000 trees in an area spanning 10 hectares in Gangwon Province for the first time among public companies in Korea as part of the forest carbon offset project. We also provided support for the installation of 30 fine dust reduction facilities to prevent bus idling. We planted approximately 5,000 trees at 33 schools around the nation as part of a campaign to encourage children to take care of 2014 2015 2016 forests. This campaign oversaw the creation of forests at elementary schools throughout Korea, thus demonstrating KEPCO’s active carbon management. BUSINESS CASE Establishing a top-tier KEPCO signed an MOU with Gwangju Metropolitan City to energy park build an energy park in the Gwangju Sangmu Citizen Park. This IoT-based eco-friendly smart park will be based on the theme, ‘Enjoy & Feel the Energy,’ and will consist of three zones – future energy, art collaboration, and energy playground. The park will cover a total area of 41,750 square meters, and its construction is slated for completion in October 2018. The energy park, which is expected to be the best of its kind in Korea, will feature a collaboration between Gwangju Metropolitan City’s culture and art and our future technology. It is anticipated to become a new site of culture and tourism and grow into a local win-win development model. Bird’s eye view of the energy park 62 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES SPECIAL PAGE Bitgaram Energy Building the Bitgaram Energy Valley KEPCO relocated our headquarters to Gwangju-Jeonnam Innovation Valley – a Platform City in 2014, and took it as an opportunity to create a new future. We therefore presented the ‘Bitgaram Energy Valley’ – a joint development for Coexistence model with local communities. 2015-2016 Test-bed for new industries Introduction – Attracting 100 companies Stage Smart Energy Platform Building a basis for local innovation, Actively satisfy government policies Roadmap for the Bitgaram Energy Valley Establishment • Develop growth strategy • R&D cooperation engine industries • Cultivate talents Global energy hub 2019-2020 • Strengthen • Attract 2017-2018 Smart energy city – Attracting 500 companies Maturity communication companies Growth Stage • Coexistent • Win-win Stage – Attracting 300 companies – Creating 30,000 jobs development growth Status of the Bitgaram Energy Valley Plans for the Bitgaram Energy Valley As of July 2017, KEPCO has signed Energy Valley investment agreements with 200 Our plan for the Energy Valley is develop it as a test-bed for companies and made an investment of KRW 881 billion. the Fourth Industrial Revolution. We will therefore focus on the application of new industries and innovative technologies, Support system for investment companies such as electric vehicle chargers and the advanced metering Support funds Support sales routes Foster infrastructure, and make a connection with nearby industrial complexes to build a new energy industry cluster. In addition, • Provide depository • Preferential purchase of • Run courses for academic we will increase the recruitment of new energy industryinterest support products manufactured credit in order to foster (KRW 200 billion) by residential companies experts and skilled related companies and provide greater support in the areas of in the Naju Innovation professionals loan interest, fund investments, and sales channels. • Form the Energy Belly Industrial Complex Investment Fund • Operate the Long-Term (KRW 51.5 billion) • Use the dedicated Employment Dream Energy Valley portal, System Attracting Investing and support B-to-B trading of manufactured products 200companies KRW 881billion 63 ISSUE 05 Enhancing employee values OUR APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE It is essential for a company to secure talents with expertise New recruitments performance 1,433persons and global capabilities to achieve sustainable management. KEPCO believes that the growth of its members leads to the company’s sustainable growth. We therefore recruit future-oriented talents through open recruitment, focus on improving competency of employees, provide diverse support for their physical and emotional health, and continue investTraining expenses per person ments with an aim to improve their quality of life. RISK OPPORTUNITY KRW 1,012 thousand • Departure of outstanding • Foster creative talents to Secure future talent for the entire electric power personnel due to the relocation shift business areas to the business (domestic and overseas businesses, of the company headquarters new energy industry, digital electric power technology) • Lower work efficiency due to convergence, etc. 2,635persons an inflexible organizational • Derive creative ideas by culture diversifying the workforce including female employees 64 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES SECURING FUTURE-ORIENTED TALENTS Fair and transparent recruitment Creating jobs to reduce youth unemployment As a leading public Competency-centered recruitment KEPCO strives to enhance the company in Korea, KEPCO is taking the lead in creating jobs in the transparency in the recruitment process by focusing on competencies public sector. In 2016, we recruited a total of 1,433 new employees, of candidates based on the National Competency Standard (NCS), and including high school graduates, local talents, women, and the youth. strictly prohibits discrimination in the recruitment process based on We also recruited 1,143 youths as interns to provide them with a job college, gender, age, etc. We operate a job skill-centered talent selection experience opportunity and to bolster their competencies in finding a system, such as holding ‘blind interviews’ that are based on practical, job. To help resolve the social issue of youth unemployment, we created on-site skills. Also, our recruitment methods were segmented to increase additional jobs for 318 persons through the Employment Stepping-stone employment opportunities for diverse talent. To recruit global experts Program, thus contributing to the resolution of youth unemployment. for our overseas business and new energy industry, we adopted target Our plan for 2017 is to establish a roadmap to shift non-regular workers recruiting in 2016 and chose excellent talent who will lead changes in into regular positions, and execute the plan, in accordance with the the business. relevant government policy, and with an aim to contribute to the diffusion of such efforts in our society. Job creation in 2016 Recruitment Recruitment through Recruitment of through the youth the Employment 2,894 regular workers internship programs Stepping-stone Program Total persons 1,433 1,143 318 persons persons persons VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS KEPCO will contribute to the local community and also recruit outstanding talents from the Gwangju, South Jeolla Province area. Since the relocation of our headquarters, the number of points are additionally chosen, in the order of talent of recruited local talent has been steadily rising – 53 with the highest points. Additional talent is recruited persons in 2014, 112 persons in 2015, 126 persons in in excess of the initially expected number of successful 2016. In an effort to hire local talents, we have been applicants to meet the target. In case of the local profesassigning additional points to local talent since before the sional employee system, improvements were made so relocation. We especially adopted the 15% employment that applicants can now apply for only the zone that their target system and zone-level local professional employee respective alma mater is located so as to ensure practical system in 2017. In case of the employment target system, protection of employment channels. We are also helping if the percentage of successful applicants per screening people prepare for employment, such as by providing Soo-il Nam, Senior Manager, phase is less than the target, local talent who did not mentoring to job candidates and holding customized Human Resources Department, KEPCO pass the screening but have more than a certain number recruitment fairs. Recruitment target for talents from Local professionals Provide customized the area of the new headquarters system recruitment information • Subject: Graduates (prospective graduates) from • Restrict zones (five zones in Korea) to which • Provide consultation customized to each region, the Gwangju and South Jeolla Province area candidates can apply for to the areas where their such as the 'visiting recruitment briefing' • Method: Recruitment target by screening phase alma mater is located • 12 local recruitment briefings, 8 councils for – additional acceptance for candidates with up • Limited competition among graduates of working-level personnel of local colleges, etc. to -3 points to the cut-off line within a certain universities in the same zone scope 65 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOSTERING EXCELLENT EMPLOYEES HRD strategies and tasks Establishing HRD strategies Strengthening customer-oriented core competencies KEPCO has put in place advanced human resources development • Form and run study groups on a regular basis to improve the (HRD) programs based on the belief that ‘talents are our strategies’, problem-solving process of electric power services: 163 study with a goal to develop into a smart energy company. We provide fieldBiz groups and 532 Job Meisters Expert oriented training to improve electric power services, professional training • Build a 3-phased customized job training by competency that specializes in the new energy industry and the overseas business, level: Basic, advanced, and expert courses to help staff improve their competencies and performance leadership training by class, and core value internalization training. We established a ‘future talent pool’ consisting of 2,635 persons in 2016 by providing training, and received the National Quality Presidential Award Fostering experts for growth businesses for the first time in the training sector in November 2016. • Advance the development of experts to make the new energy industry to be a growth driver: Customized training for new businesses, new electric power technologies, R&D, technology Managing the performance of trainings Early policies, etc. Mover KEPCO has been increasing our training budget and personnel to bolster • Strengthen specialized professional training to expand access to a new market overseas: Master’s degree course specializing key competencies in new businesses and our original business. The in the overseas business, in-depth training on practical skills training hour per person has been increasing since 2014. related to the overseas business, language courses, etc. Training hours per person Securing a basis for future growth and development • Focus on fostering talents with master’s and doctor’s degrees in key strategic technologies, R&D, and policy: Foster (Unit: Hour) Think personnel with master’s and doctor’s degrees to secure Tank professional capabilities in new businesses • Build the talent pool of 2,635 persons in order to secure 94.3 future talents across the entire electric power businesses: 92.7 Overseas business, domestic business, strategic technology 91.3 Maximizing the sustainable competencies of the company • This outside the box! Spread leadership and consensus to lead the change in the industry: Training on creativity and Top innovation for all employees to help them change their Talent perspectives • Form a consensus on creating a new energy market and new values, and promote execution: ‘Empathy Up!’ vision concert, lectures by world-renowned scholars 2014 2015 2016 BUSINESS CASE Fostering and increasing the number of women in leadership roles Develop leadership Support growth Use talents KEPCO has been expanding the recruitment of female employees, and is operating a wide Provide leadership trainings Support the work-life balance Provide self-development array of programs that focus on development and support networking and and continuous competency opportunities through the job of leadership, use of talent, and support for mentoring development assignment in consideration of growth, in order to foster female leaders. – Leadership courses at Ewha – Flex time, reduced work time expertise Womans University – Hire women who experienced – Growing businesses such as – Conference on next interrupted careers R&D, overseas business, etc.: generation female leaders 1,090 persons (51%) – Original business such as transmission, transformation, distribution, sales, etc.: 1,042 persons (49%) 66 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES CREATING A HAPPY AND SAFE WORKPLACE Promoting a happy workplace Work-life balance KEPCO has been building an organizational culture that enables flexible, Improving residential and work conditions at the headquarters In smooth communication to create a happy workplace. By doing so, we an effort to improve residential conditions with the relocation of our headseek to increase trust in labor-management relations and strengthen the quarters, we conducted an employee survey, based on which 100 major foundation for mutual cooperation. tasks were identified and completed, including the different time commute system. Also, the ‘Residential Condition Improvement Committee’ was put in place collect and listen to the opinions of employees on a regular basis. Expanding the flex time system KEPCO helps our employees achieve work-life balance by adopting the flex time system at a top level among “TRUST” – Building a new corporate culture public organizations in Korea. As a leading example, we adopted the self-planned shortened work system in August 2016 in which employees Fully establish Spread an innovation plan their own time to arrive and leave work. In addition, we are using the a communication culture culture of trust and Smart Work Center to establish an environment that allows employees to of gratitude and sharing empathy work remotely. • Strengthen the Happy Mileage system • Spread and share the corporate Use of the flex time system • Promote the Lunch Meeting Day culture vision ‘KEPCO PRIDE’ • Diversify labor-management • Hold the ‘Empathy Up!’ vision concert communication channels • Provide all employees with training to (Unit: Persons) improve creativity and the ability to innovate 6,810 245% 52% “PRIDE” – Increasing pride as a member of KEPCO 1,975 Enhance self-esteem Increase employee 1,299 by boosting engagement through morale healing 2014 2015 2016 • Promote the Bitgaram communication • Upgrade the healing camp visit for business site employees • Host the table tennis match for labor2014 2015 2016 • Hold the 2nd KEPCO Heart-touching mismanagement cooperation Person Award • Host the KEPCO Star-King competition • Implement the restoration project of electric power history “FUN” – Creating a happy workplace Strengthen club and Balance work cultural activities and life • Strengthen club activities to enhance • Expand and promote the flex time organizational vitality system • Promote the Culture Week to fully • Introduce the smart work time system establish a sound corporate culture • Run a work-life balance healing camp • Operate the Bitgaram Theater on a for employees and their children regular basis 67 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Creating a labor-management culture of coexistence Skill and competency-centered evaluations and Labor union In an effort to improve residential conditions with the compensation relocation of our headquarters, we conducted an employee survey, based Spreading a corporate culture of performance KEPCO conducts on which 100 major tasks were identified and completed, including performance and competency assessments on all employees based on the different time commute system. Also, the ‘Residential Condition the Management by Objectives (MBO) personnel evaluation method. Improvement Committee’ has put in place collect and listen to the Based on the outcome, KEPCO provides a different basic annual salary opinions of employees on a regular basis. and performance-based annual salary. Promoting labor-management communication KEPCO has been Strengthening performance management We improved the expanding the labor-management communication in its efforts to form a personal assessment management system to enable year-round consensus between labor and management. Through open communication performance management and coaching. When an employee engages channels led by a chief, on the company level, as well as field-centric in daily work, he/she can conveniently (one-click) register work and bottom-up communication channels, we are improving business performance, enabling systematic performance management and performance and maintaining cooperative labor-management relations. ensuring assessment validity. Multi-dimensional labor-management communication channels Performance management process Led by a chief On the company level Beginning of the year Strengthen direct Develop a soft communication with communication Set the goal union member method Allocate and decide goals System improvement in alignment with corporate On-site communication workshop Cultural innovation vision concert level KPIs (2 times), send e-mails to all employees (6 times), promote club activities (7 times) Field-centric Bottom-up Feedback Year-round Strengthen productive Quantitative expansion Performance field communication of bottom-up, open management and coaching Briefing sessions on the communication Performance feedback by using Satisfaction performance-based annual Increase surveys on work, salary that are provided on tour the individual performance level review promote the anonymous bulletin (15 times), briefings on the management system board of the labor union management status (465 times) End of the year Use of results Performance evaluation Grade comprehensive annual performance on an absolute or a relative scale Objection Employee-centered welfare system KEPCO has put in place reasonable welfare policies that are in line with management conditions with an aim to enhance the satisfaction level of employees. We also operate the defined benefit retirement bonus system to guarantee a stable post-retirement life. In 2016, we reduced the loan interest rate and increased the loan ceiling for daily life stability funds, increased guarantee conditions for group guarantee-type insurance, and increased the housing fund loan ceiling. 68 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES Strengthening the safety and health management On-site focused safety management activities KEPCO takes preemptive measures against industrial accidents. In 2016, new safety and health technologies were applied to build an IoT-based remote construction site safety management system. Also, advanced safety management techniques of the U.S. and UK were adopted to improve our basic manual on safety rules. A ‘special, corporate-wide safety inspection’ was carried out by internal and external experts to analyze the fundamental issues of safety management. As a result, we identified 15 cases that required institutional and system improvements, and Field review at the National Safety Assessment made the necessary improvements. In addition, we issued the ‘KEPCO Safety Guide’ and shared it on a corporate-wide level. The Guide clearly organizes safety management standards and processes from the field Accident rate of outsourced projects perspective. Establishing and spreading a safety culture KEPCO has been (Unit: %) strengthening safety management so that not only KEPCO employees but also employees of partner companies work in a safe environment. 0.72 By developing an indirect hot-line job method in 2016, we built a power facility construction system that places the highest priority on safety. In addition, we fully established a culture of safety in the field by identifying and addressing contractors’ safety management blind 56% 0.37 spots. As a leading example, we conducted safety training for 880 partner company employees, real-time safety management through the 0.24 construction site monitoring, and safety inspection patrols. Safety Management Committee KEPCO has put in place the Safety Management Committee that consists of five internal experts and five outside experts, including those from the government, academia, and safety 2014 2015 2016 management organizations. Through quarterly meetings, the committee carries out deliberations and provides advice in terms of important safety matters for the company, such as safety management policies and systems and establishment of measures in the event of safety accidents. Safety-related injuries Health management programs for employees We measure the worksite environment (temperature, intensity of illumination, air quality, (Unit: Person) water quality, etc.) to detect and prevent symptoms of occupational diseases in our efforts to promote employee health. Additionally, regular checkups (every year) and special checkups (every two years) 150 are conducted to check employees’ health status in greater detail. Since 2014, we have been conducting a special medical examination for employees working the nightshift. In 2016, various health-promoting 98 57% programs were implemented, such as the job stress test and counseling 65 program and the smoking cessation clinic in connection with community health centers, thus further strengthening employee health management. 2014 2015 2016 Operate a psychological Measure stress levels and the counseling and alternative degree of aging of blood vessels medicine programs (once a week) (once a month) 69 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Leading Human Rights Management Human rights management system KEPCO practices human rights management in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the Human Rights Guideline of the National Human Rights Commission of the Republic Of Korea. In recognition of the importance of human rights, KEPCO has put in place various policies to respect the human rights of its employees as well as other stakeholders. We took the initiative to build and establish the human rights management execution system, and thus became the first Korean company to join the UN Global Compact in 2005. We also enacted and promulgated the human rights management declaration in 2015 for the first time among public companies in Korea. Integrated Management (Corporate Planning Department) • Establishment of an integrated action plan for human rights management • Performance review and internal/external report and disclosure • Roles as a Human rights • Self-assessment reporting channel management execution on human rights for internal and system check list external human rights violations • Identification of issues to be • Corrective improved and Monitoring and Aid measures in case Execution establishment (Audit & Inspection Office) of human rights (Relevant departments of execution and offices) violations measures Human rights risk management and due diligence Meanwhile, KEPCO strictly prohibits discrimination of any kind, including discrimination based on gender, race, age, and social To identify and evaluate human rights risks, we categorize risks status. We also comply with the Labor Standards Act in Korea as into 38 detailed items in 10 major areas in accordance with the well as the International Labour Organization (ILO) regulations, UNGPs, and create a human rights management checklist. This such as the ‘Convention Concerning the Prohibition and checklist is used at each business department to conduct periodic Immediate Actions Toward the Elimination of the Worst Forms of self-assessments and inspections. Child Labor’ and ‘Convention Concerning the Abolition of Forced Labor.’ No relevant violation case were found at KEPCO in 2016. Major human rights improvement activities KEPCO Declaration of Self-assessment on Communication channels to prevent Human Rights human rights human rights violations Disclosed through the company’s Use the human rights management check list Run communication channels such as website and sustainability report (38 detailed items in 10 areas) the grievance-handling system, direct reporting system, the Red Whistle, etc. 70 SUSTAINABILITY CORE ISSUES SPECIAL PAGE Finding the Roots of Electric Power History in Korea Project to restore the history of Discovering materials that illuminate electric power the history of electric power In 2012, KEPCO redefined its founding date to be the one KEPCO discovered historical materials about the electric of Hansung Electric Company – January 26, 1898 – and power industry that were in the possession of the family of has been striving to restore the history of all electric power Harry Bostwick, who was a US partner at the time of the companies in Korea, including Hansung Electric Company, establishment of Hansung Electric Company – the very first which was the nation’s very first electricity company, Hanmi electric power company in Korea. The family donated 2,020 Electric Company, and Gyeongseong Electric Company. By rare materials that reflect what life was like at the end of the doing so, we aim to fill the gap in Korean history that exists Joseon Dynasty, including 288 materials related to the history for the late period of the Joseon Dynasty, and raised our of electricity. Among these materials were scraps of articles sense of pride as we uphold the legitimacy of the national about Hansung Electric Company, working-level documents, electric power industry. By addressing the rupture in the pictures of Hansung Electric Company and officials, and a company’s history, we strive to realize a complete KEPCO written petition for the establishment of the company. We that connects the past and the future. We will continue to plan to help these materials be used to build a cyber history engage in activities that involve discovering and publicizing hall and to run the history exhibition hall in the Electricity the historical roots of electricity, such as a symposium on Museum to disclose electricity history materials to the general finding the historical roots of electricity in Korea and a special public and to use them for research. exhibition on the occasion of the 120th anniversary of the company’s founding. Milestones 2013-2016 2005-2012 After relocating to the Gwangju-Jeonnam KEPCO enhanced its stature as a global Innovation City in 2014, KEPCO expanded company through nuclear power plant its business to include the new energy exports and the successful holding of industry and eco-friendly energy businesses, the World Energy Congress. and also established the Bitgaram Energy Valley, thus building a win-win platform. 1994-2004 KEPCO focused on overseas expansion, such as the company’s listing on the New York Stock Exchange and the power generation business in the Philippines. 1898-1944 Hansung Electric Company, Korea’s first electric power company, was established, which was followed by the launch of Korea Electric Power Company in 1962 through the integration of three companies. The company name was changed to Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) in 1981. 71 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Performance Data 73 Economy 75 Environment 77 Society 72 PERFORMANCE DATA ECONOMY Economy Consolidated statements of financial position (Unit: KRW million) Description 54th (Jan.1-Dec.31, 2014) 55th (Jan.1-Dec.31, 2015) 56th (Jan.1-Dec.31, 2016) Current assets 16,819,855 22,025,325 19,708,526 Non-current assets 146,888,434 153,232,034 158,128,516 Total assets 163,708,289 175,257,359 177,837,042 Current liabilities 21,600,068 22,710,842 24,739,226 Non-current liabilities 87,283,211 84,604,042 80,047,271 Total liabilities 108,883,279 107,314,884 104,786,497 Paid-in capital 4,053,578 4,053,578 4,053,578 Retained earnings 35,303,647 48,187,241 53,173,871 Other components of equity 14,244,106 14,393,648 14,496,244 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 53,601,331 66,634,467 71,723,693 Non-controlling interest 1,223,679 1,308,008 1,326,852 Total equity 54,825,010 67,942,475 73,050,545 Total liabilities and equity 163,708,289 175,257,359 177,837,042 Consolidated income statement (Unit: KRW million) Description 54th (Jan.1-Dec.31, 2014) 55th (Jan.1-Dec.31, 2015) 56th (Jan.1-Dec.31, 2016) Sales 57,474,883 58,957,722 60,190,384 Cost of sales 49,762,952 45,457,729 45,549,553 Gross profit 7,711,931 13,499,993 14,640,831 Selling and administrative expenses 1,924,366 2,153,261 2,639,232 Operating profit 5,787,565 11,346,732 12,001,599 Other income 402,329 432,219 412,887 Other expenses 88,220 108,848 188,624 Other profit (loss) 107,396 8,610,773 70,498 Finance income 885,290 1,182,988 791,543 Finance costs 3,140,038 3,015,457 2,437,087 Other comprehensive profit or loss of associates 274,984 207,379 (137,348) Profit before income tax 4,229,306 18,655,786 10,513,468 Income tax expense 1,430,339 5,239,413 3,365,141 Net income 2,798,967 13,416,373 7,148,327 Other comprehensive income (357,721) 34,006 (2,302) Total comprehensive income 2,441,246 13,450,379 7,146,025 73 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Creating economic value (based on separate figures) Description Unit 2014 2015 2016 Power sales GWh 477,592 483,655 497,039 Power sales revenue KRW billion 57,334.4 58,540.4 60,289.6 Operating profit KRW billion 1,673.7 4,425.4 4,881.5 Profit for the period KRW billion 1,039.9 10,165.7 4,262.0 Cash flow KRW billion 6,271.6 9,751.0 10,558.9 Company value (based on the closing price for the period) Description Unit 2014 2015 2016 Stock price KRW 42,700 50,000 44,050 Market price KRW billion 27,411.9 32,098.2 28,278.5 Credit rating Moody's Aa3 Stable Aa2 Stable Aa2 Stable market capitalization ranking In Korea 4th 3rd 4th Distributing economic value (Unit: KRW billion) Description Classification 2014 2015 2016 Total 321.0 1,990.1 1,271.1 Government 68.0 362.2 231.3 Shareholders (Dividends) General 160.6 1,004.7 649.1 Foreigners 92.4 623.2 390.7 Dividend rate (%) 10 62 39.6 KEPCO Group power generation 46,754.7 43,218.5 4,3231.9 companies (Power purchase cost) Creditors (Interest expense) 1,394.1 1,092.6 844.2 Donations 16.1 15.1 22.8 Purchase of products produced 5,028.8 5,825.9 5,268.4 by SMEs Total 1,498.0 1,890.1 2,138.8 Salaries 1,341.5 1,532.5 1,674.5 Employees Retirement 14.5 153.7 180.9 benefits Employee benefits 142.0 203.9 283.5 74 PERFORMANCE DATA ECONOMY · ENVIRONMENT Environment Use of materials Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Concrete 453,498 602,605 659,404 Metal 67,368 103,597 79,656 Ceramics 2,552 68 108 Ton Power lines 31,127 42,586 44,505 Others 8,423 13,430 14,956 Total 560,538 762,286 798,629 Eco-friendly cars among business purpose vehicles Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Cars for Business 1,775 1,843 1,918 Eco-friendly cars 1,488 1,603 1,700 Compact cars Unit 1,357 1,312 1,243 Hybrid vehicles 91 146 142 Electric vehicles 40 145 315 Percentage of eco-friendly cars % 83.8 87 88.6 Generation and recycle of wastes by type 2014 2015 2016 Classification Generation Recycling rate Generation Recycling rate Generation Recycling rate (Ton) (%) (Ton) (%) (Ton) (%) Concrete 215,565 100 51,561 100 65,807 100 Metal 39,710 100 22,449 100 24,164 100 Ceramics 8,777 100 23 100 47 100 Power lines 13,484 100 6,254 100 7,246 100 Others 898 100 1,890 100 2,773 100 Total 277,894 100 82,177 100 100,037 100 Purchase of green products and purchase percentage (Unit: KRW million, %) 2014 2015 2016 Total Green products Percentage Total Green products Percentage Total Green products Percentage 8,326 7,868 94.5 16,575 15,574 94.0 26,351 25,344 96.2 75 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Energy (Unit: TJ) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Consumption 5,542 5,995 6,425 Greenhouse gas emissions and emission intensity (Unit: 10,000 tons of CO2eq for emissions; ton/KRW 100 million for intensity) 2014 2015 2016 Classification Emissions Intensity Emissions Intensity Emissions Intensity Scope 1 128 115 1.94 123 2.03 Scope 2 14 16 0.27 17 0.29 2016 Classification Power purchase Power sales Employees' commute Business trip Scope 3 20,067 20,348 0.1 1.5 * 2016 sales: KRW 60,190.4 billion Performance of the emissions trading scheme (Unit: 10,000 tons of CO2eq) Classification 2015 2016 Allocation 111 96 Emissions 130.9 139.8 * Basic emission factors based on the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Method: Applied Article 44 Activity Data Collection Methodology of the Guidelines on National Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management and Operation, Etc. All business sites including business sites with small amount of emissions Air pollutants (Including KEPCO Group power generation companies) (Unit: g/MWh) Classification 2014 2015 2016 SOx 170 164 246 NOx 291 266 395 Dust 8 8 11 Environment-related investments and expenditures (Unit: KRW billion) Classification Costs for environmentEnergy new industry Energy new Undergrounding Transaction costs in Duty-performance Total R&D for GHG related certification and renewable industry-related electric power an emission trading costs according to reduction and trainings electricity generation R&D facilities scheme the RPS (external consignment) 2,639.8 446.6 135.8 452.1 2.9 1,181.1 0.25 4,858.5 Water consumption (Unit: 1,000 ton) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Consumption 3,831 2,738 2,453 76 PERFORMANCE DATA ENVIRONMENT · SOCIETY Society Workforce Purchase of products produced by SMEs (Unit: Person) (Unit: KRW billion) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2014 2015 2016 Number of employees 20,234 20,620 21,544 Purchase 5,028.8 5,825.9 5,268.4 Regular 19,899 20,196 20,957 employees By Employees Material suppliers under employment 11 10 1 unlimited type Number of Number of contracts Classification registered items registered companies Non-regular 324 414 586 Transmission and substation 151 90 employees Male 16,831 16,926 17,563 Distribution 97 154 By gender Female 3,403 3,694 3,981 Information and 4 5 communication Regular Newly hired 753 1,041 1,433 Total 252 249 employees Retirees 412 774 681 * Total number of companies: 192 Employee trainings Accident of outsourced construction projects (Unit: Person) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Classification 2014 2015 2016 1) Accident rate (%) 0.72 0.37 0.24 Senior executives 1,969 2,302 2,923 Fatality rate per 10,000 Junior executives 5,991 5,750 9,059 5.27 1.00 1.18 persons2) (0/000) Staff 12,517 15,849 20,981 1) Accident rate = (Number of casualties/Regular employees) x 100 2) Fatality rate per 10,000 persons = (Number of the death/Regular employees) x 10,000 Maternity protection system (Unit: Person) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Parental leave before or 138 122 139 after childbirth Childcare leave (Male) 185 (15) 161 (22) 310 (41) Infertility leave 10 15 22 Reduced work hours for 10 9 22 childcare Return rate after parental 99.3/100 97.9/93.3 100/97.2 leave (Female/Male) Flextime operations (Unit: Person) Classification 2014 2015 2016 Flex-time work 1,215 1,562 6,149 Part-time work 94 211 287 77 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Appendix 79 Support for Global Initiatives 80 Independent Assurance Statement 82 GHG Emission Verification Statement 83 GRI G4 Index 88 Major Subsidiaries 90 Memberships and Awards 91 About This Report 78 APPENDIX SUPPORT FOR GLOBAL INITIATIVES Support for Global Initiatives Supporting UN SDGs Adopted by the UN member states in September 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are goals that all countries around the globe are jointly working on to achieve. It consists of 17 goals and detailed tasks that are aimed at alleviating threats to sustainable development, such as economic and social polarization and climate change. With the implementation of the SDGs, which need to be accomplished by the international community, KEPCO is carrying out activities in response. Of the 17 goals, we chose eight priority goals that are related to the electric power industry and that can be fulfilled by KEPCO, and are conducting activities to accomplish the goals. By doing so, we seek to discover new growth opportunities and achieve sustainable growth. KEPCO’s response to UN SDGs Goal 3 • Conduct eyesight recovery operation for low-income patients in danger of Ensure healthy lives and promote blindness in Korea and abroad well-being for all at all ages • Operate employee health management for employee health management Goal 4 • Support the learnings at childcare centers Ensure inclusive and equitable quality • Support the job experience programs after school education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all • Provide scholarship to the underprivileged Goal 7 • Expand the renewable energy business such as wind power and solar power Ensure access to affordable, reliable, • Build EV charging stations sustainable and modern energy for all • Provide the underprivileged with solar power generation facilities free of charge Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and • Carry out projects to foster startups in the energy new industry sustainable economic growth, • Expand the recruitment of local talents full and productive employment and decent work for all Goal 10 • Help the culturally underprivileged enjoy culture and art performances, including movies Reduce inequality within and • Carry out global social contribution activities (repair village facilities, install solar street lights, etc.) among countries Goal 11 • Build the Bitgaram Energy Valley Make cities and human settlements • Run the KEPCO119 Disaster Relief Squad inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable • Build an eco-friendly facility Goal 13 • Jointly respond to climate change with KEPCO Group power generation companies Take urgent action to combat climate (carbon management diagnostic index, GHG reduction roadmap, etc.) change and its impacts • Develop eco-friendly technologies Goal 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable • Build the KEPCO Forest together with citizens use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably • Carry out activities to protect biodiversity manage forests, combat desertification, (environmental impact assessment, restoration of damaged habitats, etc.) and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 79 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Independent Assurance Statement Introduction Korea Electric Power Corporation (“KEPCO”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance on KEPCO 2017 Sustainability Report (the “Report”). DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Scope of assurance The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period from 1st January to 31st December 2016. This also includes: • Evaluation of the Report on the adherence to the principles for defining the sustainability report content set forth in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0; • Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report; • Review of the performance data and information in 2016 against the information disclosed in the State-owned/State-controlled organization information disclosure system (www.alio.go.kr), the management performance evaluation report, internal documents and internal records. Basis of our opinion The assurance engagement was planned and carried out using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We provided the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in August through September 2017 and the site visits were made to KEPCO’s headquarters in Naju, Jeollanamdo, Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; • interviewed representatives from the various departments; • conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; • reviewed the materiality assessment report. Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of KEPCO’s subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr), the website of Public Management Information System (ALIO; www. alio.go.kr) and KEPCO’s website (www.kepco.co.kr). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering were applied including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. The directors of KEPCO have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of KEPCO in accordance with the terms of reference. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4 nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI G4 Core option. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; 1 T he VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) 80 APPENDIX INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ◊ Stakeholder Inclusiveness KEPCO has identified ten stakeholder groups. KEPCO engages with stakeholders through various communication channels to figure out respective stakeholder groups’ interests and expectations. The examples of approaches to engagements with selected stakeholders are described in the Report. ◊ Sustainability Context The Report addresses long-term management strategies to achieve KEPCO’s vision, strategic tasks, management goals and performance indicators pertaining to those tasks. In addition, the Report describes crisis and opportunity factors, management approach, and performances for material issues. The Report helps the stakeholders understand the sustainability management of KEPCO. ◊ Materiality KEPCO has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The relevant 36 issues selected from the analysis of the key issues in the global sustainability initiatives and international standards, sustainability reports from peer group, the journalist reports on KEPCO in 2016. The issues in the pool are rated by combining the level of impact on KEPCO’s business and level of stakeholders’ interest in the issue. The prioritization is based on the internal survey results. KEPCO has ended up with 10 material issues through these evaluation processes. In additional, stakeholder relevance to the selected material issues is presented. The audit team reviewed the materiality assessment process and noted that the relevant material issues prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. ◊ Completeness The Report has covered the sustainability management approach and sustainability performances of KEPCO for the reporting period. The reporting boundary has been set for KEPCO domestic workplaces including headquarters in Naju. In the case of eco-friendliness of the supply chain (environmental investment costs, air and water pollutants), the reporting boundary is expanded to six power generation companies (Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, Korea South-East Power, Korea Midland Power, Korea West Power, Korea South Power and Korea East Power) in which KEPCO has 100% stake. The audit team noted that the performance results of material issues within the reporting boundary were reported without omissions. ◊ Accuracy and Reliability The audit team verified the data and information based on sampling methodology during the verification process. The audit team interviewed the Person-inCharge, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. The depth of data verification is limited to the aggregated data. Based on sampling verification and other reported information and available evidence, nothing comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that the data and information presented in the Report have any intentional error or material misstatement. Competence and Independence DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. The audit team has complied with DNV GL’s Code of Conduct. September 2017 Seoul, Korea In Kyoon Ahn Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. 81 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GHG Emission Verification Statement Verification Institute Introduction DAEIL E&C Verified the Greenhouse Gas & Energy statements of 2016 Korea Productivity Center was required to verify ‘2016 Greenhouse Gas reported by Korea Electric Power Corporation. (GHG) emissions Statements (hereinafter ‘Statement’)’, of which reporting years was defined as January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016, by Korea Verification Criteria Electric Power Corp. The Comprehensive Standards and Guidelines on the Operation of Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme (Notification No. Levels of Assurance 2016-255, Korea Ministry of Environment). A reasonable level of assurance was agreed. Verification Conclusion Verification Scope We, DAEIL E&C, Verify the Greenhouse Gas Emission and Energy The verification team verified GHG emissions (Scope3) at workplaces of statements 2016 of Korea Electric Power Corporation are based on a Korea Electric Power Corp. in 2016. Reasonable Level of Assurance. Verification Criteria Energy Consumption 6,309 TJ • GHG Energy Target Management Guideline • Community-Scale GHG Emission Calculation Guideline GHG Emissions 1,396,423 CO2eq.ton • IPCC Guideline: 2006, WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol: 2004 • ISO14064-3: 2006 standard Limitation Having investigated by sampling method, the Statement might have errors September 25, 2017 and uncertainties. Final GHG estimates may contain uncertainty for the DAEIL E&C CO., LTD reasons such as unspecified standard and method, although no exceptional CEO & President factors has been reported. Conclusion • The verification team confirmed that the ‘Statements (2016)’ was being reported in accordance with self-inspection guideline based on GHG Energy Target Management Guideline and IPCC Guideline. • Appropriate corrective action was taken by Korea Electric Power Corp. in accordance with investigation results from the verification team. • The verification team confirms that the ‘Statements (2016)’ was being reporting ‘appropriately’ in accordance with relevant standards. Korea Electric Power Corp. GHG Emissions Other Indirect Emissions (Scope3) 454,949,962 CO2eq June 27, 2017 Korea Productivity Center, Sustainability Management Center Certificate No. GHGV-2017-0925 Director Dong-Soo, Kim 82 APPENDIX GHG EMISSION VERIFICATION STATEMENT · GRI G4 INDEX GRI G4 Index General Standard Disclosures Index Description ISO 26000 Page reference Note Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4, 5 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 26, 34, 42, 50, G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 64 Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization 8 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 8 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 8 G4-6 Countries with significant operations 9, 40, 41 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and G4-8 8, 9 types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 8 G4-10 The total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract and region 8, 77 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 6.3.10/6.4.1-6.4.2/ 68 G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5/ 8, 9, 54-56 6.8.5/7.8 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or ownership or its G4-13 91 supply chain G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary approach or principle 16, 17 G4-15 External initiatives that the organization endorses 79 G4-16 Memberships of associations such as industry associations 91 EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 89 EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 89 EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines 474,099 C-km Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading EU5 76 framework Identified material aspects and boundaries Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent Business Report G4-17 91 documents 3-6p G4-18 Process for defining report content 20, 21 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 20, 21 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 5.2/7.3.2/7.3.4 21 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 21 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for No significant G4-22 such restatements change G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 20, 21 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 18, 19 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 18, 19 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement by type and by stakeholder group 5.3 18, 19 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, G4-27 18, 19 and how the organization has responded to them 83 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Index Description ISO 26000 Page reference Note Report profile G4-28 Reporting period 91 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 91 G4-30 Reporting cycle 91 7.5.3/7.6.2 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 91 G4-32 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 83-87, 91 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 80, 81 Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest G4-34 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 12, 13 governance body Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 14, 15 The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and G4-57 14, 15 matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines 4.4/6.6.3 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or G4-58 unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through 14, 15 line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Specific Standard Disclosures Index Description ISO 26000 Page reference Note Economic performance DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach) 26, 34 6.8.1-6.8.2/ EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 73, 74 6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities EC2 6.5.5 42 for the organization’s activities due to climate change Business Report EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 6.8.7 73 282p Indirect economic impacts 6.3.9/6.8.1/6.8.2/ EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 58-63 6.8.7/6.8.9 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/ EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.7.8/6.8.1-6.8.2/ 51-63 6.8.5/6.8.7/6.8.9 Procurement practices DMA 50 6.4.3/6.6.6/ EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 50, 77 6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.7 Availability and reliability DMA 34 6.3.3/6.5.3/6.5.4/6.5.5/ EU6 Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability and reliability 35, 36 6.5.6/6.7.8/6.8.6 Demand-side management programs including residential, commercial, institutional and 6.3.3/6.5.3/6.5.4/6.5.5/ EU7 35 industrial programs 6.7.5/6.7.8/6.8.6 R&D DMA 26 Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and EU8 6.8.6 27-31 promoting sustainable development 84 APPENDIX GRI G4 INDEX Index Description ISO 26000 Page reference Note System efficiency EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy 34 Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.4 75 Energy DMA 42 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 76 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4/6.5.5 44 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 76 Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of EN11 6.5.6 46 high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 46 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored 46 EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas 46 Emissions DMA 42 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 6.5.5 76 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 76 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 76 EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 76 EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 6.5.3 76 Effluents and waste EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 75 Products and services DMA 42 EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 6.5.3/6.5.4/6.5.5/6.7.5 46, 47 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonEN29 No such cases compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5.1-6.5.2 76 Employment DMA 64 EU14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce 6.4.7 66, 68 Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and employees of EU16 6.3.3/6.3.5/6.4.6/6.6.6 69 contractors and subcontractors 85 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Index Description ISO 26000 Page reference Note Social Employment Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, LA1 6.4.1-6.4.2 77 gender, and region LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 77 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant EU18 6.3.3/6.3.5/6.4.6/6.6.6 69 health and safety training Occupational health and safety DMA 17, 64 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and LA5 6.4.6 69 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total LA6 6.4.6/6.8.8 69, 77 number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 69 Training and education DMA 64 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7 77 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA10 6.4.7/6.8.5 66 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, LA11 6.4.7 68 by gender and by employee category Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 6.2.3/6.3.7/ LA12 12, 66, 77 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.3.10/6.4.3 Human rights Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects HR2 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees 6.3.5 70 trained Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/6.3.8/ HR4 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support 56, 68 6.3.10/6.4.5/6.6.6 these rights Child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/6.3.7/ HR5 70 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 6.3.10/6.6.6/6.8.4 Forced or compulsory labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/ HR6 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or 70 6.3.10/6.6.6 compulsory labor Local communities DMA 50 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 6.3.9/6.5.1-6.5.2/ SO1 60-63 impact assessments, and development programs 6.5.3/6.8 Stakeholder participation in decision making processes related to energy planning and EU19 6.8/6.8.3 18, 19, 53 infrastructure development 86 APPENDIX GRI G4 INDEX Index Description ISO 26000 Page reference Note Anti-corruption DMA 14, 15 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3/6.6.6 14, 15 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 14, 15 Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.5/6.6.7 No such cases practices and their outcomes Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and 6.3.5/6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.6/ SO10 No such cases actions taken 6.8.1-6.8.2/7.3.1 Customer health and safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts 6.7.1/6.7.2/6.7.4/ PR1 36 are assessed for improvement 6.7.5/6.8.8 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal Business Report EU25 No such cases judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases 538p Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 No such cases concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.6 25 Marketing communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, No such cases by type of outcomes Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses PR8 No such cases of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning PR9 No such cases the provision and use of products and services Access Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or EU23 6.7.8/6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.6 36 maintain access to electricity and customer support services EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas 6.7.8 36 EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime 6.3.7/6.7.8 89 Provision of information Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers to accessing EU24 6.3.7/6.7.8 52, 53, 58, 59 and safely using electricity and customer support services 87 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Major Subsidiaries Power generation companies · Address: 1655, Bulguk-ro, Yangbuk-myeon, It is the only company in Korea that operates nuclear power Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do plants, and also operates hydropower and pumped storage Korea Hydro & Nuclear power plants. · Sales: KRW 11,168,579 million Power Co., Ltd. · Total assets: KRW 52,782,915 million · Facility capacity: 28,439MW Ownership: 100% · Home page: www.khnp.co.kr/eng · Power generation: 158,744GWh · Address: 32, Sadeul-ro 123beon-gil, Jinju-si, It operates the Samcheonpo Power Plant and Yeongheung Gyeongsangnam-do Power Division as a base load. Korea South-East · Sales: KRW 5,093,598 million · Facility capacity: 10,332MW Power Co., Ltd. · Total assets: KRW 9,773,778 million · Power generation: 67,738GWh Ownership: 100% · Home page: www.kosep.co.kr/eng · Address: 160, Boryeongbuk-ro, It operates the Boryeong Power Plant and Seocheon Power Boryeong-si, Chungcheongnam-do Plant Division as a base load. Korea Midland · Sales: KRW 3,719,981 million · Facility capacity: 8,342MW Power Co., Ltd. · Total assets: KRW 9,066,666 million · Power generation: 42,907GWh Ownership: 100% · Home page: w  ww.komipo.co.kr/eng/ main/main.do · Address: 285, Jungang-ro, Taean-eup, It operates the Taean Thermal Power Plant as Taean-gun, Chungcheongnam-do a base load. Korea Western · Sales: KRW 4,169,712 million · Facility capacity: 10,725MW Power Co., Ltd. · Total assets: KRW 9,810,714 million · Power generation: 48,387GWh Ownership: 100% · Home page: www.westernpower.co.kr/ eng · Address: 40, Munhyeongeumyung-ro, It operates the Hadong Thermal Power Plant as a base load. Nam-gu, Busan · Facility capacity: 10,184MW Korea Southern · Sales: KRW 4,200,035 million Power Co., Ltd · Power generation: 47,978GWh · Total assets: KRW 9,806,023 million Ownership: 100% · Home page: www.kospo.co.kr/english/ · Address: 395, Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, Ulsan It operates the Dangjin Coal-Fired Power Plant and · Sales: KRW 4,210,897 million Honam Coal-Fired Power Plant as a base load. Korea East·West Power Co., Ltd. · Total assets: KRW 8,967,951 million · Facility capacity: 11,000MW Ownership: 100% · Home page: www.ewp.co.kr/eng/main/ · Power generation: 49,271GWh main.asp 88 APPENDIX MAJOR SUBSIDIARIES Group companies and invested companies · Address: 269, Hyeoksin-ro, Gimcheon-si, As an engineering company related to power generators Gyeongsangbuk-do and plants, KEPCO E&C has been engaging in the design of KEPCO Engineering & nuclear, hydroelectric, and thermal power plants, O&M for · Sales: KRW 506,012 million Construction Company generation facilities, plant construction business, and PM/CM Inc. · Total assets: KRW 786,596 million business since its founding in 1975. Ownership: 65.77% · Home page: www.kepco-enc.com/eng/ index.do · Address: 211, Munhwa-ro, Naju-si, KEPCO KPS is a world-leading comprehensive plant service Jeollanam-do company and provides high-quality maintenance services · Sales: KRW 1,214,304 million for power plants (nuclear, thermal, and hydroelectric), transKEPCO KPS mission and substations, and industrial facilities. · Total assets: KRW 1,086,421 million Ownership: 51.00% · Home page: www.kps.co.kr/eng/ index.do · Address: 242, Daedeok-daero 989beon-gil, KEPCO NF is the only nuclear fuel design and manufacturing Yuseong-gu, Daejeon company in Korea that was established to localize nuclear fuel KEPCO NF · Sales: KRW 309,911 million and achieve technological self-reliance. Ownership: 96.36% · Total assets: KRW 713,230 million · Home page: www.knfc.co.kr/eng · Address: 661, Bitgaram-ro, Naju-si, Since its establishment as a company in charge of KEPCO’s IT, Jeollanam-do KEPCO KDN has been offering total IT services in all areas of KEPCO KDN Co., Ltd. · Sales: KRW 588,160 million the electric power system, and is growing into a global electric power IT company. Ownership: 100.00% · Total assets: KRW 519,901 million · Home page: www.kdn.com Power generation facility capacity (Unit: %) (Unit: %) 1 1 2 1 Hydro power 6 2 3 1 Hydro power 1 6 3 2 Oil 4 6 2 Oil 2 3 Renewable energy, etc. 7 4 3 Renewable energy, etc. 4 4 LNG 31 Power 4 LNG 22 Facility generation capacity 5 Coal 30 volume 5 Coal 40 4 6 Nuclear power 22 6 Nuclear power 30 5 105,866MW 5 540,441GWh Percentage of Korea Hydro & Korea South-East Korea Midland Korea Western Korea Southern Korea East·West Others Nuclear Power Power Power Power Power Power facilities by company (Unit: %) 27 10 8 10 10 10 25 * As of 2016 year end 89 KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Memberships and Awards Awards Awarding organization Awards overview Date Presidential Committee for Cited for outstanding conflict management by the Presidential Committee for National Cohesion Feb. 2016 National Cohesion Korea Marketing Association Brand that Citizens Identify With in Korea (Heart To Heart Index) for the second consecutive time Mar. 2016 Won seven awards at the 2016 International Exhibition of Inventions in Geneva IFIA Apr. 2016 (2 Gold, 5 Special Awards) Forbes Ranked No. 1 in the Electric Utility Category of Forbes Global 2000 May 2016 Received the Gold Prize in the Area of Social Media Innovation in the Communication/PR Category of Asia-Pacific Stevie Awards May 2016 the 2016 Asia-Pacific Stevie Awards Received the Grand Prize for the second consecutive year at the Invention and New Product Exposition INPEX Jun. 2016 in Pittsburgh, U.S. ICQCC Received the Gold Prize for Quality Improvement Case at the 2016 International Convention on QC Circles Aug. 2016 LACP Received the Platinum Award in the Utility Category at the LACP Vision Awards for two straight years Aug. 2016 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Received the Presidential Award for Promoting the Local Industry Sep. 2016 Energy Ministry of Education, Ministry of Chosen as an outstanding organization for BEST HRD in the public sector Sep. 2016 Personnel Management Received the Presidential Award and others at the 42nd National QC Circle Contest for Korean Standards Association Sep. 2016 the12th consecutive year Platts Chosen as the world’s No. 1 electric power company on Platts Top 250 Sep. 2016 CDP Chosen for Honors in the Energy & Utility Sector of CDP Carbon Management Oct. 2016 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Received the Presidential Citation at the 2016 Korea Energy Efficiency Awards Oct. 2016 Energy Chose as the world’s No. 1 in the ‘Electricity Supply Sector’ of the World Bank’s Business Environment Survey World Bank Oct. 2016 for the third consecutive year Dow Jones Chosen as an Excellent Company in the Electric Utility Category of the 2016 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Oct. 2016 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Named the ‘(Best) Excellent’ Organization after an assessment on Disaster Management and Nov. 2016 Energy ‘National Safety Diagnosis’ Korean Standards Association Became the first to receive the National Quality Presidential Award in the Training Sector Nov. 2016 The Dong-A Ilbo Newspaper Received the CSV Porter Prize for three consecutive years – Entered the Hall of Fame Dec. 2016 Korea Management Association Named the Best Company in Social Value at The Management Grand Awards 2016 Dec. 2016 The Seoul Economic Daily Chosen as the Local Economy Leader of Korea in 2016 Dec. 2016 Became the first in Public Company Group 1 to receive the Grand Prize at the 29th Korea Labor-Management Korea Employers Federation Feb. 2017 Cooperation Awards Received the Deal of the Year in the Renewable and Conversion Categories of the IJ Global Awards 2016 IJ Global Mar. 2017 for MENA Korean Corporation Management 2017 Korea Enterprise Management Award – CEO & President Cho Hwan-eik Apr. 2017 Association Edison Electric Institute (EEI) Received the Platinum Award in the Large Capitalization Category of the Asia-Oceania Index Award Apr. 2017 IDG Received the CIO 100 Awards for two consecutive years – world’s top 100 in technological innovation Aug. 2017 90 APPENDIX MEMBERSHIPS AND AWARDS · ABOUT THIS REPORT About This Report Memberships Year of joining Organization Purpose of membership membership Reporting Principles Korean Institute of Electrical Promotion and development of academics and The 2017 Sustainability Report (‘the Report’) is based 1961 Engineers technology related to electrical engineering on the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative Exchange of information on various technological (GRI), ISO 26000, and the UN Global Compact. The Korea Standard Association standards, including industrial standardization and 1964 reporting standards and definitions of the financial quality management data are in accordance with the International Financial Korea Electric Association Promotion and development of the overall electric industry 1965 Reporting Standards (IFRS). To successfully make a Exchange of domestic and shift into the GRI Standards, which will be adopted in Korea Atomic Industrial Forum 1975 overseas nuclear power technology information 2018, KEPCO undertook pilot implementation of the International Construction Raising competitiveness by collecting and Standards to the Report. Management approach was 1976 Association analyzing information on overseas construction drawn up in an integrated manner, and the reporting Korea Management Association Innovating management and providing consulting support 1981 of boundaries and others was strengthened. Korean Society for Quality Exchange of information among quality management 1995 Management organizations to improve quality management activities Reporting Period Academic exchange and cooperation between industry Korean Institute of Electrical and The Report contains performance data from January 1 and academia in relation to electrical and 1996 Electronic Material Engineers electronic material engineering through December 31, 2016, and also includes Promote cooperation among electric power companies activities of importance that were performed in the first AESIEAP 1998 and experts of Asia and the Western Pacific half of 2017. No significant changes took place during Korea New & Renewable Promotion of the renewable energy industry and the reporting period. 2004 Energy information sharing Protection of the rights of U.S. electric power companies Reporting Scope and Boundary Edison Electric Institute (EEI) and provision of the latest information on the electric 2004 power industry The Report covers the sustainability management Korea Plant Industries Exchanging information to raise the competitiveness of performance of Korea Electric Power Corporation 2005 (KEPCO) at home and abroad. Regarding the ecoAssociation the plant industry and expand exports Technology development and academic exchanges friendliness in the supply chain, data and activities of six Korea Nuclear Society 2007 power generation companies whose shares are 100% regarding nuclear power owned by KEPCO (Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, Association of Edison Technological exchange among electric power companies 2008 Korea South-East Power, Korea Midland Power, Korea Illuminating Companies (AEIC) in North America Western Power, Korea Southern Power, and Korea Energy & Mineral Resources Cooperation for overseas resources development industries 2008 East-West Power) was reported. Development of Korea and consultation on measures for joint engagement Korean Association for Developing policies and engaging in cooperation for 2009 Industrial Technology Security the protection of industrial technology External Assurance Korea Invention Promotion Exchange of needs and trends of the intellectual property The information disclosed in the Report was included 2009 Association market after the facts prepared by the relevant departments Korea Smart Grid Association Smart grid information sharing and cooperation 2009 underwent verification. To ensure the credibility of Korea Carbon Capture and the reported content, the Report was verified by DNV Spread and support for providing CCS technology 2011 Storage Association (KCCSA) GL, which is an independent assessment institution. Export of the Korean standard nuclear power plant, The assessment standards used are included in the Korea Nuclear Association for analysis of overseas nuclear trends, cooperation and 2011 Independent Assurance Statement (page 80-81). International Cooperation information sharing in the nuclear industry World Nuclear Export Company Enhancement of international stature and marketing of 2011 Group (WNA) nuclear power plants Contact Information Future Energy Forum Review current affairs and policies in the energy sector 2013 Korea Photovoltaic Industry Photovoltaic power market research and collection of Corporate Strategy Team, Corporate Planning 2013 Department, Korea Electric Power Corporation Association new technology information Collect information on R&D of wind energy technologies 55, Jeollyeok-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do Korea Wind Energy Association 2014 and participate in proposing policies Home page www.kepco.co.kr Establish connections and a cooperation system with E-mail pjk7904@kepco.co.kr International Federation of the International Business Association regarding R&D and 2015 Phone +82-61-345-3535 Inventors' Associations (IFIA) new technology 91
