SOVEREIGN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CONTENTS CEO statement 3 Sovereign's commitment to anti-corruption 13 Complaints25 Anti-corruption policies and processes  13 Privacy26 Employee training 26 About Sovereign 4 New learning technology 26 Our People 14 Environmental reporting 27 Health, Safety and Wellbeing 14 Sovereign House 27 Materiality5 Parental care 15 The materiality process 5 Diversity and inclusion 17 Corporate Responsibility Materiality Grid 6 LGBTI  17 Our role in society 28 Unconscious bias 18 Community partnerships 28 Flexible working 18 Youthline28 Sovereign Corporate Age related activity 18 Sweet Louise 29 responsibility approach 7 Diversity and inclusion measures 19 Volunteering  30 Sovereign Corporate Responsibility Approach 8 Rethinking leadership 21 Fundraising  30 Risk management 9 Sovereign Christmas Appeal 30 Regulatory compliance  10 Visible governance 10 Our customers 23 Financial stability 10 Customer experience 23 Healthy living 31 The Sovereign rehabilitation approach 23 Take Charge 31 Customer story 24 Sovereign Tri Series 32 The way we do business 11 We look for ways to pay claims 24 Healthy living ambassador 33 Human rights 11 Customer Experience (CX) 25 Social innovation (pilot) 33 United Nations Global Compact 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 2 CEO statement About Sovereign Materiality CEO As CEO, it is particularly important to me that every single one of staff Corporate Responsibility understands the role they play in making a difference to our customers, Approach are respected in the workplace, and can balance work with the things that STATEMENT are important to them. We are in the business of paying claims – over NZ$350 million in the year The way we do business ending June 30, 2016. A sustainable risk culture and strong financial rating ensure that our customers can trust we will be there for them in their moment of truth. We are proud of the difference we make at claims time As a leading life and health insurer, Sovereign is dedicated through a case management approach, which ensures our customers get to protecting the health, wealth and lives of New personal treatment, specific to their needs, until they no longer need us. Our people Zealanders. For us, it all comes back to our company values and commitment to We are a values based company that strives to do the very best for “being the difference in life’s moments of truth”. our customers, staff and community through our actions. And we Through our commitment to the United National Global Compact we are hold ourselves to account, tracking our customer experience (CX) and sending a very clear message that human rights are a priority for Sovereign Our customers intermediary experience (IX) monthly and sharing the results, along with anecdotal feedback, across the company. and we will continue to integrate the ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption into our company culture. Over the last year, we have continued to focus on supporting New In this report, we outline our actions to integrate the Global Compact into Zealanders to take charge of their health and wellbeing through our our business and our ongoing commitment to the initiative. Our role in society community partnerships, social innovation projects, volunteer programme and sponsorships. We have also completed the first round of corporate responsibility Nick Stanhope materiality research to help us better understand what is important to our CEO, Sovereign internal and external stakeholders and where they would like us to focus. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 3 CEO statement About Sovereign Materiality Corporate Responsibility Approach ABOUT The way we do business SOVEREIGN At Sovereign, we help to build and protect the lives, health and wealth of New Zealanders. Our people As New Zealand’s leading life insurer we have been taking care of New Zealanders for the past 25 years when they need us the most. We are focused on helping New Zealanders take charge of their health by encouraging healthy lifestyles and rewarding people for their everyday Our customers good choices through our Healthy by Sovereign rewards programme. This document describes Sovereign’s corporate responsibility progress in regards to the way we do business and our role in society. Our role in society We encourage other New Zealand businesses to consider how they can support their people, customers and communities to be the best that they can be. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 4 CEO statement About Sovereign Materiality MATERIALITY From this research an initial issue list was reviewed by members of Corporate Responsibility Sovereign’s senior leadership team. As a result, a survey was developed to Approach help us understand which impacts were of low (rating 1) or high (rating 5) relative importance. In order to report corporate responsibility in a meaningful The survey also asked two opened ended questions to help understand The way we do business way, Sovereign conducted materiality research in early what issues were particularly important and if Sovereign should consider other issues. The two questions were: 2016 to determine which of its economic, environmental >> Which issue is the most important and why? and social impacts are most relevant for its stakeholders. >> Should Sovereign consider any other issues? Our people This research helps to direct Sovereign’s initiatives to deliver a corporate programme that supports the needs and requirements of our A mixture of internal and external stakeholders took part in the survey including customers, advisers, economists, community partners stakeholders. (charities), the New Zealand Ombudsman, tertiary institutions, and industry groups. The materiality process Our customers The research discovered that four themes were of particular importance – customer, conduct, business foundations and community. Of secondary The Sovereign materiality process involved a mix of desktop research, importance was the economy, innovation, investments, environment internal review and phone surveys. reporting and procurement. A media review was conducted to understand local issues relating to both Our role in society Sovereign and the wider financial services landscape both internationally The result from the interview process is presented on the materiality grid below by issue. and in New Zealand. This review was complemented by publicly sourced desktop research to discover what issues were considered material by domestic and international financial services providers. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 5 CEO statement Sovereign Corporate Responsibility Materiality Grid About Sovereign Ethical Conduct Materiality Societal Health & Wellbeing Governance VERY HIGH Financial Stability Trust (4.5+) Reg Compliance Privacy Corporate Responsibility Customer Satisfaction EXTERNAL Talent Management Human Rights Approach Risk Management Responsible Investing Training Partners Diversity & Inclusion The way we do business Innovation Health & Training Staff HIGH Insurance for Safety (4.0) Lower Socio-economic Health System Product Pricing Product Design Employee Engagement, Complaint Management Our people Carbon Efficient Economy Sustainable Business Enviromental Impact Community Investment Economic Growth MEDIUM HIGH VERY Our customers (3.5) (4.0) HIGH (4.5+) INTERNAL Our role in society The key insight from the research was that conduct is of paramount in supporting societal health and wellbeing. importance. The value of strong business foundations including governance and risk management was also apparent. Based on the research, environment was not considered a major material issue – possibly due to the nature of the insurance product (i.e. no External stakeholders had an expectation that Sovereign has a role to play physical manufacturing process/limited transporting needs). Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 6 CEO statement About Sovereign Materiality Corporate Responsibility Approach SOVEREIGN CORPORATE The way we do business RESPONSIBILITY Our people APPROACH The Sovereign Corporate Responsibility Approach reflects Sovereign’s broad strategic direction. Our customers It is expected that Sovereign’s Corporate Responsibility Approach will have an element of flexibility and different areas will receive levels of focus and resources as initiatives are launched, embedded, and optimised. The approach is based on two key pillars – The Way We Do Business and Our role in society Our Role In Society. The initial focus for Sovereign is to ensure that our people and our customers are appropriately supported. Sovereign’s vision is to focus on people and ensure we provide appropriate support. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 7 CEO statement Sovereign Corporate Responsibility Approach About Sovereign CSR APPROACH VISION & VALUES Materiality PILLARS THE WAY OUR ROLE WE DO IN SOCIETY Corporate Responsibility BUSINESS Approach The way we do business OUR PEOPLE OUR CUSTOMERS OUR COMMUNITY HEALTHY LIVING INITIATIVES Our people > > Human Rights Health, Safety and Wellbeing > > Fit for purpose products and services Employee training > Community partnerships > Volunteering > Take Charge > Advocacy > Diversity and Inclusion > Responsible procurement > Fundraising > Social innovation > Rethinking Leadership > Environmental reporting MEASURES > Staff engagement/policies > Customer experience > Community impact report > Take Charge metrics Our customers > > Health and Safety metrics Diversity and Inclusion metrics > > Training metrics Supplier code of conduct > Volunteer hours > Fundraising contribution > International and local memberships > Social innovation impact report > Organisational Health Index > Environmental reporting ENABLERS Business Foundations Communication & Reporting Technology Sustainable profitability Our role in society Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 8 CEO statement Business foundations Sovereign’s Risk Management Programme describes how we manage risk and in line with our strategic objectives and business activities. It Sovereign maintains a sound and sustainable risk culture to ensure we defines our material risks and how we manage these through appropriate meet both customer and shareholder outcomes. This includes regulatory governance, policies, risk reporting and systems. compliance, visible governance and an A+ financial rating. About Sovereign Managing risk is everyone’s responsibility at Sovereign. We apply the three lines of defence model to represent the three levels of accountabilities Risk management that exist for our management of risk. Sovereign’s risk culture is influenced and guided by our Risk Management Materiality Framework and business processes. Two key components of the framework are the Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management Programme. The Risk Appetite Statement articulates why we manage risk and it sets boundaries for business activities for risk-taking activities to LINE 1 Corporate Responsibility reduce the likelihood that unacceptable business outcomes will occur. Approach The way we do business K GR LINE 2 RIS OW TH Our people VALUE LINE 3 Our customers Line 1 Business owns the risk: Undertakes risk RETURN management in day-to-day operations Our role in society Line 2 Risk Management Function: Supports Line 1 through review and challenge Sovereign balances risk, return and growth within clear boundaries to Line 3 Audit and Assurance: Independent assurance of maximise shareholder value. Line 1 & 2 actions and activities Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 9 CEO statement Regulatory compliance Sovereign’s compliance mandate is to fulfil our legal and regulatory obligations in all business activities. Our Compliance Risk Management About Sovereign Framework enables our people to manage, monitor and report against the compliance and regulatory risk and control environment. As a licensed insurer under the Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2010 we are subject to regulatory oversight from the Reserve Bank of New Zealand and the Financial Markets Authority. Materiality Visible governance Corporate Responsibility Sovereign’s Board of Directors sets the “tone at the top” and our risk culture emanates from the Board via principles articulated in the Risk Approach Appetite Statement. These principles are cascaded by management via risk policies and procedures, setting minimum standards for business activity. Sovereign’s CEO is supported by executive management committees that govern and provide oversight of the key risk areas The way we do business relevant to Sovereign. These committees also provide the conduit for reporting through to the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee. Divisional executives, the Chief Risk Officer and Internal Audit (representing First, Second and Third lines of defence) provide monthly Our people reporting to the CEO and executive management. Financial stability Demonstrating a strong ability to pay claims is essential to maintaining Our customers the confidence of customers and intermediaries. To support this objective Sovereign seeks to maintain its AM Best Financial Strength Rating at A+. Sovereign is required to hold a level of capital that is consistent with regulatory requirements. As a licensed insurer we are also obligated to Our role in society provide a written annual report from our appointed actuary assessing our financial soundness and addressing solvency standard requirements. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 10 CEO statement About Sovereign Materiality THE WAY WE Rights, as well as the New Zealand Human Rights Act 1993. According to Corporate Responsibility these principles, governments possess the primary duty to protect human Approach rights; our responsibility is to respect human rights. The way we do business DO BUSINESS We seek to understand and improve human rights impacts throughout the extent of our reach within New Zealand. As part of our existing feedback channels, we maintain employee, customer and external stakeholder grievance mechanisms and acknowledge our responsibility to ensure that they are fair, accessible and transparent. Where we are made aware of Human Rights adverse human rights impacts, and where appropriate, we will actively support their investigation and resolution. Our people Sovereign is committed to the respect and protection of international human rights protocols. Our commitment: Sovereign's statement on Human Rights Our customers This statement affirms Sovereign responsibility and commitment to respect human rights. Human rights are universal and fundamental rights that preserve the inherent Our role in society freedom, dignity and equality of all human beings. The basis of international human rights law and norms are set out in the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our commitment to respect human rights is influenced by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 11 CEO statement New Zealand Human Rights United Nations Global Compact Commission Forum 2016 As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, Sovereign aligns In August 2016, Sovereign supported the New Zealand Human Rights strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, About Sovereign Commission in bringing the leading experts on Business and Human Rights to New Zealand to facilitate a three-day forum. labour, environment and anti-corruption, and takes actions that make a difference to society. The forum was invaluable to those businesses keen to improve their The ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact are: understanding and the benefits supporting of human rights. Businesses also 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of had an opportunity to learn about the United Nations Guiding Principles Materiality (UNGPs) on Business and Human Rights and how to embed these guiding internationally proclaimed human rights; and principles into business practices. 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Sovereign’s specific focus was 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Corporate Responsibility on the Business and Human effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Approach Rights workshop for practitioners which was attended by a range of 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; business leaders from a diverse 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and range of New Zealand businesses. The workshop was intended for 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and The way we do business those responsible for implementing occupation. respect for human rights within 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to their companies, for civil society environmental challenges; actors working on responsible business conduct, and members of 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Our people the legal community working with responsibility; and clients to manage human rights 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly related risks. technologies. Our customers 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policies and processes to support these commitments are included within the relevant sections of this report. Our role in society As part of the CBA Group, Sovereign supports the following position statements: >> CBA Group Human Rights Policy >> CBA Slavery and Human Rights Trafficking Statement Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 12 CEO statement Sovereign's commitment to antiPolicies and processes to support our corruption commitment Sovereign recognises that bribery and corruption have an adverse effect Our anti-bribery and corruption policy supports our zero tolerance About Sovereign on communities wherever they occur. If endemic, they impede economic approach to bribery and corruption. growth and undermine accountability, threaten laws, democratic processes and basic human freedoms, impoverishing states and distorting Our policy serves as a single and consistent anti-bribery and corruption free trade and competition. Corruption is often associated with organised standard across the Group. It is designed to comply with the New Zealand crime, money laundering and, on occasions, the financing of terrorism. Crimes Act 1961; the Australian Criminal Code Act, 1995; the US Foreign Materiality Corrupt Practices Act, 1977 and the UK Bribery Act, 2010. (Source) We are committed to securing the financial wellbeing of people, businesses and communities by embedding a culture of zero tolerance to Supporting policies: bribery, corruption and facilitation payments across all areas and levels of >> Code of Conduct the business. Corporate Responsibility >> Procurement Policy Approach >> Whistleblower Protection Policy >> Gifts and Entertainment Policy Sovereign provides a range of channels and services to identify and prevent corruption. Our investigation services team provides independent The way we do business support and advice to the wider organisation where integrity or physical security issues arise. They coordinate and manage investigations around incidents of misconduct or suspected fraud. As part of the CBA Group, Sovereign employees have access to a 24-hour, dedicated phone line for the purposes of reporting suspicions around unethical or fraudulent Our people behaviour. Sovereign uses an Operation Risk Management Framework called RiskInSite, this allows for any compliance incidents, including corruption or bribery, to be captured. Staff undergo mandatory fraud training and are encouraged to participate Our customers in Fraud Awareness Week. Sovereign has an internal audit system which can focus on any aspect of the business at any time and is audited externally by PwC. Our role in society Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 13 CEO statement About Sovereign Materiality Corporate Responsibility OUR >> Flexible Work Policy Approach >> Parental Leave Policy >> Employee membership of Healthy by Sovereign programme The way we do business PEOPLE >> The ACC Partnership Programme The ACC Partnership Programme llows ASB and Sovereign to take direct responsibility for the administration and management of ACC work injury claims. Wellnz is the third party administrator who manages work injury claims for ASB and Sovereign. Sovereign maintains a high standard above Health, Safety and Wellbeing legislative requirements under the ACC Partnership Programme Our people by taking a proactive approach to health and safety. This includes early identification, elimination and/or minimisation of potential Sovereign is committed to the health, safety and wellbeing of our people. Occupational health and safety issues are a priority and all staff are hazards or risks, fast and efficient management of incidents and encouraged to participate in health, safety and wellbeing initiatives accidents, management of pain and discomfort claims and proactive throughout the year. rehabilitation planning for our employees who return to the workplace Our customers after a home or work related injury. The Health and Safety Committee As an organisation that understands the importance of both mental and has a strong involvement in health and safety at and helps to ensure physical health, Sovereign implements the New Zealand Mental Health these standards are upheld across the business. Foundation endorsed Five Ways of Wellbeing to build employee wellbeing. >> Collective bargaining – Sovereign upholds the freedom of association, complying with relevant legislation around union participation and Our role in society Sovereign has a range of polices and processes to support our commitments. These include: collective bargaining. Sovereign currently has one union operating within the business that is covered by a collective agreement. >> Health and Safety Policy >> Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) EAP is a professional and >> Harassment and Discrimination Free Workplace Policy confidential service that has been implemented to assist employees >> Code of Conduct who may be experiencing personal or professional difficulties. EAP Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 14 CEO statement can help employees with general counselling, offering personal legal training to 80 front line staff. The purpose of this training was to advice, gambling and other additions, health and life style issues and appropriately prepare Sovereign staff for the rare occurrence of an even budgeting and financial management. All Sovereign employees external customer call that included a suicide threat and also to raise are entitled to three free EAP sessions per issue. EAP offers its services awareness of suicide and the role that all New Zealanders have in face to face, over the phone or via Skype supporting others. About Sovereign >> Safety Week Safety Week (November 2016) was aimed at giving 23 Sovereign employees a holistic view of wellbeing and how to reach it, enhance it and maintain it. Activities included fitness boot camps, Sovereign employees that took primary parental leave in smoothie bikes, lunchtime yoga, one on one wellbeing coaching and 2016 Materiality seminars with healthy living ambassador Nicola Smith. The creation of a Random Act of Kindness register enabled Sovereign employees to recognise colleagues for going over and above to help others. 15 Sovereign employees on parental leave Corporate Responsibility Approach 2016 Achievements 15 Sovereign employees that returned to work after primary parental leave in 2016 11 Beyond its existing wellbeing programme, Sovereign delivered the following positive outcomes during 2016. Sovereign employees that have received the Return to Work bonus after being back in the workforce for six months >> Sovereign reviewed the high risk role process in 2016 to ensure The way we do business employee safety and wellbeing. Headcount 722, 30 June 2016 >> Following this review all employees in high risk and at risk roles have completed Personal Safety Awareness training. Parental Care >> As part of Mental Health Awareness Week the Sovereign Ready to Having a child is an exciting time in any parent’s life. Thrive module was shared publicly to enable other organisations to Our people develop improved resilience amongst their employees. Sovereign also Sovereign understands the importance of family and have implemented conducted a wide range of staff engagement activities to encourage parental leave benefits to give primary and secondary caregivers the employees to live the theme of the week – Connect With Nature – and flexibility they need to make time for their new family during parental improve their personal wellbeing. leave and after they return to work. Our customers >> Safety Week at Sovereign took place from 21-25 November 2016 with In July 2015 Sovereign introduced two new parental leave benefits, these a specific focus on employee wellbeing. A range of activities were delivered throughout the week focusing on Mental, Physical and social included two weeks paid leave for secondary caregivers and a one off six wellbeing. week bonus payments for primary caregivers after they had been back in the workforce for six months following parental leave. Sovereign also offer >> Diabetes testing provided to 60 Sovereign staff by the Diabetes Our role in society Auckland mobile unit. a staggered return to work for Primary caregivers giving them the option to come back to work on reduced hours for a temporary period to soothe >> Wellbeing Shift Challenge 152 staff members participated in setting the transition. step challenges to improve physical activity levels. >> In partnership with Youthline Sovereign provided suicide threat call Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 15 CEO statement FY16 Health, Safety and Wellbeing measures About Sovereign The Kenexa-Sovereign Engagement Index provides a metric that can be Absenteeism 2.76% tracked as a way of assessing employee engagement – the extent to which employees are motivated to contribute to organisational success, and Lost-time injury Materiality are willing to apply discretionary effort to accomplishing tasks important to the achievement of organisational goals. By acting on feedback from engagement surveys and improving employee engagement, Sovereign Frequency Rate 2 × Lost time injuries 1.54% should be able to reduce turnover and absenteeism, gain greater Corporate Responsibility discretionary effort from employees (improving productivity), increase the ‘speak up’ culture to mitigate risks, and ultimately see valued and engaged employees delivering a better experience for our customers. Turnover 13.44% Approach Inclusion of disability self-identification in our Kenexa survey helps us to cater to, find gaps and improve work life of this demographic. The last Sovereign Engagement survey (August 2016) had a response rate Headcount 722 The way we do business of 93% (657 permanent and fixed term employees). Kenexa Sovereign engagement index score for August 2016: 77%* FY15 *The index shows the proportion of employees replying with a score of 4 or Our people 5 to the four engagement questions that Kenexa use to measure employee engagement. These questions relate to satisfaction, retention, advocacy and pride on a scale of 1-5 (5 is “Strongly Agree”, 1 is “Strongly Disagree”). Absenteeism 2.74% Lost-time injury Our customers Frequency Rate 3 × Lost time injuries 2.21% Our role in society Turnover 14.86% Headcount 700 Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 16 CEO statement Diversity and inclusion –– Principle 5. Enterprise Development, Supply Chain and Marketing Practices Sovereign is heavily committed to a strategy of all employees bringing –– Principle 7. Transparency, Measuring and Reporting their “full selves” to work. Over the last ten years, Sovereign has become >> Finalist in the Gold Category in the YWCA Equal Pay Awards About Sovereign a multi-cultural business that reflects the country we serve. If you take a walk through our offices you will see representatives from more than 50 ethnic backgrounds. Diversity of thought benefits our customers, makes us more innovative as a business and helps us to develop new products. Materiality Sovereign’s diversity strategy is based around three pillars – Diversity in Leadership, Inclusive Culture, and You Can Be You. Our strategy is based around creating an inclusive culture which values diversity of thinking, Corporate Responsibility where all individuals feel comfortable to be themselves and is supported Approach by a detailed work plan with objectives and metrics against each of the three pillars. The Diversity strategy progress is reported to Board every six months, and tracked at regular leaders’ forums with our executive and senior The way we do business leadership diversity sponsors. Policies and processes to support our commitments: >> Diversity and Inclusion Policy LGBTI >> Remuneration Band & Salary Reviews (HR) – Sovereign uses Our people remuneration bands to ensure fairness. The system standardises salary Sovereign is Rainbow Tick accredited. The Rainbow Tick is a certification mark awarded to organisations that complete a process which tests processes to remove any bias or unfair advantage. Sovereign also whether a workplace understands, values, and welcomes sexual and reviews salary levels annually for any gender based discrepancies and gender diversity. are committed to removing any bias that may occur in determining fair pay for all employee(s). Sovereign has also continued the process of integrating the “MX” Our customers >> Harassment and Discrimination Free Workplace Policy salutation and “X” gender reference into both our customer and people systems. Including the “X” designation in our customer system will be Description of awards won managed as product and system upgrades occur. >> Finalist in the 2016 Diversity Works Women’s Empowerment category These designations refer to individuals who either don’t identify as being Our role in society >> Winner of two White Camellia Awards, celebrating New Zealand of a particular gender, or for people who don’t want to be identified organisations who implement the UN Women’s Empowerment by gender. Our approach is making a difference to people who were Principles (WEPs), a joint initiative of UN Women and the UN Global previously excluded has made many people proud to be part of Sovereign Compact aimed at empowering women to participate fully in economic and has been endorsed by the New Zealand Human Rights Commission. life across all sectors. These awards include: Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 17 CEO statement Unconscious bias Age related activity In 2015, Sovereign began rolling out unconscious bias training sessions Sovereign proactively works to achieve age diversity in employees. to the Executive and Senior Leadership Teams (approximately 60 During 2016 Sovereign provided ten internships through the AUT Intern About Sovereign employees). The sessions were developed in-house by Sovereign’s learning and organisational development team and included a mixture Programme with four interns ultimately being hired into fill time roles. of interactive exercises, group discussions and practical application Other initiatives included the AUT Shadow a Leader Day, and the Big commitments. The sessions focus on building an inclusive culture that Bus Tour employer visit. A new network group for Sovereign Young values differences in employees and raising awareness of how natural bias Professionals was also established this year. Acknowledging the other Materiality can influence views and decision making. Following the successful rollout of the sessions to the Senior Leadership Team, in 2016 they have now been side of the spectrum, Sovereign also has a number of initiatives in place to recognise and gain insights from our ‘wisdom workers’. A new diversity made available to the wider organisation, and are highly popular sessions network group has been created at ASB for employees aged 55+, in which to attend, resulting in positive feedback from attendees. we have two Sovereign representatives. We also celebrated the UN World Corporate Responsibility In 2016, approximately 70 employees attended unconscious bias training Day for Older Persons in 2016 by raising awareness of unconscious bias Approach sessions. and ageism. Description of cultural activity Flexible working In 2016, Sovereign has held internal events to celebrate Maori Language The way we do business The way we work continues to evolve and NZ workplaces are seeing a Week, Eid al-Adha, Diwali, Christmas/Chanukah, and Chinese New Year. trend with employees looking for more flexibility in how, where and when In addition, for the first time in May 2016, Sovereign celebrated the United they work. Flexible working is good for business and good for our people. Nations World Day for Cultural Diversity by encouraging employees to It is proven to drive greater engagement, higher discretionary effort, and wear cultural dress and bring an item of food to share that represents helps us to attract and retain talent. their culture. Our people As part of our ongoing commitment to this space, in late 2015 Sovereign ran employee focus groups to try and find ways to continually improve flexible working practices at Sovereign. Since then we have compiled a number of toolkits and resources to support and promote flexible Our customers working including the launch of our new Flex Hub on Sov Zone (intranet) This includes a manager guide, employee profiles and employee guide (including the process for requesting a flexible working arrangement). During FY16 seven Sovereign staff returned to work under flexible working Our role in society arrangements (staggered return to work) following parental leave. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 18 CEO statement Diversity and inclusion measures An overview of Sovereign Diversity and Inclusion levels (August 2016) is presented below. About Sovereign TY ETHNICITY ETHNICITIES 5% Other 9% New Zealander 43% New Zealand European TING SELF REPORTING Materiality AT SOVEREIGN 13% Position Asian Corporate Responsibility 100% 7% In total, Sovereign has over 81% Approach Indian 89% DIFFERENT 84% ETHNICITIES! 5% Pacific 80% Peoples 3% 15% The way we do business Maori Other European SECOND LANGUAGES TOP 5 Direct Report of ELT Our people People Manager Team Member Afrikaans Mandarin Hindi Number of people Number of people Number of people Our customers 30 25 21 ELT Cantonese French Number of people Number of people 16 7 100%Our role in society Based on employee data as at July 2016 Headcount 722, 30 June 2016 Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 19 CEO statement 52 different ethnic groups at WOMEN REPRESENT New At least About Sovereign NZ European Sovereign, the top 10 are: Zealander 45 61% 52% 48% of total of Manager of Senior English Chinese Indian South African different languages spoken Other workforce and above Leadership Maori Samoan Fijian-Indian European Materiality 84 22 Our people range Our generation of people agree that people % in age from: split: are treated equally and fairly at Sovereign regardless Corporate Responsibility Youngest Generation Y of gender, age, ethnicity, disability, religion, or sexual Approach 19 years 42% orientation of people EMPLOYEES TOOK PARENTAL Oldest Generation identify as LEAVE OVER THE The way we do business 70 X LGBTI LAST 12 MONTHS 39% 59 years Our people Average 39years Baby Boomers 19% PEOPLE WORK PART TIME 53% of our workforce have used flexible work options over the last 12 months 12% 81 of our people have of people at Based on Our customers of employees feel AT LEAST some kind of condition employee 41 they are able to Sovereign that can impact their wellbeing or ability data as at September maintain a balance between their personal and % have caring responsibilities to perform 2016 11054 0915 Our role in society % working life (e.g. caring for children under 18, people with a disability, and/or aged people) Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 20 CEO statement Rethinking Leadership The position of these women is very difficult. As a group they are extremely marginalised, and have little inherent power to affect change. The Hunger Project works with these women and teaches them how to In 2014 Sovereign was facing a number of market challenges and needed exert their leadership to act as agents of change in their communities. to challenge internal thinking to maintain its place as one of the top Through workshops/village visits and interaction with these women, the About Sovereign insurance companies in New Zealand. participants of the programme develop a deeper understanding of how This opportunity resulted in Sovereign opting to deliver an internal the women approach their situations and how they are able to achieve Rethinking Leadership Programme (RLP) in partnership with The Hunger success in transforming their communities for the better. This interaction Project Australia to provide a unique leadership experience that developed gives the participants the opportunity for a renewed outlook in both their change leaders throughout the business. personal and professional lives and often they develop a different filter for Materiality the issues they face. The philosophy of the programme, run in conjunction with McKinsey Consulting, is that to become change leaders, and be more expansive in our thinking, it is necessary to immerse ourselves in an environment Key themes: Corporate Responsibility that is both challenging and inspiring. The programme challenges the >> Personalised Approach concept of who is a leader and who has the power in an organisation to invoke and inspire change. In order to achieve the desired outcome, the HOW CAN >> Proactively meeting needs >> Engagement work of the programme is done on location in the rural villages of India. WE ACHIEVE Here the group meets with rural women who have been elected to local RELEVANCE? government. The way we do business Sovereign’s next chapter. Enabled through the five Our people CAN WE BE key mindsets and change THE ELECTED leadership. REPRESENTATIVES FOR OUR CUSTOMERS? Our customers Each group of participants over the three year programme consists of 20 change leaders from throughout the business. The initial group were preselected for the trip, but the second and third cohorts have been selected Our role in society through a self-nomination process. Each group contains a cross section of leaders from the business – from each business unit and every level of the organisation. This diversity encourages the removal of some of the barriers that might otherwise exist and creates the opportunity for a unique melding of ideas and viewpoints. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 21 CEO statement After two complete years of the programme there have been significant These shifts are critical to Sovereign as they change the way the business changes for the group of participants and positive impacts within the approaches problems and the way in which people within the business business. interact with one another. The work to embed these mind-sets has been underway throughout the last six months. This includes a speed The first group identified a vision for Sovereign which drove thinking at networking programme which connects young professionals and new About Sovereign a senior management level of Sovereign’s place as a market leader. The employees across the organisation in a socially interactive way – reflecting group identified collaboration as a key to success for Sovereign and the desired “Federation” mind-set where people create a solid and unified began to institute a pathway where more authentic collaboration could front to address issues. take place. The mind-set shifting of “we can’t” to “we can” became more prevalent in the organisation where people started to talk more of the Many of the participants have also shared how their involvement in Materiality possibilities rather than the constraints of budget/priority/time. the programme has given them the determination to participate more effectively in the decision making of the organisation regardless of their position. This has approach has given individuals and team both the presence and the platform to speak up, share ideas, and challenge Corporate Responsibility appropriately. Approach The way we do business Our people The cultural shift that is developed from this thinking has been Our customers measured through the change in Kennexa employee engagement results for Sovereign, and in particular an increase across the collaboration questions in the survey. In addition, in preparation for the second trip, the Organisational Health Index survey which was conducted prior to the first trip and prior to the second trip showed a dramatic shift in the health of Our role in society the Sovereign measurements. The second group followed on from the progress of the first group by identifying five further mind-set shifts that they wanted to embed in the organisation. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 22 CEO statement About Sovereign Materiality OUR The Sovereign rehabilitation process follows a standard approach: Corporate Responsibility >> Our Senior Case Managers make home visits in order to get to know our Approach clients better and to assess their situations. The way we do business CUSTOMERS >> We pay for a functional job description report/ vocational assessment to understand the client’s pre-disability occupation; this is an important measure in determining what a client’s role actually entails. >> We will set up and manage a rehabilitation plan in conjunction with medical experts (this plan is aimed at returning our client to a Customer experience sustained return to work.) >> We will pay for treatment and rehab that is a result of this Our people The focus for Sovereign as a business is ensuring that the experience rehabilitation plan. of our customers is positive, particularly given the difficult personal >> We will fly the client to see the most appropriate specialist (these are situations faced by individuals when preparing a claim. usually the experts in their profession) where necessary, if there is not one available for them locally. The Sovereign approach is demonstrated by our rehabilitation process. Our customers >> Our providers/specialists work with the client and their employer to plan and monitor these rehab plans. The Sovereign rehabilitation approach Getting back to work in a safe and sustainable way is in the interests of both Sovereign and our customers. Our role in society Where possible, Sovereign will undertake a rehabilitation plan prior to accepting our clients claim and the start of the claim period. Sovereign Case Managers will continue working with customers until we have achieved a sustained return to work. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 23 CEO statement Customer Story PETE’S MOMENT OF TRUTH About Sovereign WE LOOK FOR WAYS Pete, a self-employed orchardist, has been a Sovereign customer since 2006 with both Living Assurance and TO PAY CLAIMS Total Permanent Disablement cover. It's our claims philosophy 2 In 2012, at the young age of 42, Pete received the devastating news that Materiality 100 $345.7m Medical he was developing Parkinson’s disease. Approximately 1 in 500 people have Parkinson’s disease. It is more common with older age groups and + Officers EMPLOYED BY it is believed that 1% of people above the age of 60 have Parkinson’s YEARS OF Total claims paid SOVEREIGN Corporate Responsibility disease. At the initial diagnosis, Pete was able to claim a small lump sum from his Living Assurance policy to assist with medical bills and case management Approach personal spending to help him through this time. Unfortunately, Pete’s condition worsened and by mid-2015 he could not work anymore. A senior case manager at Sovereign scheduled Pete for experience on staff Contacted by claims within 24 hrs DISABILITY CLAIMS that require our senior case management service will receive: a combined occupational and specialist assessment to speed up the The way we do business IN-HOME VISIT REGARDLESS claim assessment for his insurance policies. No longer able to care for HEALTH OF LOCATION himself independently, Pete’s remaining Living Assurance benefit of $120,000 and Total Permanent Disablement benefit were approved and Mental Health DI claim payments make up SCREEN nurses ACCESS TO MEDICAL SPECIALISTS AT SOVEREIGN’S EXPENSE FLIGHTS TO THE MEDICAL APPOINTMENT IF REQUIRED 30.1 paid out just two months later. Our people Sovereign’s involvement didn’t stop there. The case manager visited % of DI CASE CONFERENCING BETWEEN MEDICAL EXPERTS Pete at his home a month later to check how he was doing. The two claims help with talked about how Pete was in the process of closing his business down or $11.9m in FY2015* terminal illness customers and that he was humbled not only by the help he has received from ONLINE family and friends, but also the support from Sovereign. Health claims form Our customers Although his disease is irreversible and his condition will continue to CLAIMS CANCER deteriorate overtime, Pete remains positive that he is financially secure to remain in his own house, thanks to his insurance payments. A case LIVING ON-STAFF ACADEMY Our role in society manager will remain in regular contact with Pete to support and ensure payments are ongoing, which will cover him up until age 65. offering ASSURANCE FINANCIAL ongoing professional claim payments make up expertise for The individuals and events depicted in this customer story are true development 64.5% OF LIVING ASSURANCE CLAIMS advisers for our case or $33.7m in FY2015* examples. All names have been changed to protect the identity of the managers customer and their families. *Retail business only Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 24 CEO statement Customer Experience (CX) 2016 CX result How Sovereign performs in supporting its customers is measured by our The overall company target for FY16 was 81, which is an average rating of customer experience score (CX). 8.1 out of 10. The FY16 final reported CX score was 81.8. About Sovereign How is CX calculated? Complaints Customer Experience is a national measure that is collected monthly and reported annually. Sovereign takes feedback from its customers, employees and wider community seriously and has a robust internal complaints process to Materiality The Sovereign Customer Experience Survey is sent out to customers ensure that any concerns raised are fully responded to. Sovereign views who have a recent interaction with Sovereign as an email survey that is complaints as an opportunity to improve and has mechanisms in place completed online. to ensure a balanced complaint investigation is undertaken to enable Three customer (journey) groups are surveyed – new customers, existing appropriate resolutions to be found. Corporate Responsibility customers and customers who have made a claim. The three groups are We make it easy for complaints to be made to us, in a variety of forms, Approach broken down into seven surveys, depending on journey type or channel. and look to provide additional support for any person who may come up The average score from the seven surveys combines to create the overall against barriers in making their complaint, such as language or physical company score. barriers. The main question is: “Overall, how strongly do you agree that dealing The way we do business with Sovereign was a great experience?”. Customers rate us on a scale of The complaints process is outlined below: 1–10 where 10 equals ‘strongly agree’. All information obtained during a complaint investigation is treated as confidential ensuring that personal information is kept secure and treated The CX score is audited externally every 12 months as part of CBA Group with respect. Sovereign has a Complaints Committee which completes a reporting requirements. Our people review of the complaint independent from the area of the business initially involved and forms the last step in its internal complaints process. Sovereign stakeholders, including customers and staff, have access to a range of external sources of information on their rights and obligations, including the Human Rights Commission, IFSO (the Insurance and Our customers Financial Services Ombudsman), the Citizens Advice Bureau, Community Law Centres and the Privacy Commissioner. Our role in society Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 25 CEO statement Privacy People managers in Sovereign are supported with a comprehensive leadership framework. In the calendar year 2016, 55 people managers completed internal leadership programmes dependent on experience and Sovereign takes privacy seriously and has processes in place to ensure capability level. customer’s personal information is treated with care and respect. About Sovereign In the past 12 months Sovereign’s Privacy Team have continued to develop Sovereign also provides a range of Professional Development offerings to staff covering topics such as mentoring, wellbeing, coaching, personal and tools and processes to help make it easy for staff to protect personal peer development, and conflict management. information including an interactive disclosure tool which gives staff clear guidance on what information can be disclosed and to whom. Materiality In addition Sovereign has created a centralised Privacy Access Request New learning technology Process. Whilst this ensures that customers can easily and quickly request Sovereign is currently implementing a Learning Management System (LMS) access to their personal information it also confirms that Sovereign is to improve the scheduling, tracking, and reporting/auditing for our staff processing these types of requests appropriately and in line with the New and our intermediaries. Corporate Responsibility Zealand Privacy Act. Approach Employee training To ensure that Sovereign employees provide an excellent customer The way we do business experience and a high level of conduct mandatory learning is a focus for the Sovereign learning team. Mandatory learning modules for all Sovereign employees include: >> Health and Safety Our people >> Code of Conduct >> Information Security >> Privacy Act >> Financial Adviser Regime Our customers >> Anti Money Laundering >> Anti Bribery and Corruption >> Fraud (CBA Group) >> Productivity Our role in society >> Complaints at Sovereign >> Operational Risk The majority of these modules are subject to an annual employee refresh. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 26 CEO statement Responsible procurement Environmental reporting As a relatively large New Zealand business we purchase a wide range Sovereign tracks Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions as part of our five year CBA of products and services in the course of our everyday business, from Group Sustainable Property Strategy and regulatory NGER requirement. catering and vehicles to computers and stationery. We need to know that About Sovereign our suppliers, and their suppliers in turn, are acting with integrity. During the 2016 financial year, our total carbon emissions have continued to trend downwards (positively). Water and waste results have both As a purchaser of products and services, we are in a position to make a increased due to reporting scope expansion. positive impact by supporting suppliers that reflect diversity and a wide range of perspectives and capabilities. Sovereign emissions data 2016 Materiality We encourage our people to engage with suppliers that are equally committed to human rights and diversity, both locally and internationally. Metric 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 We use The United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative Corporate Responsibility (UNEPFI) questionnaire to assess potential vendors. This includes Environment Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tCO2-e) Approach questions about workforce policies and human rights. Total 1,343 1,396 1,644 1,221 1,208 1,570 emissions A large proportion of Sovereign procurement decisions are made in Scope 1 385 554 593 222 202 188 consultation with ASB Procurement. A joint ASB-Sovereign supplier code emissions of conduct is expected to be finalised in early 2017. Scope 2 The way we do business emissions 280 265 359 246 276 377 Scope 3 678 577 692 753 730 1,005 emissions Our people Sovereign House Sovereign House is our Head Office in Smales Farm. Sovereign House was the first commercial building in New Zealand to use multi-service chilled beam technology rather than conventional air conditioning, creating a Our customers massive reduction in energy consumption and a substantially healthier environment for staff. Our role in society Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 27 CEO statement About Sovereign Materiality Corporate Responsibility Approach OUR ROLE IN Youthline Youthline has been SOCIETY supporting New Zealanders for over 40 years and is a first point of contact The way we do business for young people in New Zealand seeking access to a wide range of youth development and support services. The organisation works alongside young people assisting them to Community partnerships achieve their goals, from adolescence to adulthood, from disengagement to engagement, transition through challenges and transition into Our people At Sovereign we are passionate about healthy living, so we are on a leadership roles. mission to help ensure the future health and wellbeing of New Zealand communities. As part of this approach we aim to help young people have the Our customers opportunity to be the best they can be. This is essential to the future of New Zealand – our focus is on making a difference to the youth of our country. Our role in society Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 28 CEO statement Youthline provide the 24/7 youth helpline (telephone, txt and email), Sweet Louise counselling services, personal and leadership development programmes, mentoring, conduct research, inform policy development, deliver Sweet Louise was social enterprise activities, and an alternative school for youth where established in 2005 to mainstream schooling has failed. Working alongside Youthline allows About Sovereign Sovereign to help make meaningful changes to the mental and physical support people living with secondary breast cancer. Of health of adolescents in New Zealand. the 2500 New Zealanders Sovereign worked with Youthline to deliver a Youth Week programme to who develop breast cancer each year, around 400 will advance to its employees on site. This included education on youth trends and antisecondary cancer, for which there is currently no cure. The impact of this Materiality bullying support for parents of school aged children, fundraising activities, diagnosis is overwhelming for families. and initiatives designed to encourage employees to reflect on their youth Through partnership with Sovereign, Sweet Louise is able to provide its such as an “advice I would give my 16 year old self” competition. Youth clients with resources to help explain the disease, counselling, and access Week at Sovereign is supported by a dedicated PR plan. to a team of nurses. Sovereign’s partnership with Sweet Louise allows us Corporate Responsibility Sovereign also actively promotes Youthline across Sovereign digital media to be there in a moment of truth by helping provide support to the mental Approach channels including Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn and the Sovereign blog. health of families going through extremely difficult times. An annual Sweet Louise Week at Sovereign is the focal point for this partnership. In 2016 this week involved an education session by Sweet Louise trustee Janet Mikkelson on the importance of empathy during The way we do business times of support, a leadership seminar from Sweet Louise CEO Fiona Hatton, presentation from Sovereign Chief Distribution Officer Patrice de Marigny, a Look Good Feel Better workshop, and a range of fundraising activities. Our people Sovereign also sponsored the 2016 Sweet Louise Leadership Talk, a seminar featuring some of Australasia’s premier business leaders, to help generate a successful fundraising outcome for Sweet Louise. Our customers Our role in society Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 29 CEO statement Volunteering Fundraising Volunteering is actively encouraged by Sovereign. Everyone at Sovereign Four community weeks are held annually at Sovereign with the purpose is given a day off each year to work on a range of community projects. By of driving cause awareness, employee education, and fundraising. Each About Sovereign giving time through volunteering, our people not only make a difference in the community, they also improve their own personal wellbeing and foster community week is linked to a social media plan to connect the cause with Sovereign customers and advisers. good teamwork. In FY16 the four community week partners were Youthline, Sweet Our operational teams have the special opportunity to volunteer their Louise, Child Matters (Buddy Day), and The Hunger Project (Rethinking time for Look Good Feel Better. This is the only worldwide cancer support Leadership). Materiality charity, providing free, practical support to women undergoing treatment for cancer. Sovereign volunteer workshops for Look Good Feel Better are Sovereign employees also contribute to a payroll giving programme and held on-site every eight weeks to allow Look Good Feel Better participants car park charity programme. based on the North Shore ease of access to services. Corporate Responsibility The car park charity programme was launched in August 2016 and involves staff with designated carparks providing the opportunity to other staff Approach Our other volunteer partnerships include Volunteering Auckland, Volunteering Canterbury, and environmental organisation Conservation to hire the park for a day via an online booking system. All payments Volunteers. associated with hiring are directed to the six Sovereign payroll giving partners – Youthline, Sweet Louise, SPCA New Zealand, Conservation In FY16 Sovereign employees delivered: Volunteers, Child Matters, and The Hunger Project. The way we do business >> 261 volunteer experiences >> Supported 16 different organisations Sovereign Christmas Appeal >> 1311 volunteer hours to the community (excluding social innovation project time allocation) The Starship Child and Family Unit (CFU) is the child and adolescent Our people mental health inpatient unit for the Auckland District Health Board and for the upper region of the North Island for adolescents aged from 13 18 with significant mental health concerns or suspected mental illness. It is also the inpatient facility for children under 13 years for the North Island and provides family centred care to children and young people Our customers throughout New Zealand and the South Pacific. The CFU was selected as the recipient of the 2016 Sovereign Christmas Appeal. Sovereign employees provided product donations suitable for the young people at the CFU. Our role in society Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 30 CEO statement About Sovereign Materiality Corporate Responsibility Approach HEALTHY Healthy by Sovereign New Zealand has the OECD’s third highest obesity rate and one of the LIVING worst diabetes problems in the developed world. Scientifically linked with heart disease, obesity kills more New Zealanders than cigarettes*. The way we do business Launched in April 2016, Healthy by Sovereign is NZ’s first programme to reward New Zealanders for healthy behaviours, not purchases. Take Charge Every time a Healthy by Sovereign member works out, tracks steps, does a fresh food grocery shop, or gets a health related check-up, Sovereign Our people As New Zealand’s leading life and health insurer we believe have an aggregates the data into ‘healthy points’. These points are then redeemed for an annual cash-back plus other fitness rewards to offset against important role to play in helping Kiwis take charge of their health and premiums. wellbeing. Through brand ambassadors, lifestyle experts, social media, summer activations, Sovereign Tri Series and the Healthy by Sovereign Sovereign has partnered with wellknown brands including Fitbit, Garmin, rewards programme we are doing what we can to help people understand New World, Noel Leeming and nine national gym brands including Les Our customers the essential components of a balanced lifestyle – sleep, happiness, Mills to make health rewards accessible to anyone looking to live more nutrition and exercise – and the every day things they can do to take healthily across key lifestyle factors. By rewarding people for movement, charge of their lives. It’s not about making radical transformations or exercise, nutrition and general wellbeing we are helping to build a extreme makeovers, it’s about making small changes now that will have a healthier New Zealand. big impact later. Our role in society Members claim “health points” for achievable weekly adjustments in four behaviours: >> Movement measured via daily steps recorded on a Fitbit or Garmin activity tracker, exercise tracked via attendance at one of nine gym Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 31 CEO statement partners including Les Mills, Jetts and Club Physical; Sovereign Tri Series >> Nutrition measured by uploading a New World shopping receipt that included fresh meat, fruit or veggies; and The Sovereign Tri Series is national series of triathlons and duathlons, >> General health and wellbeing measured by uploading a receipt for delivered by Triathlon New Zealand. About Sovereign dental, optical or health check-ups. Over 3000 New Zealanders compete across six locations over the New Over the long term, Healthy by Sovereign will reduce health issues, claims, Zealand summer. With a variety of distances for different abilities, the and could lower the burden on NZ’s national healthcare. focus of the series is on providing an opportunity for all individuals aged 11 years old or higher to take charge of their health and set a challenge. Healthy by Sovereign is a step towards a shift into big data and customer Materiality centricity that can benefit the health of a nation. Sovereign provides training advice, staff engagement opportunities, and a charity cash prize to the organisation that has the most participants in the series. In the summer of 2015-16 over 150 Sovereign staff were involved in the series, the majority competing as part of a team. Corporate Responsibility Approach The way we do business Our people Our customers Our role in society Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 32 CEO statement Healthy living ambassador Advocacy Sovereign has worked with healthy living expert Nicola Smith for more Sovereign has close connections with a wide range number of external than two years to provide expert tips and advice about sleep, exercise, organisations. Through collaborating Sovereign works to improve the financial, physical and mental health of New Zealand. About Sovereign happiness and nutrition to New Zealanders. Nicola works with us as a brand ambassador taking part in a range Advocacy relationships include: of events, appearances and media opportunities as well as providing >> Financial Services Council (member of) coaching through her online wellness portal. Creating a range of tips, >> Professional Advisers Association tools and advice that people can access Materiality through social media helps a wide >> Best Doctors range of people of all experience >> Mental Health Foundation levels achieve their wellbeing goals and better understand Social innovation (pilot) Corporate Responsibility what their body needs to thrive. Approach Nicola also plays an active role A corporate funded social innovation project can help to make a positive change to a community or not for profits that need support. It can in staff events and wellbeing also provide learnings that make a difference to how companies tackle initiatives developing challenges within their organisations. content, training The way we do business programmes In early 2016 Sovereign partnered with Youthline and Lifehack to help and providing Youthline Manukau — located in the urban centre of South Auckland – coaching for recruit and retain volunteers. staff. Youthline is a Sovereign community partner that works with young Our people people, their families and those supporting young people. It was established to ensure young people know where to get help and can access support when they need it. At the core of Youthline’s work is the development of leadership and personal skills in young people. It does this by involving young people; both those who seek assistance Our customers and those who wish to develop themselves. Our role in society Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 33 CEO statement Youthline volunteers 6 months on From 4 volunteers To 11 counsellors and 15 trainees About Sovereign Materiality Lifehack is committed to youth wellbeing. It brings together people to develop new approaches, projects and ventures, with youth wellbeing at the centre of the process. It bridges backgrounds and skill sets to This project, while primarily an opportunity to make a difference to Corporate Responsibility empower young people and communities to redefine their own version a grassroots social challenge, resulted in a number of outcomes to of success. In short, Lifehack is a research and development ground for Approach Youth Wellbeing interventions. Sovereign staff. This included higher engagement levels, leadership/talent development outcomes, improved decision-making skills and a closer connection to the community. The Sovereign-Youthline relationship also The project sought to address the needs of all three of the participating strengthened during this process as individuals for both organisations Ngā Uri Ō The Descendants of organisations and test how social innovation may work between a The way we do business corporate organisation (Sovereign), independent social design facilitator shared the experience. (Lifehack) and community organisation (Youthline) to tackle a grassroots Wellbeing is something that affects the lives of every single New social challenge. Zealander, young and old, rich and poor. The mental health and wellbeing sector needs to harness the scale and business acumen of corporate In designing and facilitating this event the ackLifehack Prototyp teamipemployed Partnersh a e Project Summary Report of the Sovereign Lifeh organisations, the deep-rooted knowledge of the public sector, and the Our people range of social process tools and innovative strategies to enable the agility and entrepreneurial spirit of start-ups. At the same time the human participants to connect with each other, to engage with the opportunity dimension needs to be kept front of mind. to create something new together, and to capture their ideas in an actionable format that can be developed further in the future. Through collaboration it is possible to help New Zealanders to take charge of their individual, family, community and societal health Our customers The tangible outcomes of this partnership were a series of workshops involving twenty-five people from three organisations — Sovereign, For more information on this project please read the Social Innovation Youthline, and Lifehack — and their respective communities. Evaluation Report. This project demonstrated that when a diverse group of committed We hope the collaborative approach outlined in the report leads other organisations and individuals are together it is possible to generate a wide Our role in society range of ideas that can make a compelling difference to a social challenge. organisations to work together to help make a difference to the challenges facing New Zealand society today. Ultimately, six months after project completion, Youthline had increased volunteer levels from 4 to 26. Healthy living CONTENTS Corporate Responsibility Report 2016-2017 34 11117 0117
