2017 OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2016 2/6 In accordance with our investigation perimeter and our international development, we have analysed all the principles and we have concluded that we can justify of future actions for 6 principles. The 4 others are, for the moment, out of our perimeter of intervention (cf. Table under). OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2016 3/6 HUMAN RIGHTS Principles Actions Status/Deadline Insert this principle in our Company Terms & Conditions. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights We will encourage our partners that have not already signed the UNGC but have already undertaken others similar 04/2018 commitments regarding principle 1, to become signatory of the UNGC, by a letter. Principle 2 In our current perimeter of intervention, Make sure that they are not complicit in / we are not concerned by this principle. human rights abuses. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2016 4/6 LABOUR Principles Actions Status/ Deadline Organize new election of staff representatives. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Organize monthly meeting with staff July 2018 representatives Principle 4 In our current perimeter of intervention, The elimination of all forms of forced and / we are not concerned by this principle. compulsory labour Principle 5 In our current perimeter of intervention, / The effective abolition of child labour we are not concerned by this principle. Principle 6 Write a charter in the employement The elimination of discrimination in respect oct 2017 contracts. of employment and occupation. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2016 5/6 ENVIRONMENT Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 7 We will remind to our employees the Businesses should support a precautionary importance of this precautionary Avr. 2018 approach to environmental challenges approach in their work Principle 8 Organize brain storming, to bring out Undertake initiatives to promote greater ideas about applicability of principle 8 in Avr. 2018 environmental responsibility our company Principle 9 In our current perimeter of intervention, Encourage the development and diffusion / we are not concerned by this principle. of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption Write this Principle in all of our July 2018 in all its forms, including extortion and Proposals bribery. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2016 6/6
