Statement of continued support The world is changing rapidly. The social and economic development of our society is challenged, as the world’s capacity to provide the services and resources we need to improve global living standards is limited and increasingly strained. New thinking and acting is needed from businesses, governments and science. As Royal HaskoningDHV we consider this to be a reality that is fundamental to the services we deliver to our clients. We are able to further increase our contribution to clients and society: Enhancing society together. Our ambition is to show leadership in sustainable development and innovation. We include corporate responsibility as an integral part of our activities: we serve our clients in making steps forward with practical solutions, we ‘walk the talk’ by reducing the footprint of our operations, and we inspire youngsters and school children to engage in the challenges of the future; sustainable development and technology. Our policies and global code of business principles incorporate and support the ten principles of UN Global Compact. This is also reflected in our CR policy, integrity management system and our HR policies and practices. Our annual report 2016 is a web-based and integrated report that summarises our achievements in 2016 (https://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/en-gb/annual-report-2016). The report includes a CR Statement, in which we elaborate on the steps we have taken, the performance and results of 2016 and the ambitions for the future. It confirms our commitment to the UN global Compact. For more information and examples we invite readers to visit our website, www.royalhaskoningdhv.com, and view our news, annual reports and policies. We are always interested in your feedback. Please contact us on info.cr@rhdhv.com. Erik Oostwegel CEO Amersfoort, 18 May 2017 1 Company Profile Royal HaskoningDHV has been connecting people for 135 years. Together, through our expertise and passion, we have helped contribute to a better society and improved people’s lives with work underpinned by our sustainable values and goals. We are an independent, international engineering and project management consultancy leading the way in sustainable development and innovation. Our professionals deliver services in the fields of aviation, buildings, energy, industry, infrastructure, maritime, mining, transport, urban and rural planning and water. Our 6,000 colleagues, working from permanent offices in more than 30 countries on projects in some 150 countries, are committed to our promise to enhance society together. We are driving positive change through innovation and technology, helping clients use resources more efficiently and creating solutions which connect with people to make their lives easier, happier and safer. Connecting lives is our history and our future. We are connected through a passion to work on projects that matter and to engineer solutions for our clients that go beyond the original brief. We are connected through work that is enhancing society, contributing to a more sustainable future for our children and our children’s children. Erik Oostwegel: “It is important for me that the projects we as Royal HaskoningDHV deliver add value to our clients and to society. I strongly believe that we as engineers, together with our clients and partners, have a crucial role to play in finding solutions to the adverse impact of the rapid growth of populations on the environment, our cities, transport systems and on our resources. To keep us focused we have introduced four questions for sustainable growth we as Royal HaskoningDHV ask ourselves and our clients in every single project that we do. These questions keep us and our clients ‘on our toes’ and I’m happy to see that this approach is welcomed and is paying off on both sides. To remain successful, we also need to be relevant in today’s and tomorrow’s world. It is in our DNA to constantly look for ways to do things better and more sustainably. We are committed to finding solutions that last far beyond our own generation.” 2 Communications on progress 2016 – UN Global Compact Principles (from 1-1-2016 to 31-12-2016) Report on 2016 Cross references* GENERAL  The UN Global Compact principles are included in our CR Link: www.royalhaskoningdhv.com: and Integrity policies and management systems, and in our Global Code of Business Principles Global Code of Business Principles. Business Principles for Partners and Suppliers  In 2016 Royal HaskoningDHV continued to raise awareness CR Policy Statement and monitor compliance with the management systems Integrity Management System (Anti(including but not limited to Integrity, Labour, Health and Corruption Management System) Safety, Environment) and the Global Code of Business Speak Up Line Principles worldwide.  The Global Code is available in 10 languages and Link: in the Integrated Annual Report 2016, we distributed to all staff. present our main achievements in:  The governance of CR and Integrity is described in the CR Values, page 8 Statement. Stakeholder engagement, page 10  Issues and incidents are reported at least quarterly, and Enhancing Society Together, page 11 investigated and responded to – under supervision of the Diversity, page 15 Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. Labour & Employment, page 20-22  Third party due diligence is executed to work on a clean Health & Safety, page 20-21 supply chain. Information Security & Privacy, page 21  In all meetings an Integrity Moment is mandatory to Quality Management, page 23 stimulate transparency and to share lessons learnt (Prevent Sustainability, page 23-29 and Protect). Our 4 Questions to Enhance Society  Royal HaskoningDHV was awarded an extension of its AntiTogether, page 23 corruption Compliance System Certificate in 2016. It means that the company continues to work under this In the Corporate Responsibility and Business prestigious 'best practice' certificate that is managed by Integrity Report 2016, further information is ETHIC Intelligence. The certificate includes review of all presented in detail: aspects of the UN Global Compact. CR Statement, page 23-26-29 “Ambitions  In the Annual report CR Statement, the plans for 2016 2017” are presented and evaluated. Report of the Executive Board & Achieving our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page In addition, the plans for the coming year (2017) are 16 & pages 17-30 shared. This covers all items of the UNGC principles. Sustainable Development Goals, page 23-24 UN Global Compact Report, page 11, 23  In this table, the main events of 2016 are summarised. Integrity Management Report, page 27-29 “Ambitions 2017”. 2016 Annual Report Magazine which contains Annual Report Highlights which shows how we Enhance Society Together in practice Link: Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy/UK Modern Slavery Act Link: ETHIC Intelligence Anti-Corruption Compliance System Certificate. Principle 1:  Respecting human rights is a business condition to our Global Code of Business Principles Businesses company. In our Global Code and in the Business Principles Business Principles for Partners and Suppliers should support for Partners and Suppliers human rights are included. CR Policy Statement and respect the  However, permanent monitoring related to human rights Integrity Management System (Antiprotection of conditions take place in all countries in which we do Corruption Management System) internationally projects, to ensure we act according to our principles and to Speak Up Line proclaimed try to have a positive effect, even if our impact is small. human rights.  To take our responsibility in the supply chain we assess the Link: in the Integrated Annual Report 2016, we policies and operations of our Third Parties. present our main achievements.  Monitoring and audit of the protection of human rights are In the Corporate Responsibility and Business fully integrated in our Integrity Management System. The Integrity Report 2016, further information is 3 system is independently auditted and awarded with the presented in detail: ETHIC Intelligence Certificate. CR Statement, page 23-26-29 “Ambitions  Providing healthy and safe working conditions are key 2017” values in our human resource management. Worldwide we Report of the Executive Board & Achieving are OHSAS 18001 – International Health and Safety our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page standard – certified. This management system includes 16 & pages 17-30 Travel security and incident management. Sustainable Development Goals, page 23-24  No violations have been reported in 2016. UN Global Compact Report, page 11, 23 Integrity Management Report, page 27-29 “Ambitions 2017”. Link: ETHIC Intelligence Anti-Corruption Compliance System Certificate. Principle 2:  In the compliance reports and through the Speak-up line. Link: www.royalhaskoningdhv.com. Businesses  We will continue to execute and develop our Integrity Link: in the Integrated Annual Report 2016, we should make sure Management System and reporting, and also to raise present our main achievements. that they are not awareness on the importance of speaking-up (directly, or complicit in through our anonymous reporting system). In the Corporate Responsibility and Business human rights  By executing frequent internal audits in our operations and Integrity Report 2016, further information is abuses . project locations RHDHV prevents for abuse. presented in detail:  Third party integrity risk assessments are executed on the CR Statement, page 23-26-29 “Ambitions start of all new projects. 2017”  Monitoring during the project execution is integrated with the Report of the Executive Board & Achieving Integrity Moments. our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page  At the project closure an integrity evaluation takes place. 16 & pages 17-30  No violations have been reported in 2016. Sustainable Development Goals, page 23-24 UN Global Compact Report, page 11, 23 Integrity Management Report, page 27-29 “Ambitions 2017”. Link: ETHIC Intelligence Anti-Corruption Compliance System Certificate. Principle 3:  We subscribe to the conventions of the International Labour Link: www.royalhaskoningdhv.com. Businesses Organisations (ILO). Link: in the Integrated Annual Report 2016, we should uphold the  We have a global HR policy and an international HR present our main achievements in 2016 freedom of management team and system, which enables us to association and recognise labour related issues worldwide. In the Corporate Responsibility and Business the effective  A global job positioning system (GPS) is in place to create Integrity Report 2016, further information is recognition of the transparency and equal opportunities for careers for all presented in detail: right to collective staff. CR Statement, page 23-26-29 “Ambitions bargaining.  Our works councils and representatives are actively 2017” engaged. Report of the Executive Board & Achieving  In 2016 a worldwide employee engagement survey took our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page place. Employees could freely give their impressions and 16 & pages 17-30 meanings. Sustainable Development Goals, page 23-24  No violations have been reported in 2016. UN Global Compact Report, page 11, 23 Integrity Management Report, page 27-29 “Ambitions 2017”. Link: ETHIC Intelligence Anti-Corruption Compliance System Certificate. Principle 4:  This is managed and monitored with our HR management Link: www.royalhaskonining.com Businesses system as well as through our Integrity Management System Link: in the Integrated Annual Report 2016, we ensure the (Speak up). We work in countries in which forms of forced present our main achievements. elimination of all labour do occur. We do not accept any involvement in this. forms of forced Neither this accepted from any of our clients or Business In the Corporate Responsibility and Business and compulsory Partners and Suppliers. Integrity Report 2016, further information is labour.  The content of the UK Modern Slavery Act applies to all our presented in detail: operations worldwide. CR Statement, page 23-26-29 “Ambitions 4  No violations have been reported in 2016. 2017” Report of the Executive Board & Achieving our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page 16 & pages 17-30 Sustainable Development Goals, page 23-24 UN Global Compact Report, page 11, 23 Integrity Management Report, page 27-29 “Ambitions 2017”. Link: Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy/UK Modern Slavery Act Link: ETHIC Intelligence Anti-Corruption Compliance System Certificate. Link: Speak Up Line Principle 5:  This is managed and monitored with our HR management Link: www.royalhaskonining.com Businesses system as well as through our Integrity Management System Link: in the Integrated Annual Report 2016, we ensure effective (Speak up). We work in countries in which forms of child present our main achievements. abolition of child labour do occur. We do not accept any involvement in this. labour. Neither this accepted from any of our clients or Business In the Corporate Responsibility and Business Partners and Suppliers. Integrity Report 2016, further information is  No violations have been reported in 2016. presented in detail: CR Statement, page 23-26-29 “Ambitions 2017” Report of the Executive Board & Achieving our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page 16 & pages 17-30 Sustainable Development Goals, page 23-24 UN Global Compact Report, page 11, 23 Integrity Management Report, page 27-29 “Ambitions 2017”. Link: Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy/UK Modern Slavery Act Link: ETHIC Intelligence Anti-Corruption Compliance System Certificate. Link: Speak Up Line Principle 6:  Diversity and equality is a key value in our company and Link: www.royalhaskonining.com Businesses reflected by our Global Code of Business Principles. It is Link: in the Integrated Annual Report 2016, we should eliminate part of our HR management and Integrity Management. present our main achievements. discrimination in  The Supervisory Board sees inclusion and diversity as one respect of of its focal points. In the Corporate Responsibility and Business employment and  Our global career positioning system (GPS) supports Integrity Report 2016, further information is occupation transparency and equal opportunities for careers. presented in detail:  No violations have been reported in 2016. CR Statement, page 23-26-29 “Ambitions 2017” Report of the Executive Board & Achieving our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page 16 & pages 17-30 Sustainable Development Goals, page 23-24 UN Global Compact Report, page 11, 23 Integrity Management Report, page 27-29 “Ambitions 2017”. Link: Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy/UK Modern Slavery Act 5 Link: ETHIC Intelligence Anti-Corruption Compliance System Certificate. Principle 7: We actively promote taking a precautionary approach to Is included in the integrated Annual Report Businesses environmental challenges in our projects in cooperation with 2016 where we present our main achievements should support a clients and partners. It is part of our business approach as is through the whole report and precautionary illustrated in our annual report (enhancing society together) Introduction by CEO Royal HaskoningDHV , approach to and CR Statement. page 3 environmental challenges;  This is included in our ISO14001 certificate. We were the Scope and approach of the Annual Report , first engineering and consultancy company in the page 3 Netherlands to be successfully audited against the new Key figures , page 4 ISO 14001:2015 Report of the Executive Board & Achieving  To walk-the-talk and embed Enhancing Society Together our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page in our daily practice, we ask 4 Questions in every project 16 & pages 17-30 to keep our focus on sustainable growth. By asking these Sustainable management in the Corporate four simple questions, we go beyond the original brief and Responsibility and Business Integrity Report encourage our clients to join us in identifying how we can 2016 (included in Achieving our objectives ), do things better and more sustainably, for their benefit pages 23-29 and for society to Enhance Society Together. These 4 2016 Annual Report Magazine which contains Questions have been integrated in the work procedures. Annual Report Highlights which shows how we  In our operations, we measure the ecological footprint of Enhance Society Together in practice our offices and business travel; we set targets and carry out action plans for the reduction of CO2 equivalent CO2-footprint 2016: emissions. Annual report 2016 (full), page 4 and 26  We actively aim to “practice what we preach”: In Key Figures 2016 CO2-Footprint, page 4 September 2016 our 45-year-old head office in Amersfoort became the oldest office building in the Netherlands to be awarded an ‘Excellent’ certificate BREEAM-NL IN-USE for existing buildings from the Dutch Green Building Council. It’s one example of how we are practising what we preach on sustainability.  We also started replacing our fleet of vehicles in the Netherlands with fully electric vehicles. In 2016 we launched a pilot involving 26 cars which will result in a fully electric fleet by 2020. The pilot alone is expected to save 100 tonnes of CO₂ every year. Principle 8: We recognise Four Global Challenges in which we have the Is included in the integrated Annual Report Businesses best and most potential to add value to the development of a 2016 where we present our main achievements should undertake sustainable future: These are the Urban, Water, Transport and through the whole report and initiatives to Industry challenge. These challenges and our CR priorities Introduction by CEO Royal HaskoningDHV , promote greater match very well with the Sustainable Development Goals page 3 environmental (SDGs) that have been defined in 2015 by the UN. Scope and approach of the Annual Report , responsibility;  The 4 Questions have been implemented to support our page 3 teams to discuss better solutions with the client. Our onKey figures , page 4 going projects, the 17 SDGs, global challenges and the 4 Report of the Executive Board & Achieving Questions which we ask in every project to keep our our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page focus on sustainable growth to Enhance Society 16 & pages 17-30 Together are all interrelated. Sustainable management in the Corporate  Under the coordination of the innovation taskforce, we Responsibility and Business Integrity Report continuously look for new solutions and technologies, with 2016 (included in Achieving our objectives ), the ambition to increase environmental efficiency and pages 23-29 performance (e.g. water treatment) – see Annual report 2016 and our 2016 Annual Report Magazine which shows Sustainable Development Goals, page 23-24 how we Enhance Society Together in practice for more examples. 2016 Annual Report Magazine which contains  Within our businesses we employ environmental Annual Report Highlights which shows how we specialists that integrate environmental management in our Enhance Society Together in practice. 6 engineering consultancy projects. They share knowledge internationally (Knowledge Management program). See Annual report 2016 and our 2016 Annual Report Magazine which shows how we Enhance Society Together in practice for more examples.  As is custom, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (people, planet, profit) were included in many training modules, to develop skills and awareness, and to communicate our ambition of showing leadership in sustainability. With our businessand market position, we are very well able Annual Report 2016– website Principle 9: to distribute environmentally friendly technologies across the Direct link to the Annual Report Magazine 2016 Businesses globe. You could say that this is our core business. More info (Highlights) should encourage in the Annual Report Magazine 2016 (Highlights) and the full the development Annual Report 2016. Is included in the integrated Annual Report and diffusion of 2016 where we present our main achievements environmentally  Besides distribution, we focus on development of new through the whole report and friendly solutions as well (innovation): technologies  The four global challenges and the 4 Questions to Introduction by CEO Royal HaskoningDHV , Enhance Society Together are an invitation to our staff page 3 and clients to develop new solutions, which we actively Scope and approach of the Annual Report , promote. page 3  Innovation is steered by the Technical Directors (tools and Key figures , page 4 support for innovation across market sectors). Report of the Executive Board & Achieving  Our cleaner technologies are shared and promoted our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page internationally and implemented worldwide (e.g. Nereda, an 16 & pages 17-30 innovative and efficient water treatment technology). Sustainable management in the Corporate  Royal HaskoningDHV earned several awards in 2016 for Responsibility and Business Integrity Report clean technologies, and promoted new and cleaner 2016 (included in Achieving our objectives ), technologies at conferences and events. pages 23-29 Sustainable Development Goals, page 23-24 2016 Annual Report Magazine which contains Annual Report Highlights which shows how we Enhance Society Together in practice Awards: Annual Report 2016 page 20, our website (awards & nominations) and 2016 Annual Report Magazine – 8. Awards Also visit www.royalhaskoningdhv.com 7 Principle 10:  Integrity and anti-corruption is key to our business and our Link: www.royalhaskoniningdhv.com Businesses (moral) license to operate. We have zero tolerance towards Link: in the Integrated Annual Report 2016, we should work corruption. This vision is translated in, and safeguarded by present our main achievements. against corruption our Integrity management system, which includes clear in all its forms, instructions and guidelines, definitions, the role of our Group In the Corporate Responsibility and Business including extortion Compliance Officer and Local Compliance Officers, Integrity Report 2016, further information is and bribery reporting structures, anonymous SpeakUp line, a living IMS presented in detail: Reference Book, training, and approach to auditing. CR Statement, page 23-26-29 “Ambitions  In 2016 the integrity system was further promoted and 2017” communicated on our global Intranet and in training Report of the Executive Board & Achieving sessions with staff. our objectives (linked to key indicators) , page  The International Integrity Council has discussed 16 & pages 17-30 improvements. Sustainable Development Goals, page 23-24  Local Compliance Officers reported on issues quarterly. UN Global Compact Report, page 11, 23  Our integrity principles are included in our project Integrity Management Report, page 27-29 management (Risk) procedures and in selecting and “Ambitions 2017”. contracting our partners and suppliers.  In all management meetings, Integrity has to be discussed Link: Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking as first agenda item: ‘Integrity Moment’. Policy/UK Modern Slavery Act  Third Party Due Diligence is operational. Link: ETHIC Intelligence Anti-Corruption  In 2016 several incidents of violations and non-compliances were reported by our Compliance Officers during the year. Compliance System Certificate. Most issues were minor concerns that have been evaluated, and appropriate measures have been taken for correction Link: Speak Up Line and prevention.  We continue working on improvements to comply with the requirements of our externally provided certificate for Ethics Intelligence. (On 12 July 2016, we have been awarded an extension of our Anti-corruption compliance certificate for three years). (*) Cross reference can be made with documents that are available on our annual report website Integrated Annual Report 2016 (our Corporate website (www.royalhaskoningdhv.com) or available on request (info.CR@rhdhv.com). 8
