UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2017 Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Hoff Entreprenader AB 2017 As a construction company, our mission is to provide high-quality service, to meet our customers' needs efficiently, effectively, and at a competitive price. Hoff Entreprenader AB prides in staying abreast with current studies and partaking in the various trends and education within Swedish building and construction laws aimed at addressing sustainable and ethical practices in the industry. Hoff Entreprenader AB is a growing company whose aim is to uphold its position as a quality service provider, as a front-runner in sustainable environmental practices and work ethics amongst our business partners and ourselves. These core values are long-term practices that will continue to be our driving force and our motivation into a prosperous future. Our sustainability practices go beyond pricing and branding; we look beyond what is trending and superficial. We discuss sustainable practices that ensure our customers' wellbeing, that pose no risk to our employees, and which do not threaten our environment. Hoff Entreprenader AB opts for and provides goods and services of high quality and durability. As a growing firm, we believe that our practices impact our development. We strive for growth and stability in our industry and society; consequently, this positive evolvement has been and continues to thrive as a result of our ethical business conduct, hard work, and commitment to clients, an excellent working environment, and team spirit. We regard our position in the construction industry as an advantage that enables us to influence ethical practices within this industry – socially, economically, and environmentally. As a result, Hoff Entreprenader AB continues to get various awards and recognition in this respect. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Hoff Entreprenader AB collaborates with suppliers, customers, Malmö community and other neighbouring communities, and relevant stakeholders to support, develop, and determine practices that positively impact our society. We believe that our involvement and commitment herein can strengthen our advancement toward a more sustainable future. Consequently, we wish to show our continued support of the UN Global Compact and its principles. The communication on progress encompasses Hoff Entreprenader AB. Kind regards Johan Hoff CEO, Hoff Entreprenader AB Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB TABLE OF CONTENTS • CORPORATE • PRINCIPLED SUSTAINABILITYBUSINESS THE 5 DEFINING FEATURES OF CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT HOFF ENTREPRENADER AB ALIGNING WITH TEN PRINCIPLES ON HUMAN WHO WE RIGHTS, LABOUR, ARE ENVIRONMENT AND ANTICORRUPTION STRENGTHENING REPORTING SOCIETY PROGRESS • LOCAL ACTION • LEADERSHIP COMMITMENT Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB 1. Who We Are Company Profile/Business Hoff Entreprenader AB is a steadily developing Sweden and Denmark). We engage with a diverse construction company in Malmö whose growth has clientele ranging from small local to large and been mainly due to healthy and sustainable complex projects that extend from renovations and customer relations. Local familiarity through reconstructions to municipalities, private collaborations, reliability, sustainable development companies, authorities and government agencies. projects within the community, exceptional We believe that only the best is good enough, expertise, and coordinated relations with local regardless of whether it is the material choice, businesses these aspects have been the building choice of construction method, or personal service. blocks of Hoff Entreprenader and the principal We seek possibilities; we are not locked in motor force strengthening our brand and conventions but are open to new and creative continuously opening new business opportunities. solutions. We are always looking for the options, Hoff Entreprenader is strategically based in Malmö which gives the right quality and overall economy and has base operations in Lund putting us in an growth. advantageous position of proximity to customers, Hoff Entreprenader AB has AAA credit rating, inner resources, direct contact with local suppliers, which corresponds to the highest credit rating, and therefore flexibility to operate effectively and ensuring a safe business and a long-term efficiently within the Oresund's Region (South of relationship 1.1 Management System Hoff Entreprenader operations are implemented in ! Handbook – quality and environmental accordance with ISO requirements: ISO 9001:2008 management for organizational quality control through products A complete and detailed manual on the and service and ISO 14001:2004 for environmental organization structure is available as a separate safety control. attachment and on our webpage. Quality and environmental management system include the following documents: • Manual • Environmental Action Plan, Appendix 1 of the Manual • Controlling documents listed in Appendix 2 of the manual • Fixed forms and document templates included in Appendix 2 of the manual • Accounting documents listed in Appendix 3 of the manual Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB • The Company’s IT support presented in Appendix 4 of the manual • Environmental Management The management system is available through our server or at the locations specified in Appendix 2 of the manual. Definitions A process-based management system determines Hoff Entreprenader’s different processes and the organization’s order. The interaction between processes is what the organization refers to as the process model that is applied to the management system. Overally, the process orientation is an endeavor to see the business from a customer perspective and to work on continuous improvement of services, products, as well as the general business operations standards. This process model gradually integrates into our working operations as follows: ! Management processes describe how Hoff ! activities are governed to meet the agreed Entreprenader is led, monitored and assignment specification and other developed through continuous customer requirements as well as improvements. applicable constitutional requirements An annual plan for the fiscal year / ! The task of the support processes is to financial year is a good indicator of the support the first processes (core business) management process success. and is not aimed at customers but operates within the company’s operations. ! The management process includes, for example, the meetings and follow-ups ! External collaboration: An outsourced conducted to lead and develop the process is a process involving an external company. party to execute a particular process. Development is part of the Directorate We control and ensure that outsourced operations. processes meet customer and constitutional requirements. ! Critical processes describe how we meet product specification and our agreed commitments to customers. The primary Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Organization Process Model CEO Executive Managemnt Supply Internal regulations Total enterprise ConstructionNew/ reconstruction/ restoration Renovations Customer Customer demand satisfaction Risk Assessments and Procurement Emergency Preparedeness Documentation process and Material Control Management System Administration Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Organization Admin/Economy Belinda Hoff Quality and Environmental control Johan Hoff Human Resources Magnus Hoff CEO Johan Hoff Construction Workers Builders Project Leaders Conny Nilsson Magnus Hoff Tiler/Bricklayers The Management CEO leads the company providing necessary tools, and assigning roles The management team consists of CEO Johan for different types of positions. Hoff and Magnus Hoff. The management team Management is responsible for the resources is responsible for the company’s quality and necessary for running the business and for environmental work. The CEO is responsible ensuring that performance matches and for the quality and environmental system and upholds commitments to the customer. determines the management system’s Everybody’s responsibility is to participate in documents. Company management is our quality and environmental work actively. responsible for: employees training which Each person is responsible for complying with equips them to perform their tasks efficiently applicable laws, constitutional requirements and educates them on quality and and industry requirements. Everyone has the environmental policy, additionally follows up right to cancel his contract if the work cannot to ensure that all staff complies with comply with applicable legal requirements or constitutional requirements. that there is a risk of personal safety. Responsibility and authority The management ensures that employees are well equipped to to perform their various Environmental management representative tasks, by clearly defining responsibilities, The CEO is the management’s environmental representative and is responsible for ensuring Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB that the environmental management system is and proposes improvements Upon request, established, implemented and maintained. The additionally, they inform external stakeholders management reviews the environmental of the environmental policy. management system performance regularly Information and meetings under the same agenda. The meeting also In order for our operations to run as smoothly addresses current quality and environmental as possible, we have good information within issues. Minutes and notes are taken and our own organization as well as with recorded. customers, suppliers, partners and other stakeholders. Staff meetings Staff meetings with all staff are carried out 2-4 Ongoing information times a year with focus on quality and Staff Manager relays ongoing information on environmental work. Furthermore, we address current issues to employees and stakeholders. current constitutional requirements that concern us and take minutes of the same. Management Team Meeting The management team meets informally daily Management review to plan and follow up the business prospects. 1-2 times a year, the management team Ongoing follow-up is made by addressing and conducts the quality and environmental reviewing quality and environmental work. management system review and and record Formal meetings are therefore only quarterly minutes from the meeting. where protocol/memo notes are written. Workplace meetings Reports Every month we conduct a joint planning and During ongoing activities, it is the sole strategizing meeting. During which the responsibility of the duty manager / management and staff review ongoing supervisor to relay information to external projects and clarify objectives as well as contacts regarding our quality and projections, follow-up is done by reviewing environmental operations system that are ongoing and completed work. Planning and important for the implementation of our setting dates for new meetings take place quality and environmental work. Quality Hoff Entreprenader AB complies with various system operations requirements to ensure safety and quality production. Quality Management Hoff Entreprenader has established a quality development. The section is excluded because management system in accordance with the Hoff Entreprenader has no design requirements of ISO 9001: 2008. The quality responsibility or works with product management system covers the entire development. The quality management system operation and is documented in our is based on continuous improvement of Management Organization System manual. operations through follow-up of quality goals, The quality management system excludes ISO customer satisfaction, deviation management 9001: 2008 requirements 7.3 Design and and internal audits. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Customer focus The quality management system is based on customer care and is operational under ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 this operation fills the purpose for ensuring a continued customer satisfaction and positive customer relations. The quality assurance ensures that the customer's requirements are established, documented and fulfilled. Reconciliation and documentation of customer requirements and constitutional requirements occur before or in connection with ordering. During the performance there are set quality objectives for our main processes / performance contracts that are measured and followed up. During the execution we check material and execution in relation to set requirements. All items are finalized prior to inspection. Quality Policy Hoff Entreprenader AB sees quality as an important success factor in individual construction projects as well as in a long-term business perspective. Our operations are quality oriented, and we aim to produce high quality service that can constitute future reference assignments in our marketing. We use approved construction techniques and working methods, and comply with applicable constitutional requirements as well as industry requirements. We establish funtional collaborations team together with suppliers other contractors and subcontractors. Together we deliver the requested construction at the right time and to the right execution. We develop our quality work and our quality management system through continuous improvements and we require that all our employees and collaborative partners take the responsiblity to ensure quality policy in their daily work. Quality objectives Within our quality policy, we set overall quality goals for the entire business as well as detailed quality goals per process or function. The quality objectives must be realistic and measurable. Overall quality objectives Our overall quality goal is increased customer satisfaction and long-term cooperation with our customers. Follow-up of customer satisfaction is achieved by following up on projects completed before completion of dialogue with clients. Detailed quality objectives Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB In order to monitor and develop the business, we have set the following quality objectives: Introduction of quality management system In 2015 we introduced a quality management system in accordance with ISO 9001: 2008 for the entire operation. Quality goals Compliance with customer requirements Completed construction meets customer requirements, and 100%. applicable to constitution and industry requirements. Measurement of quality We measure our level of quality performance through direct feedback from the client: this reviews indepth protocol requirements; received complaints / customer views are noted as deviations. Quality Score Delivery Security: Our delivery time to customer complies with promised times according to schedule. Our performance and delivery remain 100% on schedule to date Measurement of Quality Delivery Delivery Quality: The quality objective of delivery security is measured in terms of the number of days / weeks after the specified date in the current schedule, where delays caused by us resulted in delayed completion. Suppliers with their own quality work During the year, documented supplier assessments are introduced with requirements for suppliers and subcontractors regarding their own documented quality work. Follow-up of quality goals The follow-up of quality goals is carried out by the Chief Executive Officer and will be discussed at the management's review. Climate and Environment Environmental Management System Hoff Entreprenader integrates climate and environmental concern on every level of the organization's operations. Environmental studies are an ongoing process. The diagram below describes our operational process. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Overall Environment Detailed Environmental Environment Environment Action Studies al Policies al Goals Program al Goals The continuous environmental studies help The environmental investigation also clarifies our organization to identify the impact of our applied environmental routines: environmental operations on the environment and ultimately performance and the knowledge, as well as lays out operational policies that steer and applicable legal requirements. considerably controls the organization's operations toward a more sustainable and responsible business. Environmental assessments various environmental aspects as well as review and rank these aspects according to risk levels. Our environmental survey is updated annually and is an indicative factor for future plannings in both long-term and short-term environmental work. In the event that our team or partners detect a hindering variable that could affect our environmental work, the management team would be required to conduct a thorough environmental investigation followed by updates to renew the focus on our continued environmental work. The environmental policy builds on the EA and risk assessment. Our environmental policy is indicative of our environmental work and overall environmental goals that we have set within the framework of the environmental policy. Detailed environmental targets are determined per financial year and relate to both internal and customerrelated activities. Monitoring of environmental goals is carried out by the Chief Executive Officer on a regular basis and discussed at the management's review. Environmental action programs are elaborated to clarify how different parts of the business work to achieve environmental goals. Hoff Entreprenader AB is actively engaged in environmental work and operates within the framework of the activities we perform on behalf of the customer. In our business, we work to prevent pollution and to limit operations and products that have negative impact on nature and the environment as much as possible. Our basic requirement is that applicable legal requirements are met by all concerned parties. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Through our knowledge on how different materials and building technology impact the environment, we can confidently assist our clients in both the designing and implementation of a sustainable work. When choosing materials and services, we opt for those that support sustainable environmental issues, for instance; We demand that construction machinery are driven by environmental-friendly engines. We sort waste and work toward a high recovery rate and recycle building materials as much as possible. In our practical environmental work, all employees participate in sustainable practices as do our hired subcontractors. We develop our environmental work and our environmental management system through continuous improvements. Our code of ethics insists that all employees are responsible for the environmental policy in their daily work. Overall environmental goals Our overall environmental objective is to be a company associated with active environmental work. Detailed environmental goals To comply with the Environmental Agenda's intentions and to develop our environmental work, we have set the following detailed environmental targets: The introduction of environmental management system: In 2015, we adopted an environmental management system following ISO 14001: 2004 for the entire operation. Environmental targets Source sorting of waste with high recycling rate All types of waste are sorted according to local and industrial guidelines. We aim for a high recovery rate. We are continuously looking for the best recycling solutions that can bring the rate for the waste we generate to a minimal. Monitoring of environmental objectives The Chief Executive Officer monitors the organization’s environmental goals on a regular basis and discusses the outcomes and new targets at the management's environmental review meeting. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Progress and Development: Development through continuous improvements Hoff Entreprenader has implemented a demimg progress cycle to elaborate our operating system. ACTION Planning Management Review Implementation VeriRication Planning: Determines what goals and actions are needed so as to achieve results that match customer requirements and our policies. Implementation: Implement the business by establishing organization plan. Verification: Verifying the outcome of the implementated strategies based on customer requirements and our policies and finally report the results. Action: Take steps from the findings to improve our business continually. Based on the progress and improvement wheel, we continuously develop our quality and environmental management system by observing the following : Customer satisfaction Quality and environmental policy Quality and environmental objectives Internal audits Risk assessment of environmental aspects Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Deviation Corrective and preventive measures Management policy reviews Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction is a critical aspect in any business, at Hoff Entreprenader we recognize the importance of maintaining a strong and healthy client relations. Our satisfied clients are the bedrock of our long-term business successs and our developing operations; we recognize that a large portion of our growth is initiated through contacts and referalls from satisfied clients. Communications with customers Our communications with regular and prospective customers entails actively listening to the demands of the client on the type of products and services they would like as well as conveying our policies and operational systems. We clarify and document customer requirements through our contract review. We have appointed managers – serving as personal contact links to our primary and recurring clients. Customer views are documented and reported to management who then decide on necessary actions to be applied. Emerging customer reactions are dealt with at the management's review and shared with to all employees at staff meetings or special information occasions where employees can offer their feedbacks and address relevant issues. Quality and environmental policy The quality objectives imply that we are The management determines our quality and committed to continuously improveme our own environmental policy and communicates to the business internally and vis-à-vis customers. employees. Follow-up takes place during the administration's review. The environmental objectives are formulated based The environmental policy is based on the current on the environmental policy and, consequently, the environmental assessment's: risk assessment of environmental assessment's and risk assessment of environmental aspects related to our operations. our environmental aspects. Environmental goals The environmental survey is updated annually and guide our environmental work. in the event of significant changes in operations. All employees are responsible for applying the Quality and environmental goals must be quality and environmental policy to the business. measurable and consistent with quality and environmental policy. In case an external request is submitted regarding the current environmental policy, this is answered Internal audits by the management's environmental representative The entire management system conducts annual who sends it by mail or e-mail. internal quality and environmental audits. The inspections cover all the requirements of the Quality and environmental objectives business standards, moreover, the entire organization is subject to internal audits. The audits Management determines the quality and can be divided into sections and conducted over a environmental goals and communicates to period of days. employees. Follow-up takes place during the administration's review. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB The review aims at monitoring the Deviation organization’s reasonable quality and We document and follow up deviations to environmental work through interviews with sufficiently facilitate the management in employees. The manual is studied based on solving detected deficiencies in routines, whether documented working methods are knowledge, methods, and organization. applied within the business. Our policies and objectives for quality and environment are followed up. A deviation management system is available for facilitating: The result of the audit will provide the basis for continuous improvements in our quality and Claims environmental work. Any deviation that arises Customer comments during the review is documented in the variance Differences in assignments, against plans and report, and a summary audit report is written. Differences and audit reports are submitted to the goals, etc. management's representative for quality control, Deviations in the context of our environmental who then passes the same reports to management. work The results of internal audits are dealt with at the Any employee who detects a deviation or receives management's review. Management will make a customer view is responsible for reporting this. decisions regarding the development of an effective Reporting is made to the responsible manager and management system, if necessary, revision of is documented on the anomaly report. policies and goals based on audit results. Responsible manager decides on direct action Our auditors for internal audits should have where necessary. knowledge of the standards that are being reviewed The deviation is then forwarded to the management and inspection techniques. Internal auditors do not representative for quality, which gives the revise their own business area or function. deviation a serial number and inserts it into the deviation journal. The deviation record shows For our subjective quality and emerging deviations and status. The resulting environmental audits, QiM Audit Program discrepancies and the status of the deviations are can be used. reported to the management and discussed at the management's review. The staff is informed and updated on any Internal Quality Auditor: discrepancies and decisions on measures. Internal Auditor Risk assessment and environmental Customer Complaints investigation aspects are reviewed and Complaints are documented on the Deviation conducted yearly: Report and information is provided to the nearest The environmental risk assesment is updated yearly manager who decides on an action. The action is following previous investigations, observations and recorded by the management's quality results. representative. The updated environmental study is the basis for our continued environmental work. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Incorrect material Incorrect material and equipment is immediately labeled to prevent its wrongful usage, additionally the duty manager is contacted and decides on appropriate measures. Incorrect execution or function Any malfunction detected is reported to the manager in charge who then decides on action. Improper implementation or function is documented on Deviation report or work order for smaller assignments. Corrective and preventive measures Corrective and preventive actions aimed at: avoiding deviation from occurring again Preventing contamination Corrective action can be suggested by employees or stakeholders when problems are discovered where alternative solutions can be considered more appropriate. When a corrective action is taken, a deviation report is written: To deal with the cause, describe the efforts, and proposed preventive measures to prevent the same error from occurring again. Deviation report is then processed by the management that decides on any action. In case the deviation is to be considered a systematic error, decisions on corrective and preventive measures are taken to avoid future deviations. Preventive actions may include information, education, or implementation of the organization’s operational protocols on governance and management system. Management decides on corrective and preventive actions as well as follow up its introduction and effect of changes made. Management Competence As part of our business development, we advance our ability to deliver quality work through regular training and keeping abreast with advancing technologies, materials, and working methods. The need for internal and external training activities is assessed annually for the entire staff as a group or for individual employees. Educational needs are collected through the annual development talks and new customer requirements, etc. Performance Development talks are planned and initiated by the responsible manager. A developmental conversation is conducted yearly with each employee. The timing of development talks is matched with each employees schedule. The development call is documented and filed by the HR manager. Induction All new employees and temporary staff undergo an induction training regarding the business. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB We provide information about: Hoff Entreprenader AB, our operations and our services current duties, working hours and internal routines security Our management system for quality and environment New employees are required to have basic qualifications to be considered for current duties. Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HUMAN RIGHTS Vision We at Hoff Entreprenader AB support internationally proclaimed human rights laws, and are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our code of ethics prescribes inclusion and equal treatment and opportunity to all our employees. We work in close collaboration with other organizations and firms that recognize cultural diversities, respect for human rights at all levels and observe the law. Our vision for the future is to continue collaborating solely with companies and individuals who uphold and practice human rights. Progress Hoff Entreprenader AB is compliant with the principles of UN Global Compact. We are members of the Swedish Labour Union, which oversee that all our employees have protection under the union rights. We are working toward the initiation of a code of conduct, based on the UN Global Compact´s ten principles, which we will require our future partners to sign and commit. Results We are in collaboration with various firms who share our vision of implementing a Code of Conduct. Further, to strengthen this motive, we are working toward making it visible on our web page in 2017. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB OPERATING CONDITIONS Employees We insist that our staff is professionally equipped to perform their tasks. Depending on the type of assignment, the management clarifies its organization, responsibility, and authority. ! Health and work Environment ! Skills supply, mentoring and Education ! Equality, Diversity and Equal Treatment Hoff Entreprenader AB ensures that employees are driven and are up to date with the evolving industrial requirements – we provide equal opportunities for all individuals self-growth by providing stability and job security, continuous education, team building activities medical and wellness resources which are all beneficial for our team's wellbeing and quality performance. We comply with national and international Trade and Labor Union laws and principles of UN Global Compact. Hoff Entreprenader collaborates with the Swedish Labor Union on work environment and health on every level of the company. Hoff Entreprenaders' employees have a collective bargaining agreement under the union rights. We don't condone any form of child labor, and will therefore neither collaborate with nor cooperate with businesses or individuals that associate with or appropriate the said violation in any way. All our employees are identity card holders; registered by the Swedish tax departmentthe requirement of the personal, national identification number in the registration process is our assurance that all individuals are at or above employment age, and are legally eligible for employment. Workplace Hoff Entreprenader has its premises in Limhamn and Malmö Oljehamn. There are facilities for offices, workshops, warehouses and staff spaces in the named locations. Assignment briefing can be conducted at the clients’ premises or at a designated workplace. We make sure that our workforce has access to the construction site, water, staff recreational areas, storage facilities for equipment and machinery, and so forth. Season and weather conditions determine where and how perform our assignments. Noise, dust, and vibrations, depending on the particular type of on going construction, characterize a typical construction site. Wind, rain and temperature changes affect the prerequisites for implementing different types of tasks. In cases where our firm is the contractor or general contractor for an assignment then we would take the responsibility of ensuring that the construction site is safe and orderly. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination and respect of employment and occupation. LABOUR RIGHTS Vision We at Hoff Entreprenader AB recognize our responsibility in creating a working environment that is conducive for our staff members and business partners. Our policy focuses on implementing and enforcing practices that ensure a socially responsible company. We are a service-oriented company, and our quality service, as well as customer satisfaction, has continuously led our company 's growth and profitability, however, it is our closely knitted and motivated team that ensures that high quality work is delivered regularly. Additionally, we utilize quality products from various suppliers whom we regard as reliable and responsible based on transparency and grounding principles. We insist on reviewing our partners´ policies to ensure that there is no breach of human rights in production: child labor, social injusticerace or gender discrimination, and any possible unethical practices that disregard human dignity. We have been growing steadily since 1998, and are proud to state that our continued growth is as a result of our satisfied customers who further recommend us to new clients and our loyal employees who deliver quality services. Hoff Entreprenader AB ensures that our staff stays driven – we provide equal opportunities for all individuals self-growth by providing stability and job security, continuous education, team building activities and retreats, medical and wellness privileges; which are all beneficial for our teams ´wellbeing. Our company recognizes and applies various parental and individual rights and privileges, paid parental, and sick leave is amongst the highest prioritized agendas within our firm. We value our employees and work in close cooperation with trade and labor Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB unions and insurance companiesfollowing the Swedish regulations and laws; this assures our staff and partners that their voices matter and their rights are protected. Progress We liaise with our stakeholders to enforce and ensure ethical practice. Our policy requires potential partners or stakeholders to abide by human rights law. We are in support of child safety and welfare, and so are most of our business partners, we show our support by sponsoring various groups and grassroots organizations that aim at improving the wellbeing of children – sports clubs, anti-bullying organizations in schools, and so forth. Results We adhere to the regulations of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and follow the grounding principles of employee rights in accordance with the Swedish law and the Swedish Labour Union. We do not condone the violations of workers' rights or dignity including discrimination. Further, we require eligibility by age and legality, equality, respect, and non-discrimination; therefore we do not associate with any companies unopposed to these factors or those that elicit use of child or forced labor. We utilize the services of listed and approved contractors and subcontractors that have a quality impact on the business. See Specifying Documents Appendix 2. PRINCIPLE 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges: PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Vision We at Hoff Entreprenader AB are aware of our ability to impact the environment – positively or negatively, directly or indirectly. As a result, we strive to employ a positive correlation regarding utility, sustainability and environmental protection. We insist on eco-friendly products and endeavor to reduce and eventually eliminate substances that are proven to be harmful to the environment. We encourage our customers to opt for eco-friendly materialssince safer substances promote longevity and good health to all concerned parties. Moreover, we are obliged to comply with the Swedish environmental laws and regulations, which is a beneficial factor when dealing with suppliers who are bound by the same rules. Progress Hoff Entreprenader AB collaborates with known partners who are certified container and waste handlers whose expertise and responsibility is supplying dumping containers for industrial use and handling used containers systematically and by the Swedish environmental laws. Together we ensure that various waste materials are safely sorted, recycled, and deposited in the allocated containers and finally to the assigned sites/locations. Personal protective equipment the personal protective equipment consists of: • Helmet • Ear-Protecting Headset • Mouth guard • Work Shoes • Gloves • Protective Goggles • Visibility Clothing • Safety Lines . Protective and appropriate weather appropriate clothing Employees are responsible for confirming the availability of personal protective gear before the work begins. Safety Respective employees are responsible for ensuring that the necessary security equipment for carrying out assignments is available before the work begins. In case the work is done at high altitudes or in connection within a high-risk environment, it is the responsibility of the supervisory board to ensure that the workplace has safety equipment so that the employees can work safely. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Measuring Today, the industry applies laser and humidity gauges as measuring instruments. We submit laser readings for calibration. Rain gauges calibrate us. Where this is established, measurement equipment used in the operations shall be calibrated at regular intervals. After calibration, we approve measuring equipment and mark unauthorized measuring equipment. Each measuring device and measuring equipment is registered and marked with the identification number. Calibration takes place according to the specified instruction per meter, see Annex 2, the control document. Calibration record is displayed, showing calibration interval, calibration status, and who performs the calibration. Clothing The company provides work clothes to its employees. The individual employee handles and cares for work clothes. Material Identification and traceability Building materials have essential marks that are branded by manufacturers or wholesalers using identifiable serial numbers. The labeling may sometimes only occur on the packaging. However, chemical and technical products require labelling and safety data sheets. The safety data sheets show how to handle the product. If the identification is missing, a skilled professional must identify the material; otherwise, the material is classified as a deviation. In case chemical-technical products are distributed in non-original packaging, these must have labels with the information shown in the original packaging label. Product information should always follow the product. Maintenance of machinery and equipment Maintenance of machinery and equipment is ongoing. We prevent wastage by ensuring that we perform proper maintenance for machines and equipment according to the machine's manual/journal and operating time. In our business premises, there is a service area for service of machinery and other equipment. Handling employees oversee daily service of machinery and vehicles such as cleaning, oil control, air, coolant and the like, this is an ethical practice that prevents wastage and damage to the environment.t Chemical-technical products Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB The assignments involve the use of various chemical-technical products in the performance of the duties. We select chemical-technical products in consideration to environmental aspects. Examples of chemical-technical products used in the business are different types of stone glue; structural adhesives, sealants, lubricants and car care products. The chemical-technical products are handled and used to avoid spillage and leakage. The employees return unused, half used, and leftovers to the office after completion of the assignment. During the mission's implementation, there is a special place for storage of chemical-technical products. Sustainability Report On Waste Handling and Recycling Handling of waste Our operations generate construction waste in the form of material surpluses, demolition waste, and packaging. The waste is sorted and placed in containers that are installed at the building site or in connection with their premises. Routines for the identification and disposal of hazardous waste are available. When transporting hazardous waste, transport companies are authorized to transport hazardous waste. Waste sorting of waste takes place as follows: Waste retrieved from the construction sites is handed over to licensed recycling and waste depositing companies sorted as follows: • Combustible Waste • Office Waste • Construction Waste • Fluorescent Lamps, Bulbs • Electrical Waste • Scrap Metal • Packaging • Plastic • Hazardous Waste • Plate • Plaster • Toner • DUST • Wood • Insulation • Corrugated Results We are pleased to note that an increasing number of our suppliers and partners are producing and providing products that state clear ecological brandings with EU Ecolabel. Notably, they have fulfilled high-quality measures to ensure eligibility to use the official EU Ecolabel branding. We are proud to be associated with partners whose actions support environmental sustainability and preservation of a balanced ecosystem, the adherence to EU production laws, and fair trade. Our ISO certifications and continued education benefits us in staying up to date with essential safety and quality standards of Swedish and EU laws. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Hoff Entreprenader AB and our stakeholders are in the process of producing a Code of Conduct, which will require that a strict set of rules are followed in compliance with environmental safetyfrom production to handling and depositing waste products. PRINCIPLE 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision We at Hoff Enerprenader AB are eager to establish our reputation by maintaining a zero-tolerance stance against corruption of any kind, including extortion and bribery. Our growth is dependent on our reputation; consequently, we insist on transparency within our company and business partners. Our suppliers and stakeholders are registered, and approved business owners and are governed by the Swedish Tax laws. Regulations for the construction and civil engineering industries: Quality management system ISO 9001:2008 Environment Management system ISO 14001:2004 Special clearance identity code – ID06 With the introduction of ID06, the building sector has made a significant step forward in the fight against economic crime. Pre-registration, compulsory proof of identity and attendance reporting make it more difficult for unauthorized persons to be on the building site. Swedish government clearance ID – The Swedish Fortifications Agency FORTIFIKATIONSVERKET is High-security defence management agency whose expertise is internationally acclaimed. Hoff Entreprenader applies well-established UN guidelines on universal sustainability issues regarding global development: UN GLOBAL COMPACT Hoff Entreprenader recognizes common global challenges and has taken an active stance towards a sustainable global development through engaging and being a contributing member of the UN Global Compact Act since 2013. 3. Financial Transparency and Business Ethics Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Hoff Entreprenader AB maintains a zero-tolerance stance against corruption of any form, including extortion and bribery. Our growth is reputation dependent consequently we insist on transparency within our company and business partners. Our financial reports are registered and approved by the Swedish Tax laws. Hoff Entreprenader is AAA credit-worthy company whose annual financial reports are visible to the public. Progress We are a growing organization and take pride in dealing with well-established suppliers and partners whose policies strongly oppose corruption and are openly engaged in transparency acts. Our goal and interest are to continue collaborations with partners and stakeholders whose policies are ethical, only those registered by Swedish tax department and are abiding by the laws on transparency and can be supported by financial declarations. Furthermore, we only receive and make payments against clear supporting documentation. Hoff Entreprenader works in close collaboration with a certified and wellestablished accounting company to oversee our books and financial declarations. We also outsource to an invoicing company for easier documentation and tracking payments. Results We have not been involved, registered, or informed of any corruption practices. We strive to uphold a good reputation and would, therefore, discontinue any alliances and apply severe repercussions should any of our employees or business partners breach our trust. We will look into establishing a zero anti-corruption tolerance throughout our business which our partners and staff will be required to sign. Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB A Locally engaged community builder PROJECTS Community Participation We have long-standing support for sports and youth organizations. Hoff Entreprenader AB currently sponsors Limhamn Hockey ice hockey club in Malmö, The LB07 football club in Malmö, HK Malmö handball club, Anti-bully organization in Swedish schools. The Malmö Flickörna gymnastic association. These sponsorships are annual, and we review these groups before extending support renewal. Furthermore, we donate to UN Global Compact. We have had an extended sponsorship period with Malmö Redhawks hockey club, And formerly BK Höllviken Football Club We have over the years supported a variety of organizations and initiatives with smaller amounts. We at Hoff Entreprenader AB are pleased to be proactively involved in our community projects. We do not restrict our efforts to sports alone, we also support and donate to organizations whose aims include; enhancing the safety and creativity in our society and helping the youth reach their full potential through mentoring, engaging, and stimulating through active involvement, and nondiscriminating atmospheres. We believe that support, encouragement and providing financial assistance promote learning opportunities and are the way forward into a more sustainable future. www.hoffentreprenader.se Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Fastställd/ Senaste Placering/ Lagar och föreskrifter omtryckt ändring digital plats Berörd enhet Golvbranschen GBR Branschstandard för 2010 golvbranschen.s Företagsledning bestämning av RF i e normaltorkande golvavjämning GBR Branschstandard för golvbranschen.s Företagsledning bestämning av e avjämningsmassans ytdraghållfasthet och vidhäftning till underlag 1-2012 GBR Branschstandard för 2014-09-01 golvbranschen.s Företagsledning golvbeläggning av plast i e våtutrymmen – Generella materialkrav för VT-godkännande GBR Branschstandard för 2014-09-01 golvbranschen.s Företagsledning väggbeklädnad av plast i e våtutrymmen Generella materialkrav för VT-godkännande GBR Branschstandard GBR-metod 2008-03-01 golvbranschen.s Företagsledning 2008:1 – Test av e alkalibeständighet För golv och vägg GBR – Trägolv på golvvärme – 2-2005 golvbranschen.s Företagsledning basinformation, branschriktlinjer, e nomenklatur Säkra våtrum – GVKs 2011 gvk.se Företagsledning branschregler för tätskikt i våtrum Naturvårdsverket Naturvårdsverkets allmänna råd 2004-12naturvardsverket.se Ansvariga chefer om buller för byggarbetsplatser 09 (NFS 2004:15) Kopplade till 2 kap och 26 kap 19§ i Miljöbalken) Standarder SS-EN ISO 9001:2008 2008-11-20 sis.se Företagsledning Ledningssystem för kvalitet – krav ISO 9001:2015 DIS sis.se Företagsledning SS-EN ISO 14001:2004 2004-11-15 sis.se Företagsledning Ledningssystem för miljö – krav ISO 14001:2015 DIS sis.se Företagsledning Kemiska produkter Förordning om kemiska produkter 2008-052014-06-12 notisum.se Företagsledn och biotekniska organismer 08 SFS 2014:431 ing (SFS 2008:245) Miljö Kemikalieinspektionens 2008-052014-11-19 kemi.se Företagsledn föreskrifter om kemiska 14 KIFS 2014:5 ing produkter och biotekniska Miljö organismer (KIFS 2008:2) Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Fastställd/ Senaste Placering/ Lagar och föreskrifter omtryckt ändring digital plats Berörd enhet Brandskydd Allmänna råd om systematiskt 2004-02-06 msb.se Företagslednin brandskyddsarbete (SRVFS g 2004:3) Avfall Avfallsförordning (SFS 2011:927) 2011-06-30 2014-09-16 notisum.se Företagslednin SFS 2014:1076 g Miljö Kommunala riktlinjer för Kommunens Alla avfallshantering hemsida Naturvårdsverkets föreskrifter 2004-04-14 naturvardsverket.s Företagslednin e och g Allmänna råd om hantering av Miljö Brännbart avfall och organiskt avfall (NFS 2004:4) Arbetsmiljö Lagen om skydd mot olyckor 2003-11-20 2014-06-27 notisum.se Företagslednin (SFS 2003:778) SFS 2014:688 g Förordning om skydd mot olyckor 2003-11-20 2014-10-07 notisum.se Ansvariga (SFS 2003:789) SFS 2014:1223 chefer Systematiskt arbetsmiljöarbete 2001 AFS 2008:15 www.av.se Ansvariga AFS 2003:04 (AFS 2001:01) chefer Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Internt fastställda styrande Förvaringsplats Utgåva/version dokument Agenda för ledningens genomgång Kontor/server Checklista vid arbetsplatsolycka Kontor/server Fastställd kompetensmatris Kontor/server Kalibreringsjournal Kontor/server Kundavtal Kontor/server kontraktsdatum Leverantörsavtal Kontor/server Miljöutredning Kontor/server Plan interna revisioner Kontor/server Projekthandlingar Arbetsledare Underhållsplan utrustning Kontor/server Blanketter Förvaringsplats Utgåva/version Avvikelseblankett/ÄTA Kontor/server Avvikelsejournal Kontor/server Kalibreringskort Kontor/server Kalibreringsjournal Kontor/server Kompetensmatris Kontor/server Lagefterlevnad Kontor/server Leverantörsbedömning Kontor/server Mallar Förvaringsplats Utgåva/version Kvalitetsplan för uppdrag Kontor/server Miljöplan för uppdrag Kontor/server Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Bilaga 3 Redovisande dokument Dokument Förvaringsplats Arkiveringstid Anbudsförteckning Kontoret Uppdateras löpande Avvikelserapporter Ledningens representant 2 år för kvalitet Avslutade kontrakt Kontoret 8 år Bokföringshandlingar Kontoret 8 år Kundfakturor Kontoret 8 år Kvalitetsoch Ledningens representant Tidigare giltig utgåva miljöledningssystem för kvalitet Leverantörsbedömningar Kontoret 4 år Leverantörsförteckning Kontoret 2 år Personalhandlingar Kontoret Under anställningstid Projekthandlingar Arbetsledare/arkiv 2,5 år Protokoll från interna Ledningens representant 2 år revisioner för kvalitet Protokoll från ledningens Kontoret 2 år genomgång Tidrapporter Kontoret 2 år Uppföljning av aktuella lagrum Kontoret 1 år Uppföljning av lagefterlevnad Kontoret 1 år Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB Bilaga 4 IT-stöd Typ av program/system Programvara Utgåva/version Antivirusprogram Norton Bokföring Revisor Ekonomisystem Manuellt Lönesystem Manuellt Projekthantering Bygglet (under uppstart) Ritsystem CAD Ordbehandling, mm. Microsoft Office Entreprenader AB Organization and Management Systems: By Belinda Hoff Presentation Approval: 2017 Approved by: Johan Hoff Updated: 2017 for UN Global Compact Pages © Hoff Entreprenader AB
