2 016 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO 3 Section 1 Governance & Management 4 Ethics, compliance and continuity of business 1.1 Governance Structure 6 1.2 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 8 1.3 Supply Chain 11 1.4 Continuity of Business 14 Section 2 Environmental Program 15 Protecting the environment for a brighter future 2.1 Environmental Governance 16 2.2 Energy and Emissions 18 2.3 Landfill Diversion 23 2.4 Water Conservation 26 2.5 Green Building Practices 28 2.6 Biodiversity 30 2.7 Awareness and Engagement 31 Section 3 Employees & Culture 33 SAS’ world-renowned culture is based on trust, flexibility and values 3.1 Workplace Culture 34 3.2 Hiring and Retaining Staff 35 3.3 Skills Development 37 3.4 Health and Safety 38 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Table of Contents Continued Section 4 Education & Philanthropy 39 Meeting the challenges of the new millennium 4.1 P-12 Education 40 4.2 Higher Education 42 4.3 Philanthropy 44 4.4 Community Engagement 46 4.5 Donation Process 48 Section 5 Data for Good 51 Analytics helping humanity Section 6 About This Report 55 GRI Index 60 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Letter from the CEO Corporate social responsibility has been a part of SAS’ employees are naturally more energized on the job. It’s a foundation since 1976. For more than 40 years, caring for virtuous circle: Healthy, satisfied employees contribute to our people – and our planet – has been paramount to SAS, customers’ success, which in turn feeds SAS’ success. This influencing many decisions we make as a global company. culture helps position SAS and our employees to be good corporate citizens. Focusing on the Earth’s resources has long been a priority for us. Multiyear programs advancing energy conservation, solar Beyond our own workforce, we appreciate the evolving need projects, emission management, pollution mitigation, water for technology proficiency in the global community. Because conservation, waste reduction and recycling, procurement SAS views education as the driver for economic growth, our and green building continue to reduce SAS’ environmental primary philanthropic initiative is to develop the next generafootprint. In just the past decade, SAS has improved energy tion of innovators. It starts with younger learners: Studies show efficiency in our office buildings a full 28 percent; diverted that those who cannot read proficiently by third grade are more more than 50 percent of waste away from landfills, and likely to drop out of school. We’re reaching them through SAS® generated more than 3.8 million kilowatt-hours annually of Curriculum Pathways®, free P-12 digital learning resources used clean, renewable energy from our nine solar installations. by more than 2 million teachers and students. SAS also makes a difference through our Data for Good With job demand outpacing available talent, SAS provides efforts. Armed with information and analytics, we are tackling older students with relevant tools and resources to tackle critical humanitarian needs, whether it’s helping fight cancer, today’s increasing analytics skills gap. We collaborate with preventing child abuse or saving endangered species. colleges and universities worldwide to promote analytics skills. We recognize that analytics can make a difference in the world, And we offer several free and low-cost SAS software and and since we began, we have worked with our customers and training options. many organizations to turn their data into valuable insights that can help others. More than four decades of growth speaks for itself: Our analytics make it easier to tackle challenges and use data for But being able to make an impact begins with our greatest the greater good. Since we want our employees, our customers resource – our employees. Our world-class workplace supports and our planet to be ready for the future, we must provide the our employees by creating an environment that helps them resources, tools and insight to make that happen. balance career and personal life. This support eliminates many everyday worries and distractions, and ultimately inspires Sincerely, creativity and innovation. With better health and lower stress, Jim Goodnight CEO of SAS SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G48771.0617 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 1 Governance & Management Ethics, compliance and continuity of business SAS is committed to high ethical standards in its dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers and competitors. Robust regulatory compliance practices ensure that SAS conducts business in an honest, respectful, fair and safe manner. Guided by the company’s Code of Ethics, SAS’ compliance practices have earned the company its exceptional reputation as an ethical and responsible employer and business partner. SAS is also committed to building long-term relationships with both direct and indirect suppliers. There are a wide range of best practices to ensure the supply chain remains strong and the company is identifying the best fit for all procurement needs. Continuity of business is paramount as well, with a focus on corporate governance, information security and corporate social responsibility. 5 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 1.1 Governance & Management Governance Structure SAS is the leader in business analytics software and services. 2016 Data SAS is committed to employing high ethical standards in its With approximately US$3.2 billion in worldwide revenue, SAS dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers and competiremains an industry leader in advanced analytics and one of the tors. Maintaining the great workplace at SAS requires a moral largest independent vendors in the business intelligence market. commitment and accountability across all departments, positions and countries. Industries served Company Profile SAS Institute Inc. is a North Carolina corporation that has been privately held since its inception in 1976. Headquartered in Automotive Health Care Media Banking Health Cary, NC, the company operates through functional divisions Insurance that include Worldwide Marketing, Sales, Research and Development, Finance, Legal and Corporate Services. SAS delivers software and related services to customers throughout the world. Sales activities are conducted primarily through Oil & Gas Capital High-Tech Education Higher Markets Manufacturing Education SAS Institute Inc. and its controlled sales subsidiaries in nearly 150 countries. The sales subsidiary entities are grouped into three regional sales divisions: the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific. Retail Small & Midsize Consumer Analytics Communications Hotels SAS’ global corporate organization, including our parent Business Goods company, SAS Institute Inc., and a group of operating subsidiaries, provides software and services to customers in various geographic regions around the world. The Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions comprise approximately 50 standalone Insurance Sports Defense and Life Travel and Security Sciences Transportation operating subsidiaries. Additional subsidiaries in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions are dedicated to research and development activities. Together with several representative and branch offices of these subsidiaries, SAS maintains a corporate presence in approximately 60 international jurisdictions. Government Manufacturing Utilities 6 section 1.1 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Governance Structure pg.2 Jim Goodnight (CEO) Research & Development SAS Americas Human Resources Canada Information Technology United States Legal Latin America SAS Solutions OnDemand Carribbean Finance JMP Corporate Services SAS AP IDeaS Asia Pacific Community Relations SAS EMEA Europe Middle East Africa Sales Operations Marketing CEO Jim Goodnight and co-founder and Executive Vice Public Policy President John Sall constitute the board of directors of SAS SAS also actively engages in public policy discussions, Institute Inc. They also serve as executive officers, overseeing particularly related to the role of technologies in solving corporate performance and investment decisions across larger societal issues that challenge local, state, federal and environmental, social and economic interests. Goodnight international agencies. These challenges include delivering and Sall are the company’s principal shareholders. better and safer health care while minimizing fraud, waste and abuse; ensuring that vulnerable children receive appropriate Employee rights, including employment-based compliance government services; providing better stewardship of taxpayer issues, are managed through SAS’ Human Resources Division resources with greater government accountability; and helping under the direction of the executive vice president and chief governments make better use of their data assets to fulfill their human resources officer. The Ethics and Compliance group missions, such as helping detect terrorist financing and money in the SAS Legal Division, overseen by the vice president and laundering schemes. SAS actively engages in public policy general counsel for ethics and compliance, manages other discussions to help protect the valuable intellectual property compliance responsibilities, including anti-corruption, privacy, resources that are the underpinning of its business. trade, lobbying, gifts and anti-aggression laws. Environmental conservation is managed through the Facilities group in the SAS abides by political contribution laws and prohibits the Corporate Services Division. use of corporate funds for political contributions to individual candidates. Corporate contributions may be made to political Corporate Social Responsibility Governance parties or national or state political party organizations if SAS maintains a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Task approved through established procedures. SAS records and Force comprising employees across business functions, reports all corporate political contributions in accordance with including internal communications, legal, facilities, marketing applicable local laws. and external communications. This group meets bimonthly to advance annual goals and priorities, and to address topics SAS complies with applicable lobbying laws in its operations. related to sustainability throughout the year. The group’s Lobbyist registrations and disclosure reports are filed by SAS function is to ensure the integration of corporate social on a regular and timely basis. responsibility efforts across the business. This team works closely with various departments and communicates with SAS executive leadership to ensure that CSR policies and Download section initiatives are considered in all aspects of the business. 1.1 Governance Structure SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107773_G48761.0617 7 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 1.2 Governance & Management Ethics and Regulatory Compliance Robust regulatory compliance and training practices ensure SAS’ commitment to being a great place to work, a great that SAS conducts business in an honest, respectful, fair and business partner and a valued community member. safe manner. Guided by the Code of Ethics, SAS’ compliance practices have earned the company its valued reputation as an The SAS’ Code of Ethics is available to all employees on the ethical and responsible employer and business partner. SAS is company’s intranet, and is periodically advertised by the committed to maintaining this reputation and conducting all company’s internal communications program. aspects of the business in a way that promotes and reflects ethical practices. SAS compliance programs use training, 2016 Data policies, processes and audits to ensure compliance in areas SAS did not have any substantiated, materially negative such as anti-corruption, international trade and privacy. incidents with regard to public policy, privacy, corruption, ethics, bribery, anti-competitive actions, anti-trust violations or SAS is committed to demonstrating honesty, fairness and monopoly practices, societal impacts, the environment, labor accountability in every decision and action, including each practices, or employee discrimination or harassment; nor were interaction with employees, customers, suppliers and there any sanctions or fines for noncompliance. competitors. The SAS Code of Ethics helps the company define and maintain high standards for respect, honesty, fairness Training and accountability. This SAS Code of Ethics applies to every The Ethics and Compliance group at SAS has developed employee – at every subsidiary and in every region – as well courses to help employees abide by the SAS Code of Ethics as all members of the board of directors, officers appointed by and applicable external rules and regulations. SAS provides the board of directors and agents. Failure to comply with the this training to equip all employees to make the right choices SAS Code of Ethics or other applicable policies can result in when ethical and regulatory challenges arise. disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Online training was developed under the management and The internal version of SAS’ Code of Ethics, which includes oversight of the vice president and general counsel for ethics links to SAS policies and procedures, serves as a central and compliance, with input from many departments across reference for employees to respond to situations in an ethical SAS, and with ultimate approval by the chief legal officer. All manner consistent with SAS standards. The external version global training courses developed since 2012 are available in of the Code of Ethics is available as part of this report and English, simplified Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, demonstrates to customers, suppliers and other stakeholders Portuguese and Spanish. 8 section 1.2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance pg.2 How SAS monitors completion and renewal of training varies, are investigated in a timely fashion. Unless the complaining depending on relevant policies, strategies, trainings and codes. individual chooses to remain anonymous, he or she receives Online training completions are tracked by the third-party feedback on the results of the investigation, to the extent vendor that helped to create them and are monitored by the allowed by applicable law. Ethics and Compliance group. Automated reminders are sent to those who have not completed training as the deadline 2016 Data approaches, and managers are contacted as trainings become 100 percent of complaints to SAS Ethics and Compliance were overdue. New employees and certain contract workers are investigated and addressed as needed. required to take some or all of the following training: Anti-Corruption • Code of Ethics. SAS has an anti-corruption program to provide training and monitoring across the company. This program includes • Information Security. an online anti-corruption course for all new employees and certain third parties, and in-person, targeted training for sales, • Export Controls Awareness. marketing, finance and other affected groups. In addition, SAS has implemented gift, marketing event, “revolving door,” • Respect in the Workplace. lobbying, and donation policies – as well as review procedures – to comply with applicable laws and customer requirements. • Global Anti-Corruption. These documents are available to all employees on the Ethics and Compliance internal website. • Privacy and Data Protection for Global Companies. SAS conducts advance and ongoing due diligence on In addition, all employees and certain contract workers are subcontractors, partners and other third parties to verify their required to take annual refresher ethics training. reputability and identify and mitigate anti-corruption risks. SAS also contractually requires that its subcontractors SAS provides specialized training for personnel as needed. comply with the principles set forth in its Code of Ethics, For example, certain California and India employees take including anti-bribery provisions. SAS also conducts audits additional anti-sexual harassment training as required by law. and transaction-specific due diligence measures to support compliance in high-risk transactions. In-person, targeted compliance training is conducted periodically. These courses are developed by the Ethics and Export Controls Compliance group in the Legal Division with input from the SAS maintains an export management system complete relevant functional business units. For example, in 2016, SAS with product licensing and screening processes that conducted anti-corruption training for government sales and include checking employees, customers and suppliers marketing groups, privacy training for IT staff, export training against the Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) Specially for federal government sales and services, and HIPAA training Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons list and certain for employees interacting with data in the company’s health other government lists of prohibited parties. SAS also files care center or associated with its health care industry solutions. regular and timely anti-boycott reports as required by US law. Employee Feedback SAS classifies its products according to US export laws and Employees are responsible for appropriately communicating makes such classifications available to its customers at the concerns regarding suspected unethical or illegal conduct to a SAS Current Export Designation Information page. supervisor, Human Resources or the Legal Division. Specific procedures for reporting concerns are displayed on the Legal Privacy Division’s internal website. Employees may submit comments The Ethics and Compliance group in the SAS Legal Division to SAS Ethics and Compliance via email, telephone or an works to ensure that SAS’ use of personal data complies with anonymous online form. applicable laws, SAS policies and customer expectations. SAS Global Information Security establishes processes and SAS does not retaliate against anyone who reports deploys technologies to protect the confidentiality, availability suspected violations in good faith. All reports of misconduct and integrity of data in the custody or control of SAS. 9 section 1.2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance pg.3 These groups work closely together to manage data privacy foreign subsidiaries and other business units. Translated issues and security by, among other things, establishing versions of the privacy statement with country-specific information governance policies, standards, guidelines requirements are linked to the English version. and processes based on regulations, business needs and industry best practices. Periodic privacy and security-related SAS requires all its employees to complete training on assessments and compliance reviews include privacy impact privacy and information security. SAS Global Information assessments for newly developed or modified applications Security publishes a monthly information security awareness that may affect individual privacy interests. newsletter to inform employees about information security and privacy issues. The Ethics and Compliance group ensures that SAS’ externally posted privacy statement accurately reflects its information collection and use practices with respect to external parties. SAS’ privacy statement is global, covering SAS US and its Download section 1.2 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107774_G48827.0617 10 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 1.3 Governance & Management Supply Chain SAS strives to build long-term relationships with both direct SAS has confirmed via supply chain due diligence that and indirect suppliers. A wide range of best practices, tools no conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or and policies are used to ensure that the supply chain remains production of any product manufactured by or contracted strong and the company is identifying the best fit for all for manufacture by SAS. procurement needs. Direct suppliers provide products or services used in creating the products and services SAS sells. The supply chain compliance program also consists of These include software, SaaS, hardware, consultants and IT contractual requirements for anti-corruption and ethics rules infrastructure. Indirect suppliers in areas such as food services, compliance for all contractors and consultants. SAS also legal and accounting, real estate, facilities services and travel conducts in-person and online training, expense record and provide support for operating the business. SAS places a expenditure reviews, audits, and global outreach through priority on contracting with local suppliers when it makes organizations such as the UN Global Compact. SAS voluntarily sense for the company. provides supply chain information for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Great Places to Work. SAS uses mechanisms such as service level agreements, key performance indicators, benchmarking and supplier SAS uses competitive bidding to help ensure competition and relationship management to monitor and manage suppliers’ fairness in the marketplace for suppliers. SAS’ request for results. Suppliers are subject to ongoing anti-corruption due proposal template emphasizes the importance of corporate diligence, which – proportionate to the level of the supplier’s social responsibility, including environmental stewardship and business and risks presented – screens prospective suppliers promotion of supplier diversity. Additionally, if the bidder is not and relevant or high-risk individuals within those organizations. a diverse company, it must provide a statement regarding its active supplier diversity programs or opportunities it has to The company also has an advance due diligence process for subcontract to diverse suppliers. suppliers engaged to assist in sales efforts and potential acquisitions. The process involves investigation of the supplier Supplier Diversity at levels that are proportionate to the risks presented by the As part of the Corporate Services Division, the Manager of supplier, including investigating the supplier’s background, Supplier Diversity is responsible for the supplier diversity qualifications, conflicts of interest, financial condition and process, which includes: history of regulatory violations. 11 section 1.3 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Supply Chain pg.2 •R  eviewing RFPs and contracts and responding to In the area of professional services offered to its customers, customers with diversity requirements. SAS provides small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and • Preparing and providing diversity spending reports woman-owned small businesses the opportunity to participate to customers. in the subcontracts it awards to the maximum practicable extent, consistent with efficient performance of the contract. • Providing information and access to SAS’ procurement opportunities by supporting and conducting various Regarding the procurement of goods and services to support diversity activities and events (e.g., sponsorships, corporate operations, SAS continually seeks ways to make education and attendance). business opportunities available to small businesses and businesses that are: • Providing internal training to buyers and stakeholders regarding the importance and value of providing access to • Minority-owned. and utilization of diverse suppliers and small businesses. • Woman-owned. By developing and maintaining effective relationships with suppliers, the company aims to create value throughout the life • Disabled-owned. of each contract based upon economy, quality, environmental preservation and social values. SAS is a member of the National • HUB Zone-certified. Minority Supplier Development Council and the Women’s Business Center of North Carolina. SAS is also represented on • Veteranor service-disabled veteran-owned. the boards of various minority supplier development councils and economic development initiatives. Two examples of the SAS encourages diverse businesses interested in more representation are the North Carolina Governor’s Working information about potential working opportunities and Group for Veterans, Service Members and Their Families; and relationships to email supplierdiversity@sas.com. the North Carolina Governor’s Advisory Council for Small and Historically Underutilized Businesses. Suppliers and the Environment The environmental impact of business activities extends SAS’ supplier diversity program has earned several accolades beyond the SAS campus and work spaces to the entire supply and service awards, such as the North Carolina Veteran’s chain, from suppliers to distribution channels to product use. Business Association 2016 Corporate Commitment to Veteran The Environmental Management Program researches ways to Owned Businesses and Triangle Business Journal 2014 Leaders incorporate corporate social responsibility into procurement in Diversity Award and reduce the environmental impact of supply chain processes. To accomplish this, SAS: Supplier Diversity Policy Statement SAS customers represent a wide range of industries, people • Strongly encourages employees to give consideration and locations – and the company seeks this same level of and preference to suppliers with environmental practices diversity in its supplier community. Unlike a typical manufacturand programs. ing environment, the creation of SAS products does not require purchasing materials or component parts, but rather relies on a • Promotes the adoption of environmental principles by highly skilled staff of technical professionals. SAS complies with contractors and suppliers, encouraging or requiring federal laws and regulations that prohibit discrimination in improvements. employment based on race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, disability or veteran status. • Completes the annual CDP supply chain questionnaire. As a federal contractor, SAS complies with Executive • Makes extensive use of green products, such as environmenOrder 11246, as amended, and the implementing rules and tally friendly cleaning supplies and low-emissions paints regulations of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance, and products for campus buildings. The procurement teams Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, routinely assist with finding the most efficient and and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Earth-friendly options. 12 section 1.3 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Supply Chain pg.3 • Maximizes investments by eliminating unnecessary 2016 Data purchases, extending the life of assets through repurposing SAS continued to research options for incorporating corporate and reselling outdated equipment to employees as well as social responsibility elements into procurement processes donating materials to educational institutions. Only then are and reducing environmental impact of supply chain processes. materials processed for responsible recycling. As in years past, SAS completed its annual CDP supply chain questionnaire related to greenhouse gas emissions inventory As a software company, SAS has limited risks and concerns and related climate change management. SAS achieved an in regard to raw materials, hazardous wastes and supplier overall CDP performance score of B-. The average performance practices. Because the primary input to SAS products is score for more than 4,300 supplier responses was D. intellectual property, SAS does not currently collect data on GHG emissions and climate change strategy from suppliers. Download section 1.3 Supply Chain SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107775_G48828.0417 13 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 1.4 Governance & Management Continuity of Business At SAS, continuity of business (COB) is an important global • Develop backup strategies, such as providing support to corporate initiative, addressing threats or hazards that may customers from another office until the affected office can affect employees and customers and disrupt business operaresume normal operations. tions. COB planning supports corporate governance, information security and corporate social responsibility. • Avoid and minimize business interruptions through greater awareness and risk management. SAS is a business partner that customers can entrust with the viability of their operations because of the company’s ability to Through business continuity planning, SAS exercises continue critical customer-facing services and core operations. operational controls to improve organizational resilience. This supports the company’s commitment to meet the SAS’ COB initiative involves response and business resumption expectations of its customers in an increasingly riskteams from across the organization. These teams work togethconscious regulatory environment. More information on er proactively to develop resilience and mitigation strategies SAS’ COB program can be found in the Continuity of and – in the event of a business disruption – coordinate to Business white paper (PDF). return the business to normal operations. SAS’ global business continuity program goals are to: • Prepare employees to know what to do in a crisis. •P rovide timely communications between local offices and SAS world headquarters. •P ut plans in place to recover SAS’ most critical business operations that support customers. This includes annual qualification of key partner and supplier dependencies to Download section support strategies for continued operations. 1.4 Continuity of Business SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107776_G48762.0617 14 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 2 Environmental Program Protecting the environment for a brighter future SAS reduces its environmental footprint with multiyear • Generated 3.8 million kWh of clean, renewably sourced programs focused on energy conservation and solar energy from rooftop and ground-mounted solar systems. projects, emission management, pollution mitigation, water • Improved CDP score to a B performance rating. conservation, waste reduction and recycling, procurement • Diverted 62.6 percent of operational and construction and green building. View environmental performance waste from landfills globally. reports using SAS® Visual Analytics to see how SAS uses its own software to collect, manage, calculate and report its • Initiated LEED® certification for SAS’ largest office building global environmental footprint. Top 2016 achievements: and data center. • Energy consumption decreased by .1 percent despite • Reduced paper use per employee from 1,254 sheets to adding more than 190,000 square feet of office space 1,067 – a 15 percent decrease from 2015 and close to a globally a 4.4 percent increase. 60 percent reduction since 2009. • Energy use intensity for office buildings decreased • Water use intensity for office buildings decreased 9 percent 3.6 percent to 15.9 kWh per square foot. to 16.4 gallons per square foot. • Energy consumption in SAS data centers decreased 3.9 percent despite adding almost 2,000 additional servers. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.G48769.0617 15 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 2.1 Environmental Program Environmental Governance SAS’ sustainability performance is reviewed by executive responsible practices, and seek innovative solutions to leadership to provide guidance on conducting global optimize operational efficiencies. operations in a sustainable manner. Environmental Mandates Implementing environmental strategies is largely the The following corporate mandates provide guidance domain of the SAS Corporate Services Division Environfor adhering to policy and establishing priorities for mental Management Program. The program facilitates environmental initiatives. environmental efforts at company headquarters in the US, collects and reports key environmental indicators for • Corporate priority. Establish policies, programs and global operations, and provides guidance and support to practices for conducting operations in an environmentally offices worldwide. Offices around the globe have personnel sound manner. who manage site-specific environmental initiatives. • Integrated management. Integrate environmental policies, Members of the Environmental Management Program are programs and practices into all functions, business units part of the CSR Task Force that meets regularly to address and global offices. environmental and social responsibility initiatives throughout SAS’ business operations. • Continual improvement. Continue to raise the bar on performance, aligning with technological developments, Environmental Policy scientific understanding and stakeholder expectations. SAS is an active and committed partner in communities where employees live, work and conduct business. SAS • Employee education. Educate, train and motivate recognizes that environmental responsibility is a continuous employees to conduct activities in an environmentally effort that requires prudent use and preservation of natural responsible manner. resources. The company encourages business operations around the world to minimize environmental impacts by • Assessment. Conduct impact assessments before starting exceeding all environmental regulations. To accomplish a new activity or project and before decommissioning a this, all employees are asked to adhere to the company’s facility or leaving a site. environmental mandates, integrate environmentally 16 section 2.1 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Environmental Governance pg.2 •P  roducts and services. Provide products or services that ISO Compliance have no undue environmental impact throughout the The Environmental Management Program applies best product life cycle – from development to delivery, use practice ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and disposal. processes and structure to include: • Customer support. Advise and educate customers, • Using SAS software solutions and other tools to measure distributors and the public in the safe and environmentally and improve environmental performance. responsible use, transportation, storage and disposal of SAS® products. • Ensuring environmental affairs are addressed by executive management. •F  acilities and operations. Develop, design and operate facilities and conduct activities with continual • Addressing immediate and long-term impacts of products, consideration for minimizing resource consumption, services and processes on the environment. adverse environmental impact and waste. • Providing global direction about addressing environmental • Research. Conduct or support research on the concerns through the allocation of resources, assignment environmental impacts of SAS activities and how to of responsibility, and ongoing evaluation of practices, minimize adverse impacts. procedures and processes. • Contractors and suppliers. Promote these principles to • Enabling continual improvement of environmental processes. SAS contractors and suppliers, encouraging and (where appropriate) requiring improvements. Naturally, SAS uses its own technology to measure and analyze the performance of its sustainability initiatives. SAS Precautionary Approach software calculates the company’s global carbon footprint SAS supports a precautionary approach to minimizing and the impacts of business processes and mitigation anthropogenic impacts from business operations. initiatives. SAS solutions support the application of global This aligns with SAS’ philosophy in five meaningful ways: standards such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the Global Reporting Initiative. Adherence to global standards 1. To ensure business operations do not expose the public provides for measurement and reporting in the countries in and environment to harm. which SAS operates. 2. To comply with environmental regulations. 3. To encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 4. T o promote environmental awareness via increased transparency and access to meaningful data so analytics can be used to make intelligent and responsible decisions. 5. To show that environmental responsibility is not just about goodwill; it makes good business sense. Download section 2.1 Enviromental Governance SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107777_G48829.0517 17 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 2.2 Environmental Program Energy and Emissions SAS’ Environmental Management Program assigns top from connected devices, social media and the Internet of priority to minimizing energy consumption and related Things (IoT) to fuel efficiencies, innovation and improve emissions from its operations. The energy and emissions stewardship of natural resources. management program includes energy sourcing, conservation and generation, policy compliance, and Emissions Management employee education and engagement. and Emissions Mitigation SAS decreased energy consumption by .1 percent in 2016, SAS® software improves processes for collecting, underdespite staff growth of 2 percent, facilities growth of 4.4 standing and managing energy and emissions requirements percent (190,494 square feet), and rapidly expanding data for facilities worldwide, increasing the ability to report and center operations to satisfy growing customer demand for proactively influence consumption trends. The program uses computing and storage solutions. SAS software to identify reduction strategies, develop and monitor performance indicators, understand relationships In 2016, 76 percent of SAS energy consumption was between measures, determine initiatives with the greatest sourced from electricity suppliers and on-site solar effect, and communicate strategy, goals and objectives to generation. Approximately 28 percent was used for facilitate execution. building heating, ventilation and cooling. Key energy and emissions mitigation initiatives include 2016 Data calculating and reporting global carbon footprint, building • SAS’ environmental footprint was mitigated by ongoing and maintaining facilities to LEED® guidelines, investing investment in energy-efficient technologies, smart in renewable energy, pursuing new, energy-efficient energy sensors, solar, retro-commissioning of primary technologies for operating buildings and data centers, office buildings, and adoption of LEED best practices. and proactively maintaining facilities to the highest efficiency standards. • Energy efficiency gains from office buildings (4,409 gigajoules) and data centers (5,163 gigajoules) offset SAS also partnered with Envision America/Envision growth from 190,494 square feet of office space added Charlotte to help American cities launch smart-city in 2016. initiatives by harnessing the explosion of data sourced 18 section 2.2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Energy and Emissions pg.2 • Global emissions were relatively flat, increasing only .6 percent. Energy Efficiency SAS analyzes operational data to optimize develop• A primary office building at SAS headquarters deployed ment and delivery of its products and services to more than 100 wireless energy sensors as part of a smart customers. The efficiency chart below highlights a campus initiative to improve access to interval energy sustainable trend of decreasing energy growth data in older SAS buildings. against increasing revenues. • SAS initiated LEED certification for its largest office In 2016, SAS’ revenue increased, while overall energy building and data center. Formal certification is use remained flat, making services more energyexpected in 2017. SAS currently has nine LEED efficient for customers. certified buildings globally. • Use of renewable energy remains a priority for SAS as an integral part of a strategy to reduce emissions. Revenue vs. Energy Growth In 2016, SAS renewable energy generation totaled more than 3.8 million kWh. • SAS continued support for plug-in electric vehicles by providing charging stations with free electricity and premium parking for employees and visitors. Through 2016, employees at the world headquarters campus own approximately 3 percent of registered plug-in electric vehicles in the state of North Carolina. SAS is a member of the US Department of Energy (DOE) Workplace Charging Challenge and was awarded the DOE Leading the Charge recognition for a third time. Office Building Energy Use Intensity Energy use intensity for office buildings decreased 3.6 percent to 15.9 kWh per square foot. Since 2010, the aggregate intensity has decreased 30.3 percent. 19 section 2.2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Energy and Emissions pg.3 Click here to access dynamic environmental reporting using SAS Visual Analytics. Energy Trend (Gigajoules) 2016 Energy by Type Energy Variance (Gigajoules) 2016 Energy by Source (Gigajoules) 2016 Energy by Region (Gigajoules) 20 section 2.2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Energy and Emissions pg.4 Click here to access dynamic environmental reporting using SAS Visual Analytics. CDP Data Center Operations SAS annually completes the CDP Supply Chain questionnaire Energy for data center operations is the largest contributor to related to greenhouse gas emissions inventory and climate SAS’ environmental footprint. Over the past decade, the chalchange management. In 2016, SAS continued to research lenge of delivering timely information to support enterprise options for incorporating corporate social responsibility analytics has increased exponentially. Additional computing elements into procurement processes and reducing and storage solutions, combined with IT globalization, has environmental impact of supply chain processes. increased demand for energy and data center space. To SAS achieved an overall CDP performance score of B-. maintain the support expected by customers, SAS invested The average performance score for more than 4,300 in high-efficiency technologies and design to construct a supplier responses was D. new, dedicated computing facility, emphasizing efficiency, flexibility and sustainability. Global Emissions Variance (t CO2e) SAS data center operations regularly achieve an average power usage effectiveness (PUE) of 1.35 or better. A PUE of 2.0 means that for every watt of IT power consumed, an additional watt is consumed to cool and distribute power. Thus a PUE closer to 1.0 indicates greater efficiency. 2016 Data Despite adding 55 percent more servers in 2016, SAS data centers managed to decrease energy consumption by 3.9 percent. 2016 Emissions by Scope Solar and Renewable Energy Since 2008, when SAS broke the solar energy 1 megawatt barrier for the Southeast US, the capacity of solar installations in North Carolina has grown to 3,016 MW – ranking No. 2 nationally. SAS proved solar was viable, and the community responded. 2016 Data SAS’ nine solar installations generated 13,495 gigajoules of clean renewable energy. Since 2008, SAS has generated more than 98,000 gigajoules of solar energy – approximately Global Emissions (t CO2e) 88 percent was sold to North Carolina utilities in support of the state’s Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard. At a combined 2.2 MW in capacity, SAS’ solar farms are located on 12 acres at world headquarters in Cary, NC. The photovoltaic (PV) solar arrays generate 3.8 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy each year, reducing carbon dioxide emissions by more than 2,000 tons annually — the amount of emissions produced by consuming more than 367,000 gallons of gasoline. 21 section 2.2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Energy and Emissions pg.4 •S  olar Farm I (December 2008): 1 MW in capacity, five acres and 5,040 panels; generates 1.7 million kWh of clean renewable energy annually. •S  olar Farm II (July 2010): 1.2 MW in capacity, seven acres and 5,236 panels; generates 1.9 million kWh of clean renewable energy annually. •B  uilding C: 405 roof-mounted panels, 74 KW-capacity solar PV system; generates 100,000 kWh of electricity annually. • Building R: 702 roof-mounted panels, 169 KW-capacity solar PV system; generates 200,000 kWh of electricity annually. •B  uilding Q: 176 roof-mounted panels, 45 KW-capacity solar PV system; generates 60,000 kWh of electricity annually. •S  AS Sweden: 80 roof-mounted panels, 20 KW-capacity solar PV system; generates 25,000 kWh of electricity annually. •B  uilding T: 24 roof-mounted 4-by-10-foot solar thermal panels provide hot water for on-site cafeteria. Solar Energy Trend (Gigajoules) •B  uilding G: 42 roof-mounted 4-by-10-foot solar thermal panels provide hot water for showers and laundry for the campus gymnasium. •B  uilding C: Eight roof-mounted 5-by-6-foot evacuatedtube type solar thermal panels produce hot water for on-site cafeteria. The system works in concert with a building HVAC chilled water system and uses additional heat extracted from water-to-water heat pumps. Solar Energy Variance (Gigajoules) Download section 2.2 Energy and Emissions All reports are based on actual resource data collected from owned and leased offices, and intensity metrics applied to approximately 21 percent of leased office space that does not have access to actual data. SAS applies The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol recommended standards and IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) factors to report emissions inventories under our operational control. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107778_G48758.0517 22 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 2.3 Environmental Program Landfill Diversion The SAS Waste Management Program at world • Grassroots programs for employees reduce waste and headquarters measures and monitors the waste stream, encourage recycling efforts. with significant environmental benefits resulting from efforts at individual and local levels. For example: • Since 2009, operational waste diverted from landfills has increased from 26 percent to better than 50 percent. • SAS provides on-site recycling for aluminum, batteries, cardboard, electronics, magazines, glass, newspaper, 2016 Data pallets, paper, plastic bottles, printer cartridges, scrap Globally, SAS disposed of 2,050 metric tons of operational metal and more. waste, including paper, food, cardboard, composting, aluminum and plastic, and other nonconstruction waste •S AS strives for 100 percent e-waste recycling by repurposmaterial. This amount is 5.3 percent, or 114 metric tons, ing equipment for internal use, recycling with responsible less than 2015. vendors and donating to educational institutions. Highlights from 2016 include: • Polystyrene-based disposables have been replaced with • SAS diverted 62.6 percent of operational and construction compostable options. waste (2,068 metric tons) from landfills through recycling and waste management worldwide. • Cafeteria food waste is composted and used by SAS landscapers; waste vegetable oil is recycled and • Construction projects at world headquarters achieved converted into biodiesel fuel. an astounding 90 percent landfill diversion rate on more than 1,251 metric tons of waste. •O  nline resources reduce paper consumption globally. • SAS diverted 100 percent of e-waste from landfills by •S  AS strongly encourages the use of biodegradable and repurposing equipment for internal use, recycling and recyclable materials. donating to educational institutions. •B  uilding construction projects regularly exceed 85 Click here to access dynamic environmental reporting percent waste diversion from landfills. using SAS Visual Analytics. 23 section 2.3 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Landfill Diversion pg.2 Operational Waste Disposal by Year (Metric Tons) Operational Waste Variance (Metric Tons) Landfill Diversion Rate Trend 2016 Recycling by Material Type 2016 Landfill and Recycling Rate 2016 Operational Waste (Metric Tons) 24 section 2.3 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Landfill Diversion pg.3 Paper Consumption Like most businesses, SAS is dependent on paper products Reuse. When SAS does print, employees are encouraged to to conduct business operations. SAS is making progress in find creative ways to reuse scrap paper. Ideas include using three key ways: scrap paper for notes, reprinting, packaging material for shipping and on-site composting. Reduce. SAS has significantly reduced print volumes by delivering less physical media to customers. This includes Recycle. SAS recycled 145 metric tons of paper materials reducing inventories and increasing efficiencies by using a in 2016 – 19.4 percent less than 2015. SAS is not only using print-on-demand model; convenient access to online less paper, but switched our standard office paper used documentation; education and awareness campaigns; for copiers and printers from 30 percent to 50 percent and personal choices. Since 2009, the average annual post-consumer recycled content. In 2016, the average pages of paper used by employees has dropped from recycled content for all paper at SAS headquarters is 2,631 to 1,067 – a 59.4 percent decrease. Globally, SAS 38 percent. used 67 metric tons of paper for printing in 2016. Paper Use (Metric Ton) Paper Use Trend (Sheets per Employee) Hazardous Materials 2016 Data As a software company, SAS does not handle raw materials, SAS did not have any spills of hazardous materials, oil, fuel, conflict minerals, hazardous wastes or related supplies waste or chemicals, and did not have any fines for noncomplitypical of traditional manufacturing. While risks are minimal, ance with environmental legislation. SAS is very careful to SAS places the utmost importance in abiding by industry minimize environmental impact as the company continues to best practices and governing regulations, including: grow. The company strictly adheres to environmental regulations. • Compliance with all Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations for handling All reports are based on actual resource data collected from hazardous materials. owned and leased offices, and intensity metrics applied to approximately 21 percent of leased office space that does not • Plans for Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure have access to actual data. that meet US Environmental Protection Agency regulations. Download section 2.3 Landfill Diversion SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107779_G48768.0617 25 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 2.4 Environmental Program Water Conservation SAS’ 900-acre headquarters in Cary, NC, and 13 owned sites • Native and drought-resistant plants and warm-season globally use water for office and data center cooling, cafés, grasses require less frequent irrigation. gymnasiums, landscaping and employee consumption. Water conservation is of paramount importance to SAS, with • Timely repair of leaking pipes and the installation of many facilities operating in communities where water low-flow toilets, shower heads and faucet aerators save shortfalls and water use restrictions are standard. At SAS at least 1.4 million gallons each year. headquarters, coupling water-saving technologies and practice with increased employee awareness has resulted 2016 Data in significant savings. For example: • SAS water use decreased by 5 percent in 2016. The 14,925 cubic meter decrease was primarily due to a reduction in • Low-flow and electronically activated plumbing fixtures irrigation scheduling (8,046 cubic meters) and use of greatly reduce employee water consumption, saving 63 higher-efficiency cooling towers (9,028 cubic meters) at percent more compared to standard fixtures. headquarters. These savings offset increases from the addition of more than 190,000 square feet of office space •R ooftop rainwater collection systems capture water for use globally. in bathrooms. • Overall building efficiency improvements contributed • Cooling towers are replaced with high-efficiency models to a lower employee water use intensity rate of 16.4 that use reclaimed water. gallons per square foot – a 9 percent improvement from 18 gallons per square foot reported in 2015. • Wastewater options such as reclaimed and gray water lower potable water consumption. • Returned 42 percent (104,889 cubic meters) of municipal water for treatment by local utilities. • Reducing and customizing irrigation schedules avoids overwatering plants. Click here to access dynamic environmental reporting using SAS Visual Analytics. • Collecting rainwater in retention ponds and cisterns minimizes stormwater runoff and provides water for landscape irrigation. 26 section 2.4 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Water Conservation pg.2 Water Trend (Cubic Meters) Water Variance (Cubic Meters) 2016 Water Percentage by Source All reports are based on actual resource data collected from owned and leased offices, and intensity metrics applied to approximately 21 percent of leased office space that does not have access to actual data. Download section 2.4 Water Conservation SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107780_G48767.0617 27 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 2.5 Environmental Program Green Building Practices SAS strives to be a leader in environmental sustainability. Carolina in 2011. The building consumes 40 percent less Around the world, SAS is committed to making a difference. energy and 50 percent less water by integrating highly To achieve this goal, SAS embraces Leadership in Energy efficient technologies and sustainable features: and Environmental Design (LEED®) guidelines for new construction and remodeling and retrofitting existing • Photovoltaic panels generate 100,000 kWh annually to buildings. Since 2005, all new office buildings and data support lighting and building systems. centers have achieved LEED certification. • Solar thermal panels provide hot water for the café. SAS’ nine LEED-certified buildings include Platinum-level certification for the Executive Briefing Center at world • Thermal slab floor cooling uses water cooled in headquarters. Platinum is the highest level awarded by the off-peak hours by building chillers to help maximize US Green Building Council (USGBC). SAS holds a Silver level air conditioning efficiency. national membership with the USGBC. For offices located in countries that do not use LEED, SAS is incorporating • Radiant floor heating is used in the atrium for greater country-specific best practices and pursuing equivalent occupant comfort and minimizes heat loss through the roof. certifications for new construction and maintenance. • Highly efficient HVAC systems integrate economizers, Examples of SAS’ commitment to green building enthalpy wheels, variable speed drives, and various heat practices include: recovery systems to increase energy savings. World Headquarters: Building C — • T5 fluorescent and LED lighting fixtures – along with LEED Platinum Certified Office Building individual lighting controls, motion sensors and automatic Building C includes the Executive Briefing Center, café and timers – save energy. an office tower for employees. The Executive Briefing Center uses cutting-edge technologies to help customers learn • A one-acre sedum green roof minimizes stormwater runoff about SAS software. Building C achieved LEED Platinum and insulation, significantly reducing the heat-island effect certification for water and energy conservation, the first for for this microclimate. any building in Wake County and only the fifth in North 28 section 2.5 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Green Building Practices pg.2 •L ow-flow and electronically activated plumbing fixtures Solna, Sweden: greatly reduce employee water consumption, saving 63 LEED Gold Certified Office Building percent more compared to standard fixtures. Sweden’s newest office building was awarded LEED Gold certification. The facility features geothermal energy wells for •A rainwater collection system with two 20,000-gallon efficient heating and cooling, rooftop solar photovoltaic cisterns captures water for use in bathrooms. panels, a sedum-covered green roof, and even on-site beehives, which provide natural honey for the cafeteria. •A 655,000-gallon retention pond collects stormwater runoff for landscape irrigation. Toronto: • LEED existing building certification. LEED Silver Certified Office Building SAS Toronto was the first LEED-certified new office building in Canada. With rainwater harvesting and energy conservation World Headquarters: Building D — measures saving more than 6 million kWh of energy per year, LEED Gold Certified Data Center the SAS building has served as an inspiration for many other The 38,660-square-foot facility includes two server farms, new buildings in Toronto. providing additional data handling for expanded SAS® OnDemand offerings, hosted solutions and continued R&D growth. Environmental technology designed into São Paulo, Brazil: the building, which earned LEED Gold certification by LEED Certified Office Building Renovation the USGBC, includes a reclaimed water system and SAS’ leased office in São Paulo received LEED certification mechanical and electrical systems emphasizing efficiency for an office renovation project in 2013. of operation. Building D has also achieved LEED existing building certification. 2016 Data Green building highlights from 2016 include: World Headquarters: Building Q — • 51 percent of office building space and 61 percent of data LEED Gold Certified Office Building center space at Cary headquarters is LEED certified. The 220,660-square-foot office building features rooftop solar photovoltaic panels, highly insulated exterior wall and • Energy Star certification for two additional buildings at roofing systems, highly efficient heating and air conditioning, SAS headquarters. mechanical systems, energy recovery units and a water-side • Initiated LEED certification for SAS’ largest office building heat exchanger, extensive use of LED lighting, and reclaimed and data center. water use for cooling towers, irrigation and toilets. The parking lot has 12 spaces designated for plug-in electric vehicles with access to electric vehicle charging stations World Headquarters: Buildings S, T & U — LEED Certified Existing Office Buildings In 2013, Building T at world headquarters in Cary, NC, was the first SAS building to be awarded LEED certification for an existing building. Since then, SAS has achieved LEED existing building certifications for buildings S and U. These buildings are Energy Star certified and feature the use of solar panels, energy-efficient lighting and automation controls, and low-flow bathroom fixtures. They have also completed advanced retro-commissioning to ensure optimal performance for all building systems. Download section 2.5 Green Building Practices SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107781_G52378.0517 29 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 2.6 Environmental Program Biodiversity SAS is careful to minimize impact on biodiversity and • Harvesting timber from construction sites so artisans surrounding habitats as it grows and expands its operational can craft unique pieces of furniture and accent walls footprint. SAS adheres to the US Green Building Council for buildings. LEED® guidelines for protecting natural environments and promoting biodiversity in areas where the company • Restoring land disturbed by construction projects with operates. Of approximately 900 acres at SAS headquarters, native and adaptive drought-tolerant plants that help about 100 acres feature buildings, roads or other impervious local ecosystems thrive and reduce dependence on water surfaces. The remaining 800 acres are retained as and chemicals. old-growth woodland, lakes and streams, farmland, natural areas and approximately 60 acres of maintained lawns, • Growing local produce for SAS cafeterias in primarily for employee recreation and landscaping. on-site gardens. The company applies LEED best practice guidelines for new 2016 Data and existing building projects, smart land use planning and SAS initiated LEED certification for our largest office building campus landscaping, such as: and data center. Adoption of green building practices includes a substantial effort to minimize environmental • Preserving large areas of open space in construction impact for both construction and ongoing operation. projects to minimize disruption to local ecosystems. Building design and construction processes ensure a minimal site footprint, higher than mandated erosion • Reducing the heat island effect by installing white reflective and stormwater controls, reduced heat island impact, materials and planting sedum on rooftops. Sedum increasmaximized green space, use of native and droughtes insulation, minimizes stormwater runoff and provides tolerant plants, and more. habitat for wildlife. • Collecting rainwater from rooftop systems, retention ponds Download section and cisterns to minimize stormwater runoff and provide 2.6 Biodiversity water for landscape irrigation. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107782_G48766.0517 30 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 2.7 Environmental Program Awareness and Engagement In addition to employing sustainability measures globally, benefits of maintaining the state’s Renewable Energy and SAS promotes environmental education and awareness. Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard. Activities include educational campaigns, speaking engagements, SAS solar farm visits, companywide Earth Day • SAS Eco Advocates, an employee volunteer group who activities, articles on the internal green website, white papers supports environmental activities, spent a day landscaping and webcasts. By engaging with customers, employees, common areas in a state park near the Cary, NC, campus, industry leaders and world leaders, SAS seeks to extend participated in the EarthShare North Carolina Corporate the reach of its sustainability initiatives. Earth Day Challenge, and collected tiger footprint data from Carolina Tiger Rescue to improve techniques for SAS works with leading international organizations to apply identifying endangered tiger species in the wild. technology to address greenhouse gas emissions, as well as other environmental and social concerns. Customers • SAS Eco Advocates also partnered with the Duke Nicholas use SAS® software to generate power efficiently, promote School of the Environment to collect data from our office better use of critical resources, minimize waste, assist buildings and contribute toward a global initiative to environmental protection agencies, and improve the reduce bird collisions with buildings. production and delivery of goods. • SAS hosted a BMW electric vehicle test drive for employees 2016 Data to learn more about plug-in electric vehicles and charging SAS employees joined in various activities to raise awareness infrastructure. about the benefits of renewable energy, conserving energy, reducing waste, reducing water use, and protecting the Electric Vehicle Support and the environment. SAS held weeklong Earth Week celebrations Eco-Commuter Program at its world headquarters campus, while offices around the SAS makes a priority of minimizing energy consumption globe engaged employees with stewardship initiatives. and related emissions from its operations. The SAS Some US activities included: Eco-Commuter Parking Program encourages employees to mitigate the environmental impacts of their daily commute •S AS reissued a letter to the North Carolina General by providing specially marked preferred parking spaces for Assembly advocating the economic and environmental plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs), low-emission vehicles and 31 section 2.7 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Awareness and Engagement pg.2 active carpool participants. Eco-Commuter parking The SAS Eco-Commuter Program also provides subsidized includes 100 designated PEV spaces with access to employee vanpools and bike racks at all office buildings. 48 charging stations. SAS provides free charging for all employees and visitors. In 2016, SAS was awarded the Department of Energy Leading the Charge recognition for a third time. SAS also Through 2016, employees at SAS headquarters in Cary, NC, participated on a Ceres Department of Energy electric own approximately 3 percent of PEVs in North Carolina. vehicle webinar. View SAS’ participation in the Department of Energy’s Workplace Charging Challenge. Employees share the charging station infrastructure by following the SAS Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Use Policy and Guidelines. Download section 2.7 Awareness and Engagement SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107783_G48830.0517 32 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 3 Employees & Culture SAS’ world-renowned culture is based on trust, flexibility and values SAS is not only known as the pioneer in analytics but as the pioneer in workplace culture. SAS’ culture is anchored by meaningful work, excellent leadership and a world-class work environment. The company has been ranked on the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For list since the list’s inception for its corporate culture – which encourages work/life balance. SAS employees share a common spirit and a passion for their work, their customers and one another. It’s truly a workplace like no other, based on the belief that happy, healthy people have a passionate engagement with life – and bring it to work. We understand there’s a direct correlation between our culture and business success with 40 years of uninterrupted revenue growth and profitability. If you treat employees well, they will continue to innovate and create amazing software that creates happy customers. 33 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 3.1 Employees & Culture Workplace Culture SAS’ engaging environment enables employees to build lasting 2016 Data relationships with customers and drive the innovation that sustains SAS earned 26 workplace culture awards, including the No. 8 the company’s leadership in advanced analytics. SAS is recogranking on the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For and nized worldwide for being a great workplace and for working to No. 2 for World’s Best Multinational Workplaces. ensure that employees stay healthy, active and engaged. Download section 3.1Workplace Culture Awards earned for 2016 • 100 Best Workplaces for Women • Best Workplaces Spain 2016 • 2016 Best Places to Work Australia • Best Workplaces Switzerland 2016 • Best Businesses to Work For Argentina • Best Workplaces in Mexico: Gender Equality • Best Companies to Work for in Asia 2016 Hong Kong • Best Workplace in Technology • Best Companies to Work for in Asia 2016 Malaysia • Canada’s Greenest Employers 2016 • Best Multinational Workplaces Europe 2016 • Computerworld’s 100 Best Places to Work in IT • Best Places to Work for Recent Grads • Forbes America’s Best Employers • Best Workplaces Canada 2016 • Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For • Best Workplaces Greece 2016 • India’s Best Companies to Work For • Best Workplaces Ireland 2016 • Top Employers 2016 Brazil • Best Workplaces Italy 2016 • Top Employers 2016 France • Best Workplaces Portugal 2016 • World’s Best Multinational Workplaces SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.107784_G48371.0417 34 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 3.2 Employees & Culture Hiring and Retaining Staff SAS cultivates the optimal environment for creativity, encouraging employees to take risks and exceed expectations while helping them balance work and life. SAS not only invests in employee career development, but also health and well-being through several services, programs and benefits. 2016 Data SAS maintained its perennially low turnover rate while sustaining its worldwide headcount. SAS did not have any substantiated and material negative incidents with regard to employee discrimination or harassment. At the end of 2016, SAS had 14,058 employees worldwide and 7,112 US employees. Voluntary Employee Turnover In the US, the average employee tenure is eight years, compared to an industry average of 4.6 years.¹ Reducing turnover reduces recruitment costs, helping the company retain knowledge and deliver deeper, longer-term customer relationships. This means SAS employees spend more time on productivity and less time training new hires on their roles in the company. SAS sees a strong connection between employee loyalty and business success. 2016 Data SAS’ voluntary employee turnover rate was 6 percent. The average industry turnover rate was 18.4 percent.² 1 US Bureau of Labor Statistics 2 Ibid. 35 section 3.2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Hiring and Retaining Staff pg.2 US Turnover Summary – 2016 US staff turnover 2014 2015 2016 Type Turnover number 349 353 437 Turnover percentage 5.2% 5.1% 6% By age group 19-31 45 72 48 32-44 124 110 127 45-63 128 122 228 64 and up 52 49 34 By gender Female 156 149 165 Male 193 204 272 Diversity and Equal Opportunity • Food and Service Training (FAST) students from Wake SAS’ work teams thrive on a diverse interplay of experiCounty Public Schools receive credit toward Occupaence, backgrounds and perspectives. Employees’ tional Course of Study Diplomas by volunteering with collective strength and passion for what they do ignites corporate mentors to learn basic workplace skills. big ideas and powerful bonds. SAS continues to provide • Arc of Wake County to help match people in the equal employment opportunity for all employees regardcommunity with disabilities who are seeking competiless of age, race, color, gender identity, religion, creed, tive employment with appropriate jobs and on-site ancestry, national origin, citizenship, marital status, sexual coaching. In some cases, students gain work credit to orientation, disability, medical condition, veteran status, meet requirements for OCS Diplomas. pregnancy or any other protected class as defined by federal, state or local law. To promote diversity and equal • R3 and VETS (Veteran Employment, Training and opportunity, SAS engages in the following: Support) summer student programs that symbolize SAS’ commitment to “Recognize, Recruit and Retain” • Enable America partnership to provide job shadowing women, minorities, and military veterans in the field of and mentoring for transitioning veterans. technology. • Women’s Initiative Network (WIN), a SAS interest group dedicated to inspiring, encouraging and empowering women through networking, career development and community service. • Treatment and Education of Autistic and Related Communication Handicapped Children (TEACCH) program provides job coaches for long-term autistic employees who work in SAS cafes. Download section 3.2 Hiring and Retaining Staff SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107785_D27187.0416 36 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 3.3 Employees & Culture Skills Development SAS supports the idea that all employees have a natural In addition to skills training, SAS has created a program desire to learn and grow. As part of its culture and benefits specifically for employees pursuing leadership and for employees, SAS provides many opportunities for management training. Courses are offered at different employees to develop, whether for specific job skills, levels within the organization to cultivate and nurture internal business acumen or interpersonal competence. Training talent. In 2016, SAS provided 104 leadership development includes instructor-led classes, e-learning and live web offerings, including 19 courses, training 1,968 people. training. Employees at all levels are encouraged to pursue SAS offers a wide array of training options that enable training to keep their skills sharp and learn new techniques employees to find their best learning method to meet to improve their professional capabilities. work and career goals. 2016 Data Approximately 95 percent of employees participated in professional training, totaling 176,000 hours. Download section 3.3 Skills Development Employee Type Average Time in Training Training Breakdown Full-time 25 hours (same as last year) Classroom 68% Webcast and video 31% Reading material 1% Training programs include Leadership development Interpersonal development Sales training Technical training SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. 37 Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107785_G48364.0417 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 3.4 Employees & Culture Health and Safety Around the globe, SAS provides a safe and healthy working through an intranet site, which includes FAQs, tips and environment for all its employees. Each SAS office manages information about a safe work skills program for manual labor its own health and safety programs. Resources and best employees. It also provides an assessment request form that practices are available from the headquarters office in the US; employees can complete for a personal work-site evaluation however, each program is designed to fit the needs of that by one of two full-time ergonomics specialists. particular location. Absenteeism Many SAS offices around the globe have exercise facilities By providing a safe, nurturing work environment, SAS strives on-site or have access to regional fitness clubs. All employees to keep employees productive and effective in their roles. have access to health care coverage that is tailored to the One measure of that success is the absenteeism rate. cultural norms and local laws of each region. At the world headquarters in Cary, NC, an on-site health care center 2016 Data SAS recorded an absence rate of four days per full-time provides comprehensive services that promote optimal employee. This accounts for the following absence types: sick, health. The staff includes family nurse practitioners, physicians, time away medical, time away non-medical, floating holiday, registered dietitians/nutritionists, nurses, medical laboratory school leave, jury duty, military and bereavement. technologists, a psychologist and physical therapists. The Security & Safety and Risk Management departments Injuries/Lost Days-US 2 2014 2015 2016 investigate any incidents that pose a danger to company employees or third parties and take measures to reduce Total Employees 6,862 7,117 7,112 or eliminate these hazards. These departments provide Compensation Claims 22=0.32% 41=0.58% 48=0.67% additional training and resources to help identify and prevent Lost Working Days 129 200.25 227.5 similar incidents from causing injury or damage to individuals. 2 Numbers may vary based on a dynamic time frame. SAS also has an Ergonomics department that supports employees through personal assessments and training. Download section The department provides further educational resources 3.4 Health and Safety SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107787_G48374.0417 38 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 4 Education & Philanthropy Meeting the challenges of the new millennium SAS CEO Jim Goodnight refers to education as the engine of economic growth. By supporting efforts that prepare more graduates for college, work and success in the 21st century, SAS continues to play a vital role in the global community. For the last 25 years, SAS has made education its primary philanthropic focus. As a company, we believe that quality public education is a critical imperative for our children and for the country in this competitive, global economy. We are actively engaged in ensuring that all students have the support necessary to reach their full potential and become productive citizens. In North Carolina and around the world, SAS targets education initiatives in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) to ensure the next generation of computer innovators has the knowledge and skills to succeed. SAS also supports thoughtful and evidenced-based approaches to increasing third-grade reading proficiency, which is critical to ensuring students leave high school ready for college and careers. 39 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 4.1 Education & Philanthropy P-12 Education The quality of education in the P-12 system directly affects exam, a globally recognized certification. These resources are economic growth and prosperity. In fact, reading proficiently available to educators at no cost. at the end of third grade is a key milestone to success in school and beyond. Students who do not achieve this STEM Career Showcase for milestone are four times more likely to drop out of school. Students With Disabilities SAS partnered with the North Carolina Museum of Natural In its effort to increase access to skills in the critical areas of Sciences to create an annual event where students with STEM, SAS offers several products and services at no cost disabilities in grades three through 12 interact with college to schools. students and professionals with a variety of disabilities who have forged successful career paths in STEM fields. Students SAS® Curriculum Pathways® and network with role models who are pushing the boundaries of SAS® Mobile Learning Apps knowledge, building innovative products and creating the SAS Curriculum Pathways provides interactive, standardstechnologies of the future. The 2016 event was attended by based resources in the core disciplines for middle and high nearly 300 students and chaperones, with countless more school students in traditional, virtual or home learning viewing online. environments. From preschool children to lifelong learners, SAS mobile learning apps engage students of all ages. SAS Support for 1-to-1 Learning Curriculum Pathways and SAS mobile learning apps are SAS was a founding partner of the North Carolina 1:1 available to every educator in the world at no cost. In 2016, Learning Collaborative, a public-private partnership more than 2 million teachers and students used the free providing laptops, professional development and critical digital resources for P-12. support to schools in rural areas. The results from the project, have become best practices for schools and SAS® Programming for High School districts undertaking a 1-to-1 initiative. SAS provides five days of training, all instructional materials, assessments and teaching guides necessary to teach SAS Triangle High Five Math Collaborative programming to high school students. Students will leave this This collaborative effort has helped mathematics teachers course with skills that allow them to sit for the SAS Certification identify and engage highly effective instructional practices 40 section 4.1 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 P-12 Education pg.2 and address disparities in math achievement related to race enthusiasm about careers in STEM. They engaged students and income. Schools in the Triangle High Five partnership, with real-world examples, shared insights from their own which includes five public school districts, are striving to careers and emphasized how school prepared them for prepare more students to be successful in math and achieve success. In 2016, SAS volunteers conducting Hours of Code their highest potential. Nearly 800 elementary and middle reached more than 3,000 students. school teachers attended the seventh annual Math Summit at SAS also supports other organizations devoted to improving SAS, a two-day professional development event. the quality of education, including the Emerging Issues Forum, Support for STEM Careers BEST NC, NC Public School Forum, Business Roundtable and SAS again held a SAS STEM Career Day, in conjunction with other nonprofits. Hour of Code and Computer Science Education Week, where volunteers ventured into classrooms to generate SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. Download section ® indicates USA registration.Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107788_G48776.0417 4.1 P-12 Education 41 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 4.2 Education & Philanthropy Higher Education Preparing the Next Generation are provided free of charge, with copyright permission for Big data has created an unprecedented demand for analytics professors to use any of the content in their own class notes. talent that outpaces qualified applicants. To address that skills SAS also provides numerous guest lecturers to universities gap, in 2014 the company launched SAS Analytics U, an and community colleges – at no cost to the institutions. SAS initiative including free SAS software, focused on helping trained more than 3,200 professors and students in the use students gain new skills and provide more opportunities for and instruction of analytics in 2016. their education and career. Analytics Degree Programs Free Software for Higher Education SAS partners with traditional and nontraditional graduate and and Adult Learners undergraduate programs around the world to create degree Through SAS University Edition and SAS OnDemand for and certificate programs that generate the analytical talent Academics, professors, students, researchers and independent organizations need to make the most of big data. SAS has learners have free access to SAS software for teaching and helped launch 65 master’s and undergraduate degrees and learning valuable analytics skills. Students and independent nearly 140 certificate programs in analytics and related learners can jump-start careers and appeal to talent-hungry disciplines. New programs in 2016 include ones at Arizona employers by building analytics expertise. Downloads and State University, Auckland University of Technology (New registrations of SAS University Edition and SAS OnDemand for Zealand), Stirling University (United Kingdom), University of Academics grew 74 percent in 2016 to approximately 907,000, Texas at San Antonio, University of Orléans (France) and and more than 55,000 people registered for free e-learning Wake Forest University. courses in statistics and programming. SAS Student Programs and Scholarships Support to Universities SAS has many programs that recognize, support and propel and Community Colleges students toward a career in analytics or other STEM fields. The SAS Education Division provides training and teaching Through opportunities such as the SAS Student Ambassador materials to help professors and instructors incorporate SAS Program, the SAS Scholar Award Program, the SAS Analytics into their teaching. Resources include slides, data sets and Shootout, the SAS Global Forum Student Scholarship Program, printable/editable files of the student manual. These materials the SAS Global Forum Student Symposium and others, 42 section 4.2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Higher Education pg.2 students receive valuable assistance, experience, networking Reading Matters and What to Do About It. The report was and professional exposure at major SAS events. Also, in 2016, released in February 2017 by a separate task force of North Capella University and SAS collaborated to launch the Capella Carolina business leaders who are working with Goodnight Women in Analytics Scholarships program. Created to encourand SAS to improve literacy rates across the state. age more women to enter and rise in the analytics and big data In further support of strengthening reading proficiency, SAS field, the first four scholarships were awarded in August. hosted a convening of 28 national experts to explore various SAS Education Policy Priorities issues with which policymakers are dealing across the country SAS CEO Jim Goodnight led a task force of CEOs from the in determining how to strengthen and expand high-quality Business Roundtable to explore the importance of third-grade pre-K programs. A report from these experts was released reading proficiency. That work culminated in a report, Why nationally at the Brookings Institute in April 2017. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. Download section ® indicates USA registration.Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107789_G48832.0517 4.2 Higher Education 43 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 4.3 Education & Philanthropy Philanthropy SAS’ corporate philanthropy supports strategic initiatives and • Donations of money, software and expertise to numerous policy advocacy that increase interest and achievement in colleges, universities and community colleges around STEM and increase third-grade reading proficiency, with an the world. emphasis on North Carolina and the region surrounding SAS • Mapping the Nation, an online resource that reveals the world headquarters. importance of a globally competent workforce and citizenry. Programs must generate a long-term impact and affect • North Carolina Science Festival, a statewide showcase of significant numbers of people, without discrimination. science activities. Examples include: • University of North Carolina Data Dashboard, an interactive • #GivingTuesday, a global day of giving. online database built by SAS that gives students, parents, • Communities in Schools, the nation’s largest dropout policymakers and taxpayers expanded access to detailed prevention organization. UNC system data to track system performance. •C  omputer Science Education Week, including Hour of • University of North Carolina Educator Quality Dashboard, Code. This is a national effort that SAS joins by providing an interactive online tool built with SAS data visualization volunteers with training, activities and materials to work with software that enables citizens to analyze and display data on students and pique their interest in computer science. the UNC system’s efforts to prepare more and higher-quality teachers and school leaders for the state’s public schools. • In-kind donations for nonprofit organizations that need computer equipment or software. SAS gives hundreds of • Triangle High Five, a partnership committed to seeing that thousands of dollars in surplus computer hardware, office students graduate from high school ready for higher equipment and other tangible items to community groups education and careers of their choice. that can benefit from the donation. • University of North Carolina Public Television, which broadcasts award-winning, educational programs that are watched by more than 4 million viewers each week. 44 section 4.3 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Philanthropy pg.2 • YMCA of the Triangle, with 17 branches and three 2016 Data overnight camps to meet community needs through SAS donated more than $47 million to nonprofits across the programs that promote good health, strong families globe. Local offices worldwide managed more than $1.9 and solid communities. million in community grants. In the US, SAS donated more than $45 million of in-kind training, software, hardware, •D  onorsChoose.org, a national nonprofit that connects services, volunteer time, and surplus equipment and furniture. donors with classrooms in need. Each year, SAS matches employee contributions to the cause. Download section 4.2 Philanthropy DonorsChoose.org for 2016 2016 Type Global Donations Total 316 SAS employees gave in 2016 Cash donations Worldwide cash $1,919,681 Software, $50,316.24 hardware and services $18,152,136 donated by SAS employees $48,688.04 Additional JMP® software $1,151,150 donated matched by SAS In-kind donations (US only) $99,004.27 Value of in-kind training for students and $26,168,076 total impact educators 488 unique projects supported in 26 different states Surplus equipment/ furniture/hardware $224,650 (142 of which were from North Carolina) 43,627 Total $47,615,693 students helped SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107790_G48775.0417 45 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 4.4 Education & Philanthropy Community Engagement As an integral part of SAS culture, the company encourages Nov. 30. #GivingTuesday reports that more than $168 million employees to donate their talent, time and/or finances to was raised. There were 2.3 million social media mentions, projects supporting education, the environment and social tripling the number of users reached on Facebook last year. welfare. Offices across the globe manage programs tailored to Around the world, here are just a few of the activities: fit the needs of their communities and the interests of SAS • In Boston, staff contributed to the Toy Drive for The Home for employees. Little Wanderers organization. To foster a culture of volunteerism at SAS, the company • In Calgary, Canada, employees provided holiday gifts for a manages the Employee Volunteer Fund (EVF), which contribfamily of eight. utes cash to education-based nonprofit organizations after an employee has provided at least 50 hours of volunteer support • In Chicago, employees donated food for the Greater Chicago in three out of four quarters over 12 months. Food Depository. 2016 Data • In China, SAS Beijing R&D employees donated warm clothing SAS employees in the US volunteered almost 28,000 hours and hundreds of books, computers, new school bags and through the EVF program, resulting in more than $100,750 paid related items for poor children and families from Yunnan to schools across the country. Globally, SAS employees Province. volunteer their time in the community. Whether it is collecting toys at Christmas in France, adopting a local school in Canada, • In France, employees collected toys for needy children. raising money for the food bank in Pittsburgh, collecting coats • In Greece, employees donated food for a child welfare for kids in North Carolina, or building Habitat for Humanity agency. homes across the US, SAS employees generously give their time to improve their communities. • In Mexico, employees delivered food and other supplies to Casa Hogar de la Esperanza, a home for girls. Some SAS volunteer projects in 2016 included: • In Portugal, employees served dinner to poor and homeless • SAS employees in 16 countries joined more than 30,000 orgapeople as part of the Serve the City project. nizations around the world in support of #GivingTuesday, 46 section 4.4 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Community Engagement pg.2 • In Spain, employees collected food donations at a local • The Virtual Food Drive monetary donations totaled $9,375. supermarket. • All in all, enough food/money was collected to provide • In Toronto, employees collected and sorted clothes for New 52,375 meals – over 30,000 more meals than last year. Circles Community Services. Community Board Membership A number of activities took place at SAS world headquarters: SAS staff members carry the company’s corporate responsibility values outside the office by serving on the •4  00 children received new clothing as part of the Salvation boards of community organizations that support education, Army Angel Tree collection. disaster relief, the arts, science innovation, environmental • In 2016, SAS employees donated $50,000 to conservation and other issues important to employees. DonorsChoose.org for classroom projects; SAS matched 2016 Data those donations, resulting in almost $100,000 for 488 unique SAS employees served on numerous boards, including the projects. A total of 43,627 students in 26 states have benefitfollowing: ed from the partnership this past year. The DonorsChoose. org challenge raised more than $37,200 in donations to • American Statistical Association classroom projects via the #GivingTuesday campaign at SAS. • Business Council • A team from SAS Curriculum Pathways led about 40 • Business Roundtable members of the Boys & Girls Clubs of Wake County in a • BEST-NC (Business for Educational Success and Sphero ball activity, followed by a pizza dinner in Building R. Transformation in North Carolina) • 137 pints of blood were donated to the American Red Cross. • Cary Academy Board of Directors • CSC Strategic Advisory Board at North Carolina State • SAS volunteers helped raise nearly $180,000 for UNC-TV, the University – Board Emeritus statewide public television network. Since 2000, SAS has helped raise more than $2 million for public television. • Food Bank of Central and Eastern North Carolina • Friday Institute for Educational Innovation (North Carolina • SAS is a founding partner in SummerSTEM and for the State University) second year, hosted a STEM immersion experience involving six corporations and 50 middle and high school teachers. • Inter-Faith Food Shuttle • North Carolina Museum of Art • SAS STEM Career Day. SAS STEM volunteers visited schools and described their careers, how they chose their career • North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences – Friends paths, and how SAS and its customers use math, science and • North Carolina Public School Forum technology. The goals are to increase student interest in • North Carolina Science Festival STEM careers and courses, to help students connect what • North Carolina State University Board of Trustees they do in school with an exciting STEM career pathway, and to familiarize them with the varied STEM careers at SAS and • Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History, Advisory other organizations. Board • WildTrack • The below activities served the Food Bank of Raleigh: • World Wildlife Fund US •B  etween the child care centers’ food drive and the • YMCA of the Triangle CanOrnament display, employees donated 6,351 pounds of canned goods – enough to provide 5,500 meals. • The Executive Cooking Challenge raised awareness and Download section 4.4 Community Engagement encouraged employees to donate. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107791_G48759.0617 47 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 4.5 Education & Philanthropy Donation Process SAS’ corporate philanthropy supports strategic initiatives and The SAS Community Relations Program does not consider policy advocacy that increase interest and achievement in funding or in-kind donations for the following: STEM and increase third-grade reading proficiency, with an • Sponsorship of professional athletic or amateur sports teams emphasis on North Carolina and the region surrounding SAS or individuals. world headquarters. • Single events such as walk-a-thons, fundraisers, workshops, To be eligible for donations, organizations must meet the seminars, etc. following criteria: • Religious causes. •H  ave nonprofit tax exemption status under Internal Revenue • Political parties, candidates or issues. Service code 501(c)(3). • Organizations that are in any way exclusive. •H  ave a responsible board of directors serving without compensation. • Trips or tours. •S  how financial stability as evidenced by audited annual • Independent film/video productions. financial statements. • Requests from individuals. •E  mploy ethical methods of publicity, promotion and solicitation of funds. SAS Community Relations Program: Criteria for Donations Related to Education • Raise funds without payment of commissions, street If your organization meets the above criteria, follow these steps solicitations or mailing of unordered tickets. to apply for a donation: • Operate from a detailed annual budget. 1. Complete the SAS Donation Application below, making sure • Request funds for programs or operations with a minimal to provide all information requested. portion applied to overhead. 2. Prepare a brief description (three pages or less) of the • Use the in-kind donation to benefit organizational members project/program to be funded or for the in-kind request, or constituents. including answers to the following questions: 48 section 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Donation Process pg.2 • What is the primary mission of your organization? Describe your current programs and significant accomplishments, along with your total annual budget over the last three years. • What issue or problem does your program/project address? • How does this issue relate to SAS’ educational focus, priorities and criteria? • What is the scope of your program? Who is your audience and/or the population to be served? (Include any available program or policy statements that reference geographic location, socioeconomic status, or other factors that identify the target audience.) • What is the program goal or expected outcome of the program for which support is requested? • What is the track record of the project/program to be funded? (If new, discuss accomplishments of the organization.) • How will you measure the success of the program/project and report the results to SAS? 3. Provide the following supporting documentation: • A photocopy of the IRS 501(c)(3) letter. • Evidence of current accreditation (for educational institutions). • An audited financial statement or detailed information on finances. • A list of those currently on the board of directors and their professional affiliations, as well as the executive leadership of the organization. • A separate project/program budget, if applicable. 4. Return (1) the completed application; (2) description; and (3) all required supporting documentation. Incomplete applications will not be considered. Completed applications are reviewed in the order they are received in February, May, August and November.. Mailing address: Community Relations SAS Campus Drive Cary, NC 27513 Note: Submitted materials will not be returned. 49 section 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Donation Process pg.3 Donation Application Date: Name of Organization: Address of Organization: Contact Person: Title/Position: Address (if different from above): Telephone: Fax: Email Address: Website: How long has this organization operated in this community? The funds being sought are to be used for: Capital Campaign Operating Budget Special Project – project start and end dates: Total budget for current project: $ What percentage is being requested from businesses? Dollar amount or description of in-kind donation requested from SAS: How was this amount calculated? (include overall budget if requesting partial funding): Has your organization received previous support from SAS? Yes No If yes, list year(s) and amount(s): List three to five other major business contributors to this program and the amounts contributed: List names and positions of any SAS employees involved with your organization: Name Title Return completed Donation Application, together with all required supporting documentation, to: Community Relations SAS Campus Drive Download section Cary, NC 27513 4.5 Donation Process SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107834_G48774.0516 50 section Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 5 Data for Good Analytics helping humanity Contributing to the improvement of local and global communities has always been important to SAS. Since 1976, SAS Analytics have been helping organizations gain valuable insights from data. The Data for Good movement is a natural extension of that, and SAS continues to look for opportunities to improve how people live. SAS uses analytics to address humanitarian issues like poverty, health, human rights, education and the environment. Making a difference in the world is at the heart of what SAS does, and just another example of using our software to serve the greater good. 51 section 5 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Data for Good pg.2 SAS Changing Lives International Organization for Migration When two earthquakes shattered the lives of Nepalese families, the International Organization for Migration used SAS Visual Analytics to help them rebuild faster. “By modernizing our approach to first response through analytics, we were able to understand what the country’s production capacities and inventories are, and work on that very complicated equation of identifying the best way to assist people without creating dependency.” Brian Kelly, Advisor, IOM GatherIQ ™ GatherIQ is an innovative crowdsourcing project from SAS that puts analytics in the public’s hands to address world problems with a mobile app. The first GatherIQ project is with the International Organization for Migration (IOM) where SAS and IOM are asking the public to help analyze data to better understand the dangers migrants face. “The migrant crisis continues unabated. By better understanding the risks facing these people, we can do more to protect them. The more people we have analyzing the data and contributing to solutions, the more likely we are to save lives.” Leonard Doyle, spokesperson, IOM Peace-Work Peace-Work and SAS are applying sophisticated analytics to the challenges of combating human trafficking – and are achieving initial success. “Our next step will be to look at states and metros that are better at finding and reporting trafficking to identify best practices that other states can use.” David J. Corliss, PhD, Founder and Director of Peace-Work 52 section 5 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Data for Good pg.3 Crescent Care CrescentCare relies on SAS Visual Analytics to improve community outreach and patient outcomes. Through better data analysis, the provider improved patient HIV suppression rates from 69 percent to 81 percent. “When we talk about managing and analyzing data, we’re talking about human lives – promoting healthy habits, taking preventative measures, and caring for the sick and disadvantaged. They’re not just data points – they’re people.” Seema Gai, Chief Information Officer, CrescentCare World Wildlife Fund World Wildlife Fund (WWF) uses SAS Data Management and SAS Analytics to help maximize donations that build a future where people live in harmony with nature. Through advanced SAS modeling, WWF improved revenue for multiple campaigns by 25 percent, and in one year increased their net income while sending 500,000 fewer pieces of mail. “We can raise the same amount of money with much less expense. That means WWF and its members are more efficiently helping to protect the planet.” Mac Mirabile, Director of Strategic and Financial Analysis, WWF New Zealand Ministry of Social Development With SAS Analytics at the heart of welfare reform, New Zealand’s Ministry of Social Development (MSD) invests in the support young people need to build a better future. It has transformed the way MSD targets its service-based investments and has enabled the agency to concentrate efforts on those who need it most. This translates to greater savings of taxpayer money as well as better futures for people and their families. “We have a golden opportunity in the social sector to use advanced analytics to transform the lives of New Zealanders.” Paula Bennett, Minister of Social Development in 2014 53 section 5 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Data for Good pg.4 San Bernardino County San Bernardino County (CA) uses SAS Data Management and SAS advanced analytics to analyze consumer engagement with the behavioral health system to identify barriers to care, revealing a less stigmatizing picture than many people in the field have thought. “SAS has given us more credibility, because now the data we’re sharing is easily digestible, valuable and relatable. The opportunity to use data in decision making for public mental health is endless, and analytics get you there.” Sarah Eberhardt-Rios, Deputy Director for Program Support Services, San Bernardino County Department of Behavioral Health Des Moines Area Community College Des Moines Area Community College uses SAS Visual Analytics and SAS Data Management to help students prosper. Administrators and educators can easily and securely access data and reports, which frees staff to mine data in more detail and proactively help students succeed. “We have a ton of data that gets captured on students, their progress, when they come in and when they go out. SAS provides an overall snapshot of the health of our institution, and insight into how our programs, processes and systems impact students.” Joe DeHart, Executive Director of Institutional Effectiveness, Des Moines Area Community College The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) uses SAS to help safeguard wildlife. Through analytics, RSPB can better understand the data it collects in an effort to test and develop conservation solutions that protect endangered birds. The society also uses its big data to manage 200 nature reserves. “Conservation informed by evidence is always more likely to succeed than that based on guesswork or anecdote. SAS enables us to produce the firm scientific evidence needed to confidently implement our initiatives.” Will Peach, Head of Research Delivery, RSPB SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration.Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 108877_G53694.0517 Download section 5 Data for Good 54 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 About This Report The SAS 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report is based on the calendar year Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2016, and updated annually. All data and information pertain to SAS Institute Inc., the US-based parent company for SAS, unless otherwise stated. Environmental reports are based on global operations data. The most recent report was the 2015 CSR report, which was published online in July 2016. That data has now been updated for the 2016 report. In 2016, SAS made strides to improve global reporting of its programs and initiatives, and will continue to improve reporting on offices outside of the US. There have been no other significant changes during the reporting period. The report was developed using Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 sustainability reporting guidelines and was prepared in accordance with Core GRI requirements. SAS’ CSR efforts focus on four core areas: governance and ethics, employees, environment, and education and philanthropy. The report can be viewed in a PDF document by separate sections or as a 55 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 About This Report pg.2 complete report so information is more accessible and Because SAS is a software company, much of the company’s customizable. The report format allows for greater explanation impact is related to its own operation rather than the products and transparency on SAS’ practices and policies and provides and services provided to customers. Externally, impacts space for updates to relevant and material topics. Over time, generally occur related to the business practices of suppliers. this report will evolve in response to the needs of stakeholders, employees, customers and the community. Examples of impacts include: • Environmental: energy use in offices and data centers, SAS® Visual Analytics data visualization software is used waste, and construction of new buildings. to generate charts and graphs to illustrate the data and provide additional analytics capabilities. This provides far • Societal: compliance with local, national and international greater visibility, transparency and accuracy in reporting laws; ethical treatment of employees, customers, suppliers, SAS’ environmental impact. Charts and graphs included in partners and communities; supporting and fostering a the PDF documents reflect a specific time frame for gathering strong workforce. and analyzing data for this report. Executive leaders and other relevant internal stakeholders have reviewed content • Financial: creating value in communities where SAS in this report. operates; job creation and economic growth; supporting the community through philanthropy. SAS welcomes your comments and questions regarding this report and its corporate responsibility efforts. For At this time, SAS does not collect environmental informaquestions about this report or its contents, please email tion on suppliers or partners; however, the company seeks globalreporting@sas.com. to work with organizations that have a similar approach to reducing their environmental impact. All suppliers must Scope and Boundaries abide by required ethics and compliance rules, which can Since SAS headquarters are in Cary, NC, the scope of this be found in the Supply Chain section under Governance & CSR report focuses primarily on SAS’ United States operations. Management of the Corporate Responsibility website. Where available, global data is provided and appropriately labeled. There have been no significant changes to the scope and boundaries for SAS; however, there have been improvements in the reporting of such boundaries. 56 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 About This Report pg.3 Materiality Matrix The CSR Task Force, a cross-departmental sustainability team based in the US, underwent a facilitated process to determine the primary issues that affect SAS and its stakeholders. This included issues that affect the industry as a whole, peer businesses, communities, customers, employees and management. Through this process, the team determined areas where SAS has a significant environmental, social or economic impact. These issues were then rated to determine their importance to stakeholders and/or SAS’ operations. Using the G4 guidelines, these issues have been reported as “material aspects.” Each team member then gathered information specific to these areas of impact for inclusion in this report. The focus areas of this report include: Internal: Issues Relevant to Employees and Management Great workplace Training for next generation of employees Great Health and safetyworkplace Talent development Training for next generation of employees Environment Workers’ rights Health and safety Volunteerism and community Talentengagement development Environment Energy and emissions Waste Water Workers’ Green building rights Volunteerism and community engagement Energy and emissions Waste Water Green building External: Issues Relevant to Other Stakeholders, Including Customers, Quality of support Communities, Governments, Partners, Subcontractors, Suppliers, etc. Philanthropy Ethics Privacy Continuity Quality of businessof support Philanthropy Export law Environment Ethics Privacy Anti-corruption DiversityBribery Continuity of business Gift law Lobbying Export law Environment Anti-corruption Campaign contributions DiversityBribery Gift law Lobbying Campaign contributions 57 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 About This Report pg.4 Stakeholder Engagement SAS’ stakeholders include communities, employees, regulatory and governmental bodies, industry organizations, students and teachers, and business partners and suppliers. Engagement with stakeholders provides SAS with the opportunity to gain a greater understanding of the needs in the community and in the market. It allows the company to build strong partnerships with regulatory bodies and organizations within the industry, and lasting relationships with communities, employees, partners and suppliers. SAS continues to engage with stakeholders both internally and externally, including: Stakeholder Engagement 2016 Communities Employee volunteers, community Employee donations and corporate matching grants, in-kind donations and training, for DonorsChoose.org totaled more than fundraising. $99,000, funding 488 classroom projects and benefiting 43,627 students in 26 states. SAS employees volunteered 28,000 hours, resulting in $100,750 donated to education from the Employee Volunteer Fund. Employees Enhance the SAS workplace culture by Intranet, webcasts, videos, webzines, blogs communicating with and informing and The Hub, an enterprisewide social employees about company activities networking platform. and internal and external programs. Domestic and international policy Data protection and privacy; big data; Regulatory and and legislation development on topics copyright protections; review of legislation government that affect SAS customers and the targeting frivolous patent lawsuits; revision development of new products. of administrative policies to ensure strong, quality patents are issued. Industry organizations Industry associations, think tanks Public speaking engagements, development and academia. or contribution to industry position papers, and one-to-one meetings. Business partners Meetings, webcasts and Board memberships include American and suppliers representation on boards. Chamber of Commerce to the European Union (AmCham EU) Executive Council, Atlantic Council Board of Directors and American Statistical Association. 58 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 About This Report pg.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2016 Customers Host ongoing dialogue with customSAS interacts with customers through the SAS ers to answer questions and gather Global Forum conference, customer advisory input for product improvement. boards, self-help and assisted-help resources, focus groups, training, books, technical papers, social media, support communities, samples, SAS notes and focus areas, and more. Analysts Inform and solicit feedback from SAS’ Analyst Relations group is responsible for industry analysts. informing, influencing and soliciting feedback from industry analysts and thought leaders with the purpose of validating technology and corporate direction and to provide SAS with a crucial third-party perspective. Students and teachers Free online and mobile curriculum SAS® Curriculum Pathways® provides free online resources, free SAS software, teacher resources and mobile apps for early learners to and professor training, summits and grade 12. SAS offers free software, training and meetings, classroom volunteers. communities for people to gain valuable analytics skills, and supports analytics degree and certificate programs at colleges and universities around the world. SAS is a regular convener of important education meetings, and focuses volunteer efforts on education. External communications Build awareness and shape the SAS External communications helps build awarebrand through external communications. ness and shape the SAS brand by influencing what others think and say about the company. SAS uses external communications to guide the flow of information to educate and persuade various public stakeholders, including the news media, bloggers, customers, prospects, analysts and partners. Download About This Report SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G48833.0417 59 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 GRI Index Indicator Description Reference Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior From the CEO decision maker of the organization Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure> Company Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products Governance and Management>Governance Structure> and services Company Profile G4-5 Location of headquarters Governance and Management>Governance Structure> Company Profile G4-6 Number of countries where Governance and Management>Governance Structure> organization operates Company Profile G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Governance and Management>Governance Structure> Company Profile G4-8 Markets served Governance and Management>Governance Structure> Company Profile G4-9 Scale of organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure> Company Profile G4-10 Size and composition of workforce Governance and Management>Governance Structure> Company Profile G4-11 Percentage of employees None covered by collective bargaining G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Governance and Management>Supply Chain G4-13 Significant organizational changes None during the reporting period G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle Environmental Program>Environmental Governance> is addressed by the organization Precautionary Approach G4-15 Externally developed economic, Governance and Management>Supply Chain Management environmental and social charters the organization endorses G4-16 Memberships and Associations Education Philanthropy>Community Engagement 60 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 GRI Index pg.2 Indicator Description Reference Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities and explain omissions Governance and Management>Company Profile; About This Report G4-18 How report content was defined About This Report>Scope and Boundaries G4-19 List of material aspects About This Report>Materiality Matrix G4-20 Aspect boundary within About This Report the organization G4-21 Aspect boundary outside About This Report the organization G4-22 Restatements About This Report>Scope and Boundaries G4-23 Significant changes in About This Report>Scope and Boundaries scope or boundary Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement Basis for identification and selection of About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised by About This Report>Materiality Matrix stakeholders Report Profile G4-28 Reporting Period About This Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About This Report G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Report G4-31 Contact point About This Report G4-32 GRI “in accordance” option About This Report G4-33 Contact point About This Report Governance G4-34 Governance structure Governance and Management>Governance Structure> of the organization Company Profile Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, codes of conduct Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance and codes of ethics Economic Impact G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated CEO Letter; Philanthropy and distributed G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks Not applicable and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 61 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 GRI Index pg.3 Indicator Description Reference G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local Governance and Management>Supply Chain Management suppliers at significant locations North Carolina only of operation Environmental Energy G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN2 Manufacturing-based input materials Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN3 Energy consumption within Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions the organization G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions of products and services Environmental Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Program>Water Conservation G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of Environmental Program>Water Conservation water recycled and reused Environmental Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, Environmental Program>Biodiversity managed in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of CEO Letter; Philanthropy activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Program>Biodiversity Environmental Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions (scope 1) G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions (scope 2) G4-EN19 Reduction of GhG emissions Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions Environmental Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion and destination G4-EN23 Total weigh of waste by type Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion and disposal method G4-EN24 Total number and volume Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion of significant spills 62 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 GRI Index pg.4 Indicator Description Reference Environmental Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened About This Report using environmental criteria Environmental Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN34 Number of grievances about Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanism Social Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff hires and employee turnover by age group gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees G4-LA4 Type of injury and rates of injury, Employees and Culture>Health and Safety occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism Social Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year Employees and Culture>Skills Development per employee by gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Employees and Culture>Skills Development lifelong learning that support he continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Social Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance practices filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanism Social Non-Discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance and corrective actions taken Social Local Community G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with Education Philanthropy; partial reporting implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs 63 Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 GRI Index pg.5 Indicator Description Reference Social Anti-Corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiGovernance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory corruption policies and procedures Compliance>Anti-Corruption G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance actions taken G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Public Policy country and recipient/beneficiary Social Anti-Competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiGovernance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes Social Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Social Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers screened Governance and Management>Supply Chain using criteria for impacts on society Social Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance society filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Social Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Social Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Philanthropy and Community Engagement PH 1 Areas of focus for philanthropy activities Education Philanthropy PH 2 Monetary value of charitable contributions Education Philanthropy>Philanthropy PH 3 Employee engagement in Education Philanthropy>Community Engagement philanthropic activities PH 4 Board memberships by employees Education Philanthropy>Community Engagement PH 5 Process for engaging philanthropy Education Philanthropy>Donation Process in communities SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G48772.0517 64 Website SAS Blogs SAS Customer Support sas.com blogs.sas.com support.sas.com Insights Center SAS Communities SAS Office Locations sas.com/insightscenter sas.com/offices communities.sas.com twitter.com/SASsoftware youtube.com/SASsoftware facebook.com/SASsoftware instagram.com/SASsoftware linkedin.com/company/SAS sas.com/rss SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2017, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107835_G48773.0617
