WOORI BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016 TURNING POSSIBILITY INTO REALITY Woori Bank is shaping the future of Korea’s financial industry as a leading global bank that grows alongside customers in the global market through its continued innovation drive. In step with the rapidly changing market environment, Woori Bank is lowering boundaries within the financial sector to offer unprecedented and innovative financial services to our clients through cross-selling and bundled marketing. While anticipating customer needs ahead of time, we stay one step ahead in our constant efforts to turn possibility into reality. With the wings provided by our privatization, Woori Bank is now set to take the next step on its successful journey. In 2016, Woori Bank turned possibilities into reality The launch of our advanced mobile banking platform impressed customers and generated a positive response in the market. We then took the first steps into untapped global markets ahead of our competitors. These moves resulted in outstanding financial performance and improved fundamentals, bringing about our long-cherished wish for privatization. Woori Bank is shaping the future of Korea’s financial industry as a leading global bank that grows alongside customers in the global market through its continued innovation drive. In step with the rapidly changing market environment, Woori Bank is lowering boundaries within the financial sector to offer unprecedented and innovative financial services to our clients through cross-selling and bundled marketing. While anticipating customer needs ahead of time, we stay one step ahead in our constant efforts to turn possibility into reality. With the wings provided by our privatization, Woori Bank is now set to take the next step on its successful journey. Successful privatization gave us the wings to embrace a brighter future. 2016 was a historical year for everyone at Woori Bank because our persistent endeavors towards privatization finally paid off after 16 years of hard work. In 2017, we are all set to take the world by surprise once again with another round of innovation. We will continue striving to maximize value for our customers, shareholders and investors and raise corporate value by developing innovative products aimed at global markets. Privatization A Better Tomorrow, A Stronger Bank GROWTH Customer-base expansion PROFITABILITY Profit-oriented business activities New growth engines (business portfolios/wealth EXPANSION OF management/platforms/global/ SOUNDNESS FINANCIAL IB-industrial REACH convergence) New growth engines Exhaustive backdoor-locking (adequate level of asset growth, increased quality loans, reduced bad assets, lower delinquency rate) NEW PARADIGM Innovation in marketing and corporate culture Woori Bank Video Clip Woori Bank (In other languages) Video Clip English/Chinese/Russian/ (In Korean) Bahasa Indonesia/Vietnamese Woori Bank is shaping the future of Korea’s financial industry as a leading global bank that grows alongside customers in the global market through its continued innovation drive. In step with the rapidly changing market environment, Woori Bank is lowering boundaries within the financial sector to offer unprecedented and innovative financial services to our clients through cross-selling and bundled marketing. While anticipating customer needs ahead of time, we stay one step ahead in our constant efforts to turn possibility into reality. With the wings provided by our privatization, Woori Bank is now set to take the next step on its successful journey. Privatization Ready to create new value in 2017 Our concerted efforts have successfully generated the industry’s best performance results in terms of profitability, soundness and growth, ultimately leading to our successful privatization. Just as we started out 2017 on a stronger note than ever before, we are now preparing for a new era for the bank. Privatization Initiative: Strengthening our Net Income Fundamentals (Unit:KRW billion) 2016 1,261 Improving profitability and growth 2015 We have devoted our energy to enhancing our financial fundamentals over the past several years. As a result, we recorded a jump in earnings every quarter. In the third quarter of 2016, we posted KRW 1,106 1,105.9 billion in net income for the year to date, ensuring the high 1,059 levels of profitability required for privatization. Furthermore, the substantial improvements in our loan asset portfolios, as well as asset size, significantly enhanced our profitability and growth. Asset quality improvement 840 In anticipation of the changing financial environment, we moved quickly in the field of risk management to stay ahead of the com750 petition, which significantly enhanced our asset quality. This backdoor-locking initiative and thorough risk management helped us reduce bad debts by KRW 1.2 trillion, paving the way for successful privatization. 517 Delinquency Ratio BANK 443 (BANK+CARD ) 291 0.82% 0.46% (0.84%) (0.48%) As of the end of 2015 As of the end of 2016 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q (Cum.) (Cum.) (Cum.) 004 Expected changes and benefits of privatization Reorganization Majority Shareholder Ownership Following its successful privatization, Woori Bank reshuffled its entire organization in February 2017 to lay the foundation for preemptive The successful privatization made Woori Bank the first financial instireadiness in response to changing market environments and to potution in Korea to have several major shareholders, setting the tone sition itself to grow into a stronger bank. for new corporate governance in Korea’s financial sector. The Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC), which had held 51.06 percent of all shares in Woori Bank, sold off 29.69 percent of its shares in the bank to seven different investors: IMM PE (6.0%), Tongyang Greater autonomy for Reshuffling the Life Insurance (4.0%), Hanwha Life Insurance (4.0%), Korea Investresponsible management at organization and ment Securities (4.0%), Kiwoom Securities (4.0%), Eugene Asset each business division level executive positions Management (4.0%) and Mirae Asset Global Investments (3.69%). The seven major shareholders will keep each other in check and conStrengthening the Expanding WM and trusts tribute their financial expertise in different financial business areas to Wealth Management business organizations generate greater synergies and help the firm achieve greater competiorganization’s capabilities tiveness as a commercial bank through shareholder-friendly policies. Concentrating on F/X, Increased operations in Termination of MOU between KDIC and Woori Bank trading (capital markets) non-interest income On December 16, 2016, the Public Funds Oversight Committee operations (PFOC) resolved to end the MOU(Memorandum of Understanding) between Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation and Woori Bank for Constant expansion of Strategically reinforcing business normalization, setting the bank free of governmental control core businesses of global and smart financing to gain control over its business planning over the long term with global and smart finance higher levels of management efficiency and autonomy. Now, the bank can make market-oriented management decisions and bold investEnhancing efficiency in Cost-saving, personnel ments in its future growth. Reduced inefficiency within the organizaback-office organizational management and efficient tion will also allow us to heighten competitiveness without intervention operations back-office operations from the bank’s largest shareholders. Now that its stock is no longer undervalued, the bank is poised to enhance corporate value. Shareholder Composition (As of Jan. 31. 2017) 37.0% 21.4% Minority Shareholders Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) 4.4% 29.7% Employee Stock Ownership Association Major Shareholder Group 7.5% National Pension Service 005 Woori Bank is shaping the future of Korea’s financial industry as a leading global bank that grows alongside customers in the global market through its continued innovation drive. In step with the rapidly changing market environment, Woori Bank is lowering boundaries within the financial sector to offer unprecedented and innovative financial services to our clients through cross-selling and bundled marketing. While anticipating customer needs ahead of time, we stay one step ahead in our constant efforts to turn possibility into reality. With the wings provided by our privatization, Woori Bank is now set to take the next step on its successful journey. Woori Bank continues improving corporate value through innovative marketing strategies and evolving fundamentals. In 2016, Woori Bank achieved higher-than-expected net income as a result of its proven profit-guaranteed marketing strategies. Ensuring the back door stayed locked dramatically improved our NPL, delinquency and coverage ratios. Supported by the successful privatization of Woori Bank, we are now well on our way to becoming a leading financial institution through the constant expansion of our financial reach. Financial Highlights Stock Price Trends (Unit:KRW) 16,000 14,000 +44.6 % Industry-leading Stock Price Growth in 2016 12,000 10,000 8,000 JAN-2016 APR-2016 JUL-2016 OCT-2016 JAN-2017 APR-2017 Woori Bank is shaping the future of Korea’s financial industry as a leading global bank that grows alongside customers in the global market through its continued innovation drive. In step with the rapidly changing market environment, Woori Bank is lowering boundaries within the financial sector to offer unprecedented and innovative financial services to our clients through cross-selling and bundled marketing. While anticipating customer needs ahead of time, we stay one step ahead in our constant efforts to turn possibility into reality. With the wings provided by our privatization, Woori Bank is now set to take the next step on its successful journey. Financial Highlights Financial Highlights NET (Unit:KRW billion) ASSETS (Unit:KRW trillion) INCOME Loans in KRW Total Assets 1,261 2016 191.3 343.4 +19.1% 1,059 2015 185.2 317.9 2014 167.3 291.9 • Consolidated Basis(K-IFRS), Total Assets include Trust Account 2015 2016 INTEREST (Unit:KRW billion) LIABILITIES (Unit:KRW trillion) INCOME 5,019 Deposits Total Liabilities 4,762 2016 221 290.1 +5.4% 2015 209.1 272.5 2014 188.5 252.1 2015 2016 • Consolidated Basis(K-IFRS) NON-INTEREST (Unit:KRW billion) CREDIT COST RATIO (Unit:%) INCOME 0.54 867 706 +22.8% 0.36 0.28 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 • Consolidated Basis (K-IFRS) • Adjusted Credit Ratio (Incl. net gains from the disposal of loans and others) Net Income(Continuing Operations) attributable to owners 008 ASSET QUALITY (Unit:%) CAPITAL ADEQUACY (Unit:%) NPL Ratio Delinquency Ratio BIS Ratio Tier1 Ratio CET1 Ratio NPL Coverage Ratio 15.29 2.1 14.25 13.66 12.68 1.47 0.98 10.69 10.43 0.88 10.5 0.82 0.46 8.96 8.47 +23.97% 165 2014 2015 2016 • Consolidated Basis (K-IFRS) 121.5 97.2 PROFITABILITY (ROA & ROE) (Unit:%) Return on Equity (ROE) Return on Asset(ROA) 5.69 6.36 3.55 0.37 0.41 0.21 2014 2015 2016 20141) 2015 2016 • Separate Basis(K-IFRS) • Consolidated Basis(K-IFRS) Note 1) Excluding one-off factors related to the sale and the spin-off subsidiaries. (Including one-off factors ROA 0.41 ROE 7.06 in 2014) 009 Woori Bank is shaping the future of Korea’s financial industry as a leading global bank that grows alongside customers in the global market through its continued innovation drive. In step with the rapidly changing market environment, Woori Bank is lowering boundaries within the financial sector to offer unprecedented and innovative financial services to our clients through cross-selling and bundled marketing. While anticipating customer needs ahead of time, we stay one step ahead in our constant efforts to turn possibility into reality. With the wings provided by our privatization, Woori Bank is now set to take the next step on its successful journey. Banking becomes more enjoyable and more convenient with the WiBee Platform! Creating a new paradigm for daily finance. Our blue bee mascot, WiBee, invites you to indulge in a joyful financial experience as you handle your daily finances. The WiBee Platform has removed barriers between lifestyle services and financial services, as it takes full advantage of Woori Bank’s FinTech infrastructure to offer innovative financial services relating to marketing across different industries. The WiBee Platform handily brings together mobile financial services, a mobile community service, mileage points and open markets to meet customer needs and stay one step ahead, while strengthening its services each and every day. WiBee Platform WIBEE TALK WIBEE BANK Strategically converging financial tips Korea’s first mobile-only banking and messenger services, WiBee talk service offering extensive financial offers useful life & culture functionality, services, from deposits and loans to including access to magazines foreign exchange and insurance as well as foreign exchange and partial payment services for consumers WIBEE MEMBERS WIBEE MARKET A mileage point scheme A mobile-based open marbased on 'Honey Money' ket-type shopping mall that can be used just like cash offers 1% cash back on within the app. all purchases via ‘Honey Money’ Scan me! Woori Bank is shaping the future of Korea’s financial industry as a leading global bank that grows alongside customers in the global market through its continued innovation drive. In step with the rapidly changing market environment, Woori Bank is lowering boundaries within the financial sector to offer unprecedented and innovative financial services to our clients through cross-selling and bundled marketing. While anticipating customer needs ahead of time, we stay one step ahead in our constant efforts to turn possibility into reality. With the wings provided by our privatization, Woori Bank is now set to take the next step on its successful journey. WiBee Platform The First Comprehensive Financial Platform in the Korean Financial Sector Woori Bank’s WiBee Platform is a total financial service platform that was created to provide optimal products and services that cater to the needs of customers as a proactive response to today’s ever-more-complicated digital financial market environment. Launched in 2015, the WiBee service is quickly evolving into a smarter service. The Evolution of WiBee Bank Establishment of WiBee Market Launched in 2015, WiBee Bank successfully took the lead in the WiBee Market is a mobile-based open market shopping mall run by mid-range interest rate loan market when it became the first Korean Woori Card Company that supports Woori Bank’s SME corporate bank to introduce ‘WiBee Mobile Loan’ in alliance with the Seoul clients to create a mutually-beneficial partnership. At the same time, Guarantee Insurance Company. Since then, we have also marketed it connects consumers with a generous mileage point policy that loan products that utilize FinTech and big data to serve the lending offers up to four percent cash back on purchases via WiBee Honey needs of SOHO business owners. Drawing on the fast-growing Money. WiBee Market is an innovative service that puts the customfinancial technology business, WiBee Bank is able to deliver innovaer before everything else and brings together financial services with tive product development and customer-oriented financial services. an online market platform Launch of WiBee Talk New Services in 2016 WiBee Talk is the first mobile-based messenger service from a Korean financial institution. The service provides convenient messaging WiBee Cam This sticker photo camera app is exclusive to functions including ‘Instant Erase’ and ‘Message Retrieval’ as well as WiBee Talk, giving users the chance to easily produce animated a ‘TalkTalk Money Wiring Service’ that transfers remittances within five GIF files, short videos and sticker photos for fun. seconds. Additionally, it provides 20 types of lifestyle-related informaWiBee Talk Translator The WiBee Talk app also features a tion sources, such as TalkTalk Magazine, WiBee Gourmet Restaurant, translation function in 10 languages, including English, Chinese, WiBee Fortune-telling service, and useful tips on applying for applying Japanese, Vietnamese and Russian, facilitating cross-border for housing subscription savings plans. In 2016, the service was excommunication with people from around the world. panded to the PC platform, thereby increasing accessibility and convenience for users. WiBee Go Dutch Service While competing money transfer apps are only accessible to individual app users, WiBee Talk allows non-app users to make remittances using their mobile phone Launch of WiBee Members numbers. WiBee Members is a customer-oriented open membership service that uses ‘WiBee Honey Money’. This easy-to-subscribe to service WiBee Club This is a community for WiBee Talk users, who can considerably enhances customer access, while preferential benefits utilize not only WiBee Talk’s powerful communication functions and a practical mileage point service allows for differentiated finanbut also its commercial functions, which are linked to the WiBee cial services tailored to each individual’s lifestyle. Market service, offering a wide range of financial services. 012 WiBee Statistics in 2016 (As of the end of 2016) WiBee Bank Sales Records Loan products Deposit Products KRW 295 billion KRW 462 billion Number of Customers WiBee Talk subscribers WiBee Members subscribers 3.02 million 3.04 million Global Service Across 8 markets Cambodia / Australia / Vietnam / Bangladesh India / Hong Kong / Japan / Brazil 013 Woori Bank is shaping the future of Korea’s financial industry as a leading global bank that grows alongside customers in the global market through its continued innovation drive. In step with the rapidly changing market environment, Woori Bank is lowering boundaries within the financial sector to offer unprecedented and innovative financial services to our clients through cross-selling and bundled marketing. While anticipating customer needs ahead of time, we stay one step ahead in our constant efforts to turn possibility into reality. With the wings provided by our privatization, Woori Bank is now set to take the next step on its successful journey. Woori Bank is well on its way to becoming a leading global bank. As it moves beyond the Korean market, Woori Bank is making unprecedented strides into other markets around the world with confidence. With 250 customer contact points worldwide—the largest overseas network in the Korean banking sector—Woori Bank is active in its efforts to enter global markets on its way to emerging as a leading global bank. Going forward, we will reinforce customer-oriented service, expand our non-face-to-face sales network, and continue effective risk management to compete at the same level as the world’s biggest banks. Global Resonance New Markets in 2016 PHILIPPINES Acquisition of a Thrift bank in the Philippines (Oct. 2016) IRAN First Korean bank to enter Iran (May 2016) INDIA Preliminary approval for VIETNAM branches in Gurgaon and Mumbai, India (Oct. 2016) Establishment of a subsidiary in Vietnam (Nov. 2016) Woori Bank is shaping the future of Korea’s financial industry as a leading global bank that grows alongside customers in the global market through its continued innovation drive. In step with the rapidly changing market environment, Woori Bank is lowering boundaries within the financial sector to offer unprecedented and innovative financial services to our clients through cross-selling and bundled marketing. While anticipating customer needs ahead of time, we stay one step ahead in our constant efforts to turn possibility into reality. With the wings provided by our privatization, Woori Bank is now set to take the next step on its successful journey. Global Resonance Emerging as a Leading Global Bank In 2016, Woori Bank successfully laid the foundation for its global expansion with an industry-leading global network and operating profit growth rate as well as the nation’s fastest growing FinTech (WiBee) platform. With our hardware ready for international expansion, we are now focusing on increasing our content with higher product competitiveness on the global front. While introducing competitive products from our headquarters to overseas customers, we are seeking cross-industry strategic alliances to further enhance product competitiveness at our overseas branches. First Korean Bank to Enter Iran’s Financial Market Woori Bank Vietnam (May 2016) (November 2016) Woori Bank became the first Korean commercial bank to enter Iran’s Woori Bank won approval to operate a subsidiary in Vietnam from financial market in May 2016. Our business alliance with Bank Pasthe State Bank of Vietnam in 2016. This adds to branch offices we argad—the second largest financial institution in Iran—will give us have already established in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, facilitating access to up-to-date developments in the local market and provide our plans to step up our retail marketing efforts in the local market. a foothold for Woori Bank to offer our financial services alongside a local partner. This will also constitute part of our ambitious Financial Belt initiative in the Middle East, complementing our branch offices First Korean Bank with a Global Network of in Dubai and Bahrain and help provide financial support to Korean 250 Customer Contact Points (December 2016) companies that are, or will become, active in the region’s markets. Woori Bank’s aggressive global expansion initiatives have turned out to be a rousing success, with its overseas network surging to a Acquisition of a Thrift bank in the Philippines total of 250 customer contact points as of 2016. This represents the (October 2016) greatest number of overseas customer contact points for any Korean commercial financial institution. Guided by the ambitious goal of Our acquisition of Wealth Development Bank made us the first becoming one of Asia’s top 10—and the world’s top 50—financial foreign bank to acquire a Filipino bank since the Southeast Asian institutions in the near future, Woori Bank is constantly expanding country opened its financial markets to foreign entities. Following the its network of local subsidiaries in the U.S., Indonesia, Vietnam, the acquisition, Wealth Development Bank turned into a joint venture Philippines, Cambodia and Myanmar, while actively pursuing new between Woori Bank and the former owner, Vicsal Development subsidiaries in the EU (one subsidiary in Germany and a represenCorporation, at a ratio of 51:49. Today, in close partnership with tative office in Poland) as well as in Mexico for Latin American marVicsal, Woori Bank is ambitiously expanding its retail banking operakets. tions in the local market. 016 Growing Our Financial Services through a Global Network With its 250 customer contact points internationally—the largest global network among Korean banks—Woori Bank is making its globalization push the core competency in its drive to become a leading global financial institution. 250 Networks in 25 nations Worldwide (As of the end of 2016) 10 Overseas subsidiaries Russia 19 AO Woori Bank Russia Woori Bank USA China Woori America Bank Woori Bank China Overseas branches Hong Kong Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd HK Myanmar 250 Vietnam Woori Finance Myanmar Woori Bank Vietnam Brazil Philippines Woori Bank Brasil Cambodia Wealth Development Bank Woori Finance Cambodia Indonesia P.T. Bank WooriSaudara Indonesia Global networks Message from the CEO Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 018 Let me begin by expressing my deepest gratitude to our shareholders and customers for their unwavering support of and commitment to Woori Bank. Over the past year, we witnessed growing uncertainties in the global market, which suffered from prolonged economic recession and widespread protectionist trends, as evidenced by the Brexit vote and Trumponomics, as well as political instability in Korea, only adding to reduced domestic consumer spending. Nevertheless, everyone at Woori Bank worked harder than ever to finalize the bank’s privatization after a number of setbacks during the last round of talks, which ultimately took 16 years to conclude. The resultant rise in our corporate value will enable us to better serve our shareholders and customers as we move forward together. We are particularly proud of our remarkable financial results from 2016, with all of our major indicators—profitability, fiscal soundness and growth—significantly improving. Despite the challenging business environment amid a time of protracted low-interest rate policies, Woori Bank’s profitability surpassed its previous year’s net income just nine months into 2016 on the back of our exceptional marketing and sales performance results. With this improvement to the bank’s fiscal soundness indicators, such as our non-performing loan (NPL) ratio, bad debt expenses and coverage ratios—all three of which had served as a drag on performance for the past several years—Woori Bank is now poised to compete at the same level as other world-leading banks. In addition, the impressive growth in total assets, recording a KRW 25.5 trillion rise from 2015 to reach KRW 343.4 trillion in 2016, also outpaced our competitors. Woori Bank also topped the competition in terms of future growth drivers, which included advanced FinTech infrastructure and an unsurpassed global network. Staying one step ahead of other domestic banks, we successfully introduced four breakthrough platforms—WiBee Bank, WiBee Talk, WiBee Members and WiBee Market—allowing us to play a leading role in the innovation of Korea’s financial landscape. On the global front, our strategic approach aimed at expanding our worldwide network through South and Southeast Asian markets with high growth potential substantially paid off in 2016. This was made especially evident after we launched a subsidiary in Vietnam in October and increased the number of our overseas networks to 250, giving Woori Bank the largest overseas presence among Korean banks. This also laid the groundwork for our ambitious goal of becoming one of Asia’s top 10—and the world’s top 50—financial institutions in the near future. Our exceptional sales and marketing activities, as well as our strong commitment to the bank’s privatization efforts, garnered positive responses from markets. In that regard, we owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to our shareholders and customers for their adamant support of our successful privatization over the past year. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 019 However, we will not stand idly by and bask in the success of our privatization. Instead, we are starting out 2017 on a stronger note as we prepare for a new era for the bank, and will be pushing forward with the following five new growth engines in our attempt to extend our financial reach around the world. First, we will outpace rival banks in terms of our competitiveness through new business models and a diversified profit portfolio. In doing so, we will closely communicate with major shareholders who hold a decisive stake in the bank to generate synergies for maximizing our profitability. Second, with 2017 serving as the first year to redouble our asset management capabilities, we are determined to generate considerable results in bancassurance, funds, trusts, and Woori Bank’s four major pension fund investments. At the same time, we will surge ahead in the market with customized portfolios and unrivaled customer yield-oriented sales activities. Third, we plan on connecting our lifestyle platforms in the fields of retail, healthcare and education to our WiBee platform through numerous business alliances, while also developing better-than-ever products to stay ahead of our competitors with respect to maintaining an industry-leading financial platform. Fourth, we will pursue quantitative and qualitative growth in a balanced way internationally. In tandem with our global network expansion, which is presently concentrated on emerging South and Southeast Asian markets, we will continue our profit-oriented business operations through localized marketing activities backed by our WiBee platform and credit card services, ensuring we remain Korea’s undisputed leader in the global market. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 020 Finally, we will strategically tap into our vast base of quality corporate clients to reinforce our investment banking operations and connect alliance partners that are already active on the WiBee Market to promote cross-industry convergence operations in pursuit of future growth drivers. Looking ahead to 2017, Woori Bank is taking bold, confident strides into a brighter future as a rising comprehensive financial service provider, one with 118 years of experience standing firmly behind it. On behalf of everybody at Woori Bank, all of whom are doing their utmost to make the bank stronger than ever before under a united spirit of reinventing the organization anew, I humbly ask for your continued support as we draw closer to our goals. I wish you and your family health and happiness. Thank you. President and CEO of Woori Bank Lee Kwang Goo Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 021 Board of Directors & Management Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 022 Park, Sang Yong Standing Directors • Honorary  Professor, Yonsei University •C  ivilian Chair, Public Fund Oversight Committee Lee, Kwang Goo •D  ean, School of Business, Yonsei University President & Chief Executive Officer •P  h.D. in Business Administration, New York University • 50th President & Chief Executive Officer •B  .A. in Business Administration, Yonsei University •E xecutive Vice President, Consumer Banking Business Unit, Woori Bank Tian, Zhiping •E xecutive Vice President, Finance & Management Planning Unit, •V  ice Managing Director, Beijing FUPU DAOHE Investment Woori Bank Management Ltd. • Head, Gwangjin-Seongdong Sales Center, Woori Bank •M  anaging Director and Director of ICBC (London) plc. and •G eneral Manager, Consumer Banking Products & Marketing Dept., ICBC’s Middle East Division Woori Bank •M  anaging Director, Sichuan Sub-branch, Industrial and • Chief Executive Officer, Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd. (Hong Kong) Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) • General Manager, Card Strategy Dept., Woori Bank •M  BA, Southwestern University of Finance and Economics • General Manager, Consumer Banking Marketing Dept., Woori Bank • IMBA, University of Hong Kong • B.A. in Business Administration, Sogang University •B  .A. in Economics & Governmental Administration, Shanxi University of Finance & Economics Oh, Jung Sik Chang, Dong Woo Standing Audit Committee Member / Director • CEO, IMM Investment • CEO, KB Capital • Chief Partner, IMM Investment • Vice President, Commercial Business Division, Citibank • LLB, Hanyang University • Managing Director, Risk & Planning Group, Citibank • B.A. in International Economics, Seoul National University Non-Standing Director Outside Directors Choi, Kwang Woo • Head,  Office of Public Relations, Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation Ro, Sung Tae •H  ead, Office of Fund Operations and Investment, Korea Deposit • President, Hanwha Economic Research Institute Insurance Corporation • President, Korea Economic Research Institute •H  ead, Office of Customer Value Management Support, Korea • Ph.D. in Economics, Harvard University Deposit Insurance Corporation • B.A. in Economics, Seoul National University • M.A. in Business Administration, Korea University •B  .A. in Business Administration, Korea University Shin, Sang Hoon • President & CEO, Shinhan Financial Group • President, Shinhan Bank 4 5 3 6 7 8 • MBA, Yonsei University 1. Lee, Kwang Goo 2. Ro, Sung Tae • B.A. in Business Administration, Sungkyunkwan University 3. Oh, Jung Sik 1 2 4. Shin, Sang Hoon 5. Park, Sang Yong 6. Tian, Zhiping 7. Chang, Dong Woo 8. Choi, Kwang Woo Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 023 Executive Head, Business Unit Head, Business Group Vice Presidents Nam, Ki Myung Jang, An Ho Domestic Business Unit Corporate Banking Business Group (Head, Retail Banking Business Group) Cho, Woon Haeng Sohn, Tae Seung Institutional Banking Business Group Global Business Unit Kim, Hong Hee (Head, Global Business Group) Real Estate Finance Business Group Jeong, Won Jai Kwon, Kwang Seok Business Support Unit Investment Banking Business Group (Head, Human Resources Group) Cho, Jae Hyun Smart Banking Business Group Choi, Jung Hoon Risk Management Group Kim, Sun Kyu Credit Support Group Shin, Hyun Seok Management & Finance Planning Group Compliance Officer Park, Seong Il Managing Directors Lee, Dong Yeun Cho, Gyu Song Small & Medium Corporate Banking Business Operation & Support Group Group Heo, Jeong Jin Cheong, Chai Pong Information Security Division Wealth Management Group Ha, Tae Joong Lee, Chang Jae Corporate Restructuring Division Pension & Trust Business Group Lee, Won Duk Kim, Yeong Bae Future Strategy Division International Trade Business Division Kim, Jeong Ki Lee, Jong In External Relations Division Financial Market Business Group Lee, Dae Jin Hong, Hyun Poong Audit Department Next Generation ICT System Building Division Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 024 Corporate Governance As of the end of March 2017, Woori Bank’s Board of Directors (BOD) consisted of eight executive directors: two standing directors, and one non-standing director and five outside directors who were appointed to increase the relevant expertise and independence of the BOD. The five outside directors and one non-standing director were selected based on their experience in the fields of finance, management, law, accounting and public relations. Many of them are also well-known public figures. In their respective capacities, they support and monitor Woori Bank’s strategic decision-making process and overall business affairs on a regular basis. 2016 in Review The BOD held 17 meetings in 2016 to discuss a total During regular quarterly meetings in 2016, the BOD of 60 pending issues and 44 briefings which all rewas informed of quarterly business results, reviewed quired decisions to be made. current issues, and deliberated on the bank’s management plans. Major agenda items of discussion inDirectors from a variety of fields collected information cluded comprehensive briefings regarding major loans; through internal and external activities, and then ofbriefings on NPLs; progress reviews and reports on fered real-world advice by utilizing their expertise to review results concerning the implementation of orders contribute significantly to improving management. handed down by the BOD; and a rundown of activities As experts in economics, business administration, at all the committees that fall under the BOD. At the accounting and law,directors contribute their expertise December meeting, the Board of Directors also held and information gathered from years of experience in in-depth discussions about major issues facing Woori the field to enhance the management efficiency of the Bank amid constant market changes, as well as giving bank and increase shareholder value. final approval to the bank’s 2017 draft management plan. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 025 Committees In order to ensure the efficient operation of the Board Risk Management Committee of Directors, Woori Bank has established a Board of under the The Risk Management Committee makes decisions Directors Management Committee , Audit Committee, Board of Directors about risk-related policies and strategies in response Risk Management Committee, Compensation Comto changes in the financial environment. It meets at mittee, and Officer Candidate Recommendation Comleast once every quarter, or on an ad hoc basis, to mittee. deliberate on risk management strategies and policies, risk tolerance levels and exposure, allowing it to preBoard of Directors Management Committee dict measure and monitor overall risks arising from the The Board of Directors Management Committee ac※T hree previously independent bank’s management or transactions in a timely mantively supports the activities of the BOD by studying committees (i.e., Officer Candiner. date Recommendation Commitand reviewing its overall function and operation, while tee, Outside Director Candidate also establishing and reviewing succession and training Compensation Committee Recommendation Committee, plans of the management team, including directors. The Compensation Committee monitors the design Audit Committee Member Recand operation of the bank’s performance-based comommendation Committee) were Audit Committee pensation systems and is in charge of independently integrated into a single committee The Audit Committee establishes and executes internal (The Officer Candidate Recomestablishing compensation policies. audit plans, makes outcome evaluations, carries out mendation Committee) through follow-up measures, and provides improvement plans Officer Candidate Recommendation Committee an amendment to the Articles of to evaluate and enhance the appropriateness of the The Officer Candidate Recommendation Committee recIncorporation at the Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders internal control system and management performance ommends candidates for the positions of President & CEO, held on December 30, 2016. measures. outside directors, and members of the Audit Committee. 2017 Plans In 2017, Woori Bank will make significant improvead hoc meetings also being held whenever needed to ments to its management by discussing major agenda deal with agenda items related to various matters, such items at BOD meetings. The quarterly BOD meetings as management goals, organization and financing. In will continue to focus on agenda items such as carrying 2017, Woori Bank will maintain its position as a reliable out an analysis of management performance results banking partner that excels and grows through transand reviewing the draft 2017 management plan, with parent and efficient management innovation. No. of No. of Type of Meeting Major Issues Agenda Issues Briefings Holding the general shareholders’ meeting, operating the BOD/Board of directors Shareholders’ Meeting, 16 4 management committee, developing and implementing corporate governance issues BOD and Corporate Governance and management plans/strategies (including set-up and revamp of business divisions) Approving and modifying the settlement of financial statements, reporting and planning financial records, providing briefings on results and actions for MOU reviews, Accounting/Financial Management 5 7 planning for bonds issuances (including foreign currency bonds), and managing credit limits Portfolio & Risk Management/ Comprehensive briefings on major loans, briefing on the status of NPLs, audit & inInvestment/Audit & Inspection/ 2 15 ternal control issues Gov. Regulation Carrying out performance evaluations/compensation reviews, appointing & dismissHR/Organizational Management 7 1 ing employees (excluding BOD members), and addressing issues related to the Labor-Management Council Others 30 17 Total 60 44 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 026 Company Structure Privatization Project The Public Fund Oversight Committee announced In a bid to secure greater private-oriented autonomous on August 22, 2016 a set of confirmed measures to management following Woori Bank’s successful priprivatize Woori Bank. According to the measures, vatization, the Committee drew from the effectiveness the Committee decided to sell a controlling stake in of the MOU for a business normalization plan that had the bank, held by the Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. been signed between KDIC and Woori Bank on De(KDIC). With a 51 percent stake in the bank, the KDIC cember 16, 2016. put a 30 percent stake of the bank (59 percent of As a result, the bank now has an improved ownership KDIC's total ownership) up for sale to a number of difstructure, with an increased number of major shareferent investors, splitting the shares into 4 to 8 percent holders to discuss and approve business plans. chunks in open price bidding. Meanwhile, the government is planning to sell its reThe KDIC’s public notification of the bid on August 24 maining stake (21.37%), still held by the KDIC, through kicked off the bank’s privatization procedure. Letters of close consultation with the Public Fund Oversight Intent(LOI) were received as of September 23, 2016. A Committee. This will be done in view of the upside total of 18 investors submitted their letters of intent at gains of the bank’s privatization and from the perspeclevels ranging from 82 to 119 percent of shares in total. tive of retrieving public fund investment returns. Of the eight investor bidding proposals totaling 33.7 percent received by November 11, 2016, the Public Fund Oversight Committee selected 7 successful bidders two days later, on November 13, concluding a sale amounting to a 29.7 percent stake in the bank. Present Status of Woori Bank’s Subsidiaries Domestic Woori Woori Woori Woori Woori Woori Woori Card Investment Bank FIS Finance Research Credit Information Fund Service Private Equity (Merchant bank) Institute Asset Management 100% 58.15% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% International Woori Woori Woori AO Woori America Global Markets Bank (China) Woori Bank Bank Brasil Bank Asia Limited Ltd (Russia) (Brazil) (Hong Kong) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Woori PT Bank Woori Wealth Woori Finance Woori Saudara Finance Development Bank Vietnam Cambodia Plc Indonesia Myanmar Plc Bank (Philippines) 100% 74.02% 100% 51% 100% Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 027 News Highlights Successful After a number of challenges over the last 16 years, Woori overseas investor relations events in Europe, the U.S. and Bank finally succeeded in its privatization plan. The FiJapan on three separate occasions. Through a concerted Conclusion to nancial Services Commission divided and then sold the effort by Woori Bank’s employees to enhance profitability, 16-year 29.7 percent stake held by the Korea Deposit Insurance soundness and growth, the bank was able to post indusPrivatization Corporation in Woori Bank to seven investors, including try-leading performance results in 2016, which in turn led Korea Investment & Securities, on December 1, 2016. This to its successful privatization. success can be credited to the concerted effort made by Woori Bank is highly optimistic about the synergies that can everyone at Woori Bank towards strengthening the bank’s be generated from collaborating with major shareholders— profitability and financial soundness. institutional investors with expertise in securities, insurance In fact, net income grew from KRW 400 billion in 2014 to and asset management—as it maintains its position as surpass the KRW 1 trillion mark in 2015, with net income Korea’s leading bank surpassing KRW 1,126.1 billion for 2016. Financial soundness, a long-time barrier to the bank’s substantial growth, was also significantly enhanced through heightened risk management with a focus on locking the back-door. The improved quality of our loan portfolio also contributed to record high levels of asset quality since the 2008 global financial crisis. President & CEO Lee Kwang-goo devoted himself to promoting the bank’s value to overseas investors through Life Platform WiBee! The number of subscribers to both Woori Bank’s WiBee ceived a very positive response from customers. In fact, Talk and WiBee Members surpassed three million each we offer our customers Honey Money mileage points WiBee Talk and WiBee by the end of December 2016. As the first mobile mesin proportion to their product subscriptions and transMembers Subscribers senger service launched by a Korean financial instituaction records with Woori Bank and Woori Card. For Each Exceed 3 Million! tion, WiBee Talk saw its subscription base exceed three instance, prime customers of Woori Bank are rewarded million people in its first year. In addition, we secured with 3,000 Honey Money every quarter, while two perthree million subscribers to our mobile-based total cent of every purchase with their WiBee Members Card membership service WiBee Members only five months is put aside in the form of WiBee Honey Money mileage after it was launched in July 2016. In October of the points. In addition to financial benefits, the WiBee Memsame year, the subscription procedures for all WiBee bers program offers many benefits through a number of Platform services were integrated into a single process partnerships with financial and non-financial businesses within WiBee Talk, giving members easy access to as a “life platform.” other WiBee platforms like WiBee Members and WiBee With more than three million subscribers to both WiBee Market, all in promotion of the WiBee Platform. Talk and WiBee Members, Woori Bank continues to Furthermore, WiBee Talk’s user-friendly services include reinforce connections with WiBee Bank and WiBee the Talk Talk Money Transfer Service, which makes Market, asserting itself as a leading Korean bank with remittances as easy as typing in your PIN number, the an innovative total financial platform. WiBee Talk Go Dutch Remittance Service, which allows a user to wire money on the messenger platform without opening the banking platform, and WiBee Club, a social network-like mobile community. WiBee Members is an integrated privilege program for customers of Woori Bank and Woori Card, offering WiBee Honey Money at the exchange rate of KRW 1 for 1 Honey Money in cash-back benefits pegged to customers’ financial transaction records, and which can also be withdrawn from an ATM.. This benefit has reWoori Bank Annual Report 2016 028 WiBee Woori Bank’s Hansae basketball team defeated KEB Hana opened with a seven-game winning streak on March (Former Woori Hansae) Bank’s team in the third round of the league final’s decid8, 2017, and became the first team to win 20 games in ing game to win the 2015/2016 Women’s Korean Basketthe 2016/2017 season, suffering just one loss during an Basketball Team ball League (WKBL) championship on March 20, 2016. impressive run. Backed by the full support of all Woori Wins the This marked the fourth championship win for Woori Bank’s Bank employees, the WiBee basketball team is aiming Championship Four women’s basketball team. Woori Bank’s Hansae basketto make greater achievements than ever before under Consecutive Years in ball team is the number one organization in the league. the excellent leadership of Coach Wi Seong-woo. It has finished atop the standings in the regular season a the Women's Korean record nine times and has won the league championship Basketball League eight times since the launch of the WKBL in 1988. On March 29, 2016, the team was renamed WiBee. On the same day, they released a new emblem and mascot at their new home, the Yisunsin Arena, moving from Chuncheon to Asan. Opened in July 2012, Asan’s stateof-the-art Yisunsin Arena can accommodate 3,200 fans. The WiBee basketball team was still the undisputed leader at the beginning of the 2016/2017 season. It Preemptive Since his inauguration, Woori Bank has been guided KRW 80 billion in illegal loans from Korean banks. by its CEO’s commitment to locking the back door to Prevention of This was a prime example of where Woori Bank’s folenhance financial soundness. Insolvency through low-up checks on loans proved critical. Although Woori Back-door Locking As a result, the bank has strengthened its risk manBank had already established financial ties to the parent agement and steered clear of large-scale insolvencies, company, NP-Tech, we were among the first financial Schemes which has significantly improved its financial soundness. institutions to realize corporate raiders’ engagement (Moneual, On Corporation, in the management board at Digitech Systems, and One case in point was the notorious Moneual scandal, Digitech Systems, Leaders’ City) ultimately turned down the company’s request for new which involved more than KRW 3 trillion in loan scams loans worth KRW 5 billion, only to later recall the entire and resulted in a KRW 670 billion loss to the Korean existing loan (KRW 10 billion). Finally, with the most banking sector. While most Korean banks extended recent financial scandal, which revolved around LCT loans based only on paperwork that the company (Leaders’ City), Woori Bank turned down the borrowsubmitted, and which turned out to be falsified export er’s request for KRW 200 billion in project financing and bonds, Woori Bank had reasonable doubts about KRW 500 billion in collective installment loans. Moneual’s excessively high sales growth and carried out due diligence before extending additional loans. Through air-tight back-door locking procedures, Woori Despite the fact that Woori Bank was Moneual’s main Bank was able to reduce its bad debts by KRW 1.2 creditor, the bank made the prudent decision to retrillion, with the bad debt ratio decreasing by 0.6 pertrieve the entire amount it had lent Moneual (KRW 85 centage points, from 1.65 percent to 1.05 percent, in billion) after an exhaustive loan review and study of risk 2016, thus significantly enhancing asset quality. management results. Later, this timely move ended up saving Woori Bank from massive losses. Another notable case had to do with On Corporation’s default on KRW 170 billion in loans. As with Moneual, Woori Bank also doubted On Corporation’s sales inflation and excessively high operating profit, recalling the entire loan it had granted to On Corporation (KRW 2.5 billion). More importantly, it was able to save itself from potential risk exposure worth more than KRW 10 billion. Yet another important case was Digitech Systems, which paid brokers so that it could take out a total of Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 029 Woori Bank In 2016, Woori Bank concentrated on solidifying its In these new markets, we are poised to step up our stance as a leading global bank. In fact, it was the first sales activities as we continue to expand our local subaround the World: commercial bank in Korea to open a branch outside sidiary networks in the U.S., China, Indonesia, CamGlobal Expansion the country, which it did in Tokyo in November 1968. bodia and Myanmar. On top of quantitative growth, we Since then, the bank has consistently worked to exare quickly adopting localization strategies to enter lopand into overseas markets. cal credit card markets as we ensure qualitative growth through retail sales activities such as bancassurance As a result of this tenacity, and upon acquiring Indoand credit loans for full-time workers. nesia’s Saudara Bank, we became the first Korean financial institution to acquire a bank listed on a market Furthermore, to strengthen our sales competencies in outside of Korea in 2014. In 2015, we also became the EU markets, Woori Bank is planning to open a local first Korean bank to open a 200th branch office oversubsidiary in Germany and a representative office in seas. In an effort to grow our network in the South and Poland. We are also keen to enter the Mexican market, Southeast Asian markets in 2016, regions where we where many Korean companies have already estabsee high growth potential, we successfully launched a lished a presence. local subsidiary in Vietnam and acquired a thrift bank Based on these aggressive overseas expansion stratin the Philippines, Wealth Development Bank, while egies, we aim to raise the percentage of income from also acquiring preliminary approval for branch offices global operations up to 30 percent by 2020, while in Gurgaon and Mumbai, India, completing Korea’s achieving our greater vision of becoming one of Asia’s largest global network of 250 contact points in 25 Top 10—and one of the world’s Top 50—financial insticountries. tutions over the long term. South Korean Woori Bank was named Bank of the Year 2016 in try’s first launch of advanced mobile platforms such as South Korea by The Banker, a UK-based financial WiBee Bank and the mobile messenger WiBee Talk, Bank of the Year magazine that selects the top banks from countries both of which rely on the strengths of its innovative 2016 : The Banker around the world based on data submitted by 120 inFinTech know-how. ternational banks every year. The UK magazine also recognized Woori Bank’s agThis is the first time in five years that Woori Bank won gressive international expansion efforts and localization the award. The Banker is a monthly magazine that has strategies that allowed for a timely advance into South been published by the Financial Times since 1926 and and Southeast Asian markets with high growth pois considered the world’s preeminent publication of its tential, including Indonesia, Myanmar, Cambodia, the kind, with 29,000 institutional and 90,000 individual Philippines and Vietnam. This award will provide Woori subscribers from 180 countries around the world. Bank an opportunity to better publicize its improved business results, its advanced management strateThe Banker singled out Woori Bank for its significant gies and marketing competitiveness so as to further improvements in its financial performance in view of strengthen its position in the global financial world. profitability and asset soundness, as well as the indusWoori Bank Annual Report 2016 030 Woori Bank Awards 2016 The Banker Bank of the Year for 2016 in South Korea World Finance World Finance Wealth Management Awards 2016 (The first bank in Korea to win the award) The Asian Banker Best Transaction Bank in South Korea The Asian Banker Best Cash Management Bank in South Korea (4 Consecutive years) LACP Platinum winner at the LACP’s 2015 Vision Awards’ Annual Report Competition The Maeil Business Daily Grand Prize at the 21st Mail Business Daily Financial Product Awards The Korea Economic Daily Grand Prize at the Korea Best Banker Awards The Korea Economic Daily Best HR at the 1st Retirement Planning Service Awards The Korea Economic Daily Grand Prize at the 2016 Korea Top Brand Awards The Korea Economic Daily Hall of Fame in the Financial Sector at the Customer Satisfaction Management Awards Asia Today Top prize in the mobile financial category at the 2016 Asia Today Financial Awards Infobank Best Bank at the Infobank Awards 2016 Korean Presidential Commendation for Merits in Financial Reform at Korea’s 1st Finance Day Korea’s Financial Services Commission awards ceremony Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service Best performer for one-company/one-academic financial education practice evaluation 2016 Ministerial commendation from the Ministry of Strategy and Finance for excellent perMinistry of Strategy and Finance formance in establishing a Won-Yuan market Ministry of Health and Welfare Ministerial commendation at the 2016 Korea Sharing Awards Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transportation Korean Presidential Commendation for Merits in Housing Welfare Joong-Ang Daily & Korean Association for Grand Prize at the 1st Korea Industrial Security Awards 2016 Research of Industrial Security Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Ministerial Prize for Excellent Security Management in 2016 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 031 EXPLORING OPPORTUNITIES Who is discovering new value? DISCOVERING NEW VALUE EXPLORING OPPORTUNITIES In meeting the needs of an ever-changing financial world, Woori Bank creates connections between finance and markets to explore new opportunities. In today’s financial market environment, which involves exposure to a variety of risks, we carry out constant research on ways to reduce risks and maximize value and benefits for our shareholders and customers. DISCOVERING WOORI BANK NEW VALUE Risk Management Risk management has become essential in strengthening the competitiveness of financial institutions. Based on knowhow accumulated through past crises, Woori Bank adopted risk-adjusted performance measurement (RAPM) in 2002, the first time this had been done in the Korean banking sector, to firmly establish advanced risk management systems by successfully introducing the Basel II and III protocols. Believing that profit sources are a result of effective risk management, Woori Bank will solidify its status as a leading bank through the implementation of top-tier risk management. 2016 in Review To ensure the successful privatization of the bank in the In addition, our non-performing loans (NPL) ratio (excluding face of a fluctuating financial environment, Woori Bank’s exposure to Korea’s four major shipbuilders) improved Risk Management group set proactive risk management from 1.24 percent at the end of 2015 to 0.91 percent a as its goal to emerge as a world-leading financial group. year after, while the nominal delinquency ratio declined It then concentrated on improving asset soundness to from 0.82 percent in 2015 to 0.46 percent at the end of strengthen the fundamentals of the bank. 2016. Our quality asset percentage also increased from 69.5 percent in 2015 to 75.5 percent at the end of 2016. Our particular focus was on taking preemptive measures targeting high-risk assets to reduce credit risks—the bigWith a restructured operational risk management system gest risk factor in banking operations—by de-qualifying and improved stress test program in place, Woori Bank high-risk borrowers. As a result, asset quality has signifisaw considerable improvements in areas other than credit cantly improved. risks in 2016, thereby enhancing the bank’s overall risk management capability. High net worth assets of BBB0 1) and above (Unit:KRW) As of the end of As of the end of Changes 2015 2016 Balance 59.8 trillion 62.9 trillion Up 3.1 trillion Percentage 69.5% 75.5% +6%p Note 1) BBB0 : Standard targets for calculation of BRR Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 036 Preemptive Action on Problem Loans Risk Management In 2016, Korea’s record-high household loan volume We spent much of 2016 improving our risk management and growing number of marginal borrowers in the wake system as well as our credit risk management system. To of worsening corporate profits called for intensive asset begin, we restructured our operational risk management High-net-worth-assets quality control by banks. system, which provided for higher convenience and effiof BBB0 1) and above ciency in our management of operational risks. In addiFor its part, Woori Bank concentrated its efforts on tion, the department's special mascot was used to make controlling problem loans by taking preemptive steps to 75.5% our operational risk management more accessible and target potential problem loans. The first step it took was convenient, thereby boosting operational risk managetightening its mortgage loan criteria to prevent insolvenment effects at the branch office level. Plus, risk manageAs of the end of 2016 cies of household loans at source while also establishing ment tips and countermeasures differentially applicable by a process to look more closely into borrowers’ ability to risk type and/or a branch office’s specific needs helped repay debts, which ultimately helped the bank abstain raise employee understanding and awareness of operafrom extending new credit to high-risk borrowers. +6%p tional risk management. The improved stress test system As with corporate borrowers, exposure to industries with also refined our stress test analysis capabilities, with the growing risks, such as shipbuilding, construction and resultant stress test findings reflected in developing risk shipping, shrank by KRW 3.3 trillion over the previous management strategies and business plans for 2017. 69.5% As of the end of 2015 year—the largest decrease among Korean banks. At the same time, we addressed our corporate accountFurthermore, our risk management scope and coverage also expanded in tandem with the growing size of our ing fraud monitoring system, which strengthened our overseas branch network. In an effort to avoid any conability to verify corporate accounting fraud and insolvency. centration of capital at risk (CaR) exposure, we distributed Note 1) BBB0 : Standard targets for calculation of BRR We also bolstered our review process of problematic borthe Group’s total CaR to subsidiaries with asset sizes rowers by discovering blind spots in loan reviews through exceeding KRW 1 trillion in China, Indonesia and the U.S., an established system for constant monitoring of marginal and concurrently verified the present status of risk mancompanies and reviewing of affiliates. agement practices at overseas operations. Prior to any cross-border mergers and acquisitions, we scrutinized all risk factors associated with acquisition targets to minimize our own risks arising from global expansion. 2017 Plans Woori Bank’s Risk Management Group set as its main tions that are expected to be strengthened soon. goal for 2017 upgrading its risk management system to As part of our drive to bolster our credit risk managemake Woori Bank stronger than ever. ment capabilities, we will update the loss given default In addressing this aim, the first measure we are taking (LGD) estimating system and retail credit rating model to is to establish a default diagnosis system, which is esreflect the latest data. In step with the expansion of our sentially a big data-based risk management system. To investment banking operations in pursuit of new growth prevent insolvency, we are also initializing an insolvency engines, an IB asset monitoring system is also set to be diagnosis dashboard that analyzes various structured completed in the first half of 2017. and unstructured data, such as the client lists of borrowFurthermore, in anticipation of the diversification of risk ers, affiliates of borrowers, and news coverage so as to factors in tandem with our expansion into overseas marpre-emptively detect warning signs concerning insolvenkets, we will spare no effort in supporting our local subcy prior to Woori Bank extending any loans. sidiaries to reinforce their risk management capabilities In meeting the recent growth in the volume and value of and localize their risk management systems. non-face-to-face (NFTF) transactions through advanced financial technology, or FinTech, we are developing an exclusive NFTF channel credit rating model to cater to the needs of NFTF clients, while also working on a process to pinpoint our highest performing clients. Our efforts to remain fully prepared for risk-related regulatory reforms will continue in 2017. While developing a standard approach measurement system to reinforce our market risk calculation methodology, we plan on significantly improving our asset-liability management (ALM) system in response to upcoming interest rate risk regulaWoori Bank Annual Report 2016 037 Retail Banking The Retail Banking Business Group oversees marketing strategies for retail consumers, new market penetration, retail marketing organization management, and strategy-building for marketing channels for university and hospital clients. In our constant effort to develop new markets and manage customer relationships at the highest level, our prime concern remains providing customized products and services to our clients. 2016 in Review In 2016, Woori Bank’s commitment to developing customers throughout the year. To that effect, we eninnovative and differentiated financial products retered into new contracts for Prime Power Loans (PPL) mained consistent with its retail client base, which now with 35 corporate clients, thereby attracting new credit exceeds 21.6 million customers. The bank’s signature loans for high-yield customers. We also extended new programs for attracting new retail customers—Baby loans based on Employee Stock Ownership Plans Project, School Project and Company Project—were (ESOP) for corporate clients that carried out Initial Pubfurther upgraded in 2016 to offer different financial lic Offerings (IPO). products and services according to different life stagAdditionally, we continue to offer portable services for es, from infants and students to workers, housewives customers through our Tablet Branch Office Service, and seniors. As a proactive response to the bank acvisiting customers at a time and place of their choice count switching system that went into effect in 2016, to ensure the highest levels of satisfaction. we concentrated on expanding the number of loyal Total Loans 2016 105.0 +10.4% of Retail Banking 2015 95.1 (Unit:KRW trillion) Total Deposits 2016 88.0 of Retail Banking +8.2% (Unit:KRW trillion) 2015 81.3 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 038 Launch of Charity Donation Tie-in Products and add new BIB outlets to develop synergy between the banking and securities brokerage business as well In 2016, Woori Bank introduced a new product called as marketing directed at individual high net worth cliWoori Care Plus Package, which is helping the bank ents. attract new clients and increase transactions with Total Retail Banking existing clients, while also allowing them to donate to Customers social causes. The bank offers a special preferential (Unit:million people) interest rate for subscribers to this deposit plan only Channel Network Optimization for Higher when they agree to donate a portion of the additional Efficiency 21.7 As of the end of 2016 interest upon maturity to one of two charities, Child Fund Korea or Good Neighbors Korea. The additional option of a donation beneficiary was well received by In coping with all the changes occurring in the financial market environment, Woori Bank is strategically proactive when moving into areas with new growth potential, clients. In order to induce more clients to become loyal such as Innovation Cities and industrial complexes, to Woori Bank, prime interest rates were also specially while integrating and relocating certain low-profit, overoffered to new customers as well as to existing clients lapping and low-profile branches. In 2016, we added +2.9% who expanded their transaction volume with the bank. four new branch offices, integrated 66 branch offices As a result, the Woori Care Plus Package Deposit Plan and relocated 16 branch offices. As a result, the reinsecured KRW 187.3 billion in 2016 through 13,151 deforced efficiency in branch network operation helped 21.1 posit accounts and KRW 82.9 billion through 29,398 us improve profitability, with a total of 894 branch officinstallment deposit accounts, significantly increasing es in operation as of the end of 2016. the number of high-performing clients. As of the end of 2015 Retail marketing capabilities were also reinforced with the introduction of the personalized branch service established in 2015 to improve the competitiveness of Comprehensive Financial Services through the sales organization through increased efficiency in Branch in Branch (BIB) Operations channel operations. As a result, a dual track was set Woori Bank has begun offering cutting-edge compreup in which financial centers focus on corporate clients hensive financial services through branch in branch while personalized branches channel their marketing (BIB) operations since it signed a business alliance with resources towards retail customers. Korea’s No. 1 securities firm, Samsung Securities, in At the same time, we streamlined teller windows from March 2015. the previous four channels down to two—a General In 2016, four more BIB outlets opened outside of bank Product Sales & Service Team and a Total Banking branches in addition to the existing three BIBs at Woori Service & Advisory Team—in a bid to reinforce the Bank branches and one at a Samsung Securities’ efficiency of personnel management and strengthen branch. Providing more than just financial transaction employee competencies. The resultant surplus perservices, BIB outlets also function as sales and services sonnel were reassigned to outbound marketing camchannels and therefore boost Woori Bank’s status in paigns, which led to heightened customer relationship dispensing advice and selling products. management and greater marketing activities to attract new customers. In 2017, we will continue to develop new hybrid financial products in collaboration with Samsung Securities 2017 Plans In anticipation of fierce competition amid the prolonged campaigns to preemptively respond to the expanded low-growth and low-interest rate market environment scope of the bank account switching initiative schedin 2017, the Retail Banking Business Group will conuled for 2017. centrate on expanding its customer base. In addition Furthermore, we plan on running a pilot program for to business alliances with governmental agencies and a new channel strategy called Hub & Spoke to take certain lifestyle-related businesses, we are stepping up full advantage of marketing synergies by matching our marketing towards attracting new customers while regional headquarters with nearby branch offices and also striving to turn inactive customers into active cusarea-based joint sales activities. tomers, especially among freshly employed graduates, housewives, sole proprietorships, foreign residents By deploying external sales experts to operational data and retirees. On top of this, we will further expand stores (ODS) introduced in 2016, as well as enhancing our life-cycle marketing initiatives, which offer differprocess efficiency, we will further expand our sales ent products and services depending on one’s stage channels in 2017 while doing our best to attract new in life, as we continue our event-oriented marketing customers. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 039 Wealth Management The Wealth Management (WM) Group is in charge of overseeing Private Banking (PB) services that target high net worth (HNW) clients. As of the end of 2016, the WM Group consisted of three departments—the Wealth Management Strategy Department, Wealth Management Business Department and Wealth Management Advisory Center—with 10 teams under their supervision. A total of 645 private bankers and financial assistants work together to provide Korea’s best comprehensive asset management and consulting services to 166,076 HNW customers through an independent PB brand called Two Chairs and through 632 sales channels nationwide. 2016 in Review In December 2016, Woori Bank reshuffled its WM WM Customer Base Expansion and business organization to reinforce its competitiveness Specialized Advisory Services and added a WM Business Department that was tasked with developing and marketing wealth manageAfter classifying clients that have more than KRW 50 million but less than KRW 100 million in deposits as subment products. The existing WM Strategy Department HNW clients, Woori Bank then assigned asset managers also took on two new teams, the WM Platform Team, (AM) to serve this customer segment exclusively in 2016. which will develop non-face-to-face (NFTF) wealth management platforms and a company-wide customThe resultant expansion of the WM customer base er return management system, and a Future Planning and higher number of employees tasked with serving Team that will offer clients customized retirement soluthese sub-HNW clients increased the number of private tions depending on their life cycle stage. These addibanking (PB) clients (those with cash deposits of at least tions definitively strengthened our client-oriented WM KRW 100 million) by more than twofold, reaching 22,000 marketing capabilities. people by the end of 2016. In recognition of our outstanding strategies and accomplishments in wealth management, Woori Bank became the first Korean financial institution to be awarded a prize at the 2016 Wealth Management Awards, hosted by World Finance, a U.K.-based global finance magazine. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 040 Recruiting and Training WM Experts Proven Capabilities in ISA Operations & Introduction of a New PEF Sales Approach In 2016, the WM Group invested in recruiting and training WM experts in order to reinforce its WM competenThe Wrap-ISA (individual savings account) that we cies. As a result, 350 prospective PBs and FAs were introduced in April 2016 topped all commercial banks Fund product sales hired and subsequently received intensive training to in terms of aggregate returns and annualized perforincreased in 2016 heighten their capabilities. In addition, the 645 existing mance for six months in a row. These remarkable reKRW 2.1 trillion PBs received step-by-step training courses tailored to their individual skillsets, while all employees received online training in WM every morning to generate intersults were all the more amazing considering that other Korean banks took advantage of their financial group structure through cross-selling with peer securities (The largest quantitative growth in est in and broaden sales skills related to WM products. subsidiaries. Despite the disadvantages associated the recorded by the industry in Korea) with developing competitive products without the support of a financial group structure, our stable perforSizeable Growth and Profitability in Funds mance results in asset management also allowed for & Bancassurance Sales industry-high returns. Sales of hybrid products through business alliances Furthermore, we were the first Korean commercial achieved sizeable growth and profitability in 2016. Fund bank to adopt a new private equity fund (PEF) sales product sales increased KRW 2.1 trillion from the premodel through seminars for customers where they vious year, the largest quantitative growth recorded by could give us firsthand suggestions and feedback in the industry in Korea. Continuing with its remarkable inthe product planning stage. As a result of this innovadustry-leading sales record in bancassurance in 2015, tive initiative, we sold approximately KRW 2 trillion in our bancassurance sales and profitability robustly outPEFs, the highest amount in the industry. performed all Korean competitors yet again in 2016. Total number of 2016 166.1 WM customers +21.4 (Unit:1,000 people) 2015 144.7 Total wealth management 2016 47.6 banking deposits +6.9 (Unit:KRW trillion) 2015 40.7 2017 Plans Woori Bank declared 2017 as the starting year for To assist competency-building efforts among emclient-oriented wealth management services. To that ployees, we are planning to open an asset manageend, we plan on solidifying our customer-oriented sales ment-specialized corporate university called Woori Asset platform, especially with respect to systems, products, Management University (WAMU), which will offer systememployee competencies, marketing and retirement ic training programs to foster professional PB experts. planning. In terms of marketing, we are departing from traditional To begin with, we are adopting technologies to develop marketing methodologies and instead expanding our a new customer-oriented total wealth management WM client base. At the same time, we are personalizplatform and customer management system. We also ing our WM channels through the use of outdoor sales have a private equity fund planned in which clients and (ODS) devices. sales staff at the branch office level can make their Additionally, we are seeking strategic alliances with voices heard in the product development stage. In a bid service agencies that cater to senior citizens to reinto meet the most exacting needs of customers, we will force our retirement pension plan sales as we also exalso introduce more hybrid products through enhanced pand the scope of our financial/non-financial services collaboration with securities firms and insurance comrequired for retirement. We also plan on adding a repanies, while also bolstering our product competitivetirement plan platform specifically for our senior clients ness and global investment strategies through strategic to our NFTF channels so that we can offer one-on-one alliances with outstanding investment advisors and WM services on top of non-financial services. leading global asset management companies. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 041 Pension & Trust Business As the retirement pension market continues expanding, the Retirement Pension Business Department was launched in 2009 to support the efficient management of retirement resources for retail customers. From the initial stages of adopting a retirement pension system, the Pension & Trust Business Group provided differentiated customized services through comprehensive retirement pension consulting. We lead Korea’s retirement pension market by offering comprehensive financial services. This includes optimal customized products that suit our customers’ investment tendencies through advanced processes and highly experienced investment specialists. 2016 in Review In order to guarantee a stable retirement for people pension market. Our service scope further improved and also prepare for changes in the labor market, with Welcome Letters for new subscribers and a such as a rapidly aging population, Woori Bank has Happy Call System that handles customer services. been fostering customer-oriented businesses with a Additionally, our differentiated services include training long-term perspective. programs for our subscribers to help them understand the operation of retirement pension funds. As of the end of 2016, the retirement pension funds Customer-focused Marketing Activities under our management increased by KRW 1,655.3 Woori Bank provides subscribers (both companies billion from the previous year, reaching KRW 12,991 and employees) with monthly newsletters on the latbillion, with the number of subscribers amounting to est trends and current issues concerning retirement 1,391,492 employees from 55,640 companies. In pension funds, tips on asset management, and other 2016, we paid special attention to promoting an unuseful information. These same subscribers can also bundled service in which the Korean Workers’ Comaccess our new Happy Life Retirement Pension Life pensation & Welfare Service serves as the operator Deposit plan, which allows for the more convenient and Woori Bank serves as the asset manager. By the management and monitoring of individual pension fund end of 2016, 227,264 employees from 28,369 compainvestments. nies were subscribers to this service. More recently, we introduced a New Retirement Pension System that reflects the latest developments in the Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 042 12,991 +14.6% 11,336 Retirement Pension Assets 2016 (Unit:KRW billion) 2015 58.54 +10.3% 53.09 Risk-adjusted Operating Income 2016 (Unit:KRW billion) 2015 No. of Companies Subscribed to Woori’s 2016 55,640 +9.2% Retirement Pension Plan 2015 50,971 (Unit:Companies) • Including companies subscribed to the Korean Workers’ Compensation & Welfare Service No. of Employees Subscribed to Woori’s 2016 1,391,492 Retirement Pension Plan +5.4% 2015 1,320,355 (Unit:People) • Including employees of companies subscribed to the Korean Workers’ Compensation & Welfare Service 2017 Plans While Korea is transforming into a super-aged soretirement pension market by drawing on our highly ciety, Woori Bank is actively carrying out marketing experienced staff, our training support system, a wide activities to secure a broad profit base and long-term variety of products, specialized management capabilcustomers by making retirement pension a key growth ities, and a differentiated retirement planning service engine. This is being carried out by taking into considplatform. eration the importance of the retirement market for the banking sector. In order to strengthen our position as a leader in the pension business, the Retirement Pension Business Department will secure a foundation for growth in 2017 through customized marketing strategies targeting specific customer groups, while improving customer revenues through enhanced product investment capabilities. With a focus on improving the efficiency of our sales channels, the restructuring of our retirement pension system and adoption of Business Process Reengineering (BPR) will further enhance our business capabilities. In the future, we aim to lead the Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 043 Corporate Banking As of the end of 2016, Woori Bank had the largest number of corporate client transactions among all Korean banks. The Corporate Banking Business Group provides optimal financial services that cater to the specific needs of our diverse corporate clients, including some of the nation’s biggest corporate groups like Samsung, LG and POSCO. Spearheading our corporate banking services at Woori Bank are the general managers that work at the Corporate Banking Headquarters. All of these men and women are well versed in corporate banking and serve as the engine behind the bank’s impressive growth to emerge as Korea’s leading corporate bank. At the same time, Corporate Banking general managers working at banking centers are in charge of corporate clients, their affiliates and partner companies as well as retail banking for the employees of these clients. We take tremendous pride in our 118 years of providing top-of-the-line financial services to our corporate clients as we helped them grow into major global players, and will strive to offer our expertise to an even larger number of customers in the future. 2016 in Review In 2016, the Corporate Banking Business Group mainAs of the end of 2016, the Corporate Banking Busitained its No.1 market share in loans to main creditors, ness Group (including the Corporate Finance Center) thereby reaffirming that we are the undisputed leader recorded total assets of KRW 26.5 trillion, an operating in corporate finance. income of KRW 704 billion, and an export/import financing volume of USD 243.6 billion. Woori Bank is currently exploring various financial opportunities through the Woori Diamond Club, a meeting of CEOs from large Korean corporations, while also Operating income strengthening the relationships we enjoy with large (Unit:KRW billion) corporate clients. In response to growing demand for heightened corporate social responsibility, we are de704 veloping products that will facilitate mutual prosperity among corporate partners and increase widespread (As of the end of 2016) support for a cooperative culture. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 044 Continuously Strengthening Relationships ship Loan’ that was developed in 2013 received a system upgrade in 2015, with funds worth KRW 327.4 bilAs our corporate customers have developed into lion having been extended to 3,535 companies by the more important global entities, their financial needs end of 2016. As a bank that has cultivated meaningful Total assets of corporate have changed rapidly and become more diverse. In relationships with many large corporate customers, banking operations line with this, Woori Bank has operated the Woori we operate a partnership system through a variety of (As of the end of 2016) Diamond Club, a meeting of CEOs from large Korean customer networks aimed at reducing financial costs KRW 26.5 trillion corporations, since 2003. This year marks the 14th anniversary of the club and a time to strengthen our relationships with our corporate customers, as well as to SMEs, thereby contributing to the shared growth of both large corporations and SMEs. provide services that respond appropriately to changes in the business environment by identifying the financial Developing and Supporting Customized needs of our customers in a timely manner. Financial Products In step with rising demand for low-risk/high-return Total credit exposure to investment products during a prolonged period of low Extending Support for main debtor groups interest rates, we provided a corporate-oriented StrucLarge Corporations/SMEs (As of the end of 2016) tured Hybrid Deposit product to corporate clients that 26.7 At a time when corporate social responsibility (CSR) is want high-interest rate time deposits. In partnership being particularly emphasized, Woori Bank has signed with the Export-Import Bank of Korea, we also marKRW trillion cooperation agreements with large corporate customketed export factoring without recourse for exporters, ers and offers product packages to extend funds to non-letter-of-credit sales of export receivable financing SMEs at low interest rates. with reduced risk when the importer refuses settlement, and debt ratios on the financial statements of In 2008, we launched our ‘Win-Win Partnership Loan exporters, thus stabilizing cross-border transactions for Suppliers of Large Corporations’, which, by the end with efficient financial services for exporters. of 2016, had extended funds worth KRW 619.1 billion to 2,368 companies. In addition, the ‘Win-Win PartnerWoori Bank was the main creditor bank of 13 large corporations as of 2016. (Total number of large corporations under main creditor bank management: 39) 2017 Plans Guided by the business goal in 2017 of readying Secondly, we will find a balance between adequate ourselves for a brighter future as an even more comgrowth of loans to well-performing large corporations petitive corporate banking institution, the Corporate and effective risk management. Banking Business Group is poised to carry out innovaThirdly, we will expand our all-in margin business activtive marketing practices in the first year of privatization. ities through active transactions with business partners To that end we have come up with the following four and employees of large corporate clients. strategies. Lastly, we will seek new revenue sources at the bank First, we will explore new financial products and marlevel through cross-industry partnerships and joint kets to diversify revenue sources while also engaging marketing. in profit-oriented sales activities with a normal interest rate/fee pricing policy. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 045 SME Banking The Small and Medium Corporate (SME) Banking Business Group oversees financial services to corporate clients, managing KRW 75 trillion in loans extended to 1.38 million SOHO and SME clients as of the end of 2016. Woori Bank offers a variety of financial/non-financial services as well as competitive products to SME clients to ensure the highest level of customer satisfaction. More importantly, we foster and manage SME relationship managers (RM) who are versed in SME finance and asset management to deliver Korea’s best financial services. 2016 in Review In 2016, asset quality significantly improved at Woori Marketing Activities Targeting Bank. In fact, the KRW 3.7 trillion reduction in poHigh-Yield SME Clients tentially insolvent assets raised the percentage of performing assets to 74.2 percent, with the number of Throughout 2016, just as in 2015, the SME Banking SOHO and SME clients increasing by 90,000 over the Business Group continued updating marketing inforprevious year. mation on targets by key product and customer class as well as for partner firms of large corporations to asWhile carrying on with the marketing strategy we essist branch offices with their campaigns to attract hightablished in 2015, which focused on attracting and reyield corporate clients. In January 2016, we launched taining high-yield SME clients in 2016, we continued to High-yield Enterprise Master Loan II, High-yield Endirect our attention towards strategic targets through terprise Power Tech Loan and the SOHO Areumdri technology financing, policy financing and guaranLoan, all of which come with competitive interest rates tee-secured loans. Another important strategy in 2016 offered only to high-yield enterprises along with extra had to do with cross-selling for customer lock-in and credit limits. By the end of 2016, these three new loan maximization of profitability, while also introducing products accounted for a total of KRW 8.8 trillion in diverse privilege benefits to enhance customer satissales. As a result of our consistent marketing efforts faction and the quality of services offered to our SME to expand high-yield assets, the size of loans to highclients. All the while, we also trained and fostered SME yield corporate clients rated BBB and above increased financing experts. by KRW 6.8 trillion at the end of 2016. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 046 Concentration on Technology Financing & ReDiversified Special Products inforcing Growth Potential In 2016, the SME Banking Business Group introduced a In order to increase high-yield assets concentrated on wide range of specialized products, including the HighNumber of SOHO and technology financing, our marketing focus remained on yield Enterprise Master Loan II and the Woori Credit Card SME clients increasing in 2016 securing an early mover advantage in the market in 2016, Member Store Power Loan, a preferential product for just as it did in 2015, through marketing activities aimed at high-yield SOHOs and SMEs to increase SOHO and SME 90,000 corporate clients with advanced technologies and through the provisioning of pre-approved lines of credit. Our newest products launched especially for quality corporate clients banking loans. In support of government policies, we also marketed the Woori Value Added Tax Buyers’ Tax Payment Deposit to with advanced technologies include the High-yield Corpoattract new clients and low-cost deposits. For this same rate Power Tech Loan and Tech Start-up Guarantee, both purpose, we marketed our WiBees CVS Honey Deposit of which have reinforced our product line-up for stronger product as a preferential product for sole proprietors in sales competitiveness. Moreover, our marketing efforts to the latter half of 2016. In step with governmental tech Reduction in potentially insolvent assets increase the volume and number of borrowers related to financing prop-up measures, we diversified our product technology financing resulted in a KRW 3.6 trillion increase line-up for SME clients that feature leading technologies. KRW 3.7 trillion in value by the end of 2016, with a jump in the number of borrowers amounting to 6,800. Additionally, an increase in the number of corporate clients by 90,000, as well as This included the High-yield Enterprise Power Tech Loan and Tech Start-up Guarantee, both of which balanced our business competencies for corporate and sole proprietor a KRW 2 trillion growth in low-cost deposits, significantly enterprise clients alike. contributed to our strong profitability and loan growth. Promotion of Policy Financing & Retaining Customers & Offering Guaranteed Loans Percentage of performing Top Consulting Services assets In promotion of policy financing, the SME Banking BusiAs a means to hone our competitive edge in business ness Group continually sought strategic alliances with 74.2% consulting ahead of anticipated fierce competition in the financial sector and to meet the diverse needs of customers, we are actively implementing various programs that local governmental agencies and public organizations in 2016. We also strengthened the interest rate competitiveness of policy financing and conducted job training programs in order to reinforce sales competencies. Spefeature preferential offers and consulting services. The cifically, we launched two new products, one called the preferential benefits offered to membership clients and loyS-Plus Start-up Support Loan, which is guaranteed by al customers who have carried out transactions with Woori the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund, and offers preferential Bank for an extended period of time include expenditures interest rates on guarantees and subsidies for guarantee for family events and employee training. Thus, Woori Bank fees targeting high-yield SMEs in their early stages of ophas proven yet again that it is making strenuous efforts to erations, as well as a second product called Tech Startremain the most reliable financial partner for both individual up Loan, which is guaranteed by the Korea Technology and corporate clients. Finance Corporation, and is a preferential product for SMEs with outstanding technological competencies. As Woori Bank’s business consulting service draws on the a result, our customer base for high-yield SME clients bank’s unparalleled experience in Korea’s financial sector, ofgrew substantially throughout 2016. In addition to corfering a number of consulting programs to corporate clients porate clients, we also continued offering policy financin the fields of business consulting, CFO consulting, family ing tailored to the needs of sole proprietary enterprises, business succession, and operations consulting. In 2016, providing KRW 129.1 billion in SOHO Market Promotion we carried out a total of 114 consulting projects for clients. Funds and KRW 58.6 billion through the Seoul General Business Stabilization Fund to further expand our customer base with this customer segment. 2017 Plans In 2017, the SME Banking Business Group will purprosperity for the bank as well as for clients. We will sue marketing activities to increase quality assets and also continue to strengthen our competencies when profitability while also retaining high-yield clients. Plans it comes to attracting high-yield clients and sales exare now in place to launch new products targeted at perts so we can expand our profit base through total different target clients so as to attract new customers. financial services, while bolstering FinTech-based SME Since the bank’s successful privatization at the end platform sales to further expand our financing to foster of 2016, the SME Banking Business Group plans SMEs that have competitive technologies. to reinforce financial services that will lead to mutual Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 047 Institutional Banking The Institutional Banking Business Group consists of the Institutional Banking Product & Marketing Department, which serves the central government, local governments and public institutions, and the Public Fund Sales Department, which manages the municipal and provincial treasuries of local governments and the courts. In fact, we are the only Korean bank that employs institutional banking specialists (institutional customer relationship managers), all of whom provide first-rate financial services to institutional customers. As of 2016, our institutional customers included the Seoul Metropolitan Government and its 24 district offices, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, the Korea Land & Housing Corporation, and the Korea Railroad Corporation. Such an impressive list of customers only reaffirms our position as the primary choice of bank by the largest number of public institutions. 2016 in Review On top of the knowhow we have gained from our 101 years In line with governmental policies, Woori Bank provides speof experience as Seoul Metropolitan Government’s treasury cialized services for government agencies and their planned bank, Woori Bank has also become a leading financial instirelocation to outlying regions, including Sejong-si. As of tution for residents around the country through our Institu2016, we have locked in 42 of 154 institutions that are to be tional Banking Business Group, which contributes to regionrelocated outside of Seoul in our institutional customer base, al development and helps expand the scope of transactions with plans to provide advanced financial services to all of we carry out with the central government, local governments these institutional clients and their employees. As of the end and major public agencies. of 2016, the Institutional Banking Business Group managed total deposits of KRW 24.7 trillion and total loans worth KRW 1.2 trillion through transactions with 4,200 institutional customers. 24.7 +2.2 Total Deposits 22.5 2016 2015 (Unit:KRW trillion) Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 048 Aiming for Another Century of Serving as cash management system (RCMS) as well as R&D Seoul Metropolitan Government’s Treasury fund management and expenditures to total financial Number of Institutional Bank services to companies with successful R&D results. customers Since renewing our contract as the exclusive bank for 4,200 Since signing a treasury management agreement with international agreements and foreign exchange transGyeongseongbu (Seoul) in 1915, Woori Bank has done actions for the Defense Acquisition Program Admina formidable job as Seoul Metropolitan Government’s istration, an executive branch of the Korean Governtreasury bank by not only collecting tax revenue, but ment, we will be providing a variety of financial support also by managing all annual expenditure payments. measures for the payment and settlement of goods In 1988, we launched Seoul Metropolitan Governpurchased from overseas for the next three years. ment’s first comprehensive management system for Major Institutional Customers revenues and expenditures. Then, in 1991, we established the OCR (Optical Character Recognition) Center, Maximizing Synergies from New Business epitomizing our century-long service as the city's muOpportunities nicipal treasury bank. Moreover, the introduction of our ETAX system in 2001, an annual expenditure e-banking The Institutional Banking Business Group not only Seoul Metropolitan system in 2004, and a revenue e-banking system and provides direct financial services to institutional cusGovernment & its 24 district offices, an integrated treasury management system in 2011 tomers, but also discovers and offers business linkage Gwangmyeong City equipped us with globally competitive treasury manopportunities to SMEs and individuals involved in an agement capabilities. Based on our advanced treasury institution’s business. In 2016, we participated as a management system and high-quality specialists in all financial partner in KEPCO’s School Project to elicit related fields, Woori Bank has become a stalwart partstudents and parents from 2,000 schools where the Major public agencies customers ner of Korea’s capital city, helping to handle Seoul MetKorea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) is installing ropolitan Government’s tax and financial management solar power generation facilities. • Korea Land & Housing Corporation • National Pension Service tasks, providing a convenient tax payment system for Additionally, we are making use of our industry-first • Ministry of Land citizens, and helping develop local communities. mobile WiBee Platform to support the Human Re• Infrastructure and Transport sources Development Service of Korea (HRD Korea) in • Korea Railroad Corporation its initiative to alert customers of any dormant claims •K  orea Institute for Advancement of Supporting New Governmental and Public with HRD Korea’s service. This has secured us a footTechnology Agency Projects hold to access 560,000 foreign workers as prospective • Agency for Defense Development customers. •K  orea Evaluation Institute of IndusIn order to effectively support public projects, we have trial Technology(KEIT) established a System Sales Team within the Institu• Korea Institute of Energy Technolotional Banking Products & Marketing Department. As gy Evaluation & Planning a result, we have earned the chance to participate as • Korea Electric Power Corporation the exclusive settlement bank for Korea Power Ex(KEPCO) change’s project to upgrade the REC Trading System • Defense Acquisition Program Adto facilitate direct transactions and payment clearing ministration between the buyers and sellers of renewable energy. • National Health Insurance Service In addition, we were selected as the exclusive bank for • Korea Post managing the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy’s • Korea Institute of Startup & EntreR&D funds, thus providing extensive financial services preneurship Development that now range from the management of the real-time • Korea Creative Content Agency 2017 Plans In 2017, the Institutional Banking Business Group is agencies and by exploring various alliance services preparing for the official selection process to be relinked to a wide range of investment projects. Furthernamed the treasury bank for the Seoul Metropolitan more, we will seek to increase transactions with public Government and its sub-district offices for 2018. In adagencies that are being relocated to regional Innovadition, we are focused on enhancing the quality of our tion Cities, while expanding our financial service lineservices as a financial partner to institutional clients by up to serve a greater number of employees at these providing top-quality systems to ensure effective capagencies. ital management for the government and other public Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 049 Real Estate Finance For systematic and professional management of real estate financing, the Housing Finance Division was enlarged into the Real Estate Finance Business Group. The group also manages the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport’s National Housing and Urban Fund as a general treasury bank. We strive to satisfy the diverse needs of our customers by providing products that build on Woori Bank accounts, as well as National Housing Fund products that are available for low-income individuals/families. 2016 in Review In 2016, the Real Estate Finance Business Group Increased Customer Base as a Managing ranked 1st in market share among all national housTrustee Bank for the National Housing and ing and urban funds. Recognized for our excellent Urban Fund performance over the past seven years, we have been providing a variety of real estate finance prodThe National Housing and Urban Fund project is critucts to our customers as a general treasury bank for ical to broadening financing options for consumers the National Housing and Urban Fund. In addition, of housing finance, including low-income individuals/ we preemptively responded to the prolonged recesfamilies. As the managing trustee bank of the projsion in the real estate market and played a leading ect, Woori Bank acted as the leader in funding and role in generating demand for real estate financing by implementing the project. As of the end of 2016, the seeking to discover new markets. bank claimed a market share of 43.1 percent in loans Real Estate Finance Group (As of the end of 2016) Results Market Share Rank Mortgage Loans (Unit:KRW billion) 80,958 26.4% 2 Fund Demand-Side Loans (Unit:No. of Subscription) 317,819 43.1% 1 Housing Subscription Savings Plans (Unit:No. of Subscription) 5,200,122 27% 1 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 050 for subscribers and a market share of 27 percent in we were the first Korean bank to introduce mosavings for housing trust subscriptions. Throughout bile-based loan products, which were made available the year, 990,000 new customers subscribed to the in 2016 on the bank’s mobile-only banking platform, Housing Subscription Savings Plan in preparation for WiBee Bank. As it turned out, the WiBee Jeonse (Key a future real estate purchase. We will continue working Money) Loan and WiBee Installment Payment Loan Ranked first in hard to expand the benefits we offer to a greater numgained an early foothold in the real estate product ber of customers and make National Housing and Ursales segment through non-face-to-face (NFTF) chanmarket share ban Fund products more accessible than ever before. nels. Demand-side Housing Leading Korea’s Housing Finance Market Subscription Loans In 2016, the Real Estate Finance Business Group was 43.1% a leader in developing products and reforming systems so that it can more proactively respond to changes in financial markets. Housing Subscription The Group channeled its R&D resources into developSavings Plans ing Internet/mobile access to its real estate financial 27% products to increase customer convenience. In fact, 2017 Plans Woori Bank is determined to maintain its dominant will remain an ardent proponent of the government’s market share as part of the National Housing and housing finance measures, while extending practical Urban Fund in 2017. To that end, we will devote time financial aid to those who wish to buy their own home to expanding our share of the loan market, where dethrough our optimal profitability and minimal-risk asset mand is exploding, specifically targeting the Monthly structure. At the same time, we will keep introducing Rent Loan, Beotimmok Jeonse (Key Money) Loan , more mobile-only real estate financing products for and Housing Subscription Total Savings Plan. Drawhigher customer convenience, thereby cementing our ing on our advanced IT system and accumulated position as an early mover in NFTF channel-based real experience and knowhow from funding and operating estate financing. In this regard, we have plans to innumerous housing fund projects, we are poised to crease our mortgage loan balance by KRW 3.5 trillion assume a leading role in supporting residential stabiliin 2017 to contribute to asset growth in the bank’s rezation projects for customers and promoting national tail banking business despite the economic downturn. housing projects in a sound manner. Furthermore, we Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 051 EXPANDING HORIZONS Who is transcending boundaries? TRANSCENDING BOUNDARIES EXPANDING HORIZONS Woori Bank is proudly broadening the boundaries of finance. The lines drawn between local and global, finance and technology, and geographical locations are blurring. As a result, we are ready to offer new solutions for the future of finance in pursuit of a better tomorrow. Committed to a better future, Woori Bank embraces the global market with innovative ideas. TRANSCENDING WOORI BANK BOUNDARIES Smart Banking The Smart Banking Business Group is in charge of establishing Woori Bank’s strategy for smart banking as well as the exploration of new markets. In order to ensure a prompt response to the smart banking market, which has demonstrated exponential growth, while also achieving market dominance in the electronic payment/remittance market in alliance with ICT companies, the Smart Banking Business Department, Platform Business Department, FinTech Business Department and ICT Support Center all fall under the umbrella of the Group. As of the end of 2016, 15.63 million customers had subscribed to Internet banking and smart banking services. Along with roughly 6,500 ATMs—and by utilizing state-of-the-art technologies and networks on smartphones and the Internet—we strive to remain a bank that caters to the most exacting needs of our customers. 2016 in Review In 2016, Woori Bank’s Smart Banking Business Group Through business partnerships with mobile platform maintained its position as a leader in the emerging operators, Woori Bank introduced a variety of financial digital finance market as we completed development services that make use of advanced technology and of the WiBee comprehensive finance platform with the services before the competition. Moreover, our customlaunch of the WiBee Talk service, the first messenger er-oriented, on-demand services, which were facilitated service launched by a Korean financial institution, and by the launch of our O2O service and loan process inWiBee Market, a financial product shopping mall. novation, allowed the bank to sustain its market position as a leader in the digital banking market. No.1 NO.1 in sales among all non-face-to-face finance-related products in Korea NO.1 ranked smart banking subscription and active usage rate NO.1 market share in non-face-to-face sales channels Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 056 Korea’s First Comprehensive Financial SerMaintaining Our Leadership in FinTech vice Platform through Strong Business Alliances Ranked 1st in Market Share Following the successful launch in 2015 of WiBee In response to the rapidly changing market environin smart banking subscriptions Bank, a mobile-only banking service, we added WiBee ment due to the entry of FinTech businesses, Woori and active usage rate among Talk, WiBee Members and WiBee Market services to Bank has been seeking new business opportunities in bank-wide clients create a complete platform for financial services. conjunction with O2O platform operators. No.1 Market Share Introduced in January 2016, WiBee Talk quickly took In addition to the Woori Samsung Pay service root in the market, with subscribers surpassing the two launched in 2015, we also established a number of million mark as of September 21, and surpassing the financial services products that include the WiBee three million threshold by the end of the year. Designated Driver Service (for people who have consumed more than the legal limit of alcohol and require 52.5% As Korea’s first financial mobile messenger service, someone else to drive them and their vehicle home), WiBee Talk offers a wide array of financial services that the Energy Seven (E7) Partnership Service, a cash draw on WiBee’s extensive finance platform. Among withdrawal service at convenience stores, an Automatsubscription rate these new products, the WiBee Talk Deposit plan ed Clearing House (ACH) payment system for Baedal (As of the end of 2016) offers preferential benefits in connection with mobile Minjok (a mobile-based delivery app service), and a messenger services, while the WiBee Honey Market platform for e-note receivable discount brokerage ser34.1% Deposit plan links mileage points to WiBee Market acvices for SMEs. counts. Furthermore, preferential foreign exchange fee rates are available through the Foreign Exchange for Moreover, our strategic alliance with several foreign active usage rate All service (in partnership with WiBee Bank) while the partners, including China’s Tencent platform, for simple (As of the end of 2016) TalkTalk Remittance service allows for one-click easy payment services helped grow our business domain money transfers. Additionally, the WiBee Talk service overseas. was expanded to provide informative messages conMore recently, the Woori FinTech Lab opened and cerning bank transactions to clients via text messages. quickly discovered new business models through In the future, we plan on increasing the scope of this collaborative initiatives with—and in support of—rising alert service through alliances with parcel services and FinTech start-ups in their nascent stages of business. credit card businesses. Woori FinTech Lab also hosted a FinTech Lab Demo Day event for these businesses to provide greater opportunities for investment and business alliances. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 057 Internet & smart banking subscribers KRW 15.6 million Advanced On-Demand Financial Services functions, while OutbounD Sales (ODS) were promoted through the launch of our Tablet Branch Office Woori Bank’s on-demand services, which take full service. The back-to-back launch of O2O services, advantage of new technologies, continue to cater to including With Woori, Smart Name Cards, Smart No. 1 non-face-to-face the diverse needs of our clients. In fact, we were the Notes, and our Non-Face-to-Face Reservation service, product sales market share first Korean bank to launch a pilot service using retinal considerably enhanced customer convenience, too. (As of the end of 2016) scans for financial transactions and a smart card serAt the same time, we drew on data scraping technolvice that utilizes fingerprint scans through a business ogy like the Paperless Smart Lending service and the KRW 18.2 trillion alliance with the Public Procurement Service. We were also the first Korean bank to integrate bioinformation into our financial services with a voice-recognition typWoori SOHO Smart Guarantee lending service, both of which brought about innovation in paperless lending procedures. On top of this, we constantly introduced ing function launched for the Woori Watch Banking innew products like WiBee Mobile Auto Loan and WiBee terface, a wearable banking service for smartwatches. Call Loan for Rentals through collaboration efforts with In addition, our Woori Quick Banking service, Smart mobile platform operators, outpacing our competitors Security Card and Smart Quick Verification services in non-face-to-face channel sales. all utilize advanced technologies to comprehensively enhance customer convenience with their verification 2017 Plans In 2017, the Smart Banking Business Group plans on In 2017, Woori Bank is determined to respond swiftly expanding its platform network and developing new to ever-changing market conditions while enhancing content to upgrade the WiBee platform so as to solidcustomer convenience so that we remain the leader in ify its competitive edge in the field of smart financing digital financial markets. platforms. To that end, the Group is developing new financial services that integrate future technologies such as artificial intelligence and biotechnology, while also strengthening platform operations through alliances with Korea’s leading O2O operators as we continue to expand ACH services for Chinese customers. By engaging in a big data-based target marketing campaign and establishing a smart work system through digitalization, the Group will also continue efforts to consolidate a solid foundation for digital finance. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 058 Global Business In 2016, Woori Bank completed laying the groundwork for expansion overseas, with its global network/operating profit growth rate ranking No. 1 in Korea’s financial sector and spreading its the successful launch of its FinTech (WiBee) platform to in eight countries—the largest number by of any Korean bank. The acquisition of a local thrift bank in the Philippines and the establishment of a local subsidiary in Vietnam completed an extensive overseas network of 19 branches, 10 local subsidiaries (with 228 branch offices), and 3 representative offices. Through these 250 strategic contact points, our international experts played a pivotal role in developing the largest global network among all Korean banks while also securing significant growth momentum through global expansion. Coupled with localized and differentiated marketing strategies by region, these synergies generated USD 61 million in year-on-year growth in operating profit, which totaled USD 380 million for 2016. Furthermore, we have strategically overcome the physical challenges associated with overseas networks by launching our own FinTech platform, WiBee Bank, throughout our Southeast Asian operations, specifically in Cambodia, Vietnam and Indonesia. 2016 in Review Expanding Our Overseas Network Through these M&A activities Woori Bank has been able to establish the largest overseas network 250 Woori Bank took a big step forward towards becoming strategic contact points across 25 countries among a leading global bank with the opening of its first overall Korean banks, making Woori Bank the unrivaled seas branch office in November 1968 in Tokyo, the first globalization leader in the Korean financial sector. On Major Highlights Of Global time a Korean commercial bank established a network Business top of that, with the completion of an ambitious New abroad. Following the acquisition of Saudara Bank in Asian Financial Belt, we laid the foundation for Woori Indonesia in December 2014, we then became the Bank to make further inroads overseas. Today, we first foreign bank to acquire a local bank in the Philiphave plans to enter Germany, Poland and Mexico in pines when we invested in Wealth Development Bank the near future, and continue to spearhead the Korean for a 51% stake in October 2016. In November 2016, financial industry’s globalization efforts. Through these Gross Operating Income Woori Bank established a local subsidiary in Vietnam bold international strategies, we aim to become one of which we will utilize to enhance our retail marketing 380 Asia’s top 10—and one of the world’s top 50—banks efforts for local customers in the country. Also in 2016, in the future. USD million we became the first Korean bank to advance into the Iranian market through a business alliance with Bank Pasargad, the second largest financial institution in Iran, which will give us access to up-to-date developments in the local market and provide a foothold for Woori Bank to offer our financial services alongside a NPL Ratio local partner. 0.68 % (Excluding our exposure to Hanjin shipping) Liquidity Ratio 117.43 % Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 059 Increasing Overseas Product CompetitiveEnhanced Management of Overseas Finanness & Cross-Industry Alliances cial Institutions Woori Bank is actively introducing strategic products The Global Business Group is working hard to secure customized to local needs in the financial markets of new lines of credit through stronger relationships with each country where it operates. Plus, our cross-intop global financial institutions, while also taking the dustry strategic alliances allow for higher product lead in financing Korean companies that are active competitiveness at our overseas operations. In 2016, overseas as well as sound corporate borrowers lowe launched a number of off -shore-only products, cally by increasing funding support to our overseas including global bills bought, while pursuing cross-borbranches. In pursuit of new business opportunities, der synergies through cross-industry alliances with we are determined to expand our network and global the Korea International Trade Association(KITA), Seoul businesses as we preemptively prepare for potential Guarantee Insurance(SGI), Hanwha Life, Lotte Shopcompliance issues arising from stricter international ping, CGV, and Paris Baguette. In 2017, our goal is regulations in the near future by strengthening our to emerge as Korea’s leading global financial alliance anti-money laundering procedures against foreign service provider through various partnerships with correspondent banks and introducing enhanced client overseas financial institutions, governmental agencies, identification procedures. and domestic institutional clients. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 060 Worldwide Branch Network Head Office Overseas Branch(14) & Sub-Branch (5) Overseas Representative Office (3) Overseas Subsidiary (10) Korean Desk/ GRM(Global Relationship Manager) AO Woori Bank Woori America Poland (GRM) Russia(3) Bank(21) 250 Networks in 25 nations Woori Bank China(21) Worldwide Turkey (Korean Desk) (As of the end of 2016) Tehran Seoul Woori Finance Myanmar(10) Hong Kong 250 Hanoi Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd HK(1) Mexico (GRM) Yangon Woori Bank Vietnam(1) Networks Woori Finance Cambodia(12) Ho Chi Minh Wealth Development Bank (Philippines)(16) Woori Bank Exploration of new markets overseas Brasil (Brazil)(1) P.T. Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia(142) • First Korean bank to enter Iran in May 2016 • Acquisition of a thrift bank in the Philippines in October 2016 Republic of South Africa (Korean Desk) • Establishment of a subsidiary in Vietnam in November 2016 2017 Plans In 2017, the Global Business Group plans to reinforce our face-to-face and non-face-to-face business chanprofitability through special businesses and alliance nels. To that end, we will work tireless to promote the marketing, increase face-to-face/non-face-to-face growth of our global mobile banking platform, Global contact points via platform expansion and heighten WiBee Bank, at our overseas branch offices and offer preemptive management of global risks. a variety of benefits and services. At the same time, our partnerships with FinTech businesses will allow us While seeking to raise our profitability through ento expand our customer-base through non-face-tohanced cross-industry marketing and cross-selling face channels. practices among branch offices at home and overseas, we plan to launch a credit card business in the In order to reinforce our competencies for the preempSoutheast Asian market, starting in Vietnam, in order tive management of global risks, we will not only bolto expand our local customer base. Along with special ster our overseas round-the-clock monitoring system projects customized for individual branch office needs in collaboration with related departments to develop a in Indonesia, Vietnam, the Philippines and India, we comprehensive global risk management system, but will concentrate our efforts on developing the fundawill also establish a Global Compliance Council to immentals required for revenue growth from all our global prove our anti-money laundering system overseas. operations. With the very best quality customer-oriented products Moreover, the Global Business Group will continue and services, we will remain Korea’s top bank in terms broadening its network in highly profitable markets of overseas market share in the short run, and aim to throughout Southeast Asia and other new markets so become Asia’s leading bank in the long term, engaging as to expand the network to 500 contact points worldin direct competition with the world’s most prominent wide in the not-so-distant future as we also increase banks. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 061 International Trade Business Woori Bank’s International Trade Business Division develops and supports marketing strategies for the bank’s foreign exchange services. The Division also provides support to branch offices in a swift and efficient manner through the International Trade Service Center (a business process reengineering-specialized unit). Additionally, it induces foreign direct investment and related capital transactions through the Global Investment Center in Seoul. In an effort to strengthen our foreign customer targeted marketing capabilities, we established a Foreign Customer Banking Business Department to create synergies from diverse international trade & F/X operations and to maximize profits. By drawing on our years of experience and knowhow in dealing with the largest number of large corporations along with our abundant F/X specialists, we will continue to provide industry-leading consulting services related to import and export finance and overseas investments to clients at home and abroad. 2016 in Review In line with our goal of becoming a leading global bank, claimed a robust market share (export 39.4%, import we spent 2016 reinforcing the F/X competencies of 34.6%) the highest among Korea’s four major banks. employees, thereby honing our competitiveness in imCurrency exchange operations also generated USD port/export financing, foreign exchange and remittance 4.5 billion in transaction volume, representing a 31.2 operations. Backed by the USD 175 billion in export percent market share, which also marked the highest financing and USD 120.9 billion in import financing, we figure among Korea’s four major banks. 37.5% Woori Bank’s 26.7% Export/Import Financing F/X & Remittances Total Market Share International Trade Business Total Market Share Results in 2016 (As of the end of 2016) (As of the end of 2016) •Among Korea's four major banks Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 062 Strategic Reorganization to Step Up Stronger F/X Competencies for Higher Export/ Marketing Efforts Aimed at Foreign Customers Import and F/X Remittance Competitiveness With the goal of attracting two million foreign customWoori Bank continues to foster F/X experts with aders, Woori Bank’s International Trade Business Division vanced training programs, expanding its network of has mounted a number of campaigns to secure foreign non-BPR branch offices to bolster the F/X competencustomers and stay ahead of the competition. Part of cies of its entire workforce, and honing its competitive this initiative has involved setting up a Foreign Customedge in export/import and F/X & remittance operations. er Banking Business Department to better serve these As a result, our 2016 export/import performance results new clients. totaled USD 295.9 billion, solidifying our market position as the nation’s top corporate financing institution. For the sake of foreign resident workers, we operate We also engaged in aggressive marketing campaigns eight special branches, including the Hyehwa-dong at international gateways like Gimpo International Airbranch, where Filipino is spoken, and the Gwangport, Incheon International Airport and Seoul Station’s hee-dong branch, where Mongolian is spoken, are F/X Center. This helped us successfully secure a large now open on Sundays. We are also designating some foreign customer base, with USD 4.5 billion in F/X of our branch offices as overseas remittance-specialtransaction volume. ized locations as part of our marketing towards foreign clients. Moreover, we offer foreign direct investment consulting and other capital transaction services through our global investment centers, while also providing segmented and accurate one-stop financial services to foreign investors and related organizations on legal affairs, taxation and other investment-related affairs for inbound investments. In 2016, we opened the Gangnam Global Investment Center and Jeju Global Investment Center to complete a business line-up in locales that have recently become more attractive for foreign investors. International Trade Business Organization International Trade Business Division International Trade Business Department Foreign Customer Banking Business Department International Trade Service Center (BPR Center) Wongokdong Gimhae Gangnam Jeju Global Foreign Foreign Global Global Investment Exchange Exchange Investment Investment Center Remittance Remittance Center Center Center Center International Foreign Foreign International Trade Customer Customer International Foreign Import/Foreign Sanctions Trade Business Banking Banking Trade Service Exchange/ Currency Loan Management Business Support Strategy Business Team Export Team Team Team Team Team Team Team Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 063 Total Export & Import Establishing an Early Foothold in the Won/ the end of 2016. After becoming the first Korean bank Financing, Yuan Trade Settlement Market to obtain approval for international yuan settlements F/X & Remittances Volume from Chinese authorities back in 2010, Woori Bank (As of the end of 2016) In 2011, Woori Bank became the world’s first bank then became the first financial institution to set up trade to complete an offshore Korean won-denominated settlements through won-yuan currency swaps and settlement system. At the same time, it arranged for now boasts the largest volume in this regard. We were the won-denominated clearing of trade settlements also the first Korean bank to commence a Korean won through a currency swap deal between Korea and Chiclearance service in China, which contributed to the Export/Import Financing na, playing a vital role in leading the globalization of the promotion of Korean won-denominated transactions, Korean won. With many major financial institutions now facilitating Chinese banks to opt for Korean won for USD 295.9 billion subscribing to the Woori Clearing System, our transaction volume has greatly expanded, reaching KRW 31.5 trillion in total trade settlement clearing (in KRW) as of their trade business operations and deposit-taking services in China. Foreign Exchange USD 4.5 billion Remittances USD 151.3 billion 2017 Plans In 2017, Woori Bank’s International Trade Business At the same time, we continue to attract new clients Division will continue to reinforce its foreign exchange based on our expertise and knowhow in the field of operational competencies through expert training foreign currency vault services for the National Penand marketing campaigns. By harnessing multiple sion Service and corporate banking services, all the synergies in the diverse domains of foreign customer while maintaining a focus on profitable growth. We will marketing as well as export/import financial services, continue our endeavors towards becoming a leading foreign exchange and remittances, we will maximize foreign exchange bank, which will serve as a stepping profitability and expand our market share in internastone to achieving our greater vision of becoming one tional trade business operations. of Asia’s top 10 banks and one of the world’s top 50 banks in the near future. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 064 Financial Market Business The Financial Market Business Group consists of the Treasury Department, which manages bank-wide liquidity, the Trading Department, which handles F/X trading, marketable securities and financial derivatives, and the Settlement Support Department, which performs back office duties. Woori Bank is a solid market leader among Korean banks in terms of trading derivative products, such as forwards, swaps and options, based on a wide range of underlying assets, including interest rates, foreign exchange, equities and commodities. 2016 in Review As the funding and investment body of Woori Bank, As a result of these measures, the bank’s liquidity covthe Financial Market Business Group focused on erage ratio (above 85%), liquidity ratio in foreign currenimproving efficiency in its funding and investment procy (above 85%), and mediumand long-term foreign cedures throughout 2016, thereby efficiently balancing currency funding ratio (above 100%) were well above assets and liabilities through these activities to continuregulatory guidelines in 2016, contributing to a 0.54 ally improve profitability while maintaining sound liquidipercent increase in our BIS ratio. We also strengthty levels. ened our competitiveness in F/X and derivatives trading through diversified trading currencies and provided These efforts contributed to higher NIM figures by various hedging services that are available through all maintaining optimal loan-deposit ratios, liquidity manglobal trading hours to assist our customers with their agement and low-cost funding. Bracing for a possible risk management strategies. decrease in BIS ratio that could arise from Woori Bank’s privatization, we enhanced our capital ratio with stable funding by issuing won-denominated contingent convertible capital instruments (CoCos) in the first half of the year. Of particular note was the perpetual foreign currency contingent capital issue in the latter half of the year, which was the first of its kind for any Korean bank. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 065 Optimized Liquidity Management Compliance with Regulatory Guidelines Issuance of senior bonds and contingent capiAs of the end of 2016, Woori Bank was well above the tal securities in domestic and foreign currencies regulatory ratio set by Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) as a result of proactively managing surIn 2016, the Financial Market Business Group estabplus liquidity to achieve a 109.61 percent liquidity covlished proactive financing plans to issue KRW 5.19 erage ratio, a 121.70 percent foreign currency liquidity trillion in won-denominated senior bonds, KRW 0.25 ratio, and a 224.17 percent mediumand long-term trillion in won-denominated CoCo bonds, and USD foreign currency funding ratio. 500 million in foreign currency senior bonds and CoCo bonds, respectively, at low interest rate. Most notably, the F/C CoCo bond was issued as a perpetual F/C Stronger Competitiveness in CoCo bond (Tier 1)—the first in the domestic market— F/X & Derivatives Sales and at record-low interest rates, backing up Woori Bank’s prominent position in international financial In 2016, the Financial Market Business Group swiftly markets. moved to prepare itself for increased volatility in financial markets, while reinforcing its marketing competitiveness through new revenue generation. Stabilizing Foreign Currency Liquidity in Preparation for Volatile Financial Markets F/X Trading In 2016, we amended internal rules to allow the Treasury Department to directly purchase foreign currency In foreign currency trading, Woori Bank strengthened bonds for liquidity control purposes and expanded our its trading activities in the MXN (Mexican peso), ZAR investment targets to include foreign currency public (South African rand), PLN (Polish zloty), and RUB bonds, which are high-quality liquid assets in terms of (Russian ruble) markets, as well as in major currencies foreign currency liquidity coverage ratios (LCR). As a such as the USD (US dollar), JPY (Japanese yen) and result, the department was able to diversify its investEUR (Euro) as it diversified its revenue sources as part ment portfolio of surplus foreign currency capital and of a proactive response to market changes. stabilize foreign currency liquidity in the face of highly volatile financial markets that reacted to events such as In addition, we were selected as the market maker for Brexit, U.S. interest rate hikes, and the U.S. presidential the won-yuan direct trading market after the market election. opened in December 2014. We are especially proud to be playing a leading role in the development of the won-yuan trading market, receiving commendations in 2015 and 2016 for this accomplishment. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 066 Derivatives Securities In derivatives markets, we strengthened the stability In the securities markets, we increased interest profits of our derivatives trading taking versatile position in and non-interest profits by efficiently managing bonds anticipation of market variable developments, such as and bond-type beneficiary certificates through an domestic and international policy changes and fluctuanalysis of monetary policies and bond markets, doations in demand and supply. We also provided onemestically and internationally, as well as by diversifying on-one customized solutions and risk management the source of non-interest profits through a variety of consulting services for F/X and derivatives trading by items and a higher volume of bond lending transachaving derivatives specialists visit SME clients in pertions traded as risk-free transactions that received a son to provide direct support in areas in which they commission. lack risk management experience and know-how. 2017 Plans In 2017, the Financial Market Business Group will In the meantime, we will strategically diversify our tradprepare for regulatory changes slated for the year coning portfolios to include arbitrage in foreign exchange cerning new foreign currency LCR and stress tests, as derivatives as well as hedging on foreign currencies well as a higher liquidity coverage ratio, by stabilizing and interest rates to increase profits from foreign curbank-wide liquidity management with high-quality liqrency derivatives. Furthermore, in anticipation of rising uid assets, including public bonds in Korean won and demand for risk hedging against the growing volatility foreign currencies. With this preemptive move to manof global markets, we will provide timely customized age liquidity, the Group will diversify won-denominated products so that we can consistently expand our funding durations by issuing bonds, while generating foreign exchange and derivatives transactions. All the savings related to its cost of funding by increasing rewhile, our sales task force team, which is made up of purchase agreement (RP) sales. a wide array of experts, will continue serving securities firms, insurance firms, governmental agencies, and other financial/public institution investors to attract major new clients and increase non-interest profits. Liquidity Ratios Liquidity Ratio (Foreign Currency) Liquidity Coverage Ratio (All Currency) (Unit:%) 130 125.0 121.7 118.1 117.4 120 114.9 110 111.2 109.0 109.6 100 Mar-2016 Jun-2016 Sep-2016 Dec-2016 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 067 Investment Banking Woori Bank’s Investment Banking (IB) Business Group is in charge of diverse investment tasks, including syndicated loans (M&As, corporate finance), project financing (infrastructure projects, power generation energy projects), securities investments (securities, mezzanine securities, collective investment securities, foreign currency bonds) and the granting of credit. With the Investment Banking Department and the Project Finance Department under the IB Business Group, we actively implement IB policies and solutions. In particular, we provide a customized financial structure that can meet a project’s capital needs implemented by companies through a strong network and partnerships with our major corporate clients. In addition, we actively explore not only the domestic but also the overseas IB market, having established Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd. in October 2006, Korea’s first financial institution to specialize in overseas IB investments in Hong Kong. 2016 in Review In 2016, we focused on improving asset quality At the same time, our inter-departmental cooperby substantially reducing problem assets, while ation resulted in outstanding accomplishments. In raising the percentage of quality assets to highcollaboration with the WM Strategy Department er than 90 percent. In addition, our continued and Trust Department, we carried out structured growth in profitability achieved an increase of financing on loans for Mirae Asset Global Investmore than KRW 200 billion in operating profits ments, which in turn generated additional fee inover the past two years. come, expanded our market share of investment vehicles, and increased overall customer satisThrough a fund with KRW 49 billion in assets, we Total Assets of Investment faction. were the first Korean bank to invest in high-perBanking Operations forming corporations jointly with private equity (As of the end of 2016) funds in 2016, and also to arrange aircraft financ10.0 ing in the Middle East worth USD 70 million, thus KRW trillion taking advantage of a highly profitable investment market. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 068 Investment Banking Operations in 2016 (Unit:KRW trillion) 2016 % Total Assets 10.0 100 Balance Sheet Assets 6.4 64 Loans 3.8 3 Securities 2.6 26 Others 0.0 0 Off-Balance Sheet Assets 3.6 36 Loan Agreements 2.4 24 Payment Guarantees 0.4 4 2017 Plans In responding to the intensifying competition of its of the domestic market in pursuit of future revthe IB market, Woori Bank’s IB Business Group enue sources even as we actively seek out overwill concentrate its resources on core businesses, seas business opportunities. More than anything such as mergers & acquisitions, principal investelse, however, we will seek to eliminate existing ments, and infrastructure financing. We will also problem loans as soon as possible and strive to explore various new business opportunities that prevent the emergence of new insolvent assets to have not been pursued as of yet to push the limfurther enhance our asset soundness. Investment Banking Organization IB Business Group Investment Banking Department Project Finance Department Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd. (Hong Kong) Corporate IB Control & M&A & Global Principal Business Finance /ShipStructured Infrastructure Power & Business Management Finance Investment Support ping & Aviation Finance Team Finance Team Energy Team Unit Team Team Team Unit Team Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 069 BEYOND FINANCE CREATING Who is creating a better world? A BETTER WORLD BEYOND FINANCE Woori Bank’s commitment goes beyond the financial sector to reach all of the communities we operate in. As a responsible corporate citizen, we continue to share our growth with local communities. Firmly rooted in our ethical management practices and trust-based relations with stakeholders, we take pride in our contributions to creating a better society for everyone with higher employee satisfaction and the provision of a secure and convenient financial lifestyle for our customers. CREATING WOORI BANK A BETTER WORLD Ethical Management In order to survive in an era of global competition and achieve sustainable development, Woori Bank devised the Woori Code of Ethics and Woori Code of Conduct to provide standards for employees and ensure that all corporate social responsibilities are carried out faithfully. Based on our high level of ethical finance provisions implemented through the Woori Code of Ethics, we will contribute to social development by fulfilling our social responsibilities for all stakeholders, from customers and shareholders to employees and society as a whole. 2016 in Review In 2016, we improved accessibility for employees to Legal Support for the Front Office our Code of Ethics by posting the 27 provisions on our intranet so that everyone at Woori Bank is well-versed Woori Bank offers prompt legal service on demand in the bank’s ethics code. Woori Bank employees for emergency legal issues that arise at any of our renew their pledges to legal compliance and sound branches. The bank’s legal affairs portal site has business practices on an annual basis, while also condownloadable standard agreement forms that cover a ducting monthly self-check ethics/compliance tests to wide array of issues, allowing for time savings related enhance their ethical/legal mindset. We also publicize to legal reviews of agreement forms at branches. For ethicsand compliance-related educational materials departments and teams in charge of new products on the bank’s intranet to serve as a reminder. Guided and new terms & conditions, we assign attorneys by the most stringent business ethics principles as our who specialize in finance law to clear up any potential core principles, the bank continually monitors business legal issues that may arise in the process of launching practices against legal compliance standards to evalunew products or when pursuing new business opate performance results from all branch offices. Woori portunities. Furthermore, our website has a separate Bank’s annual awards for outstanding accomplishpage providing answers to FAQs on legal affairs and a ments in ethical management and compliance monicollection of case studies (by type of business) to help toring are instrumental in raising employee awareness employees at branch offices better understand the about ethical compliance and motivate such practices legal issues involved. with incentives that are in line with our commitment to remain a fully honest and ethical bank. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 074 Advanced Ethical Management Training Diverse Ethical Management Programs Programs for Higher Employee Ethical Woori Bank has implemented a number of programs Awareness to make sure employees are well-versed in our Code Ethics training has been enhanced with the introducof Ethics and that they translate these provisions into tion of a compulsory ethical and legal compliance action at work. To begin, the Woori Code of Ethics course within the standard employee training program and Woori Code of Conduct prohibit employees from for new hires and those recently promoted, as well benefitting from any stakeholder interests, while the as regular job competency training. Additionally, all Self-Reporting Program encourages employees and compliance officers from our headquarters and branch non-employees alike to report on the giving or reoffices are required to receive in-house group training ceiving of any and all gifts or benefits in exchange for every year. Moreover, monthly Ethical & Compliance favors connected to their job position. We also have Self-check and Check & Clean Day events allow ema whistle-blowing program in place to report on any ployees to develop a deeper awareness of business unfairness or irregularities by employees, as well as an ethics and voluntary legal compliance measures. The ethical contracting system that mandates all involved ethics training material referred to as On-Site Ethics & parties draw up contracts in a sound, transparent Compliance Practices are distributed to all our operamanner. In addition, we have reporting systems for tions, while the quarterly publication of Case Studies marketable securities accounts and transaction reon Ethics and Legal Compliance is instrumental in our cords, ensuring that we comply with all laws and reguefforts to raise ethical awareness and integrity among lations governing marketable securities trading as well all employees. as the prohibition of insider trading. 2017 Plans In 2017, Woori Bank will improve its internal control der to enhance ethics awareness and legal compliance and compliance program management system to among employees, a variety of on and offline training further enhance the efficiency of its internal control will be provided as we aim to reflect regulatory changof branch offices while also minimizing legal risks. es in our corporate bylaws on a timely basis to prevent The internal control process will also be reformed to financial incidents from occurring. As such, we strive strengthen on-site monitoring functions at branch to remain a leading bank in compliance and business offices and back offices. In addition, we have plans to ethics through systematic ethical practices and higher establish an anti-money laundering risk management levels of social responsibility for employees. system at our domestic and overseas operations that will feature top-of-the-line monitoring capabilities. In orWoori Bank Annual Report 2016 075 Employee Satisfaction Woori Bank believes that a workplace where employees are happy is the foundation for providing the best services to customers. This commitment took shape with the setup of the Employee Satisfaction Center in 2007. Since then, the Center has been developing and offering diverse programs to enhance employee satisfaction while increasing the provision of healing and travel programs. These, we believe, enhance our employees’ sense of ownership in the bank thereby enhancing the quality of customer services. Programs for Higher Employee Satisfaction happy employees, Oh! Happy Woori is the bank’s signature family-friendly program that provides employees the Woori Bank has in place varied novel programs to heightchance to reconnect with family members and relieve en employee satisfaction. Among the many programs that stress in a healthy way. In 2016, Oh! Happy Woori inWoori Bank introduced in 2016 to raise employee satisfaccluded a night star-gazing event, a trip to Pocheon Herb tions was the Woori Pop Star event, a talent show where Island, a visit to Korea Job World—the largest job expeWoori Bank employees from across the nation show off rience center for kids and teenagers in Korea, a country their varied talents. Today, we operate a number of prohouse stay and an opportunity to experience taekwondo grams that support employee hobbies and assist in their firsthand at Kukkiwon, the World Taekwondo Headsocial networking within the organization. quarters. Later that same year, the bank also arranged special programs for employees and their spouses, such The two most popular programs are Oh! Happy Woori, as an autumn trip to the south of the country and a wina family getaway initiative, and a psychological counselter trip to the coastal city of Donghae. With the largest ing program that helps employees deal with stress and number of applications from employees, this monthly effectively address family issues. Together, they not only program has become the most popular employee satishelp employees better understand each other and their faction program, giving participants a chance to spend families, but also encourage them to deal effectively with quality time with their families. issues at work and life in line with the bank’s belief that happy employees—and their families—constitute the bank’s competitiveness. •H  ead Office Auditorium Becomes a Free Venue for Weddings • Oh! Happy Woori Woori Bank rents out the auditorium at its head office Established under the belief that happy families lead to building for free as a venue that employees can use to Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 076 host weddings. The spacious, ornately decorated layout • Appreciating the Arts features a gorgeous bridal room and another separate This culture-oriented program enriches the lives of emroom to perform traditional wedding rites, while a great ployees and their family members through musicals, many guests can enjoy specially prepared meals in the operas and classical music performances. Introduced in Number of couples married at renovated cafeteria. In 2015, we carried out renovations 2012, Woori Bank first arranged a group viewing of the the Woori Bank's head office to the auditorium to make it an even more luxurious opera version of The Little Prince. In 2014, participants building wedding venue. Another important benefit is that the went to see the musical Wicked, in 2015 they saw 160 newlyweds are provided the bank president’s official car Dream Girls, and in 2016 employees were treated to the couples as their wedding car. In the first two years Woori Bank musical 42nd Street. We continue offering cultural prorented out the auditorium, from 2012 to 2013, a total grams that have garnered positive responses from our (As of the end of 2016) of 179 couples walked down the aisle. As this service employees. become more widely known within the organization, the number of weddings grew, from 165 couples in 2014 to • Encouraging a Healthy Work-Life Balance 189 couples in 2015. In 2016, 160 couples chose to tie In a bid to improve working conditions for employees, the knot in the auditorium. Not only does this free service we instituted a program in 2013 to discourage employhelp employees save money, but also serves to increase ees from overworking. Since then, most of our branch their pride as members of the Woori family. offices abide by this unofficial rule. As part of this initiative, computers are set to automatically turn off at 7 p.m. every day, forcing employees to leave the workplace and Benefits Offered in 2016 relax or spend time with family. As a result, employees aim to enhance productivity so they can finish everything Woori Bank subsidizes psychological and legal counseling they need to get done before all the computers turn services for its employees and their family members in off, thus eliminating any possibility of staying late at the the hopes that we can assist our employees to effectively office. Going forward, we will continue listening to what address their personal/family issues to create a worry-free employees have to say and address any potential issues workplace and a vibrant corporate culture. On top of this, concerning the automatic shutdown of computers in an we also have an in-house psychologist to provide counseleffort to heighten employee satisfaction. ing, run tests, and deliver lectures at branch offices upon request from employees. Furthermore, we are constantly • A Healthy and Vibrant Workplace seeking ways to help our employees deal with stress Woori Bank encourages all employees to receive comthrough daily meditation, temple stay programs and herbal prehensive health and blood screening at least once healing programs. a year. Based on the findings, employees advised to receive additional check-ups are entitled to the bank’s • Workshop Support at the Branch Office Level Group Insurance Coverage and medical subsidies, Zip-lining, glamping, yacht and ATV experiences, and which helps ensure a healthy and vibrant workplace. The survival games are only a few of the outdoor activities bank also supports membership in a condo-sharing prowe provide so that employees at branch offices can gram nationwide, allowing employee to enjoy time away strengthen their ties with colleagues and the organization with family members at multiple destinations throughout as a whole. Every year, a growing number of employees Korea. are applying to take advantage of this popular program. • Woori Daycare Center This thoroughly enjoyable workshop facilitates acrossthe-board communication within the organization and In support of the government’s policy to address the generates synergies among employees. In light of the falling birth rate, Woori Bank runs corporate daycare CEO’s commitment to management by walking around centers in Seoul to assist our employees with childcare (MBWA), the Woori Town Hall Meeting program was issues. In addition to the two existing centers in Maexpanded in 2015 to the Regional Banking Headquarpo-gu (Happiness Center) and Seongdong-gu (Love ters level so as to facilitate cross-departmental and even Center), Woori Bank opened a third daycare center at cross-regional communication and mutual understanding its head office in Jung-gu, Seoul in August 2016. We will among employees. In 2016, the Woori Pop Star event continue adding new day care centers in promotion of a also provided a fun venue for employees from different corporate culture that encourages childbirth, while also regional bases to become acquainted with one another. helping parents balance the challenges of working full time and raising a young child. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 077 Consumer Protection In line with our management principle of on-site management in which customers come first, we have made Customer happiness, Pioneering for the future, Honesty & trust, and Putting talent first our core values, of which customer happiness is the overriding value. Based on this management philosophy, we were the first Korean bank to establish a Consumer Protection Division, an organization devoted solely to consumer rights protection, which strengthened our position as a leading bank in consumer rights protection. 2016 in Review The Financial Consumer Protection Center establishes Continued Decrease in Customer and implements complaint prevention plans after reComplaints flecting customer opinions and consumer protection policy trends, while also promoting and advancing Through diverse incentives to motivate employees to consumer rights and interests through the continuous prevent customer complaints, we proactively support improvement of systems and the correction of unself-driven complaint prevention drives at the sales sound practices. In addition, we deal with customer network level. Whenever we launch a new product, relcomplaint issues promptly and fairly. Moreover, branch evant departments join forces to preview and deal with office support requests and problem-solving issues any potential risks for customer complaints or violaare promptly handled after consulting with the relevant tions of consumer rights. As a result of this tenaciousdepartments. ness, we saw the number of our customer complaints decline for a fifth straight year in 2016. In recognition of our constant system upgrading efforts in pursuit of consumer rights protection, the Financial Supervisory Service singled out Woori Bank in 2016 for Excellence in the Financial Sector as part of its Financial Consumer Rights Protection Practice Review for 2015. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 078 Customer-oriented Consumer Rights Heightening Prevention of Financial Fraud Protection Practices In active response to the growing frequency of financial In order to reflect the voices of those working at customfraud, such as voice phishing and pharming, as well er contact points, we invite our staff at branch offices as mortgage fraud, we constantly publicize warnings every quarter to submit their ideas for consumer rights about such malfeasance and train our employees acprotection initiatives and also reflect suggestions made cordingly at branch offices. At the same time, tellers by customers that are collected through diverse chanare instructed to block withdrawals as soon as they nels to prevent the recurrence of similar complaints. recognize any sign of financial fraud. Due to this vigilance, there was a sharp increase in the prevention As part of our commitment to voluntary and active of fraud and losses over the previous year. In fact, we consumer rights protection activities, we are also even received a citation from the Korean National Poproud to promote our Charm Forum, a voluntary meetlice Agency for cooperating in the arrests of numerous ing of customer relationship managers who spearhead people who had committed fraud. our consumer rights protection efforts at customer contact points. 2017 Plans The Financial Consumer Protection Center set becomweed out any potential risks to customers. Additionally, ing a stronger financial consumer rights protector as its we will upgrade our financial fraud prevention procegoal for 2017. To that effect, we will reinforce our comdures yet again and further train employees to help plaint prevention campaigns at branch offices, work them bolster their competencies in preventing financial hard to promote consumer rights, and scrutinize new fraud and ultimately protect all customer assets. products before marketing them to the public so as to Information Security at Woori Bank Woori Bank pursues continuous upgrades to its information security organization and heightens its administrative and technological protection measures to eliminate customer information leakage at its source. Increasing Staff at the Information of information security incidents. When customer FinTech security technology related to dynamic Security Organization information is provided for use by external parapp falsification prevention and obfuscation sysThe Information Security Division hosts regular ties for business purposes, we scrutinize their tems further reinforced the safety and stability of Information Security Commission meetings to monitoring practices to prevent loss, theft, leakour mobile-based services. discuss agenda related to IT security and interage, forgery, falsification or damage to customer nal controls for customer information protection information. as well as system amendments. 2017 Plans for Information Security In addition to plans already in place to counter In addition, our ICT Security Check Team conTechnological Security Measures cyber attacks, we are also working to complete sists of highly skilled “white hats” (ethical inforWoori Bank earned an information security managea system for detecting malicious code related mation security experts) to ensure our financial ment system (ISMS) certificate from the Ministry of to security violations and incidents by internal service environment remains secure. Science, ICT and Future Planning’s Korea Internet users. FinTech technology will also be applied Security Agency (KISA) in October 2014. In June to enhance our advanced security systems. 2016, the bank was also awarded a Ministerial Prize Hacking simulation drills will allow us to thorAdministrative Protection Measures at the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy’s oughly prepare ourselves against the potential In an effort to prohibit the misuse and abuse of 1st Annual Korea Industrial Security Awards. threat of cyber attacks. At the same time, we will customer information, staff members in charge strengthen our security practice checks related of customer information inquiries have minimal That same year, we became the first Korean to new service platforms, including WiBee Bank. access to customer information—and only when financial institution to complete a system for Going forward, we will continue to maintain airrequired. They also receive periodic training on countering advanced persistent threats (APT) in tight protection of customer information and information security to raise awareness of perthe trafficking of malicious code, which helped maintain the high level of trust customers have in sonal information protection and the prevention to successfully insulate the bank against cyberthe bank. attacks. Later, the application of state-of-the-art Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 079 Social Contribution Activities Since its foundation in 1899, Woori Bank has taken great pride in not only being only Korea’s first commercial bank, but also the country’s first fully domestically-funded bank and a vital part of the development of the national economy over the past 118 years. In modern society, where financial institutions are expected to fulfill their social roles and responsibilities, we have three core values in place—humanity, happiness and hopefulness—and uphold all three through diverse social contribution activities and sharing campaigns. By lending our financial acumen to social contribution initiatives, we provide financial aid to SOHOs and underbanked clients in a variety of ways. In recognition of these accomplishments, Korea’s Minister of Health & Welfare granted a commendation to Woori Bank at the 2016 Korea Sharing Awards. Going forward, we will continue to develop and carry out activities to create heightened social value through diverse social contribution activities. agencies through a wide range of social contribution HUMANITY campaigns. We also review and share social contriHumanity in Action with Local Communities bution activity best practices from each department engaged in social contribution campaigns, as well as • The Woori Love Sharing Program the bank’s headquarters, to promote the spread of a Since launching the Woori Bank Volunteer Corps culture of sharing within the organization. in July 2007, we have been engaged in a number of social contribution activities through our national •S  ponsoring Living Necessities for the Underbranch network. Today, the bank’s signature comprivileged munity engagement initiative for the underprivileged It is with great joy that Woori Bank makes its is the Woori Love Sharing Program. Under this prowarm-hearted wishes a reality for people in the rungram, our 33 regional business headquarters select up to important national holidays such as Lunar New social welfare centers that support underprivileged elYear and Korean Thanksgiving. During the Lunar New derly citizens, infants and the disabled, create sisterYear holidays in 2016, for example, we made dumphood ties and provide regular volunteer services led lings with multicultural families at a social welfare cenby employees. At the end of every year, the scope of ter for elderly people in Gwanak-gu, Seoul, delivering our support expands to include other social welfare dumplings along with living supplies to seniors who Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 080 are members of the center. Later that year, as Korean scholarships we offer to local community centers for Thanksgiving Day approached, our employees volchildren through the Woori Bank Dream Support Scholunteered their time to make Songpyeon (Korean traarship program. Furthermore, we invited boys and girls ditional rice cakes) with residents of Myeonghwiwon from rural villages, which often lack access to cultural/ Social Welfare Center for the mentally challenged in social events, to visit Seoul and go sightseeing around Ansan. The 2016 event was of particular significance Gyeongbok Palace and some nearby museums. because Myeonghwiwon Ansan was established by Lee Bang Ja, the wife of King Yeong Chin, who also served as the second president of Korea Cheonil Bank (the forerunner of Woori Bank), in promotion of social welfare for the mentally challenged. HOPEFULNESS Communication & Harmony for • Put Love First Blood Donation Campaign Hopefulness Woori Bank’s Put Love First Blood Donation Cam• Global Social Contribution Activities paign, which is specifically aimed at helping children As a responsible global financial institution, Woori from low-income families fight leukemia, a variety of Bank makes use of its vast overseas network, which children’s cancers, and other hard-to-cure diseases includes 250 branches around the world, to effecmarked its 11th anniversary in 2016. During the camtively deal with social issues that local communities paign, which we usually run in July and August when are faced with worldwide through social contribution the blood donation rate is relatively low across the activities. In fact, we held a Sharing Hope Campaign country, employees voluntarily participate in the blood with new employees of the bank to help children of drive at our branch offices nationwide and present climate change refugees in October and December their blood donation certificates to children most in 2016. We donated T-shirts that featured drawings need and those suffering from rare diseases, as well from our employees with the aim of delivering hope as subsidies for medical bills on behalf of Woori Bank. as well as ready-to-use therapeutic foods for undernourished children who have been displaced. Our Bangladesh branch was even involved in a waste disposal campaign and environmental awareness HAPPINESS improvement project, both of which were meant to Happiness through Sharing address environmental issues in developing South and Southeast Asian countries. •W oori Care Fund and Woori Children’s Care Fund •W oori Multicultural Families Scholarship Woori Bank regularly encourages employees to doFoundation nate voluntarily to good causes. In fact, most of our Woori Bank and the subsidiaries of the former Woori employees make donations from their monthly payFinancial Group collectively established the Woori Mulchecks to the Woori Care Fund and Woori Children’s ticultural Scholarship Foundation in 2012 as a way to Care Fund. The Woori Care Fund finances our more assist children from multicultural families. This foundathan 80 annual social contribution programs, while tion also engages in various projects that help multiculthe Woori Children’s Care Fund provides funding for tural families to plant firmer roots in Korean society. In a number of activities for underprivileged children, as June 2016, we awarded scholarships to 400 children well as providing food for underfed children. from multicultural families and marriage migrants, providing relief from the economic burden of tuition fees, • Sisterhood Ties with Local Childcare Centers while also providing education programs on economWith strong sisterhood ties to local community centers ics, finance, and Korean culture in the hopes that we for children, Woori Bank hosts an annual skating comcan help them quickly and effectively adjust to Korean petition for children. In January 2016, we invited kids society. Moreover, on the 5th Woori Wedding Day from local community centers to a winter sports event at event, we arranged joint wedding ceremonies for 10 the ice rink located in front of Seoul City Hall. That same multicultural couples who had not been able to have a year, a total of 200 children benefited from the biannual wedding ceremony due to a lack of funds. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 081 Woori Smile Microcredit Woori Bank is engaged in microcredit to spearhead efforts in practicing socially responsible banking by supporting financially struggling, socially vulnerable and underbanked customers. In 2009, Woori Bank led in the contribution of KRW 10 billion per year, totaling KRW 50 billion over five years, together with the former Woori Financial Group and its affiliates, to establish and operate the Woori Microcredit Foundation. The foundation appointed well-known people from the religious, academic and social welfare circles as outside directors, ensuring the fairness of the project and the support of citizens. There are nine branches across the nation with 28 employees. Major Performance Results of the Woori Bank extended approximately KRW 17.9 billion Microcredit Foundation in credit in 1,778 loans throughout 2016. By extending support to the financially vulnerable, the Woori Bank is proud to make this support available so Number of branches socially neglected and those who lack financial access, that recipients can become self-sustainable through one-on-one consulting/counselling and microcredit 9 we extended microcredit worth KRW 279 billion in 2015, leading the way in practicing socially responsible events via visits aimed at providing counseling serfinancing. Microcredit services were provided through vices, offering microcredit services, holding special mia range of different products: Woori New Hope Seed crofinance events at traditional markets, and extending for low-credit low-income customers as well as Trana helping hand at shorthanded workplaces. sit Loan, which help the financially excluded transfer Number of emplyees high-interest loans to low-interest ones. 28 Through microcredit services, Woori Bank extended a total of KRW 112.7 billion in credit via 9,338 loans through 2016. To stay true to the goal of bolstering customer self-sufficiency through microcredit assistance, we saw a tremendous increase in the volume of microcredit loans extended throughout the year by approaching customers directly and developing customized products. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 082 Key Products of the Microcredit Foundation Microcredit Financing that Helps Achieve Self-Sufficiency • Business Start-up Loans For registered entrepreneurs to start a new small We plan to expand support by exploring low-income Woori Bank tops the 2016 business industries with high vulnerability and sign agreements Miso Microfinance Foundation with traditional market merchant councils and associPerformance Review of • Working Capital Loans ations. Meanwhile, we will secure exclusive channels five Korean banks & 'S' grade For individual entrepreneurs who have already been for better accessibility to microcredit. In addition, we S in business for over six months to purchase prodwill take the lead in promoting and sharing the genuine ucts, raw materials, etc. role and purpose of microcredit, together with society, grade and promote these roles and trends by exploring and • Facility Improvement Loans (by Korea Inclusive Finance Agency) facilitating best practices, to raise confidence among For individual entrepreneurs who have already been recipients. in business for over six months to improve business site facilities. Woori Bank will establish a foundation for the self-sufficiency of low-credit low-income people through micro•S unshine Loans for University Students and credit services, ensuring the stabilization of livelihoods Young People and improvement in living standards. Emergency funding for young people and university students who are under 29 years of age (under 31 for men who fulfilled their military duties). Woori Smile Microcredit’s (Unit:KRW billion) Cumulative Performance 2016 112.7 +38.5% 2015 95 2014 74.2 (Unit:cases) 2016 9,338 +66% 2015 7,560 2014 5,601 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 083 FINANCIAL REVIEW Management’s Discussion and Analysis 085 Independent Auditors' Repor 094 Financial Statements 096 Audit Report Financial Statements MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 1. Overview In 2016, challenging market environments abounded in the global economy in the aftermath of the Brexit referendum, spreading protectionism and nationalistic economic policies triggered by the presidential election of Donald Trump in the U.S. At the same time, trade friction with China over THAAD, steering the shipbuilding and shipping industries and the resultant business restructuring, coupled with contracting domestic consumption over political instability, adversely affected the domestic market environment. Amid the overall economic slowdown and low-interest rate trends in the wake of base rate cuts in June 2016, Korea’s banking industry continued serving the diverse financial needs of customers through consistent profit-oriented marketing strategies and expansion of low-cost deposits in pursuit of stable profitability, while improving their financial soundness through effective risk management practices. For its part, Woori Bank succeeded in its 16-year quest for privatization, providing an opportunity to move forward under a new vision. The seven major shareholders-Tongyang Life, Kiwoom Securities, Korea Investment Securities, Hanwha Life Insurance, IMM PE, Eugene Asset management and Mirae Asset Global Investments-have all purchased shares in the bank that range from 3.69 percent to 6.0 percent, totaling a 29.69 percent stake in Woori Bank, from the Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation. Five of these companies have appointed outside directors to the bank. This has put Woori Bank under a new corporate governance structure of several major oligopolistic shareholders with enhanced autonomy and accountability for management activities in line with the goal of a beginning a “A Better Tomorrow, A Stronger Bank.” Financial performance results were also remarkable in all aspects of profitability, soundness and growth. Despite a continued challenging market environment with prolonged low-interest rate trends, Woori Bank outperformed its record from the previous year in terms of net income in the first nine months of 2016 backed by outstanding marketing activities. On top of that, soundness significantly improved with all relative indicators pointing upwards-NPL ratio, bad debt expense and delinquency ratio-thereby assuaging market concerns. Woori Bank also excelled in generating future growth engines throughout 2016. The bank was the first in the industry to launch a mobile messenger service, WiBee Talk, followed by WiBee Members and WiBee Market, to complete the four components of the WiBee platform inclusive of the existing WiBee Bank service that it introduced the year before. On the global front, the bank focused on markets with high growth potential, specifically Southeast Asian countries, to expand its global network. As a result, the bank boasted 250 networks worldwide, the most among all Korean commercial banks, as of the end of the 2016, setting the stage the bank to become one of Asia’s top 10-and the world’s top 50-financial institutions in the near future. As it starts out 2017 on a stronger note, Woori Bank is poised to stride into a brighter future as a rising total financial service provider, with its 118 years of history standing firmly behind it. Through the development of new growth engines, we are determined to broaden our financial reach as a stronger bank with healthy fundamentals. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 085 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS Key Management Indicators (Unit:%) 2016 2015 2014 (183rd term) (182nd term) (181st term) Return on Assets (ROA) 0.41 0.37 0.21 Note 2) Profitability Return on Equity (ROE) 6.36 5.69 3.55 Note 2) Delinquency Ratio (Bank) 0.46 0.82 0.88 Asset Quality NPL Ratio (Bank) 0.98 1.47 2.10 NPL Coverage Ratio(Bank) 165.0 121.5 97.2 Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio 10.50 8.47 8.96 Capital Adequacy Tier 1 Capital Ratio 12.68 10.43 10.69 Total Equity Ratio 15.29 13.66 14.25 Note 1) Profitability and capital adequacy figures are based on consolidated financial statements and asset quality figures are based on separate financial statements Note 2) T  he above figures do not reflect the one-off factors arising from corporate sell-offs and/or spin-offs. In consideration of the one-off factors arising from the disposal and/or spin-offs of subsidiaries in the 181st term, ROA and ROE stand at 0.41 percent and 7.06 percent, respectively. 2. Financial Position & Business Performance Results A. Growth (Unit:KRW trillion) 2016 2015 Change (183rd term) (182nd term) Total assets 310.7 291.9 6.4% Loans and receivables 258.4 244.8 5.6% Loans in KRW 191.3 185.2 3.3% Loans in foreign currencies 14.1 13.1 7.6% Bills bought in foreign currencies 7.8 6.6 18.2% Note) Based on the Korean version of International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) consolidated financial statements As of the end of 2016, Woori Bank‘s total assets (consolidated basis) stood at KRW 310.7 trillion, up KRW 18.8 trillion, or 6.4 percent, from the previous year. Loan assets rose by KRW 13.6 trillion, or 5.6 percent, year on year to reach KRW 258.4 trillion, with KRW 191.3 trillion of these extended in Korean won (KRW). The won-denominated loan growth rate stood at 3.3 percent for this same period. This can be attributed to our asset growth strategy of improving asset quality through quality asset-oriented growth and lower risk-weighted assets to achieve an adequate level of capital adequacy. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 086 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS B. Profitability (Unit:KRWmillion, %) 2016 2015 2014 (183rd term) (182nd term) (181st term) Operating profit 1,574,206 1,351,586 897,708 1. Net interest income 5,019,544 4,761,900 4,493,018 2. Net fees & commissions income 937,131 976,796 917,015 3. Dividend income 184,510 102,923 96,812 4. Net gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 114,387 240,342 189,912 5. Net gain (loss) on available-for-sale financial assets (1,035) (3,281) (68,924) 6. Impairment losses due to credit loss (834,076) (966,646) (1,096,940) 7. General and administrative expenses (3,478,476) (3,150,387) (2,958,919) 8. Other net operating expenses (367,779) (610,061) (674,266) Non-operating income (loss) (20,817) 100,360 (63,313) Net income before income tax expense 1,553,389 1,451,946 834,395 Income tax expense 275,856 376,554 288,195 Net income from continuing operations 1,277,533 1,075,392 546,200 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations 661,769 Net income 1,277,533 1,075,392 1,207,969 1. Net income attributable to owners 1,261,266 1,059,157 1,213,980 (1) Income from continuing operations 1,261,266 1,059,157 435,289 (2) Income from discontinued operations 778,691 2. Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 16,267 16,235 (6,011) (1) Income from continuing operations 16,267 16,235 110,911 (2) Income from discontinued operations (116,922) Note) Based on consolidated K-IFRS financial statements As of the end of 2016, Woori Bank‘s net income reached KRW 1,261.2 billion (consolidated, controlling interests). Net interest income was up 5.4 percent year on year to stand at KRW 5,019.5 billion for 2016, thanks to the bank‘s profit-oriented marketing strategies and low-cost deposit increase efforts in the face of a base rate cut by the Bank of Korea in June 2016. The drop in the net interest margin slowed starting in the fourth quarter of the year and interest profits are expected to rise as the Korean central bank is predicted to raise market interest rates in the wake of the U.S. central bank‘s rate hikes. Also, non-interest income surged by 22.8 percent from the previous year to KRW 867 billion in 2016. As the bank set its goal for 2017 at strengthening wealth management capabilities with strategies of catering to the rising demand of personalized wealth management advisory services in tandem with the nation‘s aging society and growing single-person households, its efforts to take the lead in the wealth management market will lead to growth in non-interest income. Although general administrative expenses had a temporary rise in one-off costs, which was mainly due to the additional lay-off expenses, the expected higher efficiency in personnel and channel operations and bank-wide cost-saving efforts will help us stabilize general administrative expenses at an adequate level. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 087 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS C. Asset Quality (Unit:KRW 100 million) 2016 2015 2014 (183rd term) (182nd term) (181st term) Indicators Change Indicators Change Indicators Non-performing loans 21,121 -9,888 31,009 -9,207 40,216 Non-performing loan ratio 0.98 -0.49 1.47 -0.63 2.10 Note 1) NPL Coverage ratio 165.04% 43.51%p 121.53% 24.37%p 97.16% Delinquency ratio Note 2) 0.46% -0.36%p 0.82% -0.06%p 0.88% Note 1) The NPL coverage ratio excluding loan loss provisions: 84.48% as of the end of 2016 Note 2) Delinquency ratio before account reconciliation In 2016, Woori Bank‘s asset quality showed remarkable achievements. Non-performing loans (NPL) have continued decreasing since 2015, with the NPL ratio dropping by 49 basis points year on year, from 2.10 percent in 2014 to 1.47 percent in 2015 and to 0.98 percent (0.91 percent if exposure to the three troubled Korean shipbuilders are excluded) in 2016. The NPL coverage ratio continued improving over the same period, from 97.16 percent in 2014 to 121.53 percent in 2015 to 165.04 percent in 2016. This remarkable growth can be attributed to our consistent effort towards quality corporate client-oriented asset growth and tight management of existing asset quality, while reducing the volume of loans extended to businesses on our watchlist in specific industries, including shipping, shipbuilding, construction, and real estate development & supply. As a result of our asset quality improvement efforts, our delinquency ratio also significantly fell to 0.46 percent in 2016. Most notably, the substandard and below loans also declined by 25.1 percent from the previous year in 2016, foretelling continued improvement in Woori Bank‘s loan asset quality. Woori Bank will continue its efforts towards enhancing its asset quality at a stable level with a thorough back-door-locking approach in 2017 even amid unstable economic conditions. (Unit:%) D. Capital Adequacy 2016 2015 Change (183rd term) (182nd term) Common Equity Tier 1 ratio(CET 1 retio) 10.50 8.47 8.96 Tier 1 capital ratio 12.68 10.43 10.69 Total capital ratio (BIS ratio) 15.29 13.66 14.25 In 2016, Woori Bank achieved significant growth in capital adequacy equivalent to the increase it reported for asset quality. Capital ratios significantly improved, exemplified by a 10.50 percent Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (CET 1 ratio), 12.68 percent Tier 1 capital ratio and 15.29 percent Total capital ratio (BIS ratio). These figures meet the requirements of the Basel III guidelines, indicating that the bank‘s loss absorbing capacity (LAC) meets common standards. These improvements are partially due to regulatory changes, which resulted in a revision to assessment guidelines like loan loss provisions being counted as common equity and the approval of changed internal ratings-based approach (retail card assets) for credit risks under the Basel III guidelines, resulting in a decrease in the risk-weighted asset of Woori Card. Going forward, Woori Card will continue its efforts to generate steady profits and control risk-weighted assets to maintain its capital ratio at an adequate level. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 088 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 3. Liquidity, Sources & Applications of Fund A. Liquidity Ratios (Unit:%) 2016 2015 2014 (183rd term) (182nd term) (181st term) Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) Note 1) 109.61 106.67 123.10 Before applying liquidity weight 131.47 130.30 130.29 Foreign currency liquidity ratio After applying liquidity weight 121.70 120.71 121.29 Note 1) The LCR figures differ by term due to regulatory revisions: Figures for the 183rd and 182nd terms represent LCRs, while those for the 181st term stand for liquidity ratio in KRW * LCR (consolidated, including foreign currency) = high liquidity assets/monthly net cash outflows (According to standards, LCR should remain higher than 80 percent, demanding an annual increase of 5 percent to surpass the 100 percent level as of 2019) ** Liquidity ratio in KRW (separated) = (maturity of one month or less) assets/liabilities (higher than 100 percent by financial supervisory standards) In its liquidity management practices, Woori Bank fully abides by the new requirements (80% in 2015 and 85% in 2016) for the LCR—the new liquidity indicator adopted in 2015. In tandem with stricter regulations, however, the bank will need a more sophisticated LCR management framework in consideration of profitability. As a result, it is developing a Basel III liquidity regulatory ratio system for tight management of these indicators. B. Sources of fund (Bank Account) (Unit:KRW million, %) 2016 2015 2014 (183rd term) (182nd term) (181st term) Average Interest Average Interest Average Interest % % % balance rate balance rate balance rate Deposits in KRW 183,440,285 1.38 65.35 169,919,620 1.70 64.76 157,994,039 2.22 66.89 Certificates of Deposit 3,466,223 1.70 1.23 1,879,832 1.92 0.72 1,983,619 2.71 0.84 Funds Borrowings in KRW 6,709,080 1.45 2.39 6,689,135 1.77 2.55 5,675,238 2.31 2.40 in KRW Call Money in KRW 1,159,188 1.32 0.41 1,370,253 1.62 0.52 984,378 2.28 0.42 Others 18,532,241 2.60 6.60 18,944,493 2.95 7.22 15,925,666 3.69 6.74 Subtotal 213,307,017 1.50 75.98 198,803,334 1.82 75.77 182,562,940 2.36 77.29 Deposits in foreign currencies 14,838,684 0.47 5.29 11,568,322 0.44 4.41 7,973,812 0.44 3.38 Borrowings in foreign currencies 8,595,575 0.86 3.06 9,245,073 0.53 3.52 6,357,072 0.50 2.69 Funds Call money in foreign currencies 1,401,294 0.70 0.50 1,199,484 0.53 0.46 1,242,371 0.54 0.53 in foreign currencies Debentures in foreign currencies 3,950,614 2.54 1.41 4,851,289 2.72 1.85 5,559,305 3.51 2.35 Others 531,877 0.29 0.19 650,409 0.66 0.25 918,010 1.03 0.39 Subtotal 29,318,044 0.87 10.44 27,514,577 0.88 10.49 22,050,569 1.26 9.34 Total capital 19,617,484 6.99 18,501,137 7.05 18,225,902 7.72 Provisions 412,553 0.15 640,666 0.24 594,945 0.25 Others Others 18,070,427 6.44 16,907,843 6.44 12,779,094 5.41 Subtotal 38,100,463 13.57 36,049,647 13.74 31,599,941 13.38 Total 280,725,524 1.23 100.00 262,367,557 1.47 100.00 236,213,449 1.94 100.00 Note 1) Deposits in KRW = Deposits in KRW – Deposit checks & bills in process of collection – reverse deposits with BOK – inter-bank adjustment funds (call loans) * Deposit checks & bills in process of collection = total checks and bills in process of collection – checks & bills on clearing for overdrafts – inter-bank adjustment funds (call money) * Interests for calculating interest rates are the sum of interests on deposits and installment deposits and deposit insurance premiums. Note 2) Deposits in foreign currencies = Deposits in foreign currencies + off-shore deposits in foreign currencies Note 3) Foreign currency borrowings = Foreign currency borrowings + due to BOK in foreign currency + off-shore borrowings in foreign currencies Note 4) Finance debentures issued in foreign currencies = Finance debentures issued in foreign currencies + offshore finance debentures issued in foreign currencies Note 5) Based on K-IFRS financial statements Note 6) Excluding merchant banking accounts Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 089 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS C. Applications of Fund (Bank Account) (Unit:KRW million, %) 2016 2015 2014 (183rd term) (182nd term) (181st term) Average Interest Average Interest Average Interest % % % balance rate balance rate balance rate Deposits in KRW 3,171,599 1.34 1.13 2,580,842 1.72 0.98 2,670,185 2.37 1.13 Marketable securities in KRW 33,880,119 2.58 12.07 32,994,958 2.79 12.58 31,496,840 3.40 13.33 Loans in KRW 189,079,324 3.10 67.35 176,631,188 3.42 67.32 161,296,709 4.18 68.28 Advance payments on 51,254 0.89 0.02 64,533 1.89 0.02 69,099 4.27 0.03 acceptances and guarantees Funds Call loans in KRW 3,581,382 1.41 1.28 2,083,053 1.64 0.79 2,186,891 2.32 0.93 in KRW Privately placed bonds 247,292 5.19 0.09 280,702 5.98 0.11 470,988 4.12 0.20 Credit card receivables 24 0.00 3,967,556 Others 4,580,215 2.04 1.63 4,313,781 2.61 1.64 (3,073,009) 3.50 1.68 Allowance for doubtful accounts in KRW (1,925,177) (0.69) (2,482,955) (0.95) 199,085,264 (1.30) Subtotal 232,666,033 2.98 82.88 216,466,103 3.31 82.50 2,044,084 4.06 84.28 Deposits in foreign currencies 3,761,286 0.43 1.34 2,872,735 0.28 1.09 1,073,932 0.47 0.87 Marketable securities in 1,752,884 1.13 0.62 1,375,146 1.51 0.52 12,364,024 0.85 0.45 foreign currencies Loans in foreign currencies 13,371,873 1.95 4.76 14,206,736 1.65 5.41 1,347,232 1.71 5.23 Funds Call loans in foreign currencies 2,940,858 0.85 1.05 2,040,819 0.59 0.78 5,559,305 0.94 0.57 in foreign currencies Bills bought in foreign currencies 7,110,164 1.53 2.53 6,899,811 1.38 2.63 5,425,038 1.40 2.30 Others 13,829 9.72 0.00 17,047 6.96 0.01 19,509 6.36 0.01 Allowance for doubtful (312,211) (0.11) (191,224) (0.07) (239,896) (0.10) accounts in foreign currencies Subtotal 28,638,685 1.51 10.20 27,221,069 1.37 10.38 22,033,923 1.46 9.33 Cash 1,169,566 0.42 1,116,715 0.43 1,076,521 0.46 Property, plant and equipment for 2,325,893 0.83 2,328,130 0.89 2,358,135 1.00 Others business Others 15,925,347 5.67 15,235,540 5.81 11,659,606 4.94 Subtotal 19,420,807 6.92 18,680,385 7.12 15,094,262 6.39 Total 280,725,524 2.62 100.00 262,367,557 2.87 100.00 236,213,449 3.56 100.00 Note 1) Deposits in KRW = Deposits in KRW – reverse deposits with BOK Note 2) Marketable securities in KRW = Marketable securities in KRW + Loaned securities in Won * Interest for calculating interest rates = Securities interests (including dividend received) + Evaluation profit (net) + gain on redemption of securities (net) + excluding the portion of gain from stock transactions (net) out of gains on sales of securities Note 3) Loans in KRW = Loans in KRW + Checks & bills on clearing for overdrafts * Interest for calculating interest rates = Interest on loans in KRW – Contribution to the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund Note 4) Deposits in foreign currencies = Deposits in foreign currencies + offshore deposits in foreign currencies Note 5) Interest on securities in foreign currency = Interest on securities in foreign currency + Loaned securities in foreign currency * Interest for calculating interest rates = Securities interests (including dividend received) + Evaluation profit (net) + Gain on redemption of securities (net) + Excluding the portion of gain from stock transactions (net) out of gains on sales of securities Note 6) Loans in foreign currencies = Loans in foreign currencies + offshore loans in foreign currencies + inter-bank loans in foreign currencies + loans from foreign borrowings + domestic import issuance bills Note 7) Cash = Cash – total checks & bills in process of collection Note 8) Property, plant and equipment for business = property, plant and equipment for business – accumulated depreciation Note 9) Based on K-IFRS financial statements Note 10) Excluding merchant banking accounts Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 090 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4. Other Issues Required for Informed Investment Decisions A. Environmental Impacts As a financial service provider, Woori Bank‘s banking and trusts businesses do not have an environmentally destructive impact. Therefore, the bank is not currently paying, or is likely to pay in the future, any environmental remediation/restoration expenses. It has not been subject to, or likely to be subject to in the future, administrative measures by the government or environmental authorities. Woori Bank, however, reports to the government on its greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption as a target management company on its buildings designated under Paragraph 5, Article 42 of the Framework Act on Low-Carbon, Green Growth. 2016 2015 2014 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tCO2eq) 88,472 91,322 93,676 Energy Consumption(TJ) 1,315 1,360 1,421 B. Risk Management (1) Risk Management Policy Overview (A) Objective and Policies ① Objective : The risk management objective is to identify the sources of risks and measure the size and appropriateness to make and implement decisions to avert or mitigate the risks, thereby enhancing the soundness of investment assets and holding assets. ② Policies : Risk management policies are purported at maintaining the overall asset quality of the bank at the optimal status by applying the risk amounts to its assets by preemptively detecting the sound creditability and counterparty risks up until the point of asset holding through constant management of credit lines based on the credit assessment of counterparties against credit ratings. (B) Risk Management Organization Board of Directors President & CEO Risk Management Committee Marketing Support Risk Management Council Risk Management Group Risk Management Department Loan Review Department ① Risk Management Committee ② Risk Management Council Top Risk Management Decision-making Body Composition: Head of the Business Support Division (Chairman) and the Composition: three outside directors and one non-standing director heads of the six Groups Major Items for Resolution Major Items for Deliberation Setting the tone of risk management master plans Reviewing risks of new products Credit Line Approval and Capital Allocation Determining internal interest rates guidelines Meeting Cycle: Quarterly Fund supply and demand programs (liquidity management) Meeting Cycle: Quarterly (C) Risk Management Strategies & Procedures ① Strategies: While disposing of excess risks and taking an appropriate level of risks, we strategically pursue asset soundness and profitability by maximizing profit to risks. ② Procedures -R  isk recognition: Analyzing various risks possibly associated with the bank‘s business activities Risk measurement/assessment: Determining risk measurements by risk type, we measure risk size and determine if the size is appropriate by utilizing measurement systems Risk controlling: Controlling risks by determining the risks subject to daily, monthly and quarterly reports to avert/mitigate risks or maintain risks at appropriate levels Monitoring/Reporting risks: In proper response to risks, we continuously monitor risk levels and define the route, content and cycle of reporting. (2) Credit Risk Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 091 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (A) Definition Credit risk represents the possibility of financial losses incurred when the counterparty becomes insolvent or rejects transactions within the period provided in the contract. The goals of credit risk management are to maintain the bank‘s credit risk exposure to a permissible degree and to optimize its rate of return considering such credit risk. (B) Method ① Credit Line Management : Relying on aggregation management, total exposure management and portfolio management, we set and manage appropriate credit lines by aggregation, corporate and industry. Aggregation management: By aggregating the exposures of borrowers who share credit risks, we put them under a single credit risk aggregation management system to take into control the bank‘s exposure to credit risks. -T  otal exposure management: In order to prevent a concentration of loans, we calculate corporate value based on its future cash flow and set the ceilings per borrower within the limit of capability of repaying borrowings from revenue. (3) Operational Risk (A) Definition Woori Bank defines the operational risk that could cause a negative effect on capital resulting from inadequate internal processes, labor work and systematic problems or external factors. (B) Operational Risk Management In order to reinforce its foreign competition, reduce the amount of risk capital, enhance operational risk management capabilities and prevent any unexpected occasions, Woori Bank has in place the operational risk management system it developed under Basel II since December 2005. The objectiveness of our operational risk management system has been tested internally and by an independent third party. The advanced measurement approach also obtained the approval for application from the Financial Supervisory Service in June 2009 and came in use as of June 30. ① Operational Risk Management Risk Self Assessment (RSA): Applying to the bank‘s entire business premises, the RSA refers to all procedures related to risk management activities, from distinguishing material operational risks and assessing the controlling activities to coming up with countermeasures to eliminate/improve the risks. -K  ey Risk Indicators (KRI): KRIs are used for determining and monitoring risks and tracking the operational risks. Loss data: Woori Bank has constructed a systemic framework of collecting and managing internal loss data on a bank-wide level under the operational risk management system. It also receives external loss data from SAS Global Data and the Korea Operational Risk Data Exchange Committee for scenario analysis and risk identification. -S  cenario analysis: Operating risks characteristically lack of accumulated loss data, making it difficult to take a statistical approach. To measure such operations risks, we predict potential loss amounts and frequencies of possible operational risk events based on various information, such as internal data, external data and opinions of our experts working at each department and branch. Business Continuity Plan (BCP): Woori Bank has in place business continuity plans for organizational structure, risk assessment, business impact analysis, alternate location for recovery, and drills so that it can restore and regain core business parts in the event of cessation in its business operations due to unexpected factors like disasters and calamities. ② Operational Risk Measurement Woori Bank takes an advanced measurement approach and its consolidated subsidiaries take a basic indicator approach to measure operational risk capital amounts. -T  he basic indicator approach sets 15 percent of the bank‘s total income as operational risk capital. -T  he advanced measurement approach takes 99.9 percentile value of annual total loss distribution induced from the integrated loss distribution approach that combines loss data and scenarios to calculate operational risk capital. Based on the eight business domains and seven event types under Basel II, we add a back-office process, which is common bank-wide, setting the 9X7 matric as the operational risk capital amount measuring unit in consideration of the four basic factors (internal data, external data, scenarios, business environment and internal control factors) for measuring operational risk capital. Woori bank does not rely on insurance policy to mitigate its operational risk capital amount. (4) Market Risk (A) Definition Market risk refers to potential losses that incur from trading positions of a financial institution according to changes in market factors, such as interest rates, stock prices and exchange rates. Market risks arise from changes in interest rates and exchange rates on unsettled financial instruments. Thus, all contracts are exposed to a certain level of volatility according to interest rates, credit spread, exchange rates and equity securities prices. Market risks can be classified as general market risks and individual risks. General market risks represent losses arising from price changes in relation to some events that have an impact on all markets, such as interest rates, stock prices and exchange rates. Individual risks are losses from price changes related to individual events of issuing securities, including bonds and stocks. (B) Market Risk Management Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 092 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS Market risk management entails the entire process of identifying the sources of risks by risk factor on trading to measure the size and assess the appropriateness of the market risk sizes, then to make decisions to avert, share or mitigate risks. We take both a standard approach and internal model to measure market risks. The standard approach is used for calculating individual risks of market risk capital charge, while the internal model is for calculating the general market risks of capital charge and for managing internal risks. Relying on the internal model approved by the Financial Supervisory Service, Woori Bank uses the historical simulation method at a 99 percent confidence level, once out of 10 days of holding, to measure Value at Risk (VaR) and calculate the market risk capital charge for calculating the BIS ratio. For internal control purposes, the bank controls daily limits by measuring VaR at 99 percent confidence level per day. Model validation is carried out through daily back-testing of the VaR measurement and actual profit/loss. In addition to VaR, we perform monthly stress testing to measure the loss amount in the event of abnormal market situations, such as IMF borrowings or a global financial crisis. Market risk limits, including the VaR limits, loss limits and risk capital limits, are managed by Business Group, department/team and risk type and annually set by the Risk Management Committee. Limits for the subordinate units, excluding the derivatives books, are set by position-related departments within the given limits. Compliance to the limits are monitored by the Risk Management Departments independently from the working-level departments, and the monitoring reports are made to the Risk Management Council and Risk Management Committee on a regular basis. (5) Liquidity Risk (A) Definition Liquidity risk management is aimed at preventing potential losses to a financial institution arising from a shortage of funds through effective management of liquidity crunch due to disparity in maturity of assets and liabilities or unexpected outflow of funds. Therefore, derivatives products that involve the cash flow off balance account, as well as all assets and liabilities appearing on financial statements, are subject to our liquidity risk management activities. (B) Methods ① Funding/Application Status Analysis by Maturity (Maturity Gap Model) In managing liquidity risk, we determine the maturity gaps and gap ratios from the cash flow statements by time groups (remaining maturities or contract periods) by grouping assets and liabilities according to a different ALM chart of accounts. Based on the outcomes, we maintain the gap ratios within predetermined target ratios (limits). Our daily ALM system allows for inquiring maturity classification reports by business group, while providing daily liquidity ratios to identify the liquidity risk management indicators and status at related departments. These maturity-based reports of each business group are available on the daily ALM system and we provide daily liquidity ratio reports to related departments (Financial Planning Department, Treasury Department and all business groups) to keep them up to date with liquidity risk management indicators and status. ② Contingency Planning & Implementation In effective response to capital outflow and funding risks arising from abrupt and unforeseeable changes in market environments, we prepare bank-wide contingency plans to conduct regular monitoring on all issues with possible liquidity risks on a daily and weekly basis. (6) Risk Management of Derivatives Products Derivatives transactions are set to hedge any risks of loss in assets of holding, but they entail characteristic complexity and inherent risk factors. Therefore, Woori Bank caps the transactions and losses to hedge excessive loss potentials by limiting the transaction volumes. Prior to any atypical transactions (hybrid derivatives) or exotic derivatives transactions, when necessary, the Risk Management Department reviews potential risks in advance and then moves to the Risk Management Council for deliberation. Additionally, we minimize potential risks of losses by dividing the job processes into front office, middle office and back office so as to keep in check all procedures related to derivatives transactions. Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 093 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 094 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 095 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTSSTATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL OF FINANCIAL POSITION POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND 2015 AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND 2015 December 31, December 31, 2016 2015 (Korean Won in millions) ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents (Note 6) 7,591,324 6,644,055 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (Notes 4,7,11,12,18 and 26) 5,650,724 5,132,657 Available-for-sale financial assets (Notes 4,8,11,12 and 18) 20,817,583 17,170,592 Held-to-maturity financial assets (Notes 4,9,11,12 and 18) 13,910,251 13,621,640 Loans and receivables (Notes 4,10,11,12,18 and 45) 258,392,633 244,842,062 Investments in joint ventures and associates (Note 13) 439,012 643,861 Investment properties (Note 14) 358,497 351,496 Premises and equipment (Notes 15 and 18) 2,458,025 2,471,206 Intangible assets and goodwill (Note 16) 483,739 419,806 Assets held for sale (Note 17) 2,342 17,904 Current tax assets (Note 42) 6,229 6,782 Deferred tax assets (Note 42) 232,007 210,597 Derivative assets (Notes 4,11,12 and 26) 140,577 183,128 Net defined benefit assets (Note 24) 70,938 Other assets (Notes 19 and 45) 128,846 143,286 Total assets 310,682,727 291,859,072 LIABILITIES Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (Notes 4,11,12,20 and 26) 3,803,358 3,460,561 Deposits due to customers (Notes 4,11,21 and 45) 221,020,411 209,141,826 Borrowings (Notes 4,11,12 and 22) 18,769,515 20,033,917 Debentures (Notes 4,11 and 22) 23,565,449 21,898,859 Provisions (Notes 23, 44 and 45) 428,477 516,601 Net defined benefit liability (Note 24) 64,666 99,691 Current tax liabilities (Note 42) 171,192 108,943 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 42) 22,023 19,379 Derivative liabilities (Notes 4,11,12 and 26) 7,221 Other financial liabilities (Notes 4,11,12,25 and 45) 21,985,086 16,964,206 Other liabilities (Notes 25 and 45) 299,376 305,174 Total liabilities 290,136,774 272,549,157 (Continued) Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 096 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND 2015 (CONTINUED) December 31, December 31, 2016 2015 (Korean Won in millions) EQUITY Owners‘ equity: 20,386,160 19,188,472 Capital stock (Note 28) 3,381,392 3,381,392 Hybrid securities (Note 29) 3,574,896 3,334,002 Capital surplus (Note 28) 286,331 294,259 Other equity (Note 30) (1,468,025) (1,547,303) Retained earnings (Notes 31 and 32) (Regulatory reserve for credit loss as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 is 2,255,252 million Won and 1,756,142 million Won, respectively) (Regulatory reserve for credit loss to be reserved (reversed) as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 is 182,939 million Won and 499,110 million Won, respectively) (Planned provision (reversal) of regulatory reserve for credit loss as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 is 182,939 million Won and 499,110 million Won, respectively) 14,611,566 13,726,122 Non-controlling interests 159,793 121,443 Total equity 20,545,953 19,309,915 Total liabilities and equity 310,682,727 291,859,072 See accompanying notes Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 097 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND 2015 FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND 2015 2016 2015 (Korean Won in millions, except for per share data) Interest income 8,512,312 8,698,235 Interest expense (3,492,768) (3,936,335) Net interest income (Notes 34 and 45) 5,019,544 4,761,900 Fees and commissions income 1,865,470 1,757,340 Fees and commissions expense (928,339) (780,544) Net fees and commissions income (Notes 35 and 45) 937,131 976,796 Dividend income (Note 36) 184,510 102,923 Net gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (Note 37) 114,387 240,342 Net loss on available-for-sale financial assets (Note 38) (1,035) (3,281) Impairment losses on credit loss (Notes 39 and 45) (834,076) (966,646) General and administrative expenses (Notes 40 and 45) (3,478,476) (3,150,387) Net other operating expenses (Notes 40 and 45) (367,779) (610,061) Operating income 1,574,206 1,351,586 Share of losses of joint ventures and associates (Note 13) (19,507) (70,124) Net other non-operating income (expense) (1,310) 170,484 Non-operating income (loss) (Note 41) (20,817) 100,360 Net income before income tax expense 1,553,389 1,451,946 Income tax expense (Note 42) (275,856) (376,554) Net income from continuing operations 1,277,533 1,075,392 Net income (Net income after the provision of regulatory reserve for credit loss for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are 1,094,594 million Won and 576,282 million Won, respectively) (Note 32) 1,277,533 1,075,392 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 34,162 (78,267) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 34,162 (78,267) Gain on available-for-sale financial assets 12,586 72,297 Share of other comprehensive gain (loss) of joint ventures and associates (7,937) 3,295 Gain on foreign currency translation of foreign operations 28,712 33,837 Gain on valuation of cash flow hedge 10,371 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 43,732 109,429 Other comprehensive income , net of tax 77,894 31,162 Total comprehensive income 1,355,427 1,106,554 Net income attributable to: Net income attributable to owners 1,261,266 1,059,157 Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 16,267 16,235 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Comprehensive income attributable to owners 1,332,614 1,094,870 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 22,813 11,684 Basic and diluted earnings from operations per share (In Korean Won) (Note 43) 1,567 1,301 See accompanying notes Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 098 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS WOORI BANK AND OFSUBSIDIARIES CHANGES IN EQUITY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND 2015 FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND 2015 NonCapital Hybrid Capital Other Retained Controlling controlling Total stock securities surplus equity earnings interests interests equity (Korean Won in millions) January 1, 2015 3,381,392 2,538,823 291,066 (2,393,138) 14,165,358 17,983,501 109,924 18,093,425 Net income 1,059,157 1,059,157 16,235 1,075,392 Dividends (504,952) (504,952) (824) (505,776) Change in ownership interest of investments in consolidated subsidiaries and others 3,193 3,193 660 3,853 Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 73,691 73,691 (1,394) 72,297 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates 3,295 3,295 3,295 Gain (loss) on foreign currencies translation of foreign operations 36,932 36,932 (3,095) 33,837 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (78,204) (78,204) (63) (78,267) Dividends to hybrid securities (183,320) (183,320) (183,320) Issuance of hybrid securities 795,179 795,179 795,179 Retirement of treasury stock 3,481 (3,481) Appropriation of merger losses 806,640 (806,640) December 31, 2015 3,381,392 3,334,002 294,259 (1,547,303) 13,726,122 19,188,472 121,443 19,309,915 January 1, 2016 3,381,392 3,334,002 294,259 (1,547,303) 13,726,122 19,188,472 121,443 19,309,915 Net income 1,261,266 1,261,266 16,267 1,277,533 Dividends (168,317) (168,317) (1,286) (169,603) Change in capital surplus of consolidated subsidiaries (7,928) 7,930 2 2 Changes in non-controlling interests due to acquisition of subsidiary 16,823 16,823 Gain on valuation of availablefor-sale financial assets 12,296 12,296 290 12,586 Share of other comprehensive loss of joint ventures and associates (7,937) (7,937) (7,937) Gain on foreign currencies translation of foreign operations 22,436 22,436 6,276 28,712 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 34,182 34,182 (20) 34,162 Gain on valuation of cash flow hedge 10,371 10,371 10,371 Dividends to hybrid securities (206,515) (206,515) (206,515) Issuance of hybrid securities 549,904 549,904 549,904 Repayment of hybrid securities (309,010) (990) (310,000) (310,000) December 31, 2016 3,381,392 3,574,896 286,331 (1,468,025) 14,611,566 20,386,160 159,793 20,545,953 See accompanying notes Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 099 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED CONSOLIDATED DECEMBER 31, 2016 STATEMENTS AND 2015 OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND 2015 2016 2015 (Korean Won in millions) Cash flows from operating activities: Net income 1,277,533 1,075,392 Adjustments: Income tax expense 275,856 376,554 Interest income (8,512,312) (8,698,235) Interest expense 3,492,768 3,936,335 Dividend income (184,510) (102,923) (4,928,198) (4,488,269) Additions of expenses not involving cash outflows: Impairment losses on credit loss 834,076 966,646 Loss on available-for-sale financial assets 1,035 3,281 Loss on valuation of investments in subsidiaries and associates 56,264 111,487 Loss on transaction / valuation of derivative instruments (hedging) 98,981 20,982 Loss on hedged items (fair value hedge) 475 56,532 Provisions 34,774 72,062 Retirement benefits 152,609 132,131 Depreciation and amortization of premises and equipment, intangible assets and investment properties 252,031 240,764 Loss on disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 15,060 10 Loss on disposal of premises and equipment and other assets 9,718 2,707 Impairment loss on premises and equipment and other assets 1,936 2,990 1,456,959 1,609,592 Deduction of revenues not involving cash inflows: Gain on valuation of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 75,690 55,773 Gain on valuation of investments in subsidiaries and associates 36,757 41,363 Gain on transaction / valuation of derivative instruments (hedging) 130 59,003 Gain on hedged items (fair value hedge) 99,302 25,235 Reversal of provisions 1,396 854 Gain on disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 23,457 61,653 Gain on disposal of premises and equipment and other assets 1,885 6,814 Reversal of impairment loss on premises and equipment and other assets 3,581 539 242,198 251,234 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (99,581) (495,507) Loans and receivables (14,433,390) (23,150,910) Other assets 219,323 1,922 Deposits due to customers 11,878,628 20,620,287 Provision 34,376 (66,399) Net defined benefit liability (261,097) (255,585) Other financial liabilities 5,158,055 1,205,411 Other liabilities (6,163) (91,116) 2,490,151 (2,231,897) Cash received from (paid for) operating activities: Interest income received 8,511,349 8,692,851 Interest expense paid (3,593,358) (4,355,880) Dividends received 184,674 100,368 Income tax paid (251,627) (534,829) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 4,905,285 (383,906) (Continued) Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 100 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND 2015 (CONTINUED) 2016 2015 (Korean Won in millions) Cash flows from investing activities: Cash in-flows from investing activities: Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 20,395,744 18,426,846 Redemption of held-to-maturity financial assets 8,462,346 6,404,711 Disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 97,135 75,599 Disposal of premises and equipment 63 18,600 Disposal of intangible assets 4,325 1,782 Disposal of assets held-for-sale 22,723 3,711 Cash in-flow related to derivatives for risk hedge 56,956 28,982,336 24,988,205 Cash out-flows from investing activities: Net cash flows through business combination 132,301 38,535 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets 23,844,849 16,305,797 Acquisition of held-to-maturity financial assets 8,818,376 7,138,013 Acquisition of investments in joint ventures and associates 43,281 1,098 Acquisition of investment properties 4,428 Acquisition of premises and equipment 131,009 129,454 Acquisition of intangible assets 191,161 97,891 Cash out-flow related to derivatives for risk hedge 42,544 3,273 33,207,949 23,714,061 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (4,225,613) 1,274,144 Cash flows from financing activities: Cash in-flows from financing activities: Increase in borrowings 8,259,380 12,674,649 Issuance of debentures 15,848,055 13,502,777 Issuance of hybrid securities 549,904 795,179 Change in ownership interest of subsidiaries 3,787 24,657,339 26,976,392 Cash out-flows from financing activities: Decrease in borrowings 9,524,626 10,346,919 Repayment of debentures 14,118,720 16,425,353 Payment of dividends 168,317 504,952 Dividends paid on hybrid securities 201,328 179,758 Repayment of hybrid securities 310,000 Dividends paid on non-controlling interests 1,286 824 24,324,277 27,457,806 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 333,062 (481,414) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,012,734 408,824 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period 6,644,055 5,962,861 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (65,465) 272,370 Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period 7,591,324 6,644,055 See accompanying notes Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 101 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED WOORI BANK AND FINANCIAL SUBSIDIARIES STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED FOR THE DECEMBER YEARS31, 2016 AND ENDED 2015 DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND 2015 1. GENERAL (1) Summary of the parent company Woori Bank (hereinafter referred to the ―Bank‖), which is a controlling entity in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (―K-IFRS‖) 1110 – Consolidated Financial Statements, was established in 1899 and is engaged in the commercial banking business under the Banking Law, trust business under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Market Act, and foreign currencies exchange business with approval from the Bank of Korea (―BOK‖) and the Ministry of Finance and Economy (―MOFE‖). Previously, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd., the former holding company of Woori Financial Group, established on March 27, 2001 held a 100% ownership of the Bank. Effective November 1, 2014, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. completed its merger with and into Woori Bank, its wholly-owned subsidiary, as contemplated by the merger agreement dated July 28, 2014, by and between Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. and Woori Bank. Accordingly, the shares of the Bank, 597 million shares, prior to the merger, were reduced to nil in accordance with capital reduction procedure, and then, in accordance with the merger ratio, the Bank newly issued 676 million shares. As a result, as of December 31, 2015, the common stock of the Bank amounts, expressed in Korean Won (the ―KRW‖ or ―Won‖), to 3,381,392 million Won. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation (“KDIC”), the majority shareholder of the Bank, sold its 187 million shares in the Bank in accordance with the contract of ‗Disposal of Woori Bank‘s shares to Oligopolistic Shareholders‖. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, KDIC held 158 million shares (23.37% ownership interest) and 345 million shares (51.06% ownership interest), respectively, of the Bank‘s shares issued. On June 24, 2002, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. listed its common shares on the Korea Exchange through public offering. In addition, on September 29, 2003, the holding company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States of America and, on the same day, listed its American Depositary Shares on the New York Stock Exchange. As a result of such merger, the Bank incorporated Woori Card Co., Ltd., Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd., Woori FIS Co., Ltd., Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd., and Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd. as its subsidiaries. The head office of the Bank is located in 51 Sogong-ro, Jung Gu, Seoul, Korea. The Bank has 894 branches and offices in Korea, and 22 branches and offices overseas as of December 31, 2016. (2) The consolidated financial statements for Woori Bank and its subsidiaries (the ―Group‖) include the following subsidiaries: Percentage of ownership (%) Financial December December statements Subsidiaries Main business 31, 2016 31, 2015 Location as of Woori Bank: Woori FIS Co., Ltd. System software development & maintenance 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. (*5) Finance 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd. Other service business 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Card Co., Ltd. Finance 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. Other credit finance business 58.2 58.2 Korea December, 31 Woori Credit Information Co., Ltd. Credit information 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 102 Percentage of ownership (%) December December Financial Subsidiaries Main business 31, 2016 31, 2015 Location statements as of Woori America Bank Finance 100.0 100.0 U.S.A December, 31 Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 〃 100.0 100.0 Hong Kong December, 31 Woori Bank (China) Limited 〃 100.0 100.0 China December, 31 ZAO Woori Bank 〃 100.0 100.0 Russia December, 31 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 〃 74.0 74.0 Indonesia December, 31 Woori Brazil Bank 〃 100.0 100.0 Brazil December, 31 Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 〃 99.9 99.9 Korea December, 31 Woori Fund Service Co., Ltd. 〃 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Finance Cambodia 〃 100.0 100.0 Cambodia December, 31 Woori Finance Myanmar 〃 100.0 100.0 Myanmar December, 31 Wealth Development Bank (*6) 〃 51.0 Philippines December, 31 Woori Bank Vietnam Limited (*6) 〃 100.0 Vietnam December, 31 Kumho Trust First Co., Ltd. (*1) Asset securitization 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Asiana Saigon Inc. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 An-Dong Raja First Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Consus Eighth Co., LLC (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 KAMCO Value Recreation First Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 15.0 15.0 Korea December, 31 Hermes STX Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 BWL First Co., LLC (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Poongsan Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Deogi Dream Fourth Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Jeonju Iwon Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Wonju I one Inc. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Heitz Third Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Woorihansoop 1st Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Electric Cable First Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Woori International First Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Woori HJ First Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Samsung Plus Private Equity Investment Trust 36th and 34 beneficiary certificates Securities investment for the rest (*2) and others Korea December, 31 Principle Guaranteed Trust (*3) Trust 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Principle and Interest Guaranteed Trust (*3) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Bank and Woori Private Equity Co., Ltd.: Woori Private Equity Fund (*4) Other financial business 31.9 31.9 Korea December, 31 Woori Private Equity Fund Woori EL Co., Ltd. Other financial business 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Investment Bank: Dongwoo First Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) Asset securitization 5.0 5.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Card Co., Ltd. TUTU Finance-WCI Myanmar Co.,Ltd. (*7) Finance 100.0 Myanmar December, 31 (*1) The entity was a structured entity for the purpose of asset securitization and was in scope for consolidation. Although the Group was not a majority shareholder, the Group 1) had the power over the investee, 2) was exposed, or had rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) had the ability to use its power to affect its returns. (*2) The entity was a structured entity for the purpose of investment in securities and was in scope for consolidation, considering that the Group 1) had the power over the investee, 2) was exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. (*3) The entity was a money trust under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act and was in scope for consolidation. Although the Group was not a majority shareholder, the Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) was exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. (*4) The entity was in scope for consolidation since the Group has controlling power over the entity, as a general partner. (*5) The entity, formerly, Woori Private Equity Co., Ltd., registered as the professional private equity fund investor during the year ended December 31, 2016, and the entity changed its name into Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. (*6) The entities were included in scope for consolidation since the Group acquired their majority ownership interests during the year ended December 31, 2016. -2Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 103 (*7) Woori Card Co., Ltd. acquired the entity‘s majority ownership interest during the year ended December 31, 2016. (3) As of December 31, 2016, and 2015, despite having more than a 50% ownership interest, the Group has not consolidated the following companies as the Group does not have the ability to control following subsidiaries: As of December 31, 2016 Main Percentage of Subsidiaries Location business ownership (%) Golden Bridge NHN Online Private Equity Investment (*) Korea Securities Investment 60.0 Mirae Asset Maps Clean Water Private Equity Investment Trust 7th (*) Korea Securities Investment 59.7 Kiwoom Yonsei Private Equity Investment Trust (*) Korea Securities Investment 88.9 Kiwoom Frontier Professional Investment Private Fund 6(Bond) (*) Korea Securities Investment 50.0 As of December 31, 2015 Main Percentage of Subsidiaries Location business ownership (%) Golden Bridge NHN Online Private Equity Investment (*) Korea Securities Investment 60.0 Heungkuk High Class Private Equity Securities Investment Trust 377th (*) Korea Securities Investment 51.3 Mirae Asset Maps Clean Water Private Equity Investment Trust 7th (*) Korea Securities Investment 59.7 Kiwoom Yonsei Private Equity Investment Trust (*) Korea Securities Investment 88.9 (*) The Group owns the majority ownership interest in these structured entities, but has no power on the investees‘ relevant activities. As results, it is deemed that the Group has no power or control on the structured entities. -3Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 104 (4) The summarized financial information before the elimination of intercompany transactions of the subsidiaries whose financial information were prepared under K-IFRS for the Group‘s consolidated financial statements is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): As of and for the year ended December 31, 2016 Net income Comprehensive (loss) income (loss) Operating attributable to attributable to Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners Woori FIS 141,329 105,821 244,783 1,048 1,432 Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd 97,338 53,244 2,154 312 219 Woori Finance Research Institute 3,710 334 4,445 108 100 Woori Card 7,606,108 6,180,893 1,555,373 109,393 116,381 Woori Investment Bank 1,576,627 1,404,566 178,572 23,872 23,897 Woori Credit Information 31,292 4,416 27,884 543 618 Woori America Bank 2,186,049 1,973,263 73,909 15,266 20,899 Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 272,008 147,581 7,255 1,863 5,582 Woori Bank (China) Limited 4,984,017 4,466,812 475,174 32,025 11,505 ZAO Woori Bank 239,860 188,474 16,221 5,650 15,553 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 2,089,822 1,693,111 179,014 24,573 48,542 Woori Brazil Bank 241,229 206,043 17,059 2,786 9,600 Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 784,770 299 33,476 29,617 29,617 Woori Fund Service 11,386 1,372 7,787 1,011 1,011 Woori Finance Cambodia 32,405 24,751 4,545 1,250 1,494 Woori Finance Myanmar 4,305 2,651 380 (613) (569) Wealth Development Bank 209,779 174,446 12,519 1,248 1,876 Woori Bank Vietnam Limited 159,223 278 (346) 3,545 Money trust under the Trust Business Act 1,525,145 1,495,815 55,540 697 697 Structured entity for the securitization of financial assets 487,431 895,824 29,480 6,912 7,138 Security investments structured entity 4,397,163 1,898,977 137,896 56,605 61,535 As of and for the year ended December 31, 2015 Net income Comprehensive (loss) income (loss) Operating attributable to attributable to Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners Woori FIS 161,778 127,701 260,657 1,421 (833) Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd 89,365 45,491 3,669 1,224 1,024 Woori Finance Research Institute 3,605 328 4,149 86 62 Woori Card 6,604,059 5,295,225 1,379,873 116,858 119,976 Woori Investment Bank 1,206,156 1,057,992 129,404 10,435 7,830 Woori Credit Information 33,957 6,691 31,271 1,806 1,830 Woori America Bank 1,701,191 1,509,304 67,932 12,893 24,356 Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 245,246 126,401 6,851 1,763 8,958 Woori Bank (China) Limited 4,016,968 3,511,268 408,566 1,056 32,855 ZAO Woori Bank 261,026 225,194 17,301 7,232 (762) PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 1,770,900 1,417,952 375,747 24,023 10,691 Woori Brazil Bank 106,239 80,653 19,850 2,330 (7,377) Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 739,502 279 34,042 30,307 30,307 Woori Fund Service 9,818 815 6,247 358 358 Woori Finance Cambodia 22,767 16,607 2,705 579 946 Woori Finance Myanmar 2,252 29 9 (117) (166) Money trust under the Trust Business Act 1,477,657 1,449,024 56,397 125 125 Structured entity for the securitization of financial assets 545,534 961,065 22,728 (13,685) (6,662) -4Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 105 As of and for the year ended December 31, 2016 Net income Comprehensive (loss) income (loss) Operating attributable to attributable to Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners Security investments structured entity 3,071,375 562,477 126,904 26,906 41,080 (5) The financial support that the Group provides to consolidated structured entities is as follows: Structured entity for securitization of financial assets The structured entity is established for the purpose of securitization of project financing loans, corporate bonds, and other financial assets. The Group is involved with the structured entity through providing with credit facility over asset-backed commercial papers issued by the entity, originating loans directly to the structured entity, or purchasing 100% of the subordinated debts issued by the structured entity. Structured entity for investment in securities The structured entity is established for the purpose of investments in securities. The Group acquires beneficiary certificates through its contribution of fund to the structured entity, and it is exposed to the risk that it may not be able to recover its fund depending on the result of investment performance of asset managers of the structured entity. Money Trust under the Trust Business Act The Group provides with financial guarantee of principal and interest or principal only to some of its trust products. Due to the financial guarantees, the Group may be obliged to supplement when the principal and interest or principal of the trust product sold is short of the guaranteed amount depending on the result of investment performance of the trust product. (6) The details of the limitations with regard to the transfer of assets or the redemption of liabilities within the Group are provided below. Some subsidiaries are regulated by the rules of certain jurisdictions, in which they were incorporated, with regard to funding or management of deposits. Also, there is the limitation that they must have pre-approval from their regulators in case of remittance of earnings to the Group. (7) The Group has entered into various agreements with structured entities such as asset securitization vehicles, structured finance and investment funds, and monetary funds. Where it is determined in accordance with KIFRS 1110 that the Group has no controlling power over such structured entities, the entities are not consolidated. The nature of interests, which the Group retains, and the risks, to which the Group is exposed, of the unconsolidated structured entities are as follows: The interests to unconsolidated structured entities, which the Group retains, are classified to asset securitization vehicles, structured finance and investment fund, based on the nature and the purpose of the structured entities. Asset securitization vehicle issues asset-backed securities and redeems the principal and interest or distributes dividends on asset-backed securities with profits from collecting cash flows or sale of securitized assets. The Group, as a secondary guarantor, provides purchase commitments for its assetbacked securities or guarantees to such asset securitization vehicle and recognizes commission income or interest incomes related to the commitment or guarantees. Therefore, the Group would be exposed to risks to purchases or pays back asset-backed securities issued by the vehicles when a primary guarantor fails to provide the financing asset securitization vehicles. Structured finance includes investments in project financing on real estates, social overhead capital (―SOC‖), infrastructure and shipping finance. They are formed as special purpose entity by funding through equity investments and loans from various investors. Investment decisions are made by such investors including the Group based on business outlook of such projects. In relation to such investments, the Group -5Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 106 recognizes interest incomes on loans, gains or losses on valuation of equity investments or dividend income. The structured finance is secured by additional funding agreement, guarantee or credit facilities. However, the structured financing project would fail to return the capital of equity investments or principal of loans to the Group if it is discontinued or did not achieve business outcome. Investment funds include trusts and private equity funds. A trust is formed by contributions from various investors, operated by a manager engaged to the trust and distributed proceeds from sales of investments to the investors. A private equity fund is established in order to acquire ownership interests in a portfolio company with exit strategy after implementing financial and operational restructuring of the company. The Group recognizes unrealized gains or losses on change in value of investments in proposition of ownership interests in investments. The Group would be exposed to risks of loss when the value of portfolio investment is decreased. Total assets of the unconsolidated structured entities, the carrying value of the related items recorded, the maximum exposure to risks, and the loss recognized in conjunction with the unconsolidated structured entities as of and for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Asset securitization Structured Investment vehicle finance funds Total asset of the unconsolidated structured entities 8,426,713 61,324,862 9,131,362 Assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 3,361,910 2,790,215 1,749,494 Loans and receivables 65,470 2,414,044 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 254,150 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,216,446 115,843 1,664,865 Held-to-maturity financial assets 2,079,648 Investments in joint ventures and associates 84,629 Derivative assets 346 6,178 Liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 1,363 1,224 Derivative liabilities 201 362 Other liabilities (including provisions) 1,162 862 The maximum exposure to risks 4,263,993 3,802,210 1,749,494 Investments 3,361,910 2,790,215 1,749,494 Purchase agreements 28,000 Credit facilities 834,083 970,195 Other commitments 40,000 41,800 Loss recognized on unconsolidated structured entities 6,353 71,185 683 -6Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 107 December 31, 2015 Asset securitization Structured Investment vehicle finance Funds Total asset of the unconsolidated structured entities 10,138,371 48,198,653 7,611,232 Assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 4,219,809 2,879,310 963,747 Loans and receivables 148,811 2,439,207 26,976 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 274,175 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,649,949 133,455 654,705 Held-to-maturity financial assets 2,420,870 Investments in joint ventures and associates 282,066 Derivative assets 179 32,473 Liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 3,688 728 Derivative liabilities 126 Other liabilities (including provisions) 3,562 728 The maximum exposure to risks 5,250,850 3,877,161 963,747 Investments 4,219,809 2,879,310 963,747 Purchase agreements 74,000 48,000 Credit facilities 957,041 949,851 Loss recognized on unconsolidated structured entities 2,205 47,942 (8) Subsidiaries of which non-controlling interests are significant to the Group‘s consolidated financial statements are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 1) Accumulated non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Woori Investment Bank 73,986 64,013 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 70,249 58,880 Wealth Development Bank 16,983 2) Net income attributable to non-controlling interests For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Woori Investment Bank 9,990 4,353 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 6,383 6,241 Wealth Development Bank 611 3) Dividends to non-controlling interests For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 1,242 778 -7Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 108 2. SIGNIFICANT BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES (1) Basis of presentation The Group‘s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with K-IFRS. The significant accounting policies that have been applied for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended on December 31, 2016 are described below, and the significant accounting policies are the same as the accounting policies applied for the preparation of the previous year‘s consolidated financial statements, except the impacts from the adoptions of accounting standards or interpretations which are explained below. The Group‘s consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on the historical cost method except for specific non-current assets and certain financial assets or liabilities reported at fair value. The historical cost is generally measured by fair value of acquired assets. The consolidated financial statements of the Group were approved by the board of directors on February 8, 2017. 1) The Group has newly adopted the following amendment to K-IFRS that affected the Group‘s accounting policies. Amendments to K-IFRS 1001 – Presentation of Financial Statements The amendments to K-IFRS 1001 clarify the concept of applying materiality in practice and restrict an entity reducing the understandability of its financial statements by obscuring material information with immaterial information or by aggregating material items that have different natures or functions. The adoption of the amendments has no material impact on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements. Amendments to K-IFRS 1016 – Property, plant and Equipment The amendments to K-IFRS 1016 prohibit the Group from using a revenue-based depreciation method for items of property, plant and equipment. The adoption of the amendments has no material impact on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements. Amendments to K-IFRS 1038 – Intangible Assets The amendments to K-IFRS 1038 rebuts presumption that revenue is not an appropriate basis for the amortization of an intangible assets, which the presumption can only be rebutted when the intangible asset expressed as a measure of revenue or when it can be demonstrated that revenue and consumption of the economic benefits of the intangible asset are highly correlated. The adoption of the amendments has no material impact on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements. Amendments to K-IFRS 1110 – Consolidated Financial Statements & K-IFRS 1112 – Disclosure of interests in other entities & K-IFRS 1028 – Investment in associates The amendments clarify that in applying the equity method of accounting to an associate or a joint venture that is an investment entity, an investor may retain the fair value measurements that the associate or joint venture used for its subsidiaries. The adoption of the amendments has no material impact on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements. Amendments to K-IFRS 1111 – Joint Arrangement The amendments to K-IFRS 1111 provides guidance on how to account for the acquisition of joint operation that constitutes a business as defined in K-IFRS 1103 Business Combinations. A joint operator is also required to disclose the relevant information required by K-IFRS 1103 and other standards for business combinations. The adoption of the amendments has no material impact on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements. -8Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 109 Other than the amendment stated above, there are several annual improvements in the current period, but the application of the amendments has had no material effect on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements. 2) The Group has not applied the following K-IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: Amendments to K-IFRS 1007 – Statement of Cashflows The amendments require that changes in liabilities arising from financial activities are disclosed. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017. Amendments to K-IFRS 1012 – Income Taxes The amendments clarify that unrealized losses on fixed-rate debt instruments measured at fair value and measured at cost for tax purposes give rise to a deductible temporary difference regardless of whether the holder expects to recover the carrying amount of the debt instrument by sale or by use and that the estimate of probable future taxable profit may include the recovery of some of assets for more than their carrying amount. When the Group assesses whether there will be sufficient taxable profit, the Group should compare the deductible temporary differences with future taxable profit that excludes tax deductions resulting from the reversal of those deductible temporary differences. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017. Amendments to K-IFRS 1102 – Share-based Payment The amendments include: 1) when measuring the fair value of share-based payment, the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payment should be consistent with the measurement of equity-settled share-based payment, 2) Share-based payment transaction in which the Group settles the share-based payment arrangement net by withholding a specified portion of the equity instruments per statutory tax withholding requirements would be classified as equity-settled in its entirety, if otherwise would be classified as equity-settled without the net settlement feature, and 3) when a cash-settled share-based payment changes to an equity-settled share-based payment because of modifications of the terms and conditions, the original liability recognized is derecognized and the equity-settled share-based payment is recognized at the modification date fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the liability at the modification date and the amount recognized in equity at the same date would be recognized in profit and loss immediately. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Enactment of K-IFRS 1109 – Financial Instruments The amendments to K-IFRS 1109 contain the requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities based on a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets and based on the contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows, impairment methodology based on the expected credit losses, and broadened types of instruments that qualify as hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non-financial items that are eligible for hedge accounting and the change of the hedge effectiveness test. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The Group is in the process of changing the related accounting systems to adopt K-IFRS 1109, however the impact from the adoption on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements is yet to be analyzed. Meanwhile, the typical financial impacts per each major requirements under the Standard that are expected to be applicable are as follows: Phase 1: Classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities All recognized financial assets that are currently within the scope of K-IFRS 1109 will be subsequently measured either at amortized cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI), or fair value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) under K-IFRS 1109 based on the business model and the nature of the contractual cash flows. Specifically: -9Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 110 The business model The nature of Objective is to collect the Objective is achieved Objective is to sell contractual cash flows contractual cash flows both by collecting the financial assets and so contractual cash flows on and selling financial assets Contractual cash flows Measured at amortized Measure at Measure at FVTPL that are solely payment cost(*) FVOCI(*) of principal and interest Other than the above Measure at FVTPL Measure at FVTPL Measure at FVTPL (*) For eliminating or reducing accounting discrepancies an irrevocable election can be made at initial recognition to measure the investment at FVTPL In accordance with K-IFRS 1039, the Group holds Loans and receivables amounting to 258,392,633 million Won, Held-to-maturity financial assets amounting to 13,910,251 million Won, Available-for-sale financial assets amounting to 20,817,583 million Won and FVTPL amounting to 5,650,724 million Won as of December 31, 2016. In accordance with K-IFRS 1109, an entity may make an irrevocable election at initial recognition for particular investments in equity instruments that would otherwise be measured at fair value through profit or loss to present subsequent changes in fair value in other comprehensive income, and the amount amounts should be recycled to profit or loss. In accordance with K-IFRS 1039, the Group holds equity investments that are classified as Available-for-sale financial assets (except for the puttable instrument defined in K-IFRS 1032) amounting to 1,161,292 million Won as of December 31, 2016. One major change from K-IFRS 1039 relates to the presentation of changes in the fair value of a financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability. Under K-IFRS 1109, such changes are presented in other comprehensive income, unless the presentation of the effect of the change in the liability‘s credit risk in other comprehensive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. Changes in fair value attributable to a financial liability‘s credit risk are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. In case a Hybrid contract contains financial asset hosts, an entity shall recognize the entire hybrid contract as financial asset, not separating the embedded derivative from the host. In accordance with K-IFRS 1039, the Group holds financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL 766,880 million Won as of December 31, 2016. Phase 2: Impairment methodology The impairment model under K-IFRS 1109 reflects expected credit losses. Under the impairment approach in K-IFRS 1109, it is no longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognized. Instead, an entity always accounts for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses. The amount of expected credit losses should be updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition. In accordance with K-IFRS 1109, the allowance for doubtful receivables is measured at the amount equivalent to the expected 12-month credit loss or the lifetime expected credit loss, depending on the degree of deterioration of the credit risk after the initial recognition of the financial asset. Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage In case the exposure‘s In case the exposure In case the exposure credit risk has not has suffered a meets the accounting increased significantly significant increase in definition of credit since initial recognition credit risk impaired Allowance recognition The Group recognizes The Group recognizes a loss allowance equal to only 12-month expected lifetime expected credit losses credit losses as a loss 10 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 111 allowance Meanwhile, K-IFRS 1109 requires that, an entity shall only recognize the cumulative changes in lifetime expected credit losses since initial recognition as a loss allowance for purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets. In accordance with K-IFRS 1039, the Group holds loans and receivables amounting to 260,419,729 million Won and Allowance for credit losses amounting to 2,027,096 million Won as of December 31, 2016. Phase 3: Hedge accounting The general hedge accounting requirements of K-IFRS 1109 retain the three types of hedge accounting mechanisms in K-IFRS 1039: Fair Value Hedge, Cash Flow Hedge, and Hedge of Net Investment in a Foreign Operation. However, greater flexibility has been introduced to the types of transactions eligible for hedge accounting, specifically broadening the types of instruments that qualify as hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non-financial items that are eligible for hedge accounting. In addition, the effectiveness test has been overhauled and replaced with the principle of an ‗economic relationship‘ Retrospective assessment of hedge effectiveness is no longer required. Far more disclosure requirements about an entity‘s risk management activities have been introduced. Enactment of K-IFRS 1115 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers The core principle under K-IFRS 1115 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The enactment introduces a 5-step approach to revenue recognition and measurement: 1) Identify the contract with a customer, 2) Identify the performance obligations in the contract, 3) Determine the transaction price, 4) Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, 5) Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. This standard will supersede K-IFRS 1011 Construction Contracts, K-IFRS 1018Revenue, KIFRS 2113 Customer Loyalty Programmes, K-IFRS 2115-Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, K-IFRS 2118 Transfers of Assets from Customers, and K-IFRS 2031-Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services. The enactment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The Group is reviewing the impact from the amendments and the enactments listed above on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements. 11 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 112 (2) Basis of consolidated financial statement presentation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Bank and the entities (including structured entities) controlled by the Bank (and its subsidiaries, that is the Group). Control is achieved where the Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above. When the Group has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it has power over the investee when the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee unilaterally. The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Group's voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power, including: • The relative size of the Group's holding of voting rights and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders; • Potential voting rights held by the Group, other vote holders or other parties; • Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; • Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Group has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders' meetings. Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date when the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owner of the Group and to the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owner of the Group and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Group‘s accounting policies. All intra-group transactions and, related assets and liabilities, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. Changes in the Group‘s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group‘s interests and the noncontrolling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in equity and attributed to the owner of the Group. When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any noncontrolling interests. When assets of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts or fair values and the related cumulative gain or loss has been recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, the amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the relevant assets (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings). The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is recognized as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture. 12 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 113 (3) Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisitiondate fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities assumed by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisitionrelated costs are generally recognized in net income as incurred. At the acquisition date, the acquiree‘s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition for recognition under K-IFRS 1103 are recognized at their fair value, except that: • deferred tax assets or liabilities and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are recognized and measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1012 Income Taxes and K-IFRS 1019 Employee Benefits, respectively; • liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or sharebased payment arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1102 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date; and • non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with K-IFRS 1105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amounts and fair value less costs to sell. Any excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Group‘s previously held equity interest (if any) in the acquiree over the net of identifiable assets and liabilities assumed of the acquiree at the acquisition date is recognized as goodwill which is included in intangible assets. If, after reassessment, the Group‘s interest in the fair value of the acquiree‘s identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer‘s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognized immediately in net income as a bargain purchase gain. Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity's net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the noncontrolling interests' proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree's identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another K-IFRS. When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the ‗measurement period‘ (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, or K-IFRS 1037 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognized in profit or loss. When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group's previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured at fair value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date when the Group obtains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognized in net income. Amounts arising from changes in value of interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to net income where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of. 13 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 114 In case where i) a common entity ultimately controls over all participating entities, or businesses, in business combination transaction, prior to and after the transaction continuously, and ii) the control is not temporary, the transaction meets the definition of ―business combination under common control‖ and it is deemed that the transaction only results in the changes in legal substance, not economic substance, from the perspective of the ultimate controlling party. Thus, in such transactions, the acquirer recognizes the assets and liabilities of the acquiree on its financial statements at the book values as recognized in the ultimate controlling party‘s consolidated financial statements, and the difference between the book value of consideration transferred to and the book value of net assets transferred in is recognized as equity. (4) Investments in joint ventures and associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in making decision on the financial and operating policy of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to net assets relating to the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The net income of current period and the financial results of the joint ventures and associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with K-IFRS 1105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. Under the equity method, an investment in the joint ventures and associates is initially recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognize the Group's share of the net assets of the joint ventures and associates and any impairment. When the Group's share of losses of the joint ventures and associates exceeds the Group's interest in the associate, the Group discontinues recognizing its share of further losses. Additional losses are recognized only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures and associates. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint ventures and associates recognized at the date of acquisition is recognized as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment. Any excess of the Group‘s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition is recognized immediately in net income. Upon a loss of significant influence over the joint ventures and associates, the Group discontinues the use of the equity method and measures at fair value of any investment that the Group retains in the former joint ventures and associates from the date when the Group loses significant influence. The fair value of the investment is regarded as its fair value on initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments; Recognition and Measurement. The Group recognized differences between the carrying amount and fair value in net income and it is included in determination of the gain or loss on disposal of joint ventures and associates. The Group accounts for all amounts recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to that joint ventures and associates on the same basis as would be required if the joint ventures and associates had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income by an associate would be reclassified to net income on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to net income as a reclassification adjustment. When the Group‘s ownership of interest in an associate or a joint venture decreases but the Group continues to maintain significant influence over an associate or a joint venture, the Group reclassifies to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognized in other comprehensive income relating to that decrease in ownership interest if the gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities. Meanwhile, if interest on associate or joint venture meets the definition of noncurrent asset held for sale, it is accounted for in accordance with K-IFRS 1105. 14 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 115 The requirements of K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to determine whether there has been a loss event are applied to identify whether it is necessary to recognize any impairment loss with respect to the Group‘s investment in the joint ventures and associates. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance with K-IFRS 1036 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell) with its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognized is not allocated to any asset (including goodwill), which forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognized in accordance with K-IFRS 1036 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases. The Group continues to use the equity method when an investment in an associate becomes an investment in a joint venture or an investment in a joint venture becomes an investment in an associate. There is no remeasurement to fair value upon such changes in ownership interests. When a subsidiary transacts with an associate or a joint venture of the Group, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the associate or joint venture are recognized in the Group's consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate or joint venture that are not related to the Group. (5) Investment in joint operation A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. When the Group operates as a joint operator, it recognizes in relation to its interest in a joint operation: (a) its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly; (b) its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly; (c) its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation; (d) its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation; and (e) its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly. The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. When the Group enters into a transaction with a joint operation in which it is a joint operator, such as a sale or contribution of assets, it is conducting the transaction with the other parties to the joint operation and, as such, the Group recognizes gains and losses resulting from such a transaction only to the extent of the other parties‘ interests in the joint operation. When the Group enters into a transaction with a joint operation in which it is a joint operator, such as a purchase of assets, it does not recognize its share of the gains and losses until it resells those assets to a third party. (6) Revenue recognition 1) Interest income Interest income is recognized when earned. Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity is determined using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a financial asset (or group of financial assets) and of allocating the interest income over the expected life of the asset. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying amount. Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that is an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs. All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows. 15 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 116 2) Loan origination fees and costs The commission fees earned on loans, which is part of the effective interest rate of loans, is accounted for deferred origination fees. Incremental cost related to the acquisition or disposal is accounted for deferred origination costs, and it is amortized on the effective interest method and included in interest revenues on loans. 3) Fees and commissions income Commitment and utilization fees are determined as a percentage of the outstanding facility. If it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement will be entered into, such fees are taken to net income over the life of the facility otherwise they are deferred and included in the effective interest rate on the advance. Fees in respect of services are recognized as the right to consideration accrues through the provision of the service to the customer. The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service is rendered. The price is usually fixed and determinable. Credit card fees include commission received from merchants for processing credit card transaction and annual fees received from credit card holders. Revenue from the commission is accrued to net income when the service performed and annual fee is deferred and recognized as income over the period of the service provided. 4) Trust fees and compensation related to trust accounts The Group receives fees for its management of unconsolidated trust assets, which are recognized on an accrual basis when the management services are provided and earned. The Group also is entitled to receive performance-based fees for certain trust accounts. These performance-based fees are recognized at the end of the performance period. In addition, a certain trust account which the Group guarantees to repay the principals and minimum interests of the trust account to its beneficiaries shall be included in the consolidated financial statements. The Group recognizes incomes when earned and expenses when interests to be paid to beneficiaries are accrued. (7) Accounting for foreign currencies The Group‘s consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean Won, which is the functional currency of the Group. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at its prevailing exchange rates at the date. Foreign exchange differences on monetary items that qualify as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge or that form part of net investment in foreign operations are recognized in equity. A monetary available-for-sale (―AFS‖) financial asset is treated as if it were carried at amortized cost in the foreign currency. Accordingly, for such financial assets, exchange differences resulting from retranslating amortized cost are recognized in net income. Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into Korean Won at foreign exchange rates at the dates the values were determined. Translation differences arising on nonmonetary items measured at fair value are recognized in net income except for differences arising on nonmonetary AFS financial assets, for example equity shares, which are included in the AFS reserve in equity unless the asset is the hedged item in a fair value hedge. The Group identifies the most appropriate functional currency for each foreign operation based on the foreign operation‘s activities. If Korean Won is not the foreign operation‘s functional currency, its assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into Korean Won at foreign exchange rates at the end of each reporting date while the revenues and expenses are translated into Korean Won at average exchange rates for the period unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are recognized directly in equity and included in net income on its disposal. 16 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 117 (8) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, demand deposits, interest-earning deposits with original maturities of up to 3 months of acquisition date and highly liquid investment assets that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. (9) Financial assets and financial liabilities 1) Financial assets A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognized or derecognized on the trade or settlement date. A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose term requires delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the marketplace concerned. On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (―FVTPL‖), AFS financial assets, held-to-maturity (―HTM‖) and loans and receivables. a) Financial assets at FVTPL: A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:  it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the near term; or  on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or  it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading or contingent consideration that may be paid by an acquirer as part of a business combination may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:  such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or  the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or  it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. Financial assets designated by the Group on initial recognition as at FVTPL are recognized at fair value, with transaction costs recognized in net income, and are subsequently measured at fair value. Gains and losses on financial assets that are designated as at FVTPL are recognized in net income as they arise. b) AFS financial assets: Financial assets that are not classified as HTM, financial assets at FVTPL, or loans and receivables, are classified as AFS. Financial assets can be designated as AFS on initial recognition. AFS financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at fair value. Unquoted equity investments whose fair value cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost and classified as AFS financial assets. Impairment losses in monetary and non-monetary AFS financial assets and dividends on non-monetary financial assets are recognized in net income. Interest revenue on monetary financial assets is calculated using the effective interest method. Other changes in the fair value of AFS financial assets and any related tax are reported in a separate component of shareholders' equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss is recognized in net income. c) HTM investments: A financial asset may be classified as a HTM investment only if it has fixed or determinable payments, a fixed maturity, and the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold the financial asset to maturity. HTM investments are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. 17 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 118 d) Loans and receivables: Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables, except those that are classified as AFS or as held-for-trading, or designated as at FVTPL. Loans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. Interest income is recognized using the effective interest method, except for the short-term receivables to which the present value discount is not meaningful. 2) Financial liabilities On initial recognition financial liabilities are classified financial liabilities at FVTPL (held for trading, and financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL) and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. A financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it is incurred principally for repurchase in the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative (not in a qualifying hedge relationship). Held-fortrading financial liabilities are recognized at fair value with transaction costs being recognized in net income. Subsequently, they are measured at fair value. Gains and losses are recognized in net income as they arise. A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:  such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or  the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or  it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition as being at FVTPL are recognized at fair value, with transaction costs being recognized in net income, and are subsequently measured at fair value. Gains and losses on financial liabilities that are designated as at FVTPL are recognized in net income as they arise. All other financial liabilities, such as deposits due to customers, borrowings, and debentures, are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 3) Reclassifications Held-for-trading and AFS financial assets that meet the definition of loans and receivables (non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market) may be reclassified to loans and receivables if the Group has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity. The Group typically regards the foreseeable future as twelve months from the date of reclassification. Reclassifications are made at fair value. This fair value becomes the asset's new cost or amortized cost as appropriate. Gains and losses recognized up to the date of reclassification are not reversed. 18 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 119 4) Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual right to the cash flows from the asset is expired, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another company. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognizes its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognize the financial asset and also recognizes a collateralized borrowing for the proceeds received. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the asset‘s carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable and the cumulated gain or loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity is recognized in profit or loss. On derecognition of a financial assets other than in its entirety (e.g. when the Group retains an option to repurchase part of a transferred asset, or it retains a residual interest and such an retained interest indicates that the transferor has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and has retained control of the transferred asset), the Group allocates the previous carrying amount of the financial asset between the part it continues to recognize under continuing involvement, and the part it no longer recognizes on the basis of the relative fair value of those parts on the date of the transfer. The difference between the carrying amount allocated to the part that is no longer recognized and the sum of the consideration received for the part that is no longer recognized and any cumulative gain or loss allocated to it that had been recognized in other comprehensive income is recognized in profit or loss. A cumulative gain or loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive income is allocated between the part that continues to be recognized and the part that is no longer recognized on the basis of the relative fair value of those parts. The Group derecognizes the financial liability, when Group's obligations are discharged, canceled or expired. The difference between paid cost and the carrying amount of financial liabilities is recorded in profit or loss. 5) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at FVTPL and financial assets classified as AFS are recognized in the financial statements at fair value. All derivatives are measured at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in and orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair values are determined from quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or financial liabilities where these are available. The Group characterizes active markets as those in which transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Where a financial instrument is not in active market characterized by low transaction volumes, price quotations which vary substantially among market participants, or in which minimal information is released publicly, fair values are established using valuation techniques rely on alternative market data or internally developed models using significant inputs that are generally readily observable from objective sources. Market data includes prices of financial instruments with similar maturities and characteristics, duration, interest rate yield curves, and measures of volatility. The amount determined to be fair value may incorporate the management of the Group‘s own assumptions (including assumptions that the Group believes market participants would use in valuing the financial instruments and assumptions relating to appropriate risk adjustments for nonperformance and lack of marketability). The valuation techniques used to estimate the fair value of the financial instruments include market approach and income approach, each of which involves a significant degree of judgment. Under the market approach, fair value is determined by reference to a recent transaction involving the financial instruments or by reference to observable valuation measures for comparable companies or assets. 19 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 120 Under the income approach, fair value is determined by converting future amounts (e.g., cash flows or earnings) to a single present amount (discounted) using current market expectations about the future amounts. In determining value under this approach, the Group makes assumptions regarding, among other things, revenues, operating income, depreciation and amortization, capital expenditures, income taxes, working capital needs, and terminal value of the financial investments. These valuation techniques involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the instrument‘s complexity and the availability of market-based data. The following are descriptions of valuation methodologies used by the Group to measure various financial instruments at fair value. a) Financial assets at FVTPL and AFS financial assets: The fair value of the securities included in financial assets at FVTPL and AFS financial assets are recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position based on quoted market prices, where available. For debt securities traded in the OTC market, the Group generally determines fair value based on prices obtained from independent pricing services. Specifically, with respect to independent pricing services, the Group obtains three prices per instrument from reputable independent pricing services in Korea, and generally uses the lowest of the prices obtained from such services without further adjustment. For non-marketable equity securities, the Group obtains prices from the independent pricing services. The Group validates prices received from such independent pricing services using a variety of means, including verification of the qualification of the independent pricing services, corroboration of the pricing by comparing the prices among the independent pricing services and by reference to other available market data, and review of the pricing model and assumptions used by the independent pricing services by the Group‘s personnel who are familiar with market-related conditions. b) Derivative assets and liabilities: Quoted market prices are used for the Group‘s exchange-traded derivatives, such as certain interest rate futures and option contracts. All of the Group‘s derivatives are traded in OTC markets where quoted market prices are not readily available are valued using internal valuation techniques. Valuation techniques and inputs to internally developed models depend on the type of derivative and nature of the underlying rate, price or index upon which the derivative‘s value is based. If the model inputs for certain derivatives are not observable in a liquid market, significant judgments on the level of inputs used for valuation techniques are required. c) Valuation Adjustments: By using derivatives, the Group is exposed to credit risk if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as expected. If counterparty fails to perform, counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of financial position. The amounts reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain position. Few of the Group‘s derivatives are listed on an exchange. The majority of derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their basis observable market inputs. Therefore, an adjustment is necessary to reflect the credit quality of each counterparty to arrive at fair value. Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to derivative assets, such as OTC derivative instruments, when the market inputs used in valuation models may not be indicative of the creditworthiness of the counterparty. Adjustments are also made when valuing financial liabilities to reflect the Group‘s own credit standing. The adjustment is based on probability of default of a counterparty and loss given default. The adjustment also takes into account contractual factors designed to reduce the Group‘s credit exposure to each counterparty. To the extent derivative assets (liabilities) are subject to master netting arrangements, the exposure used to calculate the credit risk adjustment is net of derivatives in a loss (gain) position with the same counterparty and cash collateral received (paid). 20 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 121 6) Impairment of the financial assets The Group assesses at the end of each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as AFS, HTM or loans and receivables is impaired. A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence of impairment as result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition asset and that event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. a) Financial assets carried at amortized cost: If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as HTM investments or as loans and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition. For collateralized loans and receivables, estimated future cash flows include cash flows that may result from foreclosure less the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral. Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually significant and assessed either individually or collectively for assets that are not individually significant. In making collective assessment of impairment, financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk characteristics. Future cash flows from these portfolios are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics. Historical loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of observable data, to reflect current conditions not affecting the period of historical experience. Impairment losses are recognized in net income and the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets reduced by establishing a provision for impairment losses. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognized, the previously recognized loss is reversed by adjusting the provision. Once an impairment loss has been recognized on a financial asset or group of financial assets, interest income is recognized on the carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment. It is not the Group‘s usual practice to write-off the asset at the time an impairment loss is recognized. Impaired loans and receivables are written off (i.e. the impairment provision is applied in writing down the loan's carrying value in full) when the Group concludes that there is no longer any realistic prospect of recovery of part or the entire loan. Amounts recovered after a loan has been written off are reflected to the provision for the period in which they are received. b) Financial assets carried at fair value: When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified as AFS has been recognized directly in other comprehensive income and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is removed from other comprehensive income and recognized in net income. The loss is measured as the difference between the amortized cost of the financial asset and its current fair value. Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed through net income, but those on AFS debt instruments are reversed, if there is a decrease in the cumulative impairment loss that is objectively related to a subsequent event. (10) Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are presented in net in the consolidated statements of financial position when the Group has an enforceable legal right to set off and an intention to settle on a net basis or to realize an asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 21 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 122 (11) Investment properties The Group classifies a property held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation as an investment property. Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs, less subsequent depreciation and impairment. Subsequent costs are included in the carrying amount of the asset or recognized as a separate asset if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the assets will flow into the Group and the cost of an asset can be measured reliably. Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. While land is not depreciated, all other investment properties are depreciated based on the respective assets‘ estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. An investment property is derecognized from the consolidated financial statements on disposal or when it is permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected even from its disposal. The gain or loss on derecognition of an investment property is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is recognized in profit or loss in the period of the derecognition. (12) Premises and equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of an item of premises and equipment is directly attributable to their purchase or construction, which includes any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. It also includes the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. Subsequent costs to replace part of the premises and equipment are recognized in carrying amount of an asset or as an asset if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the assets will flow into the Group and the cost of an asset can be measured reliably. Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. While land is not depreciated, for all other premises and equipment, depreciation is charged to net income on a straight-line basis on the estimated economic useful lives as follows: Useful life Buildings used for business purpose 35 to 57 years Structures in leased office 4 to 5 years Properties for business purpose 4 to 5 years Leased assets Useful lives of the same kind or similar other premises and equipment The Group reassesses the depreciation method, the estimated useful lives and residual values of premises and equipment at the end of each reporting period. If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. When the carrying amount of a fixed asset exceeds the estimated recoverable amount, the carrying amount of such asset is reduced to the recoverable amount. 22 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 123 (13) Intangible assets and goodwill Intangible assets are stated at the manufacturing cost or acquisition cost plus additional incidental expenses less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. The Group‘s software and industrial property right (trademark) are amortized over five years using the straight-line method. The estimated useful life and amortization method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. Useful life Patents 10 years Development costs 5 years Software and others 4 to 5 years In addition, when an indicator that intangible assets are impaired is noted, and the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated recoverable amount of the asset, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount immediately. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment annually to the extent of reporting unit and when there is any indication of impairment. Goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the Group‘s cash-generating units (―CGU‖) expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. A CGU to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is indication that the CGU may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU on a pro-rata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized directly in net income in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. (14) Impairment of non-monetary assets Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, such as goodwill and membership, or intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, regardless of whether or not there is any indication of impairment. All other assets are tested for impairment when there is an objective indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, and if the indication exists. The Group estimates the recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and net fair value less costs to sell. If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and such impairment loss is recognized immediately in net income. 23 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 124 (15) Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 1) As a lessor Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognized as receivables at the amount of the Group‘s net investment in the leases being the minimum lease payments and any unguaranteed residual value discount interest rate implicit in the lease. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Group‘s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases. Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating lease assets are included within others in other assets and depreciated over their useful lives. 2) As a lessee Assets held under finance leases are initially recognized as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated statements of financial position as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Contingent rentals arising under finance leases are recognized as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognized as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. (16) Derivative instruments Derivative instruments are classified as forward, futures, option, and swap, depending on the types of transactions and are classified as either trading or hedging depending on the purpose. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognized in net income immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument. A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a stand-alone derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract; unless the entire contract is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. The Group designates certain hedging instruments to (a) hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge); (b) hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecasted transaction (cash flow hedge); and (c) hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item. 24 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 125 1) Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualified as fair value hedges are recognized in net income immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship or when the hedging instrument is no longer qualified for hedge accounting. The fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortized to net income from that date to maturity using the effective interest method. 2) Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualified as cash flow hedges is recognized in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in net income. Amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to net income when the hedged item is recognized in net income. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument is expired or sold, or it is no longer qualified for hedge accounting, and any cumulative gain or loss in other comprehensive income remains in equity until the forecast transaction is ultimately recognized in net income. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognized immediately in net income. 3) Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognized in equity while the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in net income. The cumulated gain and loss in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operations. (17) Provisions The Group recognizes provision if it has a present or contractual obligations as a result of the past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount of the obligation is reliably estimated. Provision is not recognized for the future operating losses. The Group recognizes provision related to the unused portion of point rewards earned by credit card customers, payment guarantees, loan commitment and litigations. Where the Group is required to restore a leased property that is used as a branch, to an agreed condition after the contractual term expires, the present value of expected amounts to be used to dispose, decommission or repair the facilities is recognized as an asset retirement obligation. Where there are a number of similar obligations, the probability that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the obligations as a whole. Although the likelihood of outflow for any one item may be small, if it is probable that some outflow of resources will be needed to settle the obligations as a whole, a provision is recognized. 25 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 126 (18) Capital and compound financial instruments The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. An instrument is classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities on potentially unfavorable terms. An instrument is classified as equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after the deduction of liabilities. The components of a compound financial instrument issued by the Group are classified and accounted for separately as financial liabilities or equity as appropriate. The Group recognizes common stock as equity and redeemable preferred stocks as a liability. Direct expenses related to the issuance of new shares or options are recognized as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. If the Group reacquires its own equity instruments, those instruments (―treasury shares‖) are presented as a deduction from total equity. The gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue, or cancellation of treasury shares is not recognized in net income but recognized directly in equity. (19) Financial guarantee contracts Under a financial guarantee contract, the Group, in return for a fee, undertakes to meet a customer‘s obligations under the terms of a debt instrument if the customer fails to do so. A financial guarantee is recognized as a liability; initially at fair value and will be amortized, if not designated as at FVTPL, subsequently at the higher of its initial value less cumulative amortization and any provision under the contract measured in accordance with provision policy. Amortization is calculated so as to recognize fees in net income over the period of the guarantee. (20) Employee benefits and pensions The Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expecting payment in exchange for the services, when employee renders services. Also, the Group recognizes expenses and liabilities in the case of accumulating compensated absences, when the employees render service that increases their entitlement to future compensated absences. Though the Group may have no legal obligation to pay a bonus, considering some cases, the Group has a practice of paying bonuses. In such cases, the Group has a constructive obligation, and thus recognizes expenses and liabilities when the employees render service. The Group is operating defined contribution retirement pension plans and defined benefit retirement pension plans. Contributions to defined contribution retirement pension plans are recognized as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions. For defined benefit retirement pension plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss. Past service cost is recognized in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit costs are composed of service cost (including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements), net interest expense (income), and remeasurement. The Group presents the service cost and net interest expense (income) components in profit or loss, and the remeasurement component in other comprehensive income. Curtailment gains and losses are accounted for as past service costs. The retirement benefit obligation recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in the Group‘s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans. 26 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 127 Liabilities for termination benefits are recognized at the earlier of either 1) when the Group has become not able to cancel its proposal for termination benefits, or 2) when the Group has recognized the cost of restructuring that accompanies the payment of termination benefits. (21) Income taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. Current income tax expense approximates taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and deferred income tax expense is provided on an asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences, including operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax bases. Deferred income tax benefit or expense is then recognized for the change in deferred tax assets or liabilities between periods. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates on the date of enactment or substantive enactment that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realized. Deferred tax assets, including the carry forwards of unused tax losses, are recognized to the extent it is probable that the deferred tax assets will be realized. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only if the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from goodwill. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Current and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. (22) Earnings per share (―EPS‖) Basic EPS is calculated by earnings subtracting the dividends paid to holders of preferred stock and hybrid securities from the net income attributable to ordinary shareholders from the statements of comprehensive income and dividing by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the earnings and number of shares for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares. 27 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 128 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The significant accounting estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experiences and various factors including expectations of future events that are considered to be reasonable. Actual results can differ from those estimates based on such definitions. The accounting estimates and assumptions, which involve potential significant risks that may materially impact the book values of assets and liabilities on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements, are as follows: (1) Impairment of goodwill The Group performs goodwill impairment test annually, or whenever there is any indicator that CGU may have been impaired. Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGU to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. (2) Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions, which requires significant judgment in determining realization of deferred tax. Actual tax payment may be different from the provision estimate and such difference may affect the income tax expense. There are various transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Deferred tax assets relating to tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences are recognized, only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the tax losses carried forward and the deductible temporary differences can be utilized. This assessment requires significant management estimates and judgments. Future taxable profit is estimated based on, among other relevant factors, forecasted operating results, which are based on historical financial performance. In the event the Group was to determine that it would be able to realize its deferred income tax assets in the future at an amount different than their net recorded amount, the Group would make an adjustment to the provision for income taxes at such time. Under the Earnings Accumulation Tax (EAT) regime, the Group may incur additional tax burden depending on its level of investment, payroll increase or cash dividends for the preceding three years from 2015. As such, there exists uncertainty with regard to the estimation of such tax impact to the Group, which is measured by the management given the level of expected investment, payroll increase and cash dividends. (3) Valuation of Financial Instruments Financial instruments classified as held-for trading or designated as at FVTPL and financial instruments classified as AFS are recognized in the financial statements at fair value. All derivatives are measured at fair value. Financial instruments, which are not traded in active market will have less objective fair value and require broad judgment in liquidity, concentration, uncertainty in market factors and assumption in price determination and other risks. The fair value of those assets is established by using valuation techniques. As described in the significant accounting policies in Note 2-(9)-5), ‗ Fair value of financial assets and liabilities‘, a range of valuation techniques, which include market approach and income approach and internally developed models that incorporate various types of assumptions and variables, are used to determine the fair value of financial instruments. (4) Impairment of loans Impairment loss for loans and receivables carried at amortized cost is measured as the difference between such assets‘ carrying value and the present value of estimated recoverable cash flows (not include any future loss events that have not occurred) discounted by using the initial effective interest rate. After initial recognition, when the estimated cash flow of the financial asset is affected by one or more loss events, it is determined that the financial asset is impaired. 28 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 129 The objective evidences that a financial asset is impaired incorporate below loss events: 1) Financial assets that are individually assessed Past due Debt restructuring Possible state of debtor‘s bankruptcy or liquidation Occurrence of significant impairment on securities Breach of limit or debt covenant Deterioration of operating performance 2) Financial assets that are not individually assessed Repayment status of debtor or observable macro-economic indexes The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant (individual evaluation of impairment), and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment (collective evaluation of impairment). There are two components to the Group's loan impairment provisions (individual and collective). Individual assessment of impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan at its original effective interest rate and comparing the resultant present value with the loan‘s carrying amount. This process normally encompasses management‘s best estimate, such as operating cash flow of debtor and net realizable value of any collateral held and the timing of anticipated receipts. Collective assessment of impairment losses are established on a portfolio basis using the methodology based on historical loss experience. The methodology based on historical loss experience is used to estimate inherent incurred loss on groups of assets for collective evaluation of impairment. Such methodology incorporates factors such as type of product and debtors, credit rating, portfolio size, loss emergence period and recovery period and applies probability of default on each assets (or pool of assets) and loss given default by type of collateral. Also, consistent assumptions are applied to form a formula-based model in estimating inherent loss and to determine factors on the basis of historical loss experience and current condition. The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience. (5) Defined benefit plan The Group operates defined benefit retirement pension plans. Defined benefit retirement pension plans are measured through actuarial valuation and the Group estimates discount rate, future wage growth rate, mortality ratio to produce actuarial valuation. Defined benefit retirement pension plans contain significant uncertainty in these estimates due to its long-term characteristic. 29 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 130 4. RISK MANAGEMENT The Group‘s operating activity is exposed to various financial risks. The Group is required to analyze and assess the level of complex risks, and determine the permissible level of risks and manage such risks. The Group‘s risk management procedures have been established to improve the quality of assets for holding or investment purposes by making decisions as how to avoid or mitigate risks through the identification of the source of the potential risks and their impact. The Group has established an approach to manage the acceptable level of risks and reduce the excessive risks in financial instruments in order to maximize the profit given risks present, for which the Group has implemented processes for risk identification, assessment, control, and monitoring and reporting. The risk is managed by the risk management department in accordance with the Group‘s risk management policy. The Risk Management Committee makes decisions on the risk strategies such as the avoidance of concentration on capital at risk and the establishment of acceptable level of risk. (1) Credit risk Credit risk represents the possibility of financial losses incurred when the counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations. The goals of credit risk management are to maintain the Group‘s credit risk exposure to a permissible degree and to optimize its rate of return considering such credit risk. 1) Credit risk management The Group considers the probability of failure in performing the obligation of its counterparties, credit exposure to the counterparty, the related default risk and the rate of default loss. The Group uses the credit rating model to assess the possibility of counterparty‘s default risk; and when assessing the obligor‘s credit grade, the Group utilizes credit grades derived using statistical methods. In order to manage credit risk limit, the Group establishes the appropriate credit line per obligor, company or industry. It monitors obligor‘s credit line, total exposures and loan portfolios when approving the loan. The Group mitigates credit risk resulting from the obligor‘s credit condition by using financial and physical collateral, guarantees, netting agreements and credit derivatives. The Group has adopted the entrapment method to mitigate its credit risk. Credit risk mitigation is reflected in qualifying financial collateral, trade receivables, guarantees, residential and commercial real estate and other collaterals. The Group regularly performs a revaluation of collateral reflecting such credit risk mitigation. 2) Maximum exposure to credit risk The Group‘s maximum exposure to credit risk refers to net book value of financial assets net of allowances, which shows the uncertainties of maximum changes of net value of financial assets attributable to a particular risk without considering collateral and other credit enhancements obtained. However, the maximum exposure is the fair value amount (recorded on the books) for derivatives, maximum contractual obligation for payment guarantees and loan commitment for loan contracts. 30 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 131 The maximum exposure to credit risk is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Loans and receivables: Korean treasury and government agencies 16,058,305 12,062,603 Banks 20,242,260 19,048,126 Corporates 88,985,566 93,765,023 Consumers 133,106,502 119,966,310 Sub-total 258,392,633 244,842,062 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (―FVTPL‖): Gold banking assets 26,180 24,884 Debt securities held for trading 2,644,916 2,617,406 Financial assets designated at FVTPL 4,348 986 Derivative assets for trading 2,898,295 2,390,497 Sub-total 5,573,739 5,033,773 Available-for-sale (―AFS‖) debt securities 16,541,888 14,723,577 Held-to-maturity (―HTM‖) securities 13,910,251 13,621,640 Derivative assets for hedging 140,577 183,128 Off-balance accounts : Guarantees 14,761,784 17,315,443 Loan commitments 83,795,496 88,211,580 Sub-total 98,557,280 105,527,023 Total 393,116,368 383,931,203 a) Credit risk exposure by geographical areas The following tables analyze credit risk exposure by geographical areas (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Korea China USA UK Japan Others (*) Total Loans and receivables 241,380,250 4,286,018 2,792,088 895,874 323,470 8,714,933 258,392,633 Financial assets at FVTPL 5,205,849 6,525 261,547 81 99,737 5,573,739 AFS debt securities 16,155,290 13,845 137,861 234,892 16,541,888 HTM securities 13,758,863 20,336 131,052 13,910,251 Derivative assets 74,166 66,342 69 140,577 Off-balance accounts 96,245,092 737,513 103,130 80,831 23,250 1,367,464 98,557,280 Total 372,819,510 5,043,901 3,053,415 1,304,594 346,801 10,548,147 393,116,368 December 31, 2015 Korea China USA UK Japan Others (*) Total Loans and receivables 231,685,404 2,808,255 2,606,044 644,387 192,599 6,905,373 244,842,062 Financial assets at FVTPL 4,664,382 11,794 269,039 88,558 5,033,773 AFS debt securities 14,427,447 38,094 96,443 161,593 14,723,577 HTM securities 13,525,799 15,112 80,729 13,621,640 Derivative assets 91,022 91,538 568 183,128 Off-balance accounts 103,454,192 607,685 88,552 107,239 28,884 1,240,471 105,527,023 Total 367,848,246 3,465,828 2,806,151 1,112,203 221,483 8,477,292 383,931,203 (*) Others consist of financial assets in Indonesia, Vietnam, Panama, European countries and others. 31 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 132 b) Credit risk exposure by industries The following tables analyze credit risk exposure by industries, which are service, manufacturing, finance and insurance, construction, individuals and others in accordance with the Korea Standard Industrial Classification Code (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Finance and Service Manufacturing insurance Construction Individuals Others Total Loans and receivables 46,040,278 35,652,974 37,711,983 3,789,670 125,558,637 9,639,091 258,392,633 Financial assets at FVTPL 77,198 360,881 4,093,567 24,140 993 1,016,960 5,573,739 AFS debt securities 1,092,279 57,781 9,568,151 63,166 5,760,511 16,541,888 HTM securities 1,673,971 8,290,451 251,599 3,694,230 13,910,251 Derivative assets 140,577 140,577 Off-balance accounts 18,423,611 26,878,320 9,927,574 4,621,971 33,603,651 5,102,153 98,557,280 Total 67,307,337 62,949,956 69,732,303 8,750,546 159,163,281 25,212,945 393,116,368 December 31, 2015 Finance and Service Manufacturing insurance Construction Individuals Others Total Loans and receivables 48,470,594 37,699,589 32,604,765 5,160,497 112,491,741 8,414,876 244,842,062 Financial assets at FVTPL 124,325 346,684 3,241,785 35,096 21 1,285,862 5,033,773 AFS debt securities 781,989 47,119 9,213,137 31,159 4,650,173 14,723,577 HTM securities 1,931,529 20,000 7,875,325 472,209 3,322,577 13,621,640 Derivative assets 183,128 183,128 Off-balance accounts 18,572,657 31,975,235 13,871,934 5,307,240 30,606,423 5,193,534 105,527,023 Total 69,881,094 70,088,627 66,990,074 11,006,201 143,098,185 22,867,022 383,931,203 3) Credit risk of loans and receivables The credit exposure of loans and receivables by customer and loan condition is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Corporates Korean treasury Small and Project and government General medium sized financing agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Loans and receivables neither overdue nor impaired 16,062,399 20,258,860 49,815,352 31,520,617 7,142,440 88,478,409 132,195,005 256,994,673 Loans and receivables overdue but not impaired 48,294 57,245 105,539 765,829 871,368 Impaired loans and receivables 1,404,568 429,955 208,372 2,042,895 510,793 2,553,688 Gross loans and receivables 16,062,399 20,258,860 51,268,214 32,007,817 7,350,812 90,626,843 133,471,627 260,419,729 Allowance for credit losses 4,094 16,600 1,156,000 424,142 61,135 1,641,277 365,125 2,027,096 Total, net 16,058,305 20,242,260 50,112,214 31,583,675 7,289,677 88,985,566 133,106,502 258,392,633 32 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 133 December 31, 2015 Corporates Korean treasury Small and Project and government General medium sized financing agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Loans and receivables neither overdue nor impaired 12,065,749 19,062,673 53,282,955 31,665,220 7,618,968 92,567,143 118,888,052 242,583,617 Loans and receivables overdue but not impaired 682 66,770 91,406 158,176 900,313 1,059,171 Impaired loans and receivables 2,331 2,005,366 506,793 585,684 3,097,843 577,157 3,677,331 Gross loans and receivables 12,065,749 19,065,686 55,355,091 32,263,419 8,204,652 95,823,162 120,365,522 247,320,119 Allowance for credit losses 3,146 17,560 1,393,401 516,891 147,847 2,058,139 399,212 2,478,057 Total, net 12,062,603 19,048,126 53,961,690 31,746,528 8,056,805 93,765,023 119,966,310 244,842,062 a) Credit quality of loans and receivables The Group manages credit quality of its loans and receivables, (neither overdue nor impaired, net of allowance) through an internal rating system. Segregation of credit quality is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Korean Corporates treasury and Small and Project government General medium sized financing agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Upper grade (*1) 16,058,288 20,242,260 41,461,420 18,755,963 5,337,033 65,554,416 128,374,017 230,228,981 Lower grade (*2) 17 7,941,871 12,550,282 1,763,658 22,255,811 3,680,920 25,936,748 Total 16,058,305 20,242,260 49,403,291 31,306,245 7,100,691 87,810,227 132,054,937 256,165,729 Value of collateral 358,456 18,003,674 25,493,006 3,996,162 47,492,842 111,054,910 158,906,208 December 31, 2015 Korean Corporates treasury and Small & Project government General medium sized financing agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Upper grade (*1) 12,062,603 19,044,317 41,511,690 16,597,807 5,275,015 63,384,512 114,559,012 209,050,444 Lower grade (*2) 1,044 11,434,413 14,817,366 2,271,579 28,523,358 4,187,183 32,711,585 Total 12,062,603 19,045,361 52,946,103 31,415,173 7,546,594 91,907,870 118,746,195 241,762,029 Value of collateral 11,391 413,893 18,096,065 24,412,038 4,220,936 46,729,039 98,376,621 145,530,944 (*1) AAA~BBB for Corporates, and 1~6 level for Consumers (*2) BBB~C for Corporates, and 7~10 level for Consumers Allowances for credit losses, for loans and receivables neither overdue nor impaired, amounting to 828,944 million Won and 821,588 million Won as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which are deducted from the loans and receivables above. 33 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 134 b) Aging analysis of loans and receivables Aging analysis of loans and receivables (overdue but not impaired, net of allowance) is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Korean Corporates treasury and Small & Project government General medium sized financing Past due agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Less than 30 days 45,255 41,329 86,584 584,995 671,579 30~59 days 1,553 8,933 10,486 90,296 100,782 60~89 days 337 2,123 2,460 49,151 51,611 Total 47,145 52,385 99,530 724,442 823,972 Value of collateral (*) 7,021 45,304 52,325 546,164 598,489 December 31, 2015 Korean Corporates treasury and Small & Project government General medium sized financing Past due agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Less than 30 days 92 52,157 58,854 111,011 716,245 827,348 30~59 days 120 3,902 16,584 20,486 98,889 119,495 60~89 days 222 9,537 4,969 14,506 39,330 54,058 Total 434 65,596 80,407 146,003 854,464 1,000,901 Value of collateral (*) 4,340 63,749 68,089 644,073 712,162 (*) The value of collateral held is the recoverable amount used when calculating allowance for credit losses. Allowances for credit losses, for loans and receivables that are overdue but not impaired, amounting to 47,396 million Won and 58,270 million Won as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which are deducted from the loans and receivables above. c) Impaired loans and receivables Impaired loans and receivables, net of allowance are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Korean Corporates treasury and Small Project government General &medium sized financing agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Impaired loans 661,778 225,045 188,986 1,075,809 327,123 1,402,932 Value of collateral (*) 482,680 236,954 42,166 761,800 250,583 1,012,383 December 31, 2015 Korean Corporates treasury and Small Project government General &medium sized financing agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Impaired loans 2,331 949,991 250,948 510,211 1,711,150 365,651 2,079,132 Value of collateral (*) 840,461 285,873 174,918 1,301,252 294,725 1,595,977 (*) The value of collateral held is recoverable amount used when calculating allowance for credit losses. Allowances for credit losses, for impaired loans and receivables amounting to 1,150,756 million Won and 1,598,199 million Won as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, are deducted from the impaired loans and receivables above. 34 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 135 4) Credit quality of debt securities The Group manages debt securities based on the external credit rating. Credit soundness of debt securities on the basis of External Credit Assessment Institution (―ECAI‖)‘s rating is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Financial assets AFS debt at FVTPL (*) securities HTM securities Total AAA 1,658,332 12,490,934 13,342,384 27,491,650 AA~ AA+ 720,535 3,372,310 466,401 4,559,246 BBB~ A+ 266,049 618,736 101,466 986,251 Below BBB4,348 59,908 64,256 Total 2,649,264 16,541,888 13,910,251 33,101,403 December 31, 2015 Financial assets AFS debt at FVTPL (*) securities HTM securities Total AAA 1,670,647 11,802,897 13,158,286 26,631,830 AA~ AA+ 651,103 2,238,670 380,541 3,270,314 BBB~ A+ 295,656 656,238 82,813 1,034,707 Below BBB986 25,772 26,758 Total 2,618,392 14,723,577 13,621,640 30,963,609 (*)Financial assets at FVTPL comprise debt securities held for trading and financial assets designated at FVTPL. 35 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 136 (2) Market risk Market risk is the possible risk of loss arising from trading activities and non-trading activities in the volatility of market factors such as interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. Market risk occurs as a result of changes in the interest rates and foreign exchange rates for financial instruments that are not yet settled, and all contracts are exposed to a certain level of volatility according to changes in the interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and the price of equity securities. 1) Market risk management For trading activities and non-trading activities, the Group avoids, bears, or mitigates risks by identifying the underlying source of the risks, measuring parameters and evaluating their appropriateness. On a yearly basis, the Risk Management Committee establishes a Value at Risk (―VaR‖, maximum losses) limit, loss limit and risk capital limit by subsidiaries for its management purposes. The limit by investment desk/dealer is independently managed to the extent of the limit given to subsidiaries and the limit by investment and loss cut is managed by the risk management personnel with department. The Group uses both a standard-based and an internal model-based approach to measure market risk. The standard-based approach is used to calculate individual market risk of owned capital while the internal model-based approach is used to calculate general capital market risk and it is used to measure internal risk management measure. For the trading activities, the Risk Management department measures the VaR limit by each department, risk factor and loss limit on a daily basis and reports regularly to the Risk Management Committee. 2) Sensitivity analysis of market risk The Group performs the sensitivity analyses both for trading and for non-trading activities. For trading activities, the Group uses a VaR model that uses certain assumptions of possible fluctuations in market condition and, by conducting simulations of gains and losses, under which the model estimates the maximum losses that may occur. A VaR model predicts based on statistics of possible losses on the portfolio at a certain period currently or in the future. It indicates the maximum expected loss with at least 99% credibility. In short, there exists a one percent possibility that the actual loss might exceed the predicted loss generated from the VaR calculation. The actual results are periodically monitored to examine the validity of the assumptions, variables, and factors that are used in VaR calculations. However, this approach cannot prevent the loss when the market fluctuation exceeds expectation. For the non-trading activities, interest rate Earning at Risk (―EaR‖) and interest rate VaR, which is based on the simulations of the Net Interest Income (―NII‖) and Net Present Value (―NPV‖), are calculated for the Bank, and the risks for all other subsidiaries are measured and managed by the interest rate EaR and the interest rate VaR calculations based on the Bank for International Settlements (―BIS‖) Framework. NII is a profit-based indicator for displaying the profit changes in short term due to the short-term interest changes. It will be estimated as subtracting interest expenses of liabilities from the interest income of assets. NPV is an indicator for displaying risks in economic view according to unfavorable changes related to interest rate. It will be estimated as subtracting the present value of liabilities from the present value of assets. EaR shows the maximum profit-loss amount, which indicates the maximum deduction amount caused by the unfavorable changes related to the interest rate of a certain period (i.e. 1 year). Interest rate VaR shows the potential maximum loss generated by the unfavorable changes during a certain period of time in the present or future. 36 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 137 a) Trading activities The minimum, maximum and average Value at Risk (―VaR‖) for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and the VaR as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): As of For the year ended As of For the year ended December December 31, 2016 December December 31, 2015 Risk factor 31, 2016 Average Maximum Minimum 31, 2015 Average Maximum Minimum Interest rate 3,250 2,844 6,430 1,367 2,907 2,742 3,991 1,211 Stock price 4,191 3,456 5,063 2,304 3,186 2,411 4,377 531 Foreign currencies 4,396 4,914 7,686 3,967 3,997 3,415 4,847 2,329 Commodity price 152 113 325 21 117 102 218 5 Diversification (5,630) (5,355) (10,385) (4,034) (5,017) (3,858) (6,910) (411) Total VaR(*) 6,359 5,972 9,119 3,625 5,190 4,812 6,523 3,665 (*) VaR= Value at Risk b) Non-trading activities The NII and NPV are calculated for the assets and liabilities owned by the Bank and consolidated trusts, respectively, by using the simulation method. The scenario responding to interest rate (―IR‖) changes are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Name of scenario NII (*1) NPV (*2) NII (*1) NPV (*2) Base case 4,367,411 21,556,632 4,248,972 22,441,148 Base case (Prepay) 4,384,783 20,666,425 4,243,033 21,418,343 IR 100bp up 4,802,118 20,893,490 4,628,056 21,747,451 IR 100bp down 3,903,129 22,279,204 3,863,665 23,192,051 IR 200bp up 5,236,879 20,289,742 5,007,090 21,107,510 IR 200bp down 2,975,351 23,052,848 3,137,452 23,998,930 IR 300bp up 5,671,639 19,742,627 5,386,122 20,517,630 IR 300bp down 1,968,273 25,096,193 2,123,516 25,345,104 (*1) Net Interest Income (*2) Net Portfolio Value The interest EaR and VaR are calculated based on the BIS Framework of other subsidiaries other than the Bank and consolidated trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 EaR VaR EaR VaR 188,381 110,335 153,717 80,086 The Group estimates and manages risks related to changes in interest rate due to the difference in the maturities of interest-bearing assets and liabilities and discrepancies in the terms of interest rates. Cash flows of principal amounts and interests from interest bearing assets and liabilities by re-pricing date are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 months months months months years Over 5 years Total Asset: Loans and receivables 148,237,350 42,032,667 8,064,502 7,757,087 55,838,192 35,245,734 297,175,532 AFS financial assets 3,165,094 2,946,992 2,854,514 2,915,226 5,029,918 713,596 17,625,340 HTM financial assets 2,770,079 1,515,213 1,246,503 1,143,170 6,853,951 892,030 14,420,946 Total 154,172,523 46,494,872 12,165,519 11,815,483 67,722,061 36,851,360 329,221,818 Liability: Deposits due to customers 100,051,821 36,614,529 25,028,378 25,017,836 34,513,004 40,737 221,266,305 Borrowings 13,772,710 1,044,748 491,330 368,431 2,816,565 421,677 18,915,461 Debentures 2,109,235 2,077,681 860,455 1,545,943 14,613,799 4,143,773 25,350,886 Total 115,933,766 39,736,958 26,380,163 26,932,210 51,943,368 4,606,187 265,532,652 37 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 138 December 31, 2015 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 months months months months years Over 5 years Total Asset: Loans and receivables 140,191,350 41,178,643 8,201,386 8,043,459 50,083,399 30,613,803 278,312,040 AFS financial assets 1,346,353 2,176,565 2,821,168 2,031,687 6,480,914 702,884 15,559,571 HTM financial assets 1,980,893 1,652,225 1,191,175 1,611,999 6,957,745 922,081 14,316,118 Total 143,518,596 45,007,433 12,213,729 11,687,145 63,522,058 32,238,768 308,187,729 Liability: Deposits due to customers 96,907,809 31,975,594 21,386,037 28,539,885 30,592,054 26,732 209,428,111 Borrowings 13,631,363 1,601,846 900,149 498,146 3,088,516 499,110 20,219,130 Debentures 3,056,172 1,142,939 747,728 2,028,080 12,197,477 4,584,085 23,756,481 Total 113,595,344 34,720,379 23,033,914 31,066,111 45,878,047 5,109,927 253,403,722 38 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 139 3) Currency risk Currency risk arises from monetary financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies other than the functional currency. Therefore, no currency risk arises from non-monetary items or financial instruments denominated in the functional currency. Financial instruments in foreign currencies exposed to currency risk are as follows (Unit: USD in millions, JPY in millions, CNY in millions, EUR in millions, and Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent Asset: Loans and receivables 22,868 27,635,970 108,944 1,129,539 23,194 4,018,678 1,548 1,962,856 4,382,990 39,130,033 Financial assets at 66 79,386 57 589 30 37,562 34,124 151,661 FVTPL AFS financial assets 898 1,085,108 80 13,844 570 144,799 1,244,321 HTM financial assets 17 20,517 143,535 164,052 Total 23,849 28,820,981 109,001 1,130,128 23,274 4,032,522 1,578 2,000,988 4,705,448 40,690,067 December 31, 2016 USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent Liability: Financial liabilities at FVTPL 75 90,908 253 2,621 88 111,098 115,980 320,607 Deposits due to customer 11,294 13,648,729 124,790 1,293,835 18,950 3,283,291 651 825,165 2,402,076 21,453,096 Borrowings 7,193 8,692,792 3,243 33,625 222 280,894 115,332 9,122,643 Debentures 2,931 3,541,769 700 121,282 228,720 3,891,771 Other financial liabilities 2,235 2,700,703 12,390 128,464 1,508 261,278 245 310,396 846,990 4,247,831 Total 23,728 28,674,901 140,676 1,458,545 21,158 3,665,851 1,206 1,527,553 3,709,098 39,035,948 Off-balance accounts 8,593 10,384,163 28,675 297,304 1,061 183,883 374 473,845 312,187 11,651,382 December 31, 2015 USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent Asset: Loans and receivables 25,178 29,509,364 112,138 1,089,991 16,177 2,887,324 1,141 1,460,773 3,163,999 38,111,451 Financial assets at FVTPL 143 167,270 113 1,096 1 987 428 169,781 AFS financial assets 483 565,872 211 37,671 622 80,273 684,438 HTM financial assets 13 15,288 80,553 95,841 Total 25,817 30,257,794 112,251 1,091,087 16,388 2,924,995 1,142 1,462,382 3,325,253 39,061,511 December 31, 2015 USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent Liability: Financial liabilities at FVTPL 149 174,554 499 4,853 33 42,299 98,312 320,018 Deposits due to customer 11,701 13,713,829 114,940 1,117,225 15,174 2,708,309 301 385,077 1,204,774 19,129,214 Borrowings 8,757 10,262,750 17,834 173,350 276 49,231 441 565,235 111,447 11,162,013 Debentures 3,054 3,578,711 5,680 55,209 900 160,632 33 42,257 503,066 4,339,875 Other financial liabilities 2,150 2,519,715 3,176 30,867 2,850 508,596 69 88,658 706,388 3,854,224 Total 25,811 30,249,559 142,129 1,381,504 19,200 3,426,768 877 1,123,526 2,623,987 38,805,344 Off-balance accounts 9,914 11,619,118 26,451 257,103 797 142,208 528 676,588 504,092 13,199,109 39 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 140 (3) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group may encounter difficulties in meeting obligations from its financial liabilities. 1) Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk management is to prevent potential cash shortages as a result of mismatching the use of funds (assets) and sources of funds (liabilities) or unexpected cash outflows. The financial liabilities that are relevant to liquidity risk are incorporated within the scope of risk management. Derivatives instruments are excluded from those financial liabilities as they reflect expected cash flows for a pre-determined period. Assets and liabilities are grouped by account under Asset Liability Management (―ALM‖) in accordance with the characteristics of the account. The Group manages liquidity risk by identifying maturity gap, and then gap ratio through performing various cash flows analysis (i.e. based on remaining maturity and contract period, etc.), while maintaining the gap ratio at or below the target limit. 2) Maturity analysis of non-derivative financial liabilities a) Cash flows of principals and interests by remaining contractual maturities of non-derivative financial liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 months months months months years years Total Financial liabilities at FVTPL 678,813 1,529 94 47 154,325 834,808 Deposits due to customers 136,835,315 28,685,473 19,254,108 30,875,962 6,284,092 2,732,019 224,666,969 Borrowings 9,146,895 2,355,336 876,836 1,486,710 4,711,273 420,720 18,997,770 Debentures 2,108,780 2,077,387 860,596 1,518,524 14,641,016 4,116,768 25,323,071 Other financial liabilities 14,813,948 27,544 5,480 1,433 84,792 2,751,825 17,685,022 Total 163,583,751 33,147,269 20,997,114 33,882,676 25,875,498 10,021,332 287,507,640 December 31, 2015 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 months months months months years years Total Financial liabilities at FVTPL 730,495 408 54 11,850 161,537 904,344 Deposits due to customers 123,618,943 25,623,490 17,391,363 35,942,949 7,623,477 2,716,859 212,917,081 Borrowings 8,678,642 2,504,599 2,126,241 1,155,179 5,311,041 499,722 20,275,424 Debentures 3,055,973 1,143,005 747,870 2,027,915 12,197,268 4,584,002 23,756,033 Other financial liabilities 8,448,045 25,530 4,504 2,429 84,660 2,589,577 11,154,745 Total 144,532,098 29,297,032 20,270,032 39,140,322 25,377,983 10,390,160 269,007,627 40 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 141 b) Cash flows of principals and interests by expected maturities of non-derivative financial liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 months months months months years years Total Financial liabilities at FVTPL 678,813 1,529 94 47 154,325 834,808 Deposits due to customers 148,089,355 30,163,971 17,600,803 20,947,335 5,128,387 2,331,993 224,261,844 Borrowings 9,146,901 2,355,332 876,835 1,486,710 4,711,273 420,719 18,997,770 Debentures 2,108,780 2,077,387 860,596 1,518,524 14,641,016 4,116,768 25,323,071 Other financial liabilities 14,813,948 27,544 5,480 1,433 84,792 2,751,825 17,685,022 Total 174,837,797 34,625,763 19,343,808 23,954,049 24,719,793 9,621,305 287,102,515 December 31, 2015 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 months months months months years years Total Financial liabilities at FVTPL 730,495 408 54 11,850 161,537 904,344 Deposits due to customers 129,716,295 27,884,256 16,876,865 28,164,198 6,506,300 3,384,994 212,532,908 Borrowings 8,678,664 2,504,588 2,126,234 1,155,176 5,311,041 499,722 20,275,425 Debentures 3,055,973 1,143,005 747,870 2,027,915 12,197,268 4,584,002 23,756,033 Other financial liabilities 8,454,338 25,530 4,504 2,429 84,660 2,589,577 11,161,038 Total 150,635,765 31,557,787 19,755,527 31,361,568 24,260,806 11,058,295 268,629,748 3) Maturity analysis of derivative financial liabilities is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Derivatives held for trading purpose are not managed in accordance with their contractual maturity, but the Group holds such financial instruments with the purpose of disposing or redemption before their maturity. As such, those derivatives are incorporated as ―within 3 months‖ in the table below. The cash flow from derivatives held for hedge purpose is estimated at the amount after the offset of the cash inflow and outflow. The cash flow by the maturity of derivative financial liabilities as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 as follow: Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 months months months months years years Total December 31, 2016 3,009,977 208 7,013 3,017,198 December 31, 2015 2,580,827 2,580,827 4) Maturity analysis of off-balance accounts The Group provides guarantees on behalf of customers. A financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that the Group should meet a customer‘s obligations to third parties if the customer fails to do so. Under a loan commitment, the Group agrees to make funds available to a customer in the future. Loan commitments that are usually for a specified term may be unconditionally cancellable or may persist, provided all conditions in the loan facility are satisfied or waived. Commitments to lend include commercial standby facilities and credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits and utilized overdraft facilities. The maximum limit to be paid by the Group in accordance with guarantees and loan commitment only applies to principal amounts. There are contractual maturities for financial guarantees, such as guarantees for debentures issued or loans, loan commitments, and other guarantees, however, under the terms of the guarantees and loan commitments, funds should be paid upon demand from the counterparty. Details of off-balance accounts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Guarantees 14,761,784 17,315,443 Loan commitments 83,795,496 88,211,580 41 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 142 (4) Operational risk The Group defines the operational risk that could cause a negative effect on capital resulting from inadequate internal process, labor work and systematic problem or external factors. 1) Operational risk management The Group has been running the operational risk management system under Basel II. The Group developed advanced measurement approached to quantify required capital for operational risk. This system is used for reinforcement in foreign competitions, reducing the amount of risk capitals, managing the risk, and precaution for any unexpected occasions. This system has been tested by the independent third party, and this system approved by the Financial Supervisory Service. 2) Operational risk measurement To quantify required capital for operational risk, the Group applies Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMA) using of internal and external loss data, business environment and internal control factors (BEICFs), and scenario analysis (SBA). For the operational risk management for its subsidiaries, the Group adopted the Basic Indicator Approach. (5) Capital management The Group complies with the standard of capital adequacy provided by financial regulatory authorities. The capital adequacy ratio is based on Basel III of Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and Basel III was applied from the end of December, 2013. The capital adequacy ratio is calculated by dividing own capital by asset (weighted with a risk premium – risk weighted assets) based on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. According to this regulation, the Group is required to meet the following new minimum requirements: 5.38% and 4.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, 6.88% and 6.00% Tier 1 capital ratio, and 8.88% and 8.00% total capital ratio as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. When the Group excludes the five subsidiaries (Woori Card Co., Ltd., Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd., Woori FIS Co., Ltd., Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. and Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd.), from the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios, then the common share capital ratio 11.38%, the basic capital ratio 13.76%, and the total capital ratio 16.59%, as of December 31, 2016.The details are as following (Unit: Korean won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Tier 1 capital 15,714,480 13,047,567 Other Tier 1 capital 3,275,496 3,016,309 Tier 2 capital 3,910,513 4,987,529 Total risk-adjusted capital 22,900,489 21,051,405 Risk-weighted assets for credit risk 138,018,500 142,127,112 Risk-weighted assets for market risk 2,277,809 2,595,566 Risk-weighted assets for operational risk 9,431,814 9,348,221 Total risk-weighted assets 149,728,123 154,070,899 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 10.50% 8.47% Tier 1 capital ratio 12.68% 10.43% Total capital ratio 15.29% 13.66% 42 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 143 5. OPERATING SEGMENTS In evaluating the results of the Group and allocating resources, the Group‘s Chief Operation Decision Maker (the ―CODM‖) utilizes the information per types of customers. This financial information of the segments is regularly reviewed by the CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to each segment and evaluate its performance. (1) Segment by types of customers The Group‘s reporting segments comprise the following customers: consumer banking, corporate banking, investment banking, capital market, credit card and headquarters and others. The reportable segments are classified based on the target customers for whom the service is being provided. • Consumer banking: Loans/deposits and financial services for consumer, etc. • Corporate banking: Loans/deposits and export/import, financial services for corporations, etc. • Investment banking: Domestic/foreign investment, structured finance, M&A, Equity & fund investment related business, venture advisory related tasks, real estate SOC development practices etc. • Capital market: Fund management, investment securities and derivatives business, etc. • Credit Card: Credit card, cash service and card loan, etc. ; and • Headquarter and others: Segments that are not belong to above operating segments 1) The details of assets and liabilities by each segment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Consumer Corporate Investment Capital Headquarter Inter-segment banking banking banking market Credit Card and Others Sub-total transaction Total Assets 105,931,025 104,937,198 6,337,634 8,111,230 7,606,108 82,840,235 315,763,430 (5,080,703) 310,682,727 Liabilities 62,294,922 162,937,921 55,785 7,287,850 6,180,893 51,137,220 289,894,591 242,183 290,136,774 December 31, 2015 Consumer Corporate Investment Capital Headquarter Inter-segment banking banking banking market Credit Card and Others Sub-total transaction Total Assets 95,612,964 107,313,193 6,646,754 7,903,460 6,604,059 73,713,629 297,794,059 (5,934,987) 291,859,072 Liabilities 46,049,309 170,127,944 41,772 6,410,552 5,295,225 42,578,200 270,503,002 2,046,155 272,549,157 2) The details of operating income by each segment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2016 InterConsumer Corporate Investment Capital Headquarter segment banking banking banking market Credit Card and Others Sub-total transaction Total Net Interest income 1,484,233 1,741,140 14,613 48,826 428,095 713,678 4,430,585 588,959 5,019,544 Interest income 2,979,811 3,026,148 153,160 19,575 556,681 1,492,148 8,227,523 284,789 8,512,312 Interest expense (1,023,290) (1,780,990) (225) (324) (128,586) (863,523) (3,796,938) 304,170 (3,492,768) Inter-segment (472,288) 495,982 (138,322) 29,575 85,053 Net non-interest income 557,410 550,194 160,885 4,033 79,713 302,800 1,655,035 (955,696) 699,339 Non-interest income 923,810 535,514 605,026 7,590,087 986,147 4,563,280 15,203,864 (433,880) 14,769,984 Non-interest expense (405,912) (32,873) (444,141) (7,586,054) (906,434) (4,173,415) (13,548,829) (521,816) (14,070,645) Inter-segment 39,512 47,553 (87,065) Other expense (1,875,579) (1,476,190) (110,863) (51,995) (364,137) (574,606) (4,453,370) 308,693 (4,144,677) Administrative expense (1,788,672) (966,878) (14,983) (17,964) (148,001) (793,978) (3,730,476) 252,001 (3,478,475) Impairment losses on credit loss and others (86,907) (509,312) (95,880) (34,031) (216,136) 219,372 (722,894) 56,692 (666,202) Operating income 166,064 815,144 64,635 864 143,671 441,872 1,632,250 (58,044) 1,574,206 Non-operating income (35,081) (1,619) 46,559 (5,288) (1,504) 55,291 58,358 (79,175) (20,817) Net income before income tax expense 130,983 813,525 111,194 (4,424) 142,167 497,163 1,690,608 (137,219) 1,553,389 Income tax expense (31,698) (203,983) (26,909) 1,071 (32,774) 16,475 (277,818) 1,962 (275,856) Net income 99,285 609,542 84,285 (3,353) 109,393 513,638 1,412,790 (135,257) 1,277,533 43 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 144 For the year ended December 31, 2015 InterConsumer Corporate Investment Capital Headquarter segment banking banking banking market Credit Card and Others Sub-total transaction Total Net Interest income 1,289,088 1,699,913 5,601 40,913 378,019 743,092 4,156,626 605,274 4,761,900 Interest income 2,850,985 3,255,796 154,460 19,394 500,449 1,585,636 8,366,720 331,515 8,698,235 Interest expense (1,227,921) (1,880,195) (18) (81) (122,430) (979,449) (4,210,094) 273,759 (3,936,335) Inter-segment (333,976) 324,312 (148,841) 21,600 136,905 Net non-interest income 554,957 513,686 115,111 18,015 98,034 279,437 1,579,240 (947,937) 631,303 Non-interest income 886,057 503,321 489,659 5,760,567 871,486 3,245,543 11,756,633 (366,953) 11,389,680 Non-interest expense (353,032) (25,993) (374,548) (5,742,552) (773,452) (2,907,816) (10,177,393) (580,984) (10,758,377) Inter-segment 21,932 36,358 (58,290) Other expense (1,790,292) (1,795,561) 53,089 (44,187) (321,265) (470,592) (4,368,808) 327,191 (4,041,617) Administrative expense (1,782,234) (925,566) (14,933) (16,945) (124,362) (553,539) (3,417,579) 267,190 (3,150,389) Impairment losses on credit loss and others (8,058) (869,995) 68,022 (27,242) (196,903) 82,947 (951,229) 60,001 (891,228) Operating income 53,753 418,038 173,801 14,741 154,788 551,937 1,367,058 (15,472) 1,351,586 Non-operating income (19,113) (2,189) 43,728 197 (5,150) 136,954 154,427 (54,067) 100,360 Net income before income tax expense 34,640 415,849 217,529 14,938 149,638 688,891 1,521,485 (69,539) 1,451,946 Income tax expense (8,383) (98,886) (52,642) (3,615) (32,780) (136,891) (333,197) (43,357) (376,554) Net income 26,257 316,963 164,887 11,323 116,858 552,000 1,188,288 (112,896) 1,075,392 (2) Information on products and services The products of the Group are classified as interest-bearing products such as loans, deposits and debt securities and non-interest bearing products such as loan commitment, credit commitment, equity securities, and credit card service. This classification of products has been reflected in the segment information presenting interest income and non-interest income. (3) Information on geographical areas Among the Group‘s revenue (interest income and non-interest income) from services, revenue from the domestic customers for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 amounted to 22,265,508 million Won and 18,974,359 million Won, respectively, and revenue from the foreign customers amounted to 1,016,788 million Won and 1,113,556 million Won, respectively. Among the Group‘s non-current assets (investments in joint ventures and associates, investment properties, premises and equipment and intangible assets), non-current assets attributed to domestic subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are 3,498,327 million Won and 3,666,276 million Won, respectively, and foreign subsidiaries are 240,946 million Won and 220,093 million Won, respectively. 44 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 145 6. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (1) Details of cash and cash equivalents are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Cash and checks 2,113,739 2,091,064 Foreign currencies 742,340 656,183 Demand deposits 4,238,956 3,286,747 Fixed deposits 496,289 610,061 Total 7,591,324 6,644,055 (2) Material transactions not involving cash inflows and outflows are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Changes in other comprehensive income due to valuation of AFS financial assets 12,586 72,297 Changes in other comprehensive income (loss) of investment in associates (7,937) 3,295 Changes in other comprehensive income of foreign operations translation 28,712 33,837 Changes in other comprehensive income related to valuation of cash flow hedging 10,371 Changes in other comprehensive income (loss) due to remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 34,162 (78,267) Changes in investments in associates due to equity swap and others 83,002 Changes in investments in associates due to accounts transfer (156,708) Changes in unpaid dividends of hybrid equity securities 5,187 3,562 Changes in payables due to intangible assets 125,446 45 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 146 7. FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVTPL . (1) Financial assets at FVTPL consist of as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Financial assets held for trading 5,633,724 5,120,062 Financial assets designated at FVTPL 17,000 12,595 Total 5,650,724 5,132,657 (2) Financial assets held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Deposits: Gold banking assets 26,180 24,884 Securities: Debt securities Korean treasury and government agencies 519,337 798,397 Financial institutions 1,444,459 1,175,303 Corporates 681,120 643,706 Equity securities 35,983 62,945 Beneficiary certificates 23,891 14,017 Securities loaned 4,459 10,313 Sub-total 2,709,249 2,704,681 Derivatives assets 2,898,295 2,390,497 Total 5,633,724 5,120,062 (3) Financial assets designated at FVTPL as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Debt securities 4,348 986 Equity securities 12,652 11,609 Total 17,000 12,595 46 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 147 8. AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Details of AFS financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): As of December 31, 2016 Amortized Unrealized Unrealized cost gains losses Fair value Debt securities: Korean treasury and government agencies 3,778,688 13,700 (3,758) 3,788,630 Financial institutions 6,310,517 7,585 (3,904) 6,314,198 Corporates 4,336,195 93,957 (20,966) 4,409,186 Asset-backed securities 250,630 (1,427) 249,203 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 1,226,893 1,076 (16,105) 1,211,864 Other debt securities 73,360 1,871 (3) 75,228 Sub-total 15,976,283 118,189 (46,163) 16,048,309 Equity securities 1,034,299 420,038 (724) 1,453,613 Beneficiary certificates 2,802,847 40,405 (21,170) 2,822,082 Securities loaned 493,625 3,040 (3,086) 493,579 Total 20,307,054 581,672 (71,143) 20,817,583 As of December 31, 2015 Amortized Unrealized Unrealized cost gains losses Fair value Debt securities: Korean treasury and government agencies 3,529,997 28,880 (88) 3,558,789 Financial institutions 5,598,416 27,473 (64) 5,625,825 Corporates 3,809,370 79,303 (692) 3,887,981 Asset-backed securities 260,198 (1,541) 258,657 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 649,983 790 (12,853) 637,920 Other debt securities 12,323 8,044 20,367 Sub-total 13,860,287 144,490 (15,238) 13,989,539 Equity securities 967,911 376,079 (6,283) 1,337,707 Beneficiary certificates 1,119,497 23,148 (24,617) 1,118,028 Securities loaned 717,525 2,488 (3) 720,010 Others 4,665 643 5,308 Total 16,669,885 546,848 (46,141) 17,170,592 47 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 148 9. HELD TO MATURITY FINANCIAL ASSETS Details of HTM financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): As of December 31, 2016 Amortized Unrealized Unrealized cost gains losses Fair value Korean treasury and government agencies 3,754,356 26,366 (6,391) 3,774,331 Financial institutions 5,168,487 9,236 (4,940) 5,172,783 Corporates 4,823,356 58,176 (7,093) 4,874,439 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 164,052 (428) 163,624 Total 13,910,251 93,778 (18,852) 13,985,177 As of December 31, 2015 Amortized Unrealized Unrealized cost gains losses Fair value Korean treasury and government agencies 3,366,942 63,895 (131) 3,430,706 Financial institutions 4,138,250 26,417 (153) 4,164,514 Corporates 6,020,607 106,541 (4,460) 6,122,688 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 95,841 95,841 Total 13,621,640 196,853 (4,744) 13,813,749 10. LOANS AND RECEIVABLES (1) Details of loans and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Due from banks 14,815,476 11,174,806 Loans 235,400,585 225,547,768 Other loan and receivables 8,176,572 8,119,488 Total 258,392,633 244,842,062 (2) Details of due from banks are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Due from banks in local currency: Due from the Bank of Korea (―BOK‖) 11,395,162 6,885,516 Due from the depository banks 3 300,500 Due from non-monetary financial institutions 9,811 12,197 Due from the Korea Exchange 1,625 1,868 Others 73,283 34,525 Allowance for credit losses (2,798) (2,063) Sub-total 11,477,086 7,232,543 Due from banks in foreign currencies: Due from banks on demand 877,636 1,945,918 Time deposits 1,684,631 1,178,081 Others 778,418 822,888 Allowance for credit losses (2,295) (4,624) Sub-total 3,338,390 3,942,263 Total 14,815,476 11,174,806 48 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 149 (3) Details of restricted due from banks are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, Financial institution Counterparty 2016 Reason of restriction Due from banks in local currency: Due from The Bank of Korea The Bank of Korea 11,395,162 Reserve deposits under The BOK Act Others the Korea Exchange and Central counter party KRW others 70,304 margin and others 11,465,466 Due from banks in foreign currencies: Due from banks on demand The Bank of Korea and others Reserve deposits under The 854,612 BOK Act and others Others The People‘s Bank of China and others 778,418 Deposit reserves and others 1,633,030 13,098,496 December 31, Financial institution Counterparty 2015 Reason of restriction Due from banks in local currency: Due from The Bank of Korea The Bank of Korea 6,885,516 Reverse deposits on The BOK Act Others Samsung Securities Co., Ltd. Reserve deposits of the futures and others 34,525 and options and others 6,920,041 Due from banks in foreign currencies: Due from banks on demand The Bank of Korea and others Reserve deposits on The BOK 1,944,976 Act and others Others The People‘s Bank of China and others 811,168 Reserve deposits and others 2,756,144 9,676,185 (4) Details of loans are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Loans in local currency 191,309,481 185,154,851 Loans in foreign currencies 14,101,839 13,104,820 Domestic banker‘s letter of credit 3,754,030 4,805,433 Credit card accounts 6,673,765 6,099,219 Bills bought in foreign currencies 7,758,575 6,647,918 Bills bought in local currency 414,451 134,645 Factoring receivables 96,763 149,688 Advances for customers on guarantees 25,197 44,242 Privately placed bonds 328,405 330,889 Securitized loans 252,690 309,990 Call loans 2,985,077 2,758,156 Bonds purchased under resale agreements 8,854,753 7,583,743 Loan origination costs and fees 458,639 435,005 Others 251,635 45,622 Present value discount (13,827) (4,985) Allowance for credit losses (1,850,888) (2,051,468) Total 235,400,585 225,547,768 49 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 150 (5) Details of other loan and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 CMA accounts 190,000 213,000 Receivables 5,417,676 5,648,159 Accrued income 1,080,489 971,179 Telex and telephone subscription rights and refundable deposits 1,019,577 1,056,309 Other receivables 639,945 650,743 Allowance for credit losses (171,115) (419,902) Total 8,176,572 8,119,488 (6) Changes in allowance for credit losses on loans and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2016 Consumers Corporates Credit card Others Total Beginning balance (203,433) (1,686,194) (145,810) (442,620) (2,478,057) Net provision (73,356) (536,359) (207,730) (73,318) (890,763) Recoveries of loans previously charged off (53,679) (192,183) (44,393) (19,233) (309,488) Charge-offs 155,424 722,359 242,561 236,857 1,357,201 Sales of loans and receivables 2,055 113,177 91,800 207,032 Unwinding effect 10,319 66,901 77,220 Others (1,188) 13,457 (2,510) 9,759 Ending balance (163,858) (1,498,842) (155,372) (209,024) (2,027,096) For the year ended December 31, 2015 Consumers Corporates Credit card Others Total Beginning balance (326,435) (2,128,090) (129,117) (370,264) (2,953,906) Net provision (103,166) (744,416) (180,563) (83,994) (1,112,139) Recoveries of loans previously charged off (29,219) (198,089) (34,207) (261,515) Charge-offs 240,541 1,139,102 198,077 592 1,578,312 Sales of loans and receivables 2,518 138,055 866 141,439 Unwinding effect 12,514 99,854 112,368 Others (186) 7,390 10,180 17,384 Ending balance (203,433) (1,686,194) (145,810) (442,620) (2,478,057) 50 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 151 11. THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (1) The fair value hierarchy The fair value hierarchy is determined by the levels of judgment involved in estimating fair values of financial assets and liabilities. The specific financial instruments characteristics and market condition such as volume of transactions and transparency are reflected to the market observable inputs. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Group maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value of its financial assets and financial liabilities. Fair value is measured based on the perspective of a market participant. As such, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Group‘s own assumptions reflect those that market participants would use for measuring the assets or liabilities at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is described in the one of the following three levels used to classify fair value measurements: • Level 1—fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 1 are publicly traded equity securities and derivatives, and debt securities issued by governmental bodies. • Level 2— fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 2 are debt securities not traded in active markets and derivatives traded in over-the-count (―OTC‖) but not required significant judgment. • Level 3— fair value measurements are those derived from valuation technique that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 3 are non-public securities and derivatives and debt securities of which valuation techniques require significant judgments and subjectivity. The inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Group‘s assessment of the significance of a particular input to a fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and consideration of factors specific to the asset or liability. 51 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 152 (2) Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Level 1 (*1) Level 2 (*1) Level 3 (*2) Total Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Deposits 26,180 26,180 Debt securities 370,636 2,274,280 2,644,916 Equity securities 35,983 35,983 Beneficiary certificates 23,891 23,891 Securities loaned 4,459 4,459 Derivative assets 3,233 2,871,909 23,153 2,898,295 Sub-total 440,491 5,170,080 23,153 5,633,724 Financial assets designed at FVTPL Debt securities 4,348 4,348 Equity securities 12,652 12,652 Sub-total 17,000 17,000 AFS financial assets Debt securities 2,288,917 13,759,392 16,048,309 Equity securities 428,678 1,024,935 1,453,613 Beneficiary certificates 2,291,571 530,511 2,822,082 Securities loaned 391,279 102,300 493,579 Sub-total 3,108,874 16,153,263 1,555,446 20,817,583 Derivative assets 140,478 99 140,577 Total 3,549,365 21,463,821 1,595,698 26,608,884 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Deposits 26,501 26,501 Derivative liabilities 1,750 2,974,703 33,524 3,009,977 Sub-total 28,251 2,974,703 33,524 3,036,478 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 197 673,709 673,906 Debentures 92,974 92,974 Sub-total 93,171 673,709 766,880 Derivative liabilities 7,221 7,221 Total 28,251 3,075,095 707,233 3,810,579 52 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 153 December 31, 2015 Level 1 (*1) Level 2 (*1) Level 3 (*2) Total Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Deposits 24,884 24,884 Debt securities 689,600 1,927,806 2,617,406 Equity securities 62,945 62,945 Beneficiary certificates 14,017 14,017 Securities loaned 10,313 10,313 Derivative assets 419 2,311,402 78,676 2,390,497 Sub-total 788,161 4,253,225 78,676 5,120,062 Financial assets designed at FVTPL Debt securities 986 986 Equity securities 11,609 11,609 Sub-total 12,595 12,595 AFS financial assets Debt securities 2,235,229 11,754,310 13,989,539 Equity securities 344,339 993,368 1,337,707 Beneficiary certificates 740,958 377,070 1,118,028 Securities loaned 615,570 104,440 720,010 Others 5,308 5,308 Sub-total 3,195,138 12,599,708 1,375,746 17,170,592 Derivative assets 177,155 5,973 183,128 Total 3,983,299 17,030,088 1,472,990 22,486,377 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Deposits 24,872 24,872 Derivative liabilities 136,845 2,365,375 78,607 2,580,827 Sub-total 161,717 2,365,375 78,607 2,605,699 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 10,660 747,351 758,011 Debentures 96,851 96,851 Sub-total 107,511 747,351 854,862 Total 161,717 2,472,886 825,958 3,460,561 (*1) There was no transferred between level 1 and level 2 of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The Group recognizes transfers between levels at the end of reporting period in which events have occurred or conditions have changed. (*2) Certain AFS financial assets were measured at cost as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, that are amounting to 43,202 million Won and 42,451 million Won, respectively. These unquoted equity instruments mostly represent minority investments in special purpose entity vehicles such as asset securitization structures. They are measured at cost because (a) observable inputs of financial information to measure fair value was not available to obtain, or (b) there is a significant variance in likely estimated cash flows or (c) the probabilities for the various estimated cash flows could not be measured reliably. In addition, there were no indicators of impairments in these investments and the Group has no intention to dispose these investments in the foreseeable future. Certain financial assets are carried at cost, even though under K-IFRS it is required to be remeasured at their fair value, since they do not have quoted market prices in an active market and cannot be measured reliably at fair value. The carrying amount and loss from the disposal of the financial assets which have been carried at cost amounts to 5,417 million Won and 5,197 million Won, respectively. Financial assets and liabilities designated at FVTPL, financial assets and liabilities held for trading, AFS financial assets, and derivative assets and liabilities are recognized at fair value. Fair value is the amount that would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. 53 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 154 Financial instruments are measured at fair value using a quoted market price in active markets. If there is no active market for a financial instrument, the Group determines the fair value using alternative assumptions and developing fair value measurement methods. Alternative assumptions and fair value measurement methods for each type of financial instruments are as follows: Fair value measurement methods Alternative assumptions Debt securities The fair value is measured by discounting the projected cash Risk-free market rate, credit spread flows of debt securities by applying the market discount rate that has been applied to a proxy company that has similar credit rating to the issuers of the securities Equity securities Among DCF (Discounted Cash Flow) Model, FCFE (Free Cash Risk-free market rate, market risk Flow to Equity) Model, Comparable Company Analysis, premium, beta Dividend Discount Model, Risk-adjusted Rate of Return Method, and Net Asset Value Method, more than one method is used given the characteristic of the subject of fair value measurement. Derivatives The in-house developed model which is based on the models Risk-free market rate, forward rate, that are used by market participants in the valuation of general volatility, foreign exchange rate, OTC derivative products, such as options, interest rate swaps, stock prices, etc. and currency swap that are based on inputs observable in the market. However, for some complicated financial instruments of which valuation should be based on some assumptions since some significant or all inputs to be used in the model are not observable in the market, the in-house derived model which is developed from the general valuation models, such as Finite Difference Method (―FDM‖) or Monte Carlo Simulation. Financial Instruments The fair value of security linked to stock prices or derivatives is Values of underlying assets, risklinked to stock measured by the models such as DCF model, FDM, or Monte free market rate, market rate, prices or Carlo Simulation given the natures of the securities or dividend and convenience yield, derivatives underlying assets. correlation, volatility, credit spread, and foreign exchange rate Debenture The fair value is measured by discounting the projected cash Risk-free market rate, forward rate flows of a debenture by applying the market discount rate that is reflecting credit rating of the Group. Valuation methods of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value and classified into Level 3 and significant but unobservable inputs are as follows: Fair value measurement Impact of changes in significant unobservable technique Input variable Range inputs on fair value measurement Derivative Option valuation Correlation Volatility of fair value increases as correlation assets model and others coefficient 0.305~0.980 increases Historical Volatility of fair value increases as historical volatility 19.9%~40.8% volatility increase Derivative Option valuation Correlation Volatility of fair value increases as correlation liabilities model and others coefficient 0.305~0.980 increase Historical Volatility of fair value increase due to historical volatility 19.9%~40.8% volatility increase Equity-linked Monte Carlo Correlation Compound financial instrument‘s fair value securities Simulation and coefficient increases as both of historical volatility and others correlation increase when correlation 0.017~0.716 decreases Historical However, despite of increase of historical volatility volatility, the fair value of compound 10.4%~63.9% financial instrument may decrease Equity External appraisal Expected growth Fair value increases as expected growth rate securities value and others rate 0.0%~1.0% increases Fair value of financial assets and liabilities classified into level 3 is measured by the Group using its own valuation techniques or using external specialists. Unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurements are produced by the internal system of the Group and the appropriateness of inputs is reviewed regularly. 54 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 155 (3) Changes in financial assets and liabilities classified into level 3 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2016 Net Other Transfer to or January 1, Income comprehensive Purchases/ Disposals/ from level 3 December 2016 (loss) (*1) income (loss) Issuances Settlements (*2) 31, 2016 Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Derivative assets (*3) 78,676 (29,117) 13,640 (39,506) (540) 23,153 Financial assets designed at FVTPL Debt securities 986 (161) 4,509 (986) 4,348 Equity securities 11,609 1,043 12,652 Sub-total 12,595 882 4,509 (986) 17,000 AFS financial assets: Equity securities (*4) 993,368 (6,986) 57,323 205,749 (205,348) (19,171) 1,024,935 Beneficiary certificates 377,070 (868) 5,794 174,024 (25,509) 530,511 Others 5,308 594 (643) (5,259) Sub-total 1,375,746 (7,260) 62,474 379,773 (236,116) (19,171) 1,555,446 Derivative assets 5,973 3,877 (9,751) 99 Total 1,472,990 (31,618) 62,474 397,922 (286,359) (19,711) 1,595,698 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Derivative liabilities 78,607 (8,322) 1,155 (37,916) 33,524 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 747,351 71,079 (144,721) 673,709 Total 825,958 62,757 1,155 (182,637) 707,233 (*1) The loss amounting to 94,238 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2016, which is from financial assets and liabilities that the Group holds at the end of periods, was recognized in net gain (loss) on financial instruments at FVTPL and net gain (loss) on AFS financial assets in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. (*2) The Group recognizes transfers between levels at the end of reporting period within which events have occurred or conditions have changed. (*3) As the variables used for the valuation of currency related derivatives were observable in the market, such derivatives were transferred into level 2 from level 3. (*4) AFS financial assets were transferred out of level 1 to level 3 upon the change of the fair value measurement method of the assets by using market the external valuation specialists from previously using quoted prices in the active market, in the opposite case, they were transferred out of level 3 to level 1. 55 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 156 For the year ended December 31, 2015 Net Other Transfer to or January 1, Income comprehensive Purchases/ Disposals/ from level 3 December 2015 (loss) (*1) income (loss) Issuances Settlements (*2) 31, 2015 Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Derivatives instruments assets (*3) 49,274 71,703 (8,166) (33,156) (979) 78,676 Financial assets designed at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 6,066 (6,066) Debt securities (14) 1,000 986 Equity securities 10,567 1,042 11,609 Sub-total 16,633 1,028 1,000 (6,066) 12,595 AFS financial assets Equity securities (*4) 1,031,918 (57,373) 105,290 105,930 (100,018) (92,379) 993,368 Beneficiary certificates 355,694 3,905 (24,846) 121,613 (79,296) 377,070 Others 14,241 (7,064) 1,370 (3,239) 5,308 Sub-total 1,401,853 (60,532) 81,814 227,543 (182,553) (92,379) 1,375,746 Derivative assets 11,946 7,375 (13,348) 5,973 Total 1,479,706 19,574 81,814 220,377 (235,123) (93,358) 1,472,990 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Derivative liabilities (*3) 41,711 58,565 4,008 (24,475) (1,202) 78,607 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities (*5) 361,993 (73,533) 764,005 (304,917) (197) 747,351 Total 403,704 (14,968) 768,013 (329,392) (1,399) 825,958 (*1) The loss amounting to 2,854 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2015, which is from financial assets and liabilities that the Group holds at the end of periods, was recognized in net gain (loss) on financial instruments at FVTPL and net gain (loss) on AFS financial assets in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. (*2) The Group recognizes transfers between levels at the end of reporting period within which events have occurred or conditions have changed. (*3) As the variables used for the valuation of equity related derivatives and interest rate related derivatives were observable in the market, such derivatives were transferred into level 2 from level 3. (*4) AFS financial assets were transferred out of level 1 to level 3 upon the change of the fair value measurement method of the assets by using market the external valuation specialists from previously using quoted prices in the active market, in the opposite case, they were transferred out of level 3 to level 1. (*5) Since the observable market data for equity-linked securities became available, such securities were transferred out of level 3 to level 2. 56 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 157 (4) Sensitivity analysis through reasonable changes of the unobservable inputs used to measure Level 3 financial instruments are as follows: The sensitivity analysis of the financial instruments has been performed by classifying with favorable and unfavorable changes based on how changes in unobservable assumptions would have effects on the fluctuations of financial instruments‘ value. When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the below table reflects the most favorable or the most unfavorable changes which resulted from varying the assumptions individually. The sensitivity analysis was performed for two types of level 3 financial instruments: (1) interest rate related derivatives, currency related derivatives, equity related derivatives, and equity-linked securities of which fair value changes are recognized as net income; (2) equity securities and beneficiary certificates of which fair value changes are recognized as other comprehensive income. Equity securities classified as level 3 but measured at costs are excluded from sensitivity analysis. The following table shows the sensitivity analysis to disclose the effect of reasonably possible volatility on the fair value of a level 3 financial instruments for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2016 For the year ended December 31, 2015 Net income Other comprehensive Net income Other comprehensive (loss) income (loss) (loss) income (loss) Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Derivatives instruments assets (*1)(*2) 861 (2,248) 10,674 (9,729) Financial assets designed at FVTPL Equity securities(*6) 707 (657) 793 (739) AFS Financial Assets Equity securities (*3)(*4) 31,412 (18,551) 37,648 (20,869) Beneficiary certificates (*4) 2,903 (2,571) 4,102 (3,875) Others (*5) 80 (80) Total 1,568 (2,905) 34,315 (21,122) 11,467 (10,468) 41,830 (24,824) Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Derivative liabilities (*1)(*2) 4,892 (3,568) 13,469 (12,281) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities (*1) 905 (857) 2,289 (2,247) Total 5,797 (4,425) 15,758 (14,528) (*1) Fair value changes of equity related derivatives assets and liabilities and equity-linked securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing historical volatility of the stock price and correlation, which are major unobservable variables, by 10%, respectively. In the case of interest rate related derivative assets and liabilities, fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing the volatility of interest rate, which are major unobservable variables, by 10%, respectively. (*2) Both derivative assets and liabilities for held for trading and hedging are included. (*3) Fair value changes of equity securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing growth rate (0~1%) and discount rate or liquidation value (-1~1%) and discount rate. The growth rate, discount rate, and liquidation value are major unobservable variables. (*4) Among the equity securities, even if the sensitivity analysis of the capital contributions and beneficiary certificates is not possible in practice, fair value changes of beneficiary certificates and other securities whose major unobservable variables are composed of the real estate are calculated by increasing or decreasing price fluctuation of real estate which is underlying assets and discount rate by 1%. (*5) Fair value changes of other securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing price fluctuation of trust property or real estate which is underlying assets and discount rate by 1%. The prices of trust property and real estates and discount rate are major unobservable variables. (*6) Changes of fair value are measured by increasing or decreasing the discount rate by 10%, which is major unobservable variable, respectively. 57 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 158 (5) Fair value and carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities that are recorded at amortized cost are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): As of December 31, 2016 Fair value Book Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total value Financial assets: HTM financial assets 741,880 13,243,297 13,985,177 13,910,251 Loans and receivables 259,565,952 259,565,952 258,392,633 Financial liabilities: Deposits due to customers 221,001,466 221,001,466 221,020,411 Borrowings 18,785,325 18,785,325 18,769,515 Debentures 24,004,668 24,004,668 23,565,449 Other financial liabilities 21,984,171 21,984,171 21,985,086 As of December 31, 2015 Fair value Book Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total value Financial assets: HTM financial assets 1,045,022 12,768,727 13,813,749 13,621,640 Loans and receivables 248,253,422 248,253,422 244,842,062 Financial liabilities: Deposits due to customers 208,133,241 208,133,241 209,141,826 Borrowings 20,084,789 20,084,789 20,033,917 Debentures 22,288,472 22,288,472 21,898,859 Other financial liabilities 16,961,987 16,961,987 16,964,206 The fair values of financial instruments are measured using quoted market price in active markets. In case there is no active market for financial instruments, the Group determines the fair value using alternative assumptions through developing fair value measurement methods. Alternative assumptions and fair value measurement methods for financial assets and liabilities that are measured at amortized costs are given as follows: Fair value measurement methods Alternative assumptions Debt securities The fair value is measured by Risk-free market rate and discounting the projected cash flows credit spread of debt securities by applying the market discount rate that has been applied to a proxy company that has similar credit rating to the issuers of the securities. Loans and receivables The fair value is measured by Risk-free market rate, discounting the projected cash flows credit spread and of loan products by applying the prepayment-rate market discount rate that has been applied to a proxy company that has similar credit rating to the debtor. Deposit due to customers, The fair value is measured by Risk-free market rate and Borrowings, and discounting the projected cash flows forward rate Debentures of debt products by applying the market discount rate that is reflecting credit rating of the Group. 58 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 159 12. DERECOGNITION AND OFFSET OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (1) Derecognition of financial assets 1) Transferred financial assets that meet condition of derecognition The book value, fair value of, and maximum exposure to loss from the financial assets that were derecognized from the separate financial statements of the Group through disposals, but the Group still have continuous involvements are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Book value of Fair value of Type of continuous continuous continuous Maximum involvement participation participation exposure to loss Conditional disposal of loans to KAMCO (*) Post settlement 701 December 31, 2015 Book value of Fair value of Type of continuous continuous continuous Maximum involvement participation participation exposure to loss Conditional disposal of loans to KAMCO (*) Post settlement 701 (*) For ex-post settling up amount of the collateral is not fixed yet, expected cash flow cannot be reliably measured as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, and the maximum exposure to loss is disclosed at the transfer price. Though the transfer does not qualify for derecognition in accordance with K-IFRS 1039 – Financial Instrument: Recognition and Measurement, the Group derecognized the financial asset from the consolidated financial statements applying exception for retrospective application of transactions before the date of transition to IFRSs in K-IFRS 1101 – First-time Adoption of K-IFRS. 2) Transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety a) Disposal of securities under repurchase agreement The financial instruments that were disposed but the Group agreed to repurchase at the fixed amounts at the same time, so that they did not meet the conditions of derecognition, are as follows: December 31, December 31, 2016 2015 Assets transferred AFS financial assets 2,546,683 603,274 HTM financial assets 7,133 139,340 Total 2,553,816 742,614 Related liabilities Disposal of securities under repurchase agreements 2,004,905 671,629 59 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 160 b) Loaned securities When the Group loans its securities to outside parties, the legal ownerships of the securities are transferred, however, they should be returned at the end of lending period and therefore the Group does not derecognize them from the consolidated financial statements as it owns majority of risks and benefits from the securities continuously regardless of the transfer of legal ownership. The carrying amounts of securities loaned are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, 2016 2015 Loaned to Financial assets at Equity securities-listed stock Samsung Securities Co., FVTPL 4,459 10,313 Ltd. and others AFS financial Korean treasury and Korea Securities assets government agencies bonds 493,579 720,010 Depository Total 498,038 730,323 The details of the transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety, such as disposal of securities under repurchase agreement or loaned securities, are explained in Note 18. (2) The offset with financial assets and liabilities The Group possesses both the uncollected domestic exchange receivables and unpaid domestic exchange payable, which satisfy offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. Therefore, the total number of uncollected domestic exchange receivables or unpaid domestic exchange payable has been countervailed with part of unpaid domestic exchange payable or uncollected domestic exchange receivables, respectively, and has been disclosed in loans and receivables or other financial liabilities of the Group‘s statements of financial position and loans and receivables, respectively. The Group possesses the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, receivable spot exchange, and payable spot exchange which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, but provide the Group the right of, under the circumstances of the trading party‘s defaults, insolvency, or bankruptcy, the offsetting. Item such as cash collateral cannot satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, but in accordance with the collateral arrangements and under the circumstances of the trading party‘s default, insolvency, or bankruptcy, the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, receivable spot exchange, and the net amount of payable spot exchange can be offset. The Group has entered into a sale and repurchase agreements and accounted it as collateralized borrowing. Also, the Group has entered into a purchase and resale agreement and accounted it as secured loans. The repurchase and resale agreement can have the offsetting right only under the trading party‘s default, insolvency, or bankruptcy which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, the Group recorded the collateralized borrowings in borrowings and the secured loans in loans and receivables. The Group under the repurchase agreements has offsetting right only upon the counter-party‘s default, insolvency or bankruptcy, thus the repurchase agreements are applied by the TBMA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement of which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. The Group disclosed bonds sold (purchased) under repurchase agreements as borrowings (loans and receivables). 60 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 161 As at the end of reporting periods, the financial instruments to be set off and may be covered by master netting agreements and similar agreements are given as below: December 31, 2016 Related amounts not set off Gross Gross Net in the statement of financial amounts of amounts of amounts of position recognized recognized financial Cash financial financial assets offsetting collateral Net assets assets set off presented agreement received amounts Financial assets: Derivative assets and others (*1) 2,962,969 8,442 2,954,527 6,546,232 69,834 1,016,550 Receivable spot exchange (*2) 4,678,089 4,678,089 Bonds purchased under resale agreements (*2) 8,854,753 8,854,753 8,854,753 Domestic exchanges receivable (*2)(*5) 31,456,123 30,883,281 572,842 572,842 Total 47,951,934 30,891,723 17,060,211 15,400,985 69,834 1,589,392 December 31, 2016 Gross Related amounts not set off Gross amounts of Net in the statement of financial amounts of recognized amounts of position recognized financial financial Cash financial liabilities set liabilities offsetting collateral Net liabilities off presented agreement pledged amounts Financial liabilities: Derivative liabilities and others (*1) 3,467,374 8,442 3,458,932 Payable spot exchange (*3) 4,682,775 4,682,775 6,695,062 105,270 1,341,375 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements (*4) 2,004,905 2,004,905 2,004,905 Domestic exchanges payable (*3)(*5) 39,345,524 30,883,281 8,462,243 6,161,151 2,301,092 Total 49,500,578 30,891,723 18,608,855 14,861,118 105,270 3,642,467 December 31, 2015 Related amounts not set off Gross Gross Net in the statement of financial amounts of amounts of amounts of position recognized recognized financial Cash financial financial assets offsetting collateral Net assets assets set off presented agreement received amounts Financial assets: Derivative assets and others (*1) 2,573,107 8,857 2,564,250 5,615,376 53,162 1,239,821 Receivable spot exchange (*2) 4,344,109 4,344,109 Bonds purchased under resale agreements (*2) 7,583,743 7,583,743 7,583,743 Domestic exchanges receivable (*2)(*5) 29,980,302 29,467,000 513,302 513,302 Total 44,481,261 29,475,857 15,005,404 13,199,119 53,162 1,753,123 December 31, 2015 Gross Related amounts not set off Gross amounts of Net in the statement of financial amounts of recognized amounts of position recognized financial financial Cash financial liabilities set liabilities offsetting collateral Net liabilities off presented agreement pledged amounts Financial liabilities: Derivative liabilities and others (*1) 3,144,595 8,857 3,135,738 6,205,345 173,268 1,100,044 Payable spot exchange (*3) 4,342,919 4,342,919 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements (*4) 671,629 671,629 671,629 Domestic exchanges payable (*3)(*5) 31,493,204 29,467,000 2,026,204 2,020,717 5,487 Total 39,652,347 29,475,857 10,176,490 8,897,691 173,268 1,105,531 61 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 162 (*1) The items include derivatives held for trading, derivatives for hedging and equity linked securities. (*2) The items are included in loans and receivables. (*3) The items are included in other financial liabilities. (*4) The items are included in borrowings. (*5) Certain financial assets and liabilities are presented as net amounts. 13. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (1) Investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method of accounting are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Percentage of ownership (%) December 31, December 31, Financial statements Subsidiaries Main business 2016 2015 used as of Woori Bank and Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd.: Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1 Finance 26.4 26.4 December 31 Woori Bank: Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*1)(*2) Manufacturing 14.2 14.2 September 30(*3) Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. (*4) Freight & staffing services 4.9 4.9 November 30(*3) Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. (*5) Credit information 9.9 9.9 December 31 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. (*4) Security service 15.0 15.0 November 30(*3) United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability (*5) Finance 17.7 Chin Hung International Inc. (*2) Construction 28.4 28.4 November 30(*3) Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. (*6)(*12)(*15) Construction 31.0 30.7 September 30(*3) STX Engine Co., Ltd. (*1)(*2) Manufacturing 29.2 29.2 September 30(*3) Samho International Co., Ltd. (*1)(*2) Construction 7.8 7.8 December 31 Force TEC Co., Ltd. (*6) Freight & staffing services 34.4 34.4 Hana Construction Co., Ltd. (*6)(*13) Construction 22.4 STX Corporation Wholesale of non-Specialized (*1) (*2) (*6) (*15) (*16) Goods 9.5 15.0 September 30(*3) Osung LST Co., Ltd. (*1)(*2)(*14) Manufacturing 11.1 Saman Corporation (*5) General Construction Technology Service 9.2 9.2 September 30(*3) Dongwoo C&C Co., Ltd. (*6) Construction 23.2 23.2 SJCO Co., Ltd. (*6) Aggregate transportation and Wholesale 26.5 26.5 Ilyang construction Co., Ltd. (*13) Construction 40.0 G2 Collection Co., Ltd. (*6) Wholesale and retail sales 28.9 28.9 The Base Enterprise Co., Ltd. (*6)(*10) Manufacturing 48.4 Heungjiwon Co., Ltd. (*6)(*10) Other printing 27.8 Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd. (*6)(*10) Construction 23.2 Good Software Lap Co., Ltd. (*6)(*10) Service 28.9 Wongwang Co., Ltd. (*6)(*10) Wholesale and real estate 29.0 Sejin Construction Co., Ltd. (*6)(*9) Construction 29.6 Deokwon Food Co., Ltd. (*6)(*10) Poultry processing and storage 27.3 QTS Shipping Co., Ltd. (*6)(*9) Complex transportation brokerage 49.4 DAEA SNC Co. Ltd. (*6)(*9) Wholesale and retail sales 24.0 ARES-TECH Co.,Ltd. (*6)(*9) Electronic component manufacturing 23.4 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund (*11) Other financial business 20.0 December 31 K BANK Co.,Ltd. (*5)(*11) Finance 13.0 November 30(*3) Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund(*11) Other financial business 23.1 December 31 Woori Private Equity Fund: Woori Renaissance Holdings (*7) Other financial business 51.6 51.6 December 31 Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd.: Woori Columbus First PEF (*8) Other financial business 2.0 1.9 December 31 (*1) The Group has significant influence over these entities through its position in the creditors' council which is the decision making body regarding to financial and operational policies of associates. (*2) The investments in associates that have quoted market prices are Kumho Tire Co., Ltd. (current year: KRW 8,480, prior year: KRW 6,730), Chin Hung International Inc. (current year: KRW 2,090, prior year: KRW 2,300), STX 62 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 163 Engine Co., Ltd. (current year: KRW 6,630, prior year: KRW 6,800), Samho International Co., Ltd. (current year: KRW 16,900, prior year: KRW 15,550), STX Corporation. (current year: KRW 1,660, prior year: KRW 3,435), and Osung LST Co., Ltd. (prior year: KRW 795). (*3) The significant transactions and events between the end of reporting period of the associates and the Group have been properly incorporated. (*4) Most of the significant business transactions of Woori Service Network Co., Ltd. and Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. are with the Group. (*5) The Group can participate in decision-making body and exercise significant influence over Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd., Saman Corporation and K-Bank Co.,Ltd. through business partnerships. As the Group lost significant influence over the United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability during the year ended December 31, 2016, the entity was excluded from the investment in associates. (*6) The carrying value of investments in Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd., STX Corporation, The Base Enterprise Co., Ltd., Heungjiwon Co., Ltd., Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd, Good Software Lab Co., Ltd, Wongwang Co., Ltd, Sejin Construction Co., Ltd, Deokwon Food Co., Ltd., QTS Shipping Co., Ltd., DAEA SNC Co., Ltd., and ARES-TECH Co. Ltd. is nil as of December 31, 2016. The carrying value of investments in Hana Construction Co., is nil as of December 31, 2015. The carrying value of investments in Force TEC Co., Ltd., Dongwoo C&C Co., Ltd., SJCO Co., Ltd., G2 collection Co., Ltd. is nil as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (*7) The Group owns over 50% ownership of Woori Renaissance Holdings. However, the investment in this entity was accounted for using equity method as the ownership and related contracts meet the definition of joint arrangement under K-IFRS 1111 Joint Arrangements. (*8) As a general partner of Woori Columbus First PEF, the Group has significant influence over the entity‘s operational and financial policy making process, including participating in making decision of dividend or other distribution. As such, the investment in this entity was accounted for using equity method as of December 31, 2016 and 2015. Meanwhile, as of December 31, 2016, the principal investments in the associates were returned and the Group has received the initial investment of 1,065 million Won, and is to maintain a 2.0% stake until its liquidation based on the resolution of special meeting of investors. (*9) Due to debt-equity swap which occurred during the year ended December 31, 2016, the entity is included in the associates. (*10) Even though the Group‘s ownership ratio of the entity is more than 20%, the entity does not have significant influence over the entity due to the fact that the entity is going through workout process under receivership, and thus the entity was excluded from the investment in associates. However, as the workout was completed during the year ended December 31, 2016, the entity has been included in the investment in associates. (*11) Due to capital contribution and others by the Group during the year ended December 31, 2016, the entities has been included in the investment in associates. (*12) Due to acquisition of treasury stock of Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. during the year ended December 31, 2016, the percentage of ownership increased. (*13) As the Group sold shares during the year ended December 31, 2016, the entity was excluded from the associates. (*14) This entity was reclassified into assets held for sale and disposed of during the year ended December 31, 2016. (*15) Equity method was suspended on the investee due to accumulated loss on equity method in excess of investments in associates for the year ended December 31, 2016 (*16) As the Group did not participate in debt-equity swap of STX Corporation which occurred during the year ended December 31, 2016 the ownership of the Group has decreased. 63 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 164 (2) Changes in the carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method of accounting are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2016 Share of Disposal Acquisition January 1, profits Acquisiand Change in December 31, Cost 2016 (losses) tion(*1) others(*2) Dividends Capital Impairment 2016 Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1 43,917 56,044 10,093 (37,036) (13,812) 15,289 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 175,652 214,050 (13,172) (546) 200,332 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 108 139 18 (12) 145 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 3,313 5,291 436 (135) 5,592 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 3,266 3,711 (281) (54) 3,376 United PF 1st Corporate financial stability 172,441 187,592 3,265 (190,857) Chin Hung International Inc. 89,725 43,936 (996) 92 43,032 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 13,916 5,313 (2,378) (2,935) STX Engine Co., Ltd. 92,038 51,276 (6,665) (1,575) 43,036 Samho Co., Ltd. 7,492 14,325 5,392 12 19,729 STX Corporation 42,215 4,251 (4,222) (29) Osung LST Co., Ltd. 15,405 10,985 (2,903) (6,909) (1,173) Saman Corporation 8,521 8,521 252 (74) 8,699 K-Growth crowd 2step Fund 800 (13) 800 (787) Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund 13,602 (640) 13,602 156 13,118 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 1,800 1,800 1,800 K BANK Co., Ltd. 32,500 (1,589) 32,500 (469) 30,442 Woori Renaissance Holdings 63,000 37,121 17,303 (2) 54,422 Woori Columbus First PEF 1,200 1,306 (43) (1,065) (198) Total 780,911 643,861 3,857 48,702 (236,654) (14,213) (5,368) (1,173) 439,012 (*1) AFS financial assets decreased by 5,421 million Won due to transfers to investments in associates during the year ended December 31, 2016. (*2) The transfers from investments in associates to AFS financial assets amounted to 155,220 million Won and the transfers from investments in associates to assets held for sale amounted to 6,909 million Won. For the year ended December 31, 2015 Share of Acquisition January 1, profits AcquisiDisposal Change in Other December Cost 2015 (losses) tion(*) and others Dividends Capital Impairment changes 31, 2015 Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1 81,608 100,436 9,266 (37,367) (16,291) 56,044 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 175,652 224,829 (11,979) 1,201 214,050 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 108 130 21 (12) 139 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 2,215 3,378 335 1,098 480 5,291 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 3,337 4,272 (425) (81) (55) 3,711 United PF 1st Corporate financial stability 191,617 203,418 3,350 (19,176) 187,592 Chin Hung International Inc. 60,275 28,491 (14,489) 29,451 482 43,936 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 13,916 10,643 (1) (22,473) 17,144 5,313 STX Engine Co., Ltd. 47,008 2,293 (3,901) 45,030 1,823 6,031 51,276 Samho Co., Ltd. 7,492 11,257 3,012 56 14,325 STX Corporation 42,215 14,347 (10,673) 559 18 4,251 Osung LST Co., Ltd. 15,405 18,482 (4,322) 4 (33,839) 30,660 10,985 Saman Corporation 8,521 8,521 8,521 Phoenix Digital Tech Co., Ltd. 1,334 1,610 (1,610) Woori Renaissance Holdings 63,000 36,019 3,518 (2,416) 37,121 Woori Columbus First PEF 1,200 1,084 222 1,306 Total 714,903 648,436 (13,812) 84,100 (58,234) (18,774) 4,604 (56,312) 53,853 643,861 (*) Investments in associates increased by 83,002 million Won due to transfers between accounts, such as loan-equity swap occurred during the year ended December 31, 2015. 64 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 165 (3) Summary financial information relating to investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method of accounting is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Operating Net income Assets Liabilities revenue (loss) Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1 57,971 427 75,084 38,226 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 5,079,740 3,914,306 2,156,667 (53,328) Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 4,722 1,782 14,875 801 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 71,245 17,322 59,868 3,517 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 32,262 9,759 52,657 700 Chin Hung International Inc. 421,710 354,995 578,640 794 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 304,718 323,765 156,770 (15,135) STX Engine Co., Ltd. 865,265 769,481 372,295 (22,978) Samho Co., Ltd. 740,786 489,130 909,927 68,077 STX Corporation 781,622 1,087,469 1,252,968 (378,782) Saman Corporation 83,380 47,175 72,850 2,746 Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund 57,339 493 37 (2,177) 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 9,005 254 5 (250) K BANK Co., Ltd. 239,806 5,633 2,927 (12,222) Woori Renaissance Holdings Inc. 127,411 26,703 37,206 33,508 Woori Columbus First PEF 811 506 3,764 (450) December 31, 2015 Operating Net income Assets Liabilities revenue (loss) Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1 212,171 414 49,264 35,099 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 5,197,002 3,926,952 3,039,519 (27,893) Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 4,577 1,772 14,661 824 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 63,960 13,076 53,184 2,005 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 30,195 5,457 50,932 1,890 United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability 1,088,325 30,390 117,579 18,911 Chin Hung International Inc. 516,305 446,412 624,110 (39,936) Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 352,683 331,801 206,904 13,185 STX Engine Co., Ltd. 958,468 834,499 417,125 36,615 SamHo Co., Ltd. 709,109 526,379 892,871 39,664 STX Corporation 1,232,014 1,181,593 1,236,168 (44,404) Osung LST Co., Ltd. 125,859 42,981 38,767 (30,108) Saman Corporation 80,970 49,334 114,592 (116,019) Woori Renaissance Holdings Inc. 95,421 28,218 12,013 6,813 Woori Columbus First PEF 68,466 562 12,158 11,570 65 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 166 (4) The entities that the Group has not applied equity method of accounting although the Group‘s ownership ratio is more than 20% as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, are as follows: As of December 31, 2016 Number of shares owned Ownership (%) Orient Shipyard Co., Ltd. (*) 465,050 shares 23.0 Saenuel Co., Ltd. (*) 3,531 shares 37.4 E Mirae Tech Co., Ltd. (*) 7,696 shares 41.0 Jehin Trading Co., Ltd. (*) 81,610 shares 27.3 NK Eng Co., Ltd. (*) 697,033 shares 23.1 The season Co., Ltd. (*) 18,187 shares 30.1 Yuil PESC Co., Ltd. (*) 8,642 shares 24.0 Reading Doctors Co., Ltd. (*) 7,398 shares 35.4 Youngdong Sea Food Co., Ltd. (*) 12,106 shares 24.0 Sinseong Trading Co., Ltd. (*) 2,584 shares 27.2 PREXCO Co., Ltd. (*) 919,972 shares 28.1 Hyunwoo International Co., Ltd. (*) 59,873 shares 25.9 (*) Even though the Group‘s ownership interest of the entity is more than 20% as a limited partner, the Group does not have significant influence over the entity since the Group cannot exercise significant influence in the decision making bodies, such as investment committee, and thus the entity has been excluded from the investment in associates. As of December 31, 2015 Number of shares owned Ownership (%) Orient Shipyard Co., Ltd. (*) 465,050 shares 23.0 The Base Enterprise Co., Ltd. (*) 68,470 shares 48.4 Saenuel Co., Ltd. (*) 3,531 shares 37.4 Heungjiwon Co., Ltd. (*) 32,849 shares 27.8 E Mirae Tech Co., Ltd. (*) 7,696 shares 41.0 Jehin Trading Co., Ltd. (*) 81,610 shares 27.3 NK Eng Co., Ltd. (*) 697,033 shares 23.1 The season Co., Ltd. (*) 18,187 shares 30.1 Deokwon Food Co., Ltd. (*) 14,300 shares 27.3 Yuil PESC Co., Ltd. (*) 8,642 shares 24.0 Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd. (*) 60,581 shares 23.2 Good Software Lab Co., Ltd. (*) 17,121 shares 28.9 DOWOO (*) 13,477 shares 41.9 Reading Doctors Co., Ltd. (*) 7,398 shares 35.4 Orient Star Logistics Co., Ltd. (*) 17,293 shares 22.3 Wongwang Co., Ltd. (*) 2,590 shares 29.0 (*) Even though the Group‘s ownership interest of the entity is more than 20% as a limited partner, the Group does not have significant influence over the entity since the Group cannot exercise significant influence in the decision making bodies, such as investment committee, and thus the entity has been excluded from the investment in associates. 66 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 167 (5) As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, the reconciliations from the net assets of associates based on the ownership ratio of the Group to its corresponding book value of investment in joint ventures and associates are as follow (Unit: Korean Won in millions except for ownership): As of December 31, 2016 Net assets of associates cost-book Intercompany Total net Ownership (or joint value transaction Book asset (%) ventures) differential Impairment and others value Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1 57,544 26.4 15,191 98 15,289 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*) 1,055,219 14.2 149,324 48,459 2,549 200,332 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 2,940 4.9 145 145 Korea Credit Bureau 53,923 9.9 5,344 248 5,592 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 22,503 15.0 3,376 3,376 Chin Hung International Inc. (*) 65,387 28.4 18,593 24,565 (126) 43,032 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. (*) (111,156) 31.0 (34,463) 54,149 (21,062) 1,376 STX Engine Co., Ltd. 95,784 29.2 28,002 14,954 80 43,036 SamHo Co., Ltd. 251,656 7.8 19,729 19,729 STX Corporation (*) (250,018) 9.5 (23,633) 24,614 (27,904) 26,923 Saman Corporation 36,205 9.2 3,326 5,373 8,699 Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund 56,846 23.1 13,118 13,118 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 8,751 20.0 1,750 50 1,800 K BANK Co.,Ltd. 234,173 13.0 30,442 30,442 Woori Renaissance Holdings 100,708 51.6 51,965 (6,441) 8,898 54,422 Woori Columbus First PEF 305 2.0 6 (6) As of December 31, 2015 Net assets of associates cost-book Intercompany Total net Ownership (or joint value transaction Book asset (%) ventures) differential Impairment and others value Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1 211,757 26.4 55,900 144 56,044 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*) 1,152,161 14.2 163,042 48,459 2,549 214,050 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 2,805 4.9 139 139 Korea Credit Bureau 50,884 9.9 5,043 248 5,291 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 24,738 15.0 3,711 3,711 United PF 1st Corporate financial stability 1,057,935 17.7 187,538 54 187,592 Chin Hung International Inc. (*) 68,132 28.4 19,374 24,566 (4) 43,936 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. (*) (58,065) 30.7 (17,837) 45,622 (22,472) 5,313 STX Engine Co., Ltd. (*) 123,969 29.2 36,230 14,927 119 51,276 SamHo Co., Ltd. 182,730 7.8 14,325 14,325 STX Corporation 50,421 15.0 7,552 24,610 (28,370) 459 4,251 Osung LST Co., Ltd. 82,878 11.1 9,238 35,597 (33,839) (11) 10,985 Saman Corporation 31,636 9.2 2,911 5,610 8,521 Woori Renaissance Holdings 67,203 51.6 34,677 (6,441) 8,885 37,121 Woori Columbus First PEF 67,904 1.9 1,304 6 (4) 1,306 (*) The net asset amount is after considering preferred stocks. 67 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 168 14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (1) Investment properties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Acquisition cost 387,675 376,192 Accumulated depreciation (29,178) (24,696) Net carrying value 358,497 351,496 (2) Changes in investment properties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Beginning balance 351,496 357,550 Acquisition 4,428 Depreciation (3,762) (3,806) Transfer 6,314 (2,297) Foreign currencies translation adjustments 21 49 Ending balance 358,497 351,496 (3) Fair value of investment properties is amounting to 382,370 million Won and 371,890 million Won as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The fair value of investment property, based on the assessment that was independently performed by external appraisal agencies, is classified as level 3 on the fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2016 and 2015. (4) Rental fee earned from investment properties is amounting to million Won and 5,027 million Won and 5,629 million Won as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 68 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 169 15. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT (1) Premises and equipment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Properties for Structures in Construction Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total Acquisition cost 1,488,745 855,332 1,010,141 424,562 18,717 20 3,797,517 Accumulated depreciation (163,633) (820,239) (355,604) (16) (1,339,492) Net carrying value 1,488,745 691,699 189,902 68,958 18,717 4 2,458,025 December 31, 2015 Properties for Structures in Construction Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total Acquisition cost 1,493,628 843,343 965,820 405,801 522 20 3,709,134 Accumulated depreciation (139,326) (772,529) (326,057) (16) (1,237,928) Net carrying value 1,493,628 704,017 193,291 79,744 522 4 2,471,206 (2) Changes in premises and equipment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2016 Properties for Structures in Construction Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total Beginning balance 1,493,628 704,017 193,291 79,744 522 4 2,471,206 Acquisition 15,939 74,336 19,615 21,231 131,121 Disposal (30) (1,474) (233) (2,623) (102) (4,462) Depreciation (24,887) (82,445) (48,587) (155,919) Classified to assets held for sale (4,063) (251) (4,314) Foreign currencies translation adjustment 625 516 307 376 153 1,977 Transfer (1,415) (1,557) (3,087) (6,059) Acquisition through business combination 209 442 651 Others (604) 4,437 19,991 23,824 Ending balance 1,488,745 691,699 189,902 68,958 18,717 4 2,458,025 For the year ended December 31, 2015 Properties for Structures in Construction Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total Beginning balance 1,514,698 706,524 209,588 70,185 102 5 2,501,102 Acquisition 2,628 21,127 69,230 35,304 757 129,046 Disposal (10,780) (648) (847) (2,000) (313) (14,588) Depreciation (24,846) (85,279) (36,740) (1) (146,866) Classified to assets held for sale (5,109) (8,348) (13,457) Foreign currencies translation adjustment (328) (333) 265 515 (19) 100 Transfer (7,481) 9,778 2,297 Others 763 334 12,480 (5) 13,572 Ending balance 1,493,628 704,017 193,291 79,744 522 4 2,471,206 69 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 170 16. INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL (1) Intangible assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Industrial property Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Acquisition cost 124,803 185,202 714 299,031 622,540 26,884 1,259,174 Accumulated amortization (149,725) (401) (160,335) (458,088) (768,549) Accumulated impairment losses (88) (6,798) (6,886) Net carrying value 124,803 35,477 313 138,696 164,364 20,086 483,739 December 31, 2015 Industrial property Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Acquisition cost 103,525 170,709 651 193,020 605,821 30,024 1,103,750 Accumulated amortization (132,538) (307) (141,663) (400,714) (675,222) Accumulated impairment losses (3,338) (5,384) (8,722) Net carrying value 103,525 38,171 344 51,357 201,769 24,640 419,806 (2) Changes in intangible assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2016 Industrial property Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Beginning balance 103,525 38,171 344 51,357 201,769 24,640 419,806 Acquisition 8,708 64 92,969 30,842 2,306 134,889 Disposal (23) (3,785) (3,808) Amortization (15,795) (95) (18,657) (57,803) (92,350) Impairment loss 3,230 (1,585) 1,645 Foreign currencies translation adjustment 7,338 16 853 50 8,257 Acquisition through business combination 7,857 162 43 8,062 Others 6,083 4,215 13,027 (14,504) (1,583) 7,238 Ending balance 124,803 35,477 313 138,696 164,364 20,086 483,739 For the year ended December 31, 2015 Industrial property Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Beginning balance 107,541 47,821 328 55,337 60,807 23,894 295,728 Acquisition 7,347 96 16,751 196,139 2,510 222,843 Disposal (189) (1,500) (12) (1,701) Amortization (16,809) (81) (19,233) (53,969) (90,092) Impairment loss (9) (1,911) (1,920) Foreign currencies translation adjustment (4,016) 1 1 2 (476) 147 (4,341) Others (711) (711) Ending balance 103,525 38,171 344 51,357 201,769 24,640 419,806 17. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Assets held for sale are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Premises and equipment 2,342 17,904 70 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 171 18. ASSETS SUBJECT TO LIEN AND ASSETS ACQUIRED THROUGH FORECLOSURES (1) Assets subjected to lien are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Collateral given to Amount Reason for collateral Loan and receivables Due from banks in local Samsung Securities and Margin deposit for futures currency others 24,589 and options and others Due from banks in foreign Korea Investment & Foreign margin deposit for currencies Securities and others 227,249 future or option and others Financial assets at Industrial and financial debt Yuanta Securities and Substitute securities and FVTPL securities and others others 473,476 others AFS financial assets Korean treasury and Korea Securities Related to bonds sold under government agencies bonds Depository and others 2,546,683 repurchase agreements (*) Financial institutions debt securities and others The BOK and others 836,522 Settlement risk and others HTM financial assets Korean treasury and Korea Securities Related to bonds sold under government agencies bonds Depository and others 7,133 repurchase agreements (*) Korean treasury and government agencies bonds and others The BOK and others 6,185,295 Settlement risk and others Lands and buildings Credit Counselling & Recovery Service and others 6,310 Leasehold rights and others Total 10,307,257 December 31, 2015 Collateral given to Amount Reason for collateral Loan and receivables Due from banks in local Samsung Securities and Margin deposit for futures currency others 30,438 and options and others Due from banks in foreign Korea Investment & Foreign margin deposit for currencies Securities and others 452,860 future or option and others Financial assets at Industrial and financial debt Yuanta Securities and Substitute securities and FVTPL securities and others others 220,897 others AFS financial assets Korean treasury and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Related to bonds sold under government agencies bonds Argentaria 603,274 repurchase agreements (*) Financial institutions debt securities and others The BOK and others 3,595,581 Settlement risk and others HTM financial assets Korean treasury and Nomura Securities and Related to bonds sold under government agencies bonds others 139,340 repurchase agreements (*) Korean treasury and government agencies bonds and others The BOK and others 4,657,667 Settlement risk and others Lands and buildings Credit Counselling & Recovery Service and others 6,468 Leasehold rights and others Total 9,706,525 (*) The Group enters into the repurchase agreements at predetermined price or original sale price added with certain rate of return after the disposal of securities. In this regards, the securities are provided as collaterals, and the purchasers are eligible to dispose or provide them as collateral. Therefore, as such securities have been transferred but have not been derecognized, the Group recognizes the relevant amount as liability (bond sold under repurchase agreements). (2) The carrying amounts of buildings acquired through foreclosure are as follow (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Land 4,138 28 Building 1,852 596 Properties for business use 202 Total 6,192 624 71 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 172 (3) Loaned securities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, 2016 2015 Loaned to Financial assets Samsung Securities Co., at FVTPL Equity securities-listed stock 4,459 10,313 Ltd. and others AFS financial Korean treasury and Korea Securities assets government agencies bonds 493,579 720,010 Depository and others Total 498,038 730,323 Securities loaned are lending of specific securities to borrowers who agree to return the same quantity of the same security at the end of lending period. As the Group does not derecognize these securities, there are no liabilities recognized through such transactions relates to securities loaned. (4) Collaterals held that can be disposed and re-subjected to lien regardless of defaults of counterparties Fair values of collaterals held can be disposed and re-subjected to lien regardless of defaults of counterparties as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Fair values of collaterals were Fair values of collaterals disposed or re-subjected to lien Securities 8,746,101 December 31, 2015 Fair values of collaterals were Fair values of collaterals disposed or re-subjected to lien Securities 7,661,656 19. OTHER ASSETS Details of other assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Prepaid expenses 111,445 124,080 Advance payments 1,944 1,008 Non-operative assets 6,192 624 Others 9,265 17,574 Total 128,846 143,286 72 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 173 20. FINANCIAL LIABILITY AT FVTPL Financial liability at FVTPL is composed of financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated at FVTPL. (1) Financial liabilities at FVTPL consist of as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Financial liabilities held for trading 3,036,478 2,605,699 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 766,880 854,862 Total 3,803,358 3,460,561 (2) Financial liabilities held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Deposits due to Customers: Gold banking liabilities 26,501 24,872 Derivative liabilities 3,009,977 2,580,827 Total 3,036,478 2,605,699 (3) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Equity linked securities index: Equity-linked securities in short position 673,906 758,011 Debentures: Debentures in local currency 92,974 96,851 Total 766,880 854,862 (4) Credit risk adjustment to financial liabilities designated at FVTPL is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL subject to credit risk adjustments 766,880 854,862 Credit risk adjustments (819) (542) Accumulated changes in credit risk adjustments (15,790) (15,016) Credit risk adjustments are applied to reflect the Group‘s own credit risk when measuring derivative liabilities at fair value. The methodology to determine the adjustment incorporates the Group‘s credit spread as observed through credit ratings. (5) The differences between financial liabilities at FVTPL‘s carrying amount and nominal amount at maturity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Carrying amount 766,880 854,862 Nominal amount at maturity 902,375 1,086,365 Difference (135,495) (231,503) 73 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 174 21. DEPOSITS DUE TO CUSTOMERS Details of deposits due to customers are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Deposits in local currency Demand deposits 9,491,680 9,728,839 Time deposits 183,723,369 175,598,522 Mutual funds 37,128 40,888 Deposits on notes payables 943,446 687,579 Deposits on CMA 203,013 235,089 Certificate of deposits 3,836,430 2,435,087 Other deposits 1,360,176 1,304,348 Sub-total 199,595,242 190,030,352 Deposits in foreign currencies 21,453,096 19,129,214 Present value discount (27,927) (17,740) Total 221,020,411 209,141,826 22. BORROWINGS AND DEBENTURES (1) Details of borrowings as are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Lenders Interest rate (%) Amount Borrowings in local currency: Borrowings from The BOK The Bank of Korea 0.5 ~ 0.8 1,598,553 Borrowings from government funds Small and Medium Business Corporation and others 0.0 ~ 3.5 1,534,807 Others Seoul Metropolitan Government and others 0.0 ~ 3.8 3,922,878 Sub-total 7,056,238 Borrowings in foreign currencies: Borrowings in foreign currencies The Export-Import Bank of Korea and others 0.0 ~ 5.2 7,737,237 Offshore borrowings in foreign currencies Wells Fargo 1.4 18,128 Sub-total 7,755,365 Bills sold Others 0.0 ~ 1.6 26,895 Call money Bank and others 0.0 ~ 5.1 1,926,779 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements Other financial institutions 0.0 ~ 4.5 2,004,905 Present value discount (667) Total 18,769,515 74 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 175 December 31, 2015 Lenders Interest rate (%) Amount Borrowings in local currency: Borrowings from The Bank of Korea The Bank of Korea 0.5 ~ 0.8 1,475,991 Borrowings from government funds Small and Medium Business Corporation and others 0.0 ~ 3.5 1,535,953 Others The Korea Development Bank and others 0.0 ~ 4.9 4,508,662 Sub-total 7,520,606 Borrowings in foreign currencies: Borrowings in foreign currencies The Export-Import Bank of Korea and others 0.0 ~ 4.6 9,733,694 Offshore borrowings in foreign currencies Zuercher Kantonalbank and others 0.3 ~ 0.9 32,947 Sub-total 9,766,641 Bills sold Others 0.0 ~ 2.6 37,501 Call money Bank and others 0.0 ~ 5.2 2,039,051 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements Other financial institutions 0.8 ~ 4.5 671,629 Present value discount (1,511) Total 20,033,917 (2) Debentures are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Interest rate Interest rate (%) Amount (%) Amount Face value of bond(*) Ordinary bonds 1.5 ~ 11.8 18,268,403 0.2 ~ 12.0 16,868,054 Subordinated bonds 3.0 ~ 12.6 5,327,335 3.4 ~ 13.0 5,055,311 Other bonds 17.0 4,006 17.0 4,006 Sub-total 23,599,744 21,927,371 Discounts on bond (34,295) (28,512) Total 23,565,449 21,898,859 (*) Included debentures under fair value hedge relationships are 3,610,193 million Won and 3,148,073 million Won as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 75 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 176 23. PROVISIONS (1) Details of provisions are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Asset retirement obligation 58,076 39,121 Provision for guarantee (*1) 238,117 364,141 Provision for loan commitments 87,909 85,313 Provisions for customer reward credits 22,093 5,445 Other provisions (*2) 22,282 22,581 Total 428,477 516,601 (*1) Provision for guarantee includes provision for financial guarantee of 67,557 million Won and 77,322 million Won as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (*2) Other provisions consist of provision for litigation, provision for loss recovery, and others. (2) Changes in provisions except for asset retirement obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2016 Provision for Provisions for Provision for loan customer reward Other guarantees commitments credits provisions Total Beginning balance 364,141 85,313 5,445 22,581 477,480 Provisions provided 4,281 8,502 23,525 8,034 44,342 Provisions used and others (80,017) 22 (8,158) (11,323) (99,476) Reversal of unused amount (64,061) (5,409) (69,470) Foreign currencies translation adjustments 2,990 2,990 Transfer(*) 503 503 Others 13,773 (519) 778 14,032 Ending balance 238,117 87,909 22,093 22,282 370,401 (*) As the credits of the affiliates were transferred to the group, the relevant allowance for the provisions for customer reward credits increased, for the year ended December 31, 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2015 Provision for Provisions for Provision for loan customer reward Other guarantees commitments credits provisions Total Beginning balance 509,320 90,449 5,548 56,959 662,276 Provisions provided 19,714 9,801 16,301 51,997 97,813 Provisions used and others (25,262) 41 (16,404) (86,308) (127,933) Reversal of unused amount (160,032) (14,976) (43) (175,051) Others 20,401 (2) (24) 20,375 Ending balance 364,141 85,313 5,445 22,581 477,480 (3) Changes in asset retirement obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Beginning balance 39,121 29,733 Provisions provided 2,034 1,742 Provisions used (1,279) (1,316) Depreciation 464 394 Reversal of unused amount (1) (179) Increase in restoration costs and others 17,737 8,747 Ending balance 58,076 39,121 76 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 177 24. NET DEFINED BENEFIT LIABILITY The characteristics of the Group‘s defined benefit retirement pension plans characteristics are as follows: Employees and directors with one or more years of service are entitled to receive a payment upon termination of their employment, based on their length of service and rate of pay at the time of termination. The assets of the plans are measured at their fair value at the end of reporting date. The plan liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, which takes account of projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the plan liabilities. The Group is exposed to various risks through defined benefit retirement pension plan, and the most significant risks are as follows: Volatility of asset The defined benefit obligation was estimated with an interest rate calculated based on the yield of high quality corporate bonds. A deficit may occur if the rate of return of plan assets falls short of the interest rate. Decrease in profitability of high A decrease in profitability of high quality corporate bonds will be quality corporate bonds offset by some increase in the value of debt securities that the employee benefit plan owns but will bring an increase in the defined benefit liabilities. Risk of inflation Defined benefit obligations are related to inflation rate; the higher the inflation rate is, the higher the level of liabilities. Therefore, deficit occurs in the system if an inflation rate increases. (1) Details of net defined benefit liability(asset) are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Defined benefit obligation 984,381 901,219 Fair value of plan assets (990,653) (801,528) Net defined benefit liability(asset) (6,272) 99,691 (2) Changes in the carrying value of defined benefit obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Beginning balance 901,219 683,961 Current service cost 153,660 132,710 Interest cost 24,326 21,377 Remeasurements (52,402) 97,730 Foreign currencies translation adjustments 80 (8) Retirement benefit paid (34,346) (26,516) Curtailment or settlement (9,536) (8,231) Others 1,380 196 Ending balance 984,381 901,219 77 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 178 (3) Changes in the plan assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Beginning balance 801,528 608,370 Interest income 25,038 21,965 Remeasurements (7,304) (5,444) Employer‘s contributions 226,752 229,069 Retirement benefit paid (33,341) (22,860) Curtailment or settlement (9,198) (8,240) Others (12,822) (21,332) Ending balance 990,653 801,528 (4) Plan assets wholly consist of time deposits as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Among plan assets, realized returns on plan assets amount to 17,734 million Won and 16,521 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (5) Current service cost, net interest expense, past service cost, loss on the curtailment or settlement and remeasurements recognized in the consolidated statements of net income and total comprehensive income are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Current service cost 153,660 132,710 Net interest expense (712) (588) Gain and Loss on the curtailment or settlement (339) 9 Cost recognized in net income 152,609 132,131 Remeasurements (45,098) 103,174 Cost recognized in total comprehensive income 107,511 235,305 Retirement benefit service costs related to defined contribution plans are recognized 3,747 million Won and 3,623 million Won for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (6) Key actuarial assumptions used in defined benefit liability assessment are as follows: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Discount rate 2.85% 2.83% Future wage growth rate 6.05% 6.35% Mortality rate Issued by Korea Insurance Issued by Korea Insurance Development Institute Development Institute Retirement rate Experience rate for each Experience rate for each employment classification employment classification (7) The sensitivity to actuarial assumptions used in the assessment of defined benefit obligation is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Defined benefit obligation as of December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Discount rate Increase by 1% point (107,203) (101,026) Decrease by 1% point 125,395 118,879 Future wage growth rate Increase by 1% point 124,766 117,975 Decrease by 1% point (108,344) (101,900) 78 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 179 25. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND OTHER LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities and other liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Other financial liabilities: Accounts payable 5,626,661 5,586,031 Accrued expenses 2,055,936 1,901,204 Borrowings from trust accounts 3,329,683 4,476,396 Agency business revenue 331,159 415,776 Foreign exchange payables 702,968 708,267 Domestic exchange payables 8,480,765 2,082,472 Other miscellaneous financial liabilities 1,458,747 1,795,256 Present value discount (833) (1,196) Sub-total 21,985,086 16,964,206 Other liabilities: Unearned income 171,050 171,649 Other miscellaneous liabilities 128,326 133,525 Sub-total 299,376 305,174 Total 22,284,462 17,269,380 26. DERIVATIVES (1) Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 Assets Liabilities Notional Fair value Fair value For trading For trading Amount Hedge hedge Interest rate: Interest rate futures 54,785 Interest rate swaps 118,582,511 139,832 470,057 7,013 509,686 Long interest rate option 860,000 21,172 Short interest rate option 1,035,000 21,863 Currency: Currency futures 493,733 Currency forward 62,539,094 1,265,852 1,015,380 Currency swaps 39,782,049 1,022,969 1,221,959 Long currency option 1,120,949 42,126 Short currency option 907,211 8,589 Stock: Stock futures 926,392 Stock swaps 15,000 92 88 Long stock option 3,007,969 745 73,261 Short stock option 4,460,233 208 228,900 Others: Other futures 5,105 Other swaps 7,918 2,645 2,331 Long other option 8,307 121 Short other option 64,352 1,181 Total 233,870,608 140,577 2,898,295 7,221 3,009,977 79 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 180 December 31, 2015 Assets Liabilities Notional Fair value For trading For trading Amount hedge Interest rate: Interest rate swaps 111,633,234 180,378 923,712 959,347 Long interest rate option 881,679 13,961 Short interest rate option 1,086,679 15,164 Currency: Currency futures 423,877 Currency forward 56,298,910 759,838 475,646 Currency swaps 27,070,835 617,777 949,921 Long currency option 1,657,911 63,498 Short currency option 1,366,459 13,530 Stock: Stock futures 169,785 Stock swaps 10,000 6 Long stock option 682,358 2,750 444 Short stock option 2,410,815 155,386 Others: Other futures 1,100 Other forwards 125 39 Other swaps 78,882 5,363 4,781 Long other option 41,097 5,904 Short other option 142,259 7,007 Total 203,956,005 183,128 2,390,497 2,580,827 Derivatives held for trading purpose are classified into financial assets or liabilities at FVTPL (see Notes 7 and 20) and derivatives for hedging are stated as a separate line item in the consolidated statements of financial position. (2) Gains or losses from valuation of financial instruments under hedge accounting are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Losses from hedged items 98,827 (31,297) Gains from hedging instruments (98,851) 38,021 27. DEFERRED DAY 1 PROFIT OR LOSS Changes in details of deferred day 1 profits or losses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Beginning balance 28,008 13,499 Acquisitions 1,337 26,762 Amounts recognized in profits or losses (15,923) (12,253) Ending balance 13,422 28,008 In case some variables to measure fair values of financial instruments were not observable or available in the market, valuation techniques were utilized to evaluate such financial instruments. Those financial instruments were recorded at the fair value produced by the valuation techniques as at the time of acquisition, even though there were difference noted between the transaction price and the fair value. The table above presents the difference yet to be realized as profit or losses. 80 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 181 28. CAPITAL STOCK AND CAPITAL SURPLUS (1) The number of authorized shares and others are as follows: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Authorized shares of common stock 5,000,000,000 Shares 5,000,000,000 Shares Par value 5,000 Won 5,000 Won Issued shares of common stock 676,000,000 Shares 676,000,000 Shares Capital stock 3,381,392 million 3,381,392 million Won Won (2) Changes in numbers of issued shares of common stock are as follows (Unit: Shares): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Beginning balance 676,000,000 676,278,371 Retirement of treasury stock (278,371) Ending balance 676,000,000 676,000,000 (3) Details of capital surplus are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Capital in excess of par value 269,533 269,533 Other capital surplus 16,798 24,726 Total 286,331 294,259 29. HYBRID SECURITIES The bond-type hybrid securities classified as owner‘s equity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December December Issue date Maturity Interest rate (%) 31, 2016 31, 2015 Securities in local currency June 20, 2008 June 20, 2038 7.7 255,000 255,000 November 22, 2011 November 22, 2041 5.9 310,000 March 8, 2012 March 8, 2042 5.8 190,000 190,000 April 25, 2013 April 25, 2043 4.4 500,000 500,000 November13, 2013 November 13, 2043 5.7 200,000 200,000 December 12, 2014 December 12, 2044 5.2 160,000 160,000 June 3, 2015 June 3, 2045 4.4 240,000 240,000 Securities in foreign currencies May 2, 2007 May 2, 2037 6.2 930,900 930,900 June 10, 2015 June 10, 2045 5.0 559,650 559,650 September 27,2016 September 27, 2046 4.5 553,450 Issuance cost (14,104) (11,548) Total 3,574,896 3,334,002 With respect to the hybrid securities issued, the contractual agreements allow the Group to indefinitely extend the maturity date and defer the payment of interest. If the Group makes a resolution not to pay dividends on common stock, and then, the Group is exonerated from interest payment on the hybrid securities. 81 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 182 30. OTHER EQUITY (1) Details of other equity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Accumulated other comprehensive income: Gain on valuation of AFS financial assets 386,981 374,685 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates (1,863) 6,074 Loss on foreign currencies translation of foreign operations (48,353) (70,789) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (163,397) (197,579) Cash flow hedges (10,371) Sub-total 173,368 102,020 Treasury shares (34,113) (34,113) Other capital adjustments (1,607,280) (1,615,210) Total (1,468,025) (1,547,303) (2) Changes in the accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2016 Increase Beginning (decrease) on Reclassification Income tax Ending balance valuation (*) effect balance Gain (loss) on valuation of availablefor-sale financial assets 374,685 114,617 (101,647) (674) 386,981 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of joint ventures and associates 6,074 (9,274) 1,337 (1,863) Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation of foreign operations (70,789) 30,368 (7,932) (48,353) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (197,579) 45,096 (10,914) (163,397) Cash flow hedges (10,371) 10,371 Total 102,020 191,178 (101,647) (18,183) 173,368 For the year ended December 31, 2015 Increase Beginning (decrease) on Reclassification Income tax Ending balance valuation(*) (*) effect balance Gain (loss) on valuation of availablefor-sale financial assets 300,994 190,842 (101,439) (15,712) 374,685 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of joint ventures and associates 2,779 4,409 (1,114) 6,074 Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation of foreign operations (107,721) 49,421 (12,489) (70,789) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (119,375) (102,467) 24,263 (197,579) Cash flow hedges (10,371) (10,371) Total 66,306 142,205 (101,439) (5,052) 102,020 (*) For the change in gain (loss) on valuation of AFS financial assets, ―reclassification‖ is disposal or recognition of impairment losses on AFS financial assets. 82 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 183 31. RETAINED EARNINGS (1) Details of retained earnings are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Legal reserve Legal reserve 1,622,754 1,528,754 Other legal reserve 44,634 43,132 Sub-total 1,667,388 1,571,886 Voluntary Business rationalization reserve 8,000 8,000 reserve Reserve for financial structure improvement 235,400 235,400 Additional reserve 7,073,104 7,249,104 Regulatory reserve for credit loss 2,255,252 1,756,142 Revaluation reserve 753,908 760,366 Other voluntary reserve 11,700 11,700 Sub-total 10,337,364 10,020,712 Retained earnings before appropriation 2,606,814 2,133,524 Total 14,611,566 13,726,122 i. Legal reserve In accordance with the Banking Act, legal reserve are appropriated at least one tenth of the earnings after tax on every dividend declaration, not exceeding the paid in capital. This reserve may not be used other than for offsetting a deficit or transferring to capital. ii. Other legal reserve Other legal reserves were appropriated in the branches located in Japan, Vietnam and Bangladesh according to the banking laws of Japan, Vietnam and Bangladesh, and may be used to offset any deficit incurred in those branches. iii. Business rationalization reserve Pursuant to the Restriction of Special Taxation Act, the Group was previously required to appropriate, as a reserve for business rationalization, amounts equal to tax reductions arising from tax exemptions and tax credits up to December 31, 2001. The requirement was no longer effective from 2002. iv. Reserve for financial structure improvement From 2002 to 2014, the Finance Supervisory Services recommended banks in Korea to appropriate at least ten percent of net income after accumulated deficit for financial structure improvement, until tangible common equity ratio equals 5.5 percent. But this reserve is not available for payment of cash dividends; however, it can be used to reduce a deficit or be transferred to capital. The reserve and appropriation is an Autonomous judgment matter of the Group since 2015. v. Additional reserve and other voluntary reserve Additional reserve and other voluntary reserve were appropriated for capital adequacy and other management purpose. vi. Regulatory reserve for credit loss In accordance with Article 29 of the Regulation on Supervision of Banking Business (―RSBB‖), if provisions for credit loss under K-IFRS for the accounting purpose are lower than provisions under RSBB, the Group discloses such shortfall amount as regulatory reserve for credit loss. vii. Revaluation reserve Revaluation reserve is the amount of limited dividends set by the board of directors to be the recognized as complementary capital when the gain or loss occurred in the property revaluation by adopting K-IFRS. 83 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 184 (2) Changes in retained earnings are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Beginning balance 13,726,122 14,165,358 Net income attributable to owners 1,261,266 1,059,157 Dividends on common stock (168,317) (504,952) Dividends on hybrid securities (206,515) (183,320) Appreciation of merger losses (806,640) Repayment of hybrid securities (990) Retirement of treasury stock (3,481) Ending balance 14,611,566 13,726,122 32. REGULATORY RESERVE FOR CREDIT LOSS In accordance with Paragraph 1 and 2 of Article 29 of the Regulation on the Supervision of Banking Business (―RSBB‖), if the estimated provisions for credit loss under K-IFRS for the accounting purpose are lower than those in accordance with the provisions under the RSBB, the Group shall disclose the difference as the planned regulatory reserve for credit loss. (1) Balance of the planned regulatory reserve for credit loss is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Beginning balance 2,255,252 1,756,142 Planned provision of regulatory reserve for credit loss 182,939 499,110 Ending balance 2,438,191 2,255,252 (2) Planned reserves provided, adjusted net income after the planned reserves provided and adjusted earnings per share after the planned reserves provided are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions, except for earnings per share amount): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Net income 1,277,533 1,075,392 Provision (reversal) of regulatory reserve for credit loss 182,939 499,110 Adjusted net income after the provision of regulatory reserve 1,094,594 576,282 Adjusted EPS after the provision of regulatory reserve (Unit: Korean Won) 1,320 584 33. DIVIDENDS The Group‘s dividends for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are 400 Won and 250 Won per share, respectively, and the total dividend amount to 269,308 million Won and 168,317 million Won, respectively. The Group paid out 168,317 million Won (250 Won per share) as an interim dividend during the year ended December 31, 2015. 84 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 185 34. NET INTEREST INCOME (1) Interest income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Financial assets at FVTPL 63,408 63,143 AFS financial assets 339,518 389,443 HTM financial assets 360,054 418,065 Loans and receivables: Interest on due from banks 75,021 81,117 Interest on loans 7,635,791 7,700,475 Interest of other receivables 38,520 45,992 Sub-total 7,749,332 7,827,584 Total 8,512,312 8,698,235 (2) Interest expense recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Interest on deposits due to customers 2,547,142 2,888,529 Interest on borrowings 215,240 216,743 Interest on debentures 619,255 707,772 Other interest expense 111,131 123,291 Total 3,492,768 3,936,335 85 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 186 35. NET FEES AND COMMISSIONS INCOME (1) Fees and commissions income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Fees and commissions received (*) 660,556 676,114 Fees and commissions received for provision of guarantee 66,549 78,922 Fees and commissions received on project financing 20,213 15,521 Fees and commissions received on credit card 954,502 852,250 Fees and commissions received on securities 70,928 67,692 Other fees and commissions received 92,722 66,841 Total 1,865,470 1,757,340 (*) Fees and commissions received include agency commissions, fee income from electronic finance, fee income related to loan, fees for import letter of credit dealing, commission received on foreign exchange and others. (2) Fees and commissions expense incurred are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Fees paid 162,170 133,909 Credit card commissions 760,913 643,524 Brokerage commissions 739 615 Others 4,517 2,496 Total 928,339 780,544 36. DIVIDEND INCOME Dividend income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Dividend from financial assets at FVTPL 996 1,217 Dividend from AFS financial assets 183,514 101,706 Total 184,510 102,923 86 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 187 37. GAINS (LOSSES) ON FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVTPL (1) Details of gains or losses related to financial assets at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Gains on financial assets held for trading 185,786 171,137 Gains (losses) of financial assets designated at FVTPL (71,399) 69,205 Total 114,387 240,342 (2) Gains (losses) on financial assets held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Financial Assets Securities Gain on valuation 9,323 7,735 at FVTPL Gain on disposals 24,509 32,780 Loss on valuation (12,681) (13,663) Loss on disposals (11,524) (22,771) Sub-total 9,627 4,081 Other financial Gain on valuation 13,628 10,195 assets Gain on disposals 2,404 442 Loss on valuation (14,033) (10,189) Loss on disposals (1,644) (208) Sub-total 355 240 Total of financial assets at FVTPL 9,982 4,321 Derivatives Interest rates Gain on transactions (for trading) derivatives and valuation 1,423,606 1,240,353 Loss on transactions and valuation (1,401,582) (1,251,673) Sub-total 22,024 (11,320) Currencies Gain on transactions derivatives and valuation 5,804,420 4,241,317 Loss on transactions and valuation (5,683,357) (3,987,856) Sub-total 121,063 253,461 Equity Gain on transactions derivatives and valuation 293,657 92,400 Loss on transactions and valuation (259,280) (166,528) Sub-total 34,377 (74,128) Other Gain on transactions derivatives and valuation 50,139 54,322 Loss on transactions and valuation (51,799) (55,519) Sub-total (1,660) (1,197) Total of derivatives(for trading) 175,804 166,816 Total 185,786 171,137 87 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 188 (3) Details of gains or losses on financial assets designated at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Gain (loss) on equity-linked securities Gain (loss) on disposals of equity-linked securities (24,165) (22,363) Gain on valuation of equity-linked securities (52,007) 89,863 Sub-total (76,172) 67,500 Gain (loss) on other securities: Loss on disposals of other securities 14 (62) Gain on valuation of other securities 882 1,027 Sub-total 896 965 Gain(loss) on other financial instruments: Gain on valuation of other financial instruments 3,877 740 Total (71,399) 69,205 38. GAINS (LOSSES) ON AFS FINANCIAL ASSETS Gains (losses) on AFS financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Gains on redemption of securities 721 1,089 Gains on transaction of securities 47,985 130,457 Impairment losses on securities (49,741) (134,827) Total (1,035) (3,281) 39. IMPAIRMENT LOSSES DUE TO CREDIT LOSS Impairment losses on loans and receivables, guarantees and loan commitment recognized for credit loss are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Impairment losses due to credit loss (890,763) (1,112,139) Reversal of provision on guarantee 59,780 140,318 Provision for (reversal of provision on) loan commitment (3,093) 5,175 Total (834,076) (966,646) 88 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 189 40. OTHER NET OPERATING INCOMES (EXPENSES) (1) Administrative expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Employee benefits Short term Salaries 1,323,007 1,262,786 employee benefits Employee benefits 466,585 381,283 Retirement benefit service costs 156,356 135,754 Termination 179,286 73,119 Sub-total 2,125,234 1,852,942 Depreciation and amortization 248,269 236,958 Other general Rent 311,992 295,871 and administrative Taxes and dues 102,531 103,580 expenses Service charges 244,543 233,860 Computer and IT related 83,978 100,026 Telephone and communication 63,699 60,880 Operating promotion 48,115 46,638 Advertising 76,153 58,914 Printing 9,502 10,249 Traveling 11,681 9,601 Supplies 6,827 6,822 Insurance premium 8,092 7,236 Reimbursement 26,846 23,779 Maintenance 16,470 14,565 Water, light and heating 15,006 15,205 Vehicle maintenance 9,987 10,400 Others 69,551 62,861 Sub-total 1,104,973 1,060,487 Total 3,478,476 3,150,387 (2) Other operating incomes recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Gains on transaction of foreign exchange 4,791,772 3,352,318 Gains on disposal of loans and receivables 204,239 186,939 Gains on transactions of derivatives 130 59,003 Gains on fair value hedged items 99,302 25,235 Others (*) 112,079 158,806 Total 5,207,522 3,782,301 (*) Other income includes such incomes amounting to 74,700 million Won and 137,187 million Won for the year ended December, 2016 and 2015, respectively, that the Group recognized for it is to receive from other creditor financial institutions in accordance with the creditor financial institutions committee agreement. (3) Other operating expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Losses on transaction of foreign exchange 4,706,055 3,429,638 KDIC deposit insurance fees 298,804 266,031 Contribution to miscellaneous funds 295,601 343,703 Losses on disposal of loans and receivables 4,265 43,266 Losses related to derivatives 98,981 20,982 Losses on fair value hedged items 475 56,532 Others (*) 171,120 232,210 Total 5,575,301 4,392,362 (*) Other expense includes such expenses amounting to 109,063 million Won and 154,897 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, that the Group recognized for it is to carry out a payment to other creditor financial institutions in accordance with the creditor financial institutions committee agreement. 89 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 190 41. OTHER NON-OPERATING INCOMES (EXPENSES) (1) Details of gain or loss on valuation of investments in joint ventures and associates are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Gain on valuation 36,757 41,363 Loss on valuation (55,091) (55,176) Impairment loss (1,173) (56,311) Total (19,507) (70,124) (2) Other non-operating incomes and expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Other non-operating incomes 132,272 272,610 Other non-operating expenses (133,582) (102,126) Total `(1,310) 170,484 (3) Other non-operating incomes recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Rental fee income 7,291 8,225 Gains on disposal of investment in joint ventures and associates 23,457 61,653 Gains on disposal of premises and equipment and other assets 1,885 6,814 Reversal of impairment loss on premises and equipment and other assets 3,581 539 Others(*) 96,058 195,379 Total 132,272 272,610 (*) Other income includes such incomes amounting to 132,784 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2016 that the Group received in accordance with the final irrevocable verdict for the payment of commitment (Note 44). (4) Other non-operating expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Depreciation on investment properties 3,762 3,806 Interest expenses of rent leasehold deposits 496 688 Losses on disposal of investment in joint ventures and associates 15,060 10 Losses on disposal of premises and equipment and other assets 9,718 2,707 Impairment losses on premises and equipment and other assets 1,936 2,990 Donation 43,939 46,266 Others 58,671 45,659 Total 133,582 102,126 90 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 191 42. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (1) Income tax expenses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Current tax expense Current tax expense in respect of the current year 332,996 362,552 Adjustments recognized in the current period in relation to the current tax of prior periods (22,138) (27,038) Sub-total 310,858 335,514 Deferred tax expense Deferred tax expense (benefit) relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences (18,766) 44,884 Deferred tax charged directly to equity (16,236) (3,844) Sub-total (35,002) 41,040 Income tax expense 275,856 376,554 (2) Income tax expense can be reconciled to net income before income tax expense as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Net income before income tax expense 1,553,389 1,451,946 Tax calculated at statutory tax rate (*) 375,458 350,909 Adjustments Effect of income that is exempt from taxation (75,166) (56,247) Effect of expense not deductible in determining taxable profit 13,664 50,152 Adjustments recognized in the current period in relation to the current tax of prior periods (22,138) (27,038) Others (15,962) 58,778 Sub-total (99,602) 25,645 Income tax expense 275,856 376,554 Effective tax rate Effective tax rate for continuing operations 17.8% 25.9% (*) The applicable income tax rate; 1) 11% for below 200 million Won, 2) 22% for from 200 million Won to 20 billion Won, 3) 24.2% for above 20 billion Won. 91 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 192 (3) Deferred tax charged direct to equity is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2016 Recognized as other Beginning Recognized as comprehensive Ending balance income (loss) income (loss) balance Gain on financial assets at FVTPL 445,729 (18,524) 427,205 Gain (loss) on AFS financial assets (121,536) 57 (666) (122,145) Gain (loss) on valuation using the equity method of accounting 5,106 26,500 1,337 32,943 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives (39,774) (4,079) (43,853) Accrued income (82,148) 12,188 (69,960) Provision for loan losses (50,504) 3,693 (46,811) Loan and receivables written off 54,225 (310) 53,915 Loan origination costs and fees (103,912) (4,190) (108,102) Defined benefit liability 203,423 32,536 (10,914) 225,045 Deposits with employee retirement insurance trust (187,044) (39,277) (226,321) Provision for guarantee 69,225 (28,087) 41,138 Other provision 27,898 4,494 32,392 Others (29,470) 50,001 (5,993) 14,538 Net deferred tax assets 191,218 35,002 (16,236) 209,984 For the year ended December 31, 2015 Recognized as other Beginning Recognized as comprehensive Ending balance income (loss) income (loss) balance Gain on financial assets at FVTPL 422,910 22,819 445,729 Loss on AFS financial assets (105,556) 94 (16,074) (121,536) Gain (loss) on valuation using the equity method of accounting 21,156 (14,936) (1,114) 5,106 Loss on valuation of derivatives (48,438) 8,664 (39,774) Accrued income (75,094) (7,054) (82,148) Provision for loan losses (59,428) 8,924 (50,504) Loan and receivables written off 6,921 47,304 54,225 Loan origination costs and fees (88,476) (15,436) (103,912) Defined benefit liability 151,666 26,912 24,845 203,423 Deposits with employee retirement insurance trust (135,474) (51,570) (187,044) Provision for guarantee 84,530 (15,305) 69,225 Other provision 37,029 (9,131) 27,898 Others 24,355 (42,324) (11,501) (29,470) Net deferred tax assets 236,101 (41,039) (3,844) 191,218 92 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 193 (4) Unrealizable temporary differences are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Deductible temporary differences 224,452 224,452 Unused tax losses 192,138 233,687 Taxable temporary differences (868,541) (740,860) Total (451,951) (282,721) (5) Deferred tax charged direct to equity is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Loss on available-for-sale financial assets (113,161) (112,495) Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of jointly controlled entities and associates 950 (387) Gain on foreign operations translation 16,930 22,923 Remeasurements 51,661 62,575 Total (43,620) (27,384) (6) Current tax assets and liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Current tax assets 6,229 6,782 Current tax liabilities 171,192 108,943 (7) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Deferred tax assets 232,007 210,597 Deferred tax liabilities 22,023 19,379 Net deferred tax assets 209,984 191,218 43. EARNINGS PER SHARE (“EPS”) Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income by weighted average number of common shares outstanding (Unit: Korean Won in millions except for EPS and number of shares): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Net income attributable to common shareholders 1,261,266 1,059,157 Dividends to hybrid securities (206,515) (183,320) Net income attributable to common shareholders 1,054,751 875,837 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 673 million shares 673 million shares Basic Earnings Per Share 1,567 1,301 Diluted EPS is equal to basic EPS because there is no dilution effect for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. 93 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 194 44. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS (1) Details of guarantees are as follow (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Confirmed guarantees Guarantee for loans 79,566 108,176 Acceptances 504,354 618,365 Letters of guarantees 97,606 100,084 Other confirmed guarantees 7,588,661 8,242,622 Total 8,270,187 9,069,247 Unconfirmed guarantees Local letter of credit 397,588 422,812 Letter of credit 3,844,345 4,258,672 Other unconfirmed guarantees 859,768 1,949,571 Total 5,101,701 6,631,055 CP purchase commitments and others 1,389,896 1,615,141 (2) Details of loan commitments and others are as follow (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Loan commitments 83,795,496 88,211,580 Other commitments 4,840,593 5,371,320 (3) Litigation case 1) The Group had filed and faced lawsuits as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions except for number of cases): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 As plaintiff As defendant As plaintiff As defendant Number of cases 88 cases 175 cases 130 cases 269 cases Amount of litigation 308,848 246,465 350,899 190,219 Allowance for litigations 5,946 4,872 2) The Group (Woori Bank), along with other 13 financial institutions including Seoul Guarantee Insurance, has filed a lawsuit against Samsung Group and its associates as defendant in respect of the claim of return of guaranteed fund which was related to the filing of court administration of Renault Samsung Motors. With respect to the lawsuit, on January 29, 2015, the supreme court of Korea made final judgment that the plaintiff should pay the guaranteed fund to the Group and other financial institutions. The Group recognized 132,784 million Won, as gain for the year ended December 31, 2015, in accordance with K-IFRS 1037 Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent assets. (4) Other The Group operates Korean Won currency settlement service as for commercial trade settlements between Korea and Iran. In accordance with the submission request of information from U.S. prosecutors (U.S. Federal Prosecutors and Prosecutors of the New York State), the Group is currently performing its own internal investigation to confirm if the Group is meeting the requirements on sanction of U.S. Government in respect of its service operation. As at the end of December 31, 2016, the Group believes that it cannot make reasonable estimation due to possible results from such investigation. 94 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 195 45. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Related parties of the Group and assets and liabilities recognized and major transactions with related parties during the current and prior periods are as follows: (1) Related parties Related parties Corporation that have KDIC significant influence over the group (*) Joint ventures Woori Renaissance Holdings Associates Kumho Tires Co., Inc., Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1, Korea Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd., Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd., Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd., Chin Hung International Inc., Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd., STX Engine Co., Ltd., Samho International Co., Ltd., Force TEC Co., Ltd., STX Corporation, Woori Columbus 1st Private Equity Fund, 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund, K BANK Co.,Ltd., and Others (Dongwoo C & C Co., Ltd. and other 14 associates) (*) During the year ended December 31, 2016, KDIC sold portion of its ownership interests in the Group, and became the investor with significant influence over the Group. (2) Assets and liabilities from transactions with related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, Related party A title of account 2016 2015 Corporation that have KDIC Loans 9 30 significant influence Other assets 270,041 510,193 over the group Deposits due to customers 1,894,631 930,231 Other liabilities 15,568 9,812 Joint ventures Woori Renaissance Other assets 2,416 Holdings Associates Kumho Tires Co., Ltd. Loans 299,523 280,333 Allowance for credit loss (715) (553) Deposits due to customers 45,957 67,815 Other liabilities 50 116 Woori Blackstone Other assets 34 175 Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund Other liabilities 306 934 No.1 Woori Service Networks Loans 29 27 Co., Ltd. Deposits due to customers 2,572 3,821 Other liabilities 393 381 Korea Credit Bureau Loans 2 7 Co., Ltd. Deposits due to customers 5,069 9,038 Other liabilities 40 54 Korea Finance Security Loans 55 51 Co., Ltd. Deposits due to customers 2,801 1,468 Other liabilities 6 7 United PF 1st Corporate Deposits due to customers 20 Financial Stability (*1) Chin Hung International Loans 4,320 5,499 Inc. Allowance for credit loss (4,287) (4,768) 95 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 196 December 31, December 31, Related party A title of account 2016 2015 Associates Deposits due to customers 14,047 1,378 Other liabilities 279 223 Poonglim Industrial Co., Loans 1,557 Ltd. Allowance for credit loss (1,557) Deposits due to customers 283 7,906 Other liabilities 5 STX Engine Co., Ltd. Loans 107,974 120,706 Allowance for credit loss (89,531) (25,665) Deposits due to customers 13,260 5,167 Other liabilities 588 608 Samho International Co., Loans 37,327 43,484 Ltd. Allowance for credit loss (717) (5,883) Deposits due to customers 82,917 96,281 Other liabilities 216 990 Force TEC Co., Ltd. Loans 28,562 Allowance for credit loss (6,252) Deposits due to customers 355 Other liabilities 1,207 Hana Engineering & Loans 71 Construction Co., Ltd. Allowance for credit loss (71) (*2) Deposits due to customers 38 STX Corporation Loans 144,035 151,829 Allowance for credit loss (92,643) (19,186) Deposits due to customers 14,412 13,643 Other liabilities 90 221 Osung LST Co., Ltd. Loans 5,639 (*2) Allowance for credit loss (338) Deposits due to customers 983 Other liabilities 2 Ilyang Construction Co., Loans 838 Ltd. (*2) Allowance for credit loss (215) Woori Columbus 1st Private Equity Fund Other assets 546 K BANK Co.,Ltd. Other assets 325 Others (*3) Loans 619 Allowance for credit loss (253) Other assets 8 Deposits due to customers 4,460 Other liabilities 60 (*1) As the Group lost significant influence over United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability during the year ended December 31, 2016, the entity was excluded from the investment in associates. (*2) As the Group sold its ownership interests in the entities during the year ended December 31, 2016, these entities were excluded from the investment in associates. (*3) Others include Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd., Good Software Lab Co., Ltd., Dongwoo C&C Co., Ltd., Heungjiwon Co., Ltd., Saman Corporation, Deokwon Food Co., Ltd. and QTS Shipping Co., Ltd., SJCO Co. Ltd., Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund, and DAEA SNC Co. Ltd. 96 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 197 (3) Gain or loss from transactions with related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 Related party A title of account 2016 2015 Corporation that have KDIC Interest income 11,778 22,237 significant influence Interest expenses 20,966 23,584 over the group Impairment losses due to credit loss 29 Associates Kumho Tires Co., Ltd. Interest income 2,430 2,698 Fees income 6 6 Interest expenses 68 205 Impairment losses due to credit loss (reversal of allowance for credit loss) 162 (2,353) Woori Blackstone Fees income 1,364 1,437 Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1 Woori Service Other income 29 28 Networks Co., Ltd. Interest expenses 49 83 Fees expenses 985 821 Other expenses 222 228 Impairment losses due to credit loss 2 Korea Credit Bureau Interest expenses 138 74 Co., Ltd. Fees expenses 1,915 1,690 Korea Finance Security Interest expenses 10 39 Co., Ltd. Fees expenses 110 93 Reversal of allowance for credit loss (3) Chin Hung Interest income 240 807 International Inc. Fees income 1 1 Interest expenses 28 35 Reversal of allowance for credit loss (481) (534) Poonglim Industrial Interest expenses 2 11 Co., Ltd. Reversal of allowance for credit loss (1,557) (1,565) STX Engine Co., Ltd. Interest income 1,348 1,358 Fees income 58 67 Interest expenses 97 46 Impairment losses due to credit loss 63,866 20,524 Samho International Interest income 916 1,015 Co., Ltd. Fees income 5 3 Interest expenses 525 981 Reversal of allowance for credit loss (5,166) (2,098) Force TEC Co., Ltd. Interest income 153 249 Impairment losses due to credit loss (reversal of allowance for credit loss) 5,900 97 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 198 For the years ended December 31 Related party A title of account 2016 2015 Associates Hana Engineering & Reversal of allowance for Construction Co., Ltd. credit loss (*1) (98) STX Corporation Interest income 1,039 1,729 Fees income 75 89 Interest expenses 7 6 Impairment losses due to credit loss (reversal of allowance for credit loss) 73,457 (4,060) Osung LST Co., Ltd. Interest income 170 226 (*1) Interest expenses 1 16 Reversal of allowance for credit loss (338) (223) Woori Columbus 1st Fees income 308 546 Private Equity Fund Ilyang Construction Impairment losses due to Co., Ltd.(*1) credit loss 215 K BANK Co.,Ltd. Fees income 296 Other income 1,638 Others(*2) Interest expenses 17 Impairment losses due to credit loss 253 (*1) As the Group sold its ownership interests in the entities during the year ended December 31, 2016, these entities were excluded from the investment in associates. (*2) Others include Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd., Good Software Lab Co., Ltd., Dongwoo C&C Co., Ltd., The Base Enterprise Co., Ltd., Saman Corporation, Deokwon Food Co., Ltd., QTS Shipping Co., Ltd., Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund and DAEA SNC Co., Ltd. 98 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 199 (4) Guarantees provided to the related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 KDIC 1,500,000 1,500,470 Loan commitment Kumho Tires Co., Ltd. 24,187 11,623 Letter of credit and others 126,435 143,756 Loan commitment Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 205 209 Loan commitment Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 33 28 Loan commitment Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 171 173 Loan commitment Chin Hung International Inc. 40,904 40,847 Loan commitment STX Engine Co., Ltd. 63,103 74,135 Letter of credit and others 685 13,019 Loan commitment SamHo Co., Ltd. 30,083 28,976 Loan commitment Force TEC Co., Ltd. 5,954 Loan commitment STX corporation 24,316 23,235 Letter of credit and others 71 9,131 Loan commitment (*) For the guarantee provided to the related parties, the Group recognized provisions for guarantees amounting to 70,587 million Won and 10,122 million Won, respectively, as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. (5) Compensation for key management is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015(*) Short term benefits 9,523 10,288 Severance payments 424 473 Total 9,947 10,761 (*) As the scope of the compensation for key management disclosure has changed, the comparative amounts are restated. Key management includes registered executives and non-registered executives. Outstanding assets and liabilities from transactions with key management amount to 913 million Won and 4,204 million Won, respectively, as of December 31, 2016. With respect to the assets, the Group has not recognized any allowance, nor provision. 99 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 200 46. TRUST ACCOUNTS (1) Trust accounts of the Group are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Total assets Operating income December 31, December 31, For the year ended For the year ended 2016 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Trust accounts 38,807,666 34,135,580 751,691 784,155 (2) Receivables and payables from the transactions between the Group and trust accounts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Receivables Trust fees receivables 23,667 18,704 Payables Borrowings from trust accounts 2,687,776 3,794,847 (3) Significant transactions between the Group and trust accounts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2016 2015 Revenue Trust fees 78,616 51,322 Expense Interest expenses on borrowings from trust accounts 45,012 60,329 (4) Principal guaranteed trusts and principal and fixed rate of return guaranteed trusts. 1) As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, the carrying of principal guaranteed trusts and principal and fixed rate of return guaranteed trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Principal guaranteed trusts Old-age pension trusts 4,513 5,235 Personal pension trusts 532,959 523,544 Pension trusts 741,759 681,868 Retirement trusts 53,773 64,921 New personal pension trusts 8,536 8,540 New old-age pension trusts 2,919 3,376 Sub-total 1,344,459 1,287,484 Principal and fixed rate of return guaranteed trusts Development trusts 19 19 Unspecified money trusts 787 782 Sub-total 806 801 Total 1,345,265 1,288,285 2) As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, the amounts that the Group has to pay by the capital guaranteed contract or the operating results of the principal and return guaranteed trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Liabilities for the Group account (subsidy for trust account adjustment) 30 26 100 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 201 47. PROMOTING PRIVATIZATION PLAN Pursuant to the privatization plan of Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd., which was decided at the Public Fund Oversight Committee (the ―PFOC‖) on June 26, 2013, the Group has disposed of its subsidiaries. Kwangju Bank and Kyongnam Bank were demerged as of May 1, 2014, and Woori Investment & Securities, Woori Aviva Life Insurance, Woori Savings Bank, Woori Asset Management, Woori Financial and Woori F&I were disposed of in due order during the period from March 2014 to June 2014,. With respect to the privatization of Woori Bank, the PFOC announced a plan on the merger between Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd (―Holding Company‖) and Woori Bank and on the disposal of controlling and noncontrolling interests (30% of ownership and 26.97% of ownership, respectively) of Woori Bank after newly listing its shares on the stock exchange. Pursuant to the plan, the Group merged with the Holding Company as of November 1, 2014, and was listed on Korea Stock Exchange on November 19, 2014. On November 28, 2014, Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation (―KDIC‖) commenced the bidding to dispose of controlling and non-controlling interests of the Group. With the successful bidding for non-controlling interests only, KDIC‘s ownership of the Group decreased from 56.97% to 51.04%. Further, KDIC‘s ownership of the Group was changed to 51.06% due to retirement of treasury stocks on October 2015. On July 21, 2015, the PFOC, a deliberative body in charge of privatizing Woori Bank, held a meeting to discuss the means to promote the privatization plan. PFOC thereby announced a plan to maximize the retrieval of public fund that was initially invested and to sell the controlling shares to the investors (―oligopolistic shareholders‖), in an effort to promote the early privatization and development of financial industry. On October 2, 2015, Financial Services Commission (―FSC‖) announced the amendment on normalization of business memorandum of understanding (―MOU‖) in an effort to promote corporate value through enhanced managerial autonomy of the Group. FSC subsequently made amendments to the Enforcement Decree of the Special Act on the Management of Public Funds on March 29, 2016. In addition, on August 22, 2016, PFOC announced a plan to sell about 30% shares out of 51.06% shares held by KDIC to multiple investors, ranging from 4 to 8% ownership each. Pursuant to the plan, the KDIC commenced the bidding to dispose of its shares by putting up a public notice of sale on August 24, 2016. As of September 23, 2016, KDIC received letters of intent from eighteen potential investors, with an intent to hold shares ranging from 82% to 119%. As a result of the bid, eight potential investors submitted bid letters for total of 33.7% shares. On November 13, PFOC announced that seven selected buyers acquired total of 29.7% shares of the Group. Upon successful privatization of the Group, PFOC, in an effort to ensure autonomous management of the private sector (i.e., oligopolistic shareholders), released the Group from the MOU on December 16, 2016. Further, in consideration with the benefits of privatization and the retrieval of public fund, the government will hold a discussion with PFOC on its plan to sell the 23.7% of the remaining shares of the Group held by KDIC. 48. TERMINATION OF CONTRACT AND FOLLOW-UP AGREEMENT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF A MANAGEMENT PLAN Upon successful privatization, the MOU on management normalization between the Group and KDIC on December 16, 2016 was terminated. The same parties instead signed a written agreement on disposal of shares of the Group for the purpose of the appropriate public fund management. According to the agreement, KDIC has the right to appoint one personnel from KDIC as a non-executive member of the board of directors of the Group, as long as KDIC holds over 10% voting shares, or is the largest shareholder (disregarding National Pension Service) holding more than 4% but less than 10% shares. Also, KDIC may claim inspection of the information related to the minutes of the board of directors and agenda that may have significant impact on the residual shares, as long as KDIC holds over 4% shares of the Group. 101 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 202 49. BUSINESS COMBINATION (1) Acquisition of Woori Wealth Bank in Philippines The Group acquired 51% interest ownership in Wealth Development Bank, a savings bank in Philippines, in October 2016. As the residual shares of 49% is owned by Viscal group, which operates retail businesses, the Group plans to expand its business operation through retail channels of Viscal group. (2) Establishment of Woori Bank Vietnam Limited The Group established Woori Bank Vietnam (capitalized at 3 trillion VND) in October, 2016, upon the approval from Vietnam Central Bank and commenced its operation on January 3, 2017. The Group has operated two branches in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh and established a subsidiary in order to expand its retail banking business in Vietnam. (3) Acquisition method (Unit: Korean Won in millions) Woori Wealth Bank Woori Bank Vietnam in Philippines Limited Total I. Consideration Cash and cash equivalents 25,675 155,400 181,075 II. Identifiable assets and liabilities Cash and Cash equivalents 48,774 48,774 AFS financial assets 2,125 2,125 Loan and receivables 126,917 155,400 282,317 Property and equipment 651 651 Intangible assets 205 205 Other assets 8,792 8,792 Sub-total 187,464 155,400 342,864 Deposits 148,521 148,521 Allowance for credit losses 352 352 Tax liabilities 113 113 Other liabilities 3,655 3,655 Sub-total 152,528 152,528 Fair value of identifiable net asset 34,936 155,400 190,336 III. Non-controlling interest 17,118 17,118 IV. Goodwill 7,857 7,857 102 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 203 Organizational Chart 3 Unit 16 Groups 6 Divisions 62 Departments Customer Regional Banking Headquarters Branch Domestic Business Unit Global Business Unit Small & Retail Corporate Medium Institutional Real Estate Pension Investment Wealth Global Banking Banking Corporate Banking Finance & Trust Banking Management Business Business Business Banking Business Business Business Business Group Group Group Group Business Group Group Group Group Group International Trade Business Division Corporate Small & Medium Institutional Retail Banking Wealth Synergy & Banking Corporate Banking Real Estate Global Business International Investment Products & Management Marketing Card Business Trust Products & Banking Products Products & Finance Strategy Trade Business Banking Marketing Strategy Support Department Department Marketing & Marketing Marketing Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Foreign Wealth Retirement Business Public Global Business Customer Housing Fund Management Pension Project Finance Support Fund Sales Support Banking Department Business Business Department Department Department Department Business Department Department Department Wealth International Customer Custody Agent Management Trade Service Center Department Advisory Center Center President & CEO Board of Directors General Shareholders Meeting Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 204 Corporate Banking Headquarters Business Support Unit Financial Smart Management Human Risk Operation Credit Market Banking & Finance Resources Management & Support Support Business Business Planning Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Next Generation Information Corporate Future External ICT System Security Restructuring Strategy Relations Building Division Division Division Division Division Next Generation Human Smart Banking Risk Information Corporate Strategy & Consumer Treasury ICT System General Affairs Loan Policy Future Strategy Resources Business Management Security Restoration Control Tower Protection Department Planning Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Center Department Human Next Generation Retail Credit Platform Corporate Finance & Public Trading Resources ICT System Loan Review Loan Service Analysis & Business Restructuring Planning Relations Department Development Marketing Department Center Approval Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Next Generation SME Credit Settlement Employee FinTech Investor ICT System Deposit Service Analysis & Support Satisfaction Business Relations Analysis Center Approval Department Center Department Department Department Department Large ICT Support Security Control Corporate Accounting Center Department Credit Analysis Department & Approval Credit Management & Collection Department Technology Finance Center Secretary Department Compliance Officer Audit Committee Compliance Department Standing Audit Committee Member/Director Audit Department Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 205 Global Network Dhaka Branch Olympic Branch HEAD OFFICE Suvastu Imam Square (1st & 4th Fl.) 65 Gulshan SUBSIDIARIES 3360, West Olympic Blvd. Suite #300, LA, Avenue, Dhaka, Bangladesh CA90019, USA · Phone: 880-2-881-3270~3 · Phone: 1-213-738-1100 51, Sogong-ro (203, Hoehyeon-dong 1-ga), U.S.A · Fax: 880-2-881-3274/3241 · Fax: 1-213-738-1101 Jung-gu, Seoul, 100-792, Korea Woori America Bank · Phone: +82-2-2002-3000 · Swift: HVBKKRSE DEPZ Customer Service Center 330 5th Avenue, 3rd Floor, New York, Fullerton Branch Dhaka Export Processing Zone(Old Area), NY 10001, USA 5731 Beach Blvd., Buena Park, CA 90621, USA Ganakbari, Ssvar, Dhaka-1349, Bangladesh · Phone: 1-212-244-3000 · Phone: 1-714-521-3100 · Phone: 880-2778-8030 · Fax: 1-212-736-5929 · Fax: 1-714-521-3101 OVERSEAS BRANCHES · Fax: 880-2881-3274/3241 Manhattan Branch Garden Grove Branch Woori Bank Chittangong Sub-Branch 330 5th Avenue, 1st Floor, New York, 10120 Garden Grove Blvd.,Suite 151Garden New York Agency NY 10001, USA Grove, CA 92844, USA World Trade Center Chittagon(2nd Floor) Plopt 245, Park Ave. 43rd Floor, New York, No.102-103, Agrabad Commercial Area, · Phone: 1-212-244-1500 · Phone: 1-714-534-6300 NY 10167, USA Chittagong, Bangladesh · Fax: 1-212-695-5593 · Fax: 1-714-534-6301 · Phone: 1-212-949-1900 · Phone: 880-931-728221~4 · Fax: 1-212-490-7146 · Fax: 880-931-728225 Flushing Branch Centreville Branch · Swift: HVBKUS33 136-88 39th Avenue Flushing New York, NY 13830 Braddock Road. Centreville, VA 20121, Woori Bank Uttara Sub-Branch 11354, USA USA LA Branch Paradise Tower(Ground Floor) Plot 11, Sector · Phone: 1-718-886-1988 · Phone: 1-703-988-9555 3360, West Olympic Blvd. Suite 300, LA, 3, Uttara Model Town,Uttara, Dhaka 1230, · Fax: 1-718-762-6898 · Fax: 1-703-988-9554 CA90019, USA Bangladesh · Phone: 1-213-620-0747~8 · Phone: 880-2896-2125~6 Fort Lee Branch Irvine Branch · Fax: 1-213-627-5438 · Fax: 880-2896-2129 2053 Lemoine Avenue Fort Lee, NJ 07024, USA 14252 Culver Dr. #G, Irvine, CA 92604, USA · Swift: HVBKUS6L · Phone: 1-201-363-9300 · Phone: 1-949-885-3760 Woori Bank Mirpur Sub-Branch · Fax: 1-201-302-0452 · Fax: 1-949-653-0943 London Branch Padma Bhaban(First Floor), 1/9 Mirpur Road 9th Floor, 71 Fenchurch Street, London, Pallabi, Mirpur-12, Dhaka-1216, Bangladesh Woodside Branch Torrance Branch EC3M 4BR,UK · Phone: 880-2902-1061~2 43-22 50th St. Woodside, NY 11377, USA 2390 Crenshaw Boulevard, Units C, Torrance · Phone: 44-207-680-0680 · Fax: 880-2902-1064 CA 90501,USA · Phone: 1-718-429-1900 · Fax: 44-207-481-8044 · Phone: 1-310-974-1880 · Fax: 1-718-429-2084 · Swift: HVBKGB2L Woori Bank, Narayanganj Sub-Branch · Fax: 1-310-782-7004 Adamjee Export Processing zone, Shiddhirganj, Ridgefield Branch Tokyo Branch Narayanganj-1431 Bangladesh Georgia LPO 321 Broad Avenue #104 Ridgefield, NJ 07657, USA Shiodome City Center 10th Floor 5-2, · Phone: 880-2769-2031~34 2472 Pleasant Hill Rd. Duluth, GA30096, USA · Phone: 1-201-941-9999 Higashi-Shimbashi 1-Chome, Minato-ku, · Fax: 880-2769-2035 · Phone: 1-404-904-9880 · Fax: 1-201-941-4419 Tokyo, 105-7110, Japan · Phone: 81-3-6891-5600 Gaeseong Branch San Jose LPO Palisades Park Branch · Fax: 81-3-6891-2457 Gaesong Industrial District Phase 1, 25-1 225 Broad Avenue Palisades Park, NJ 07650, USA 2328 Walsh Ave, Santa Clara CA 95051, USA Business Support Center, 1st Floor 103 1st · Phone: 1-415-652-9476 · Phone: 1-201-346-0055 Hong Kong Branch Floor, Bongdong-Ri, Gaeseong, Hwanghae-Do, North Korea · Fax: 1-201-346-0075 Suite 1401, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Northern Branch · Phone: 001-8585-2300~2 Hongkong Closter Branch 164-25 Northern Blvd. Flushing NY 11358, USA · Fax: 001-8585-2303 · Phone: 85-2-2521-8016 · Phone: 1-929-362-3330 234 Closter Dock Road Closter, NJ 07624, USA · Fax: 85-2-2526-7458 Hochiminh City Branch · Phone: 1-201-784-7012 2 Floor, Kumho Asiana Plaza Saigon, · Fax: 1-201-784-7013 Singapore Branch CHINA 39 Le Duan St., Dist 1, HCMC, Vietnam 10 Marina Boulevard #13-05 MBFC Tower 2, Elkins Park Branch · Phone: 84-8-3821-9839 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Singapore 018983 Singapore · Fax: 84-8-3821-9838 7300 Old York Rd Elkins Park, PA 19027, USA Floor11-12 Block A Building 13 District 4 Wang· Phone: 65-6422-2000 · Phone: 1-215-782-1100 jing East · Fax: 65-6422-2001 Chennai Branch · Fax: 1-215-782-1500 Park Chaoyang District Beijing China 100102 6th Floor, EA Chambers, No. 49 & 50L, Whites · Phone: 86-10-8412-3000 Bahrain Branch Road, Royapettah, Chennai 600 014, India Annandale Branch · Fax: 86-10-8441-7071 P.O. Box 1151, 4th Floor, Entrance 1, · Phone: 91-44-3346-6900 Seoul Plaza 4231 Markeham St, Annandale,VA Manama Centre Building, Manama, Bahrain Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Head office · Fax: 91-44-3346-6995 22003, USA · Phone: 973-17-223503 business department · Phone: 1-703-256-7633 · Fax: 973-17-224429 Sydney Branch · Fax: 1-703-256-7511 Floor1 Block B Building 13 District 4 Wangjing Suite 25.03, Level 25, 363 George Street East Park Hanoi Branch Bayside Branch Chaoyang District Beijing China 100102 Sydney NSW 2000 Australia 24F, Keangnam Landmark 72, E6 Pham Hung ·Phone: 86-10-8441-7771 · Phone: 61-2-8222-2200 215-10 Northern Blvd. Bayside, NY 11361, USA Road, Tu Liem District. Hanoi, Vietnam ·Fax: 86-10-8446-4631 · Fax: 61-2-8222-2299 · Phone: 1-718-224-3800 · Phone: 84-4-3831-5281 · Fax: 1-718-224-3828 · Fax: 84-4-3831-5271 Beijing Branch Dubai Branch 1102A, Level 11, The Gate Building, East Wing, Ellicott City Branch 1F, West Tower, Twin Towers, B-12 Jianguomenwai P.O. Box 506760, DIFC, Dubai, United Arab 100352 Baltimore National Pike Ellicott City, MD Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100022, China Emirates 21042, USA ·Phone: 86-10-8453-8880 · Phone: 971-4-325-8365 · Phone: 1-443-973-3690 ·Fax: 86-10-8453-8881 · Fax: 971-4-325-8366 · Fax: 1-410-461-1002 · Swift: HVBKAEADXXX Shanghai Branch Wilshire Branch Drum Building 1-2F, LJZ -Plaza,1600 Century Ave3540 Wilshire Blvd. Unit 104, Los Angeles, CA nue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200122, China 90010, USA · Phone: 86-21-5081-0707 · Phone: 1-213-382-8700 ·Fax: 86-21-5081-2484 Woori Bank · Fax: 1-213-382-8787 Annual Report 2016 206 Shenzhen Branch Weihai Branch Surabaya Branch Pekalongan Branch B0105, B0210 Rongchao Landmark, 4028 Jintian No.106-1~3, Attached Qingdao Mid-Road, Kompleks Ruko 21, Jl. Raya, Gubeng No.68 Jl. KH. Mansyur No.64, Perkalongan Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, 518035 China Weihai, Shandong Province, China, 264200 E Surabaya/60281 · Phone: 62-285-4460505 ·Phone: 86-755-3338-1234 · Phone: 86-631-599-6000 · Phone: 62-31-5041906 · Fax: 62-285-4460506 ·Fax: 86-755-3338-7227 · Fax: 86-31-597-0030 · Fax: 62-31-5047727 Madiun Branch Suzhou Branch Tianjin Dongmalu Sub-Branch Semarang Branch Jl. Diponegoro No.110, Madiun 101B, Sovereign Building, #8 Suhua Road 1-2F, Tower C, Yuding Plaza(Qixiang Street), DongImam Bonjol Square Kav 4,Jl. Imam Bonjol · Phone: 62-351-4773000 Suzhou Industrial Park, Jiangsu, 215021 China ma Road, Nankai District, Tianjin, 300090, China No.176 Tasikmalaya/50132 · Fax: 62-351-4773003 ·Phone: 86-512-6295-0777 · Phone: 86-22-8776-9000 · Phone: 62-24-3521906 ·Fax: 86-512-6295-2141 · Fax: 86-22-8776-9901~2 · Fax: 62-24-3521900 Jamber Branch Jl. Gajah Made No. Ruko Gajah Mada Square TianJin Branch Chongqing Branch Tasikmalaya Branch Block A2-3 No.1 Building, Aocheng Commercial Square, Unitl, Floor L2-1, Ping An Fortune Center, Ruko Plaza Asia Blok A5-A6, Jl. HZ. Mustofa · Phone: 62-331-421648 Binshui West Road, Nankai District, Tianjin, No.25-2, West Main Street, Jiangbei District, No.326 -Tasikmalaya/46126 · Fax: 62-331-4350187 300381, China Chongqing 400023, China · Phone: 62-265-2351906 ·Phone: 86-22-2338-8008 · Phone: 86-23-6152-2222 · Fax: 62-265-2352206 Kediri Branch ·Fax: 86-22-2392-5905 · Fax: 86-23-6152-2220 Jl. Brawijaya No. 25A Kota Kediri Yogyakarta Branch · Phone: 62-354-4526726 Shanghai Puxi Sub-Branch Shanghai Lianyang Sub-Branch Jl. Mangkubumi No.45 Yogyakarta/55232 · Fax: 62-3354-4526716 S115-S119, 1F Maxdo center No.8 Xingyi Rd. No.52, Zendai Thumb Plaza lane 199, FangDian · Phone: 62-274-549280 Changning District Shanghai, 200336, China Road, Pudong New District, Shanghai, 200135 · Fax: 62-274-549285 Buah Batu Sub-Branch ·Phone: 86-21-5208-1000 China · Phone: 86-21-6882-0608 Jl. Buah Batu No.58 Bandung/40265 ·Fax: 86-21-6235-1036 Denpasar Branch · Fax: 86-21-6882-8821 · Phone: 62-22-7322150 0361-223099 Ruko Griya Alamanda blok 3-4, · Fax: 62-22-7319626 Beijing Wangjing Sub-Branch Jl. Cok Agung Tresna Renon-Denpasar/80235 1F, No.10, Furong Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing Sanyuanqiao Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-361-263755 Kopo Mas Sub-Branch Beijing, 100102, China 1F-05, 2F-09, Tower A, Tianyuangang Center, · Fax: 62-361-223099 · Phone: 86-10-8471-8866 C2, North Road, East Third Ring Road, ChaoyKomp Ruko Mas J-9 Jl. Kopo Cirangrang/40225 · Fax: 86-10-8471-5245 ang District, Beijing · Phone: 62-22-5436802 The Gedung Energy Branch · Fax: 62-22-5436803 100027. China · Phone: 86-10-8440-7177 Gd The Energy Lot 11 A SCBD, Jl. Jendral Shanghai Wuzhonglu Sub-Branch Sudirman Kav 52 53, Jakarta/12190 · Fax: 86-10-8441-7761/7790 Cimahi Sub-Branch 1C, Liaoshen Building, 1068 Wuzhong Rd · Phone: 62-21-29951906 Minhang District, Shanghai, 201103 China Jl. Raya Cibabat No.310 Cimahi/40213 · Fax: 62-21-29951904 · Phone: 86-21-6446-7887 Shenyang Branch · Phone: 62-22-6634656 · Fax: 86-21-6446-1200 1F, 2F, Lotte North-Station Arcade, 9-8 Beiling · Fax: 62-22-6634657 Ampera Branch Street, Huanggu District, Shenyang City Liaoning Province, China Jl. Ampera Raya No.20 Gd.Medco III/12560 Sukajadi Sub-Branch Shenzhen Futian Sub-Branch · Phone: 86-24-8186-0808 · Phone: 62-21-7821756 Room 107, 201, Daqing Building, NO.6027, Jl. Sukajadi No.248/40153 · Fax: 86-24-8186-0801 · Fax: 62-21-7821642 Shen Nan Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, · Phone: 62-22-2042248 518040 China · Fax: 62-22-2041213 Purwokerto Branch · Phone: 86-755-8826-9000 · Fax: 86-755-8826-9038 INDONESIA Jl. Jenderal gatot Subroto No.78 Purwokerto Soekarno Hatta Sub-Branch PT. Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia Jawa Tengah/53116 Jl. Soekarno Hatta No.618 F/40286 Head Office · Phone: 62-281-622212 Shanghai Jinxiujiangnan Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-22-7509905 · Fax: 62-281-631616 1F, 188 South Jinhui Road, Minhang District, Jl. Diponegoro No.28 Bandung/40115 · Fax: 62-22-7509902 Shanghai, 200237, China · Phone: 62-22-87831900/87831906 Malang Branch · Phone: 86-21-3432-1116 · Fax: 62-22-87831918 Pemuda Sub-Branch · Fax: 86-21-3432-1112 Jl. Letjen Sutoyo No.27 MalangJawa Ruko Graha Mas Blok AA No.3 Taman Berdikari Corporate Branch Timur/56141 Sentosa Jl.Pemuda/13220 · Phone: 62-341-421906/7601906 Beijing Shunyi Sub-Branch Gd. BEJ Tower 1 Lt. 16 Jl. Jend.Sudirman Kav. · Phone: 62-21-47862070 · Fax: 62-341-408188 1F,Tower A, AMB Building, 2, Cangshang St, 52-53 Jakarta/12190 · Fax: 62-21-4711298 Shunyi District, Beijing 101300, China · Phone: 62-21-5151919 Solo Branch · Phone: 86-10-8945-2220 · Fax: 62-21-5151477 Subang Sub-Branch · Fax: 86-10-8949-3560 Jl. Ronggo Warsito No. 53 Kota, Solo Jawa Jl. Ahmad Yani No.36/41211 Wastukancana Branch Tengah/57131 · Phone: 62-260-421014 DaLian Branch · Phone: 62-271-633600 Jl. Wastukancana No.79 Bandung/40116 · Fax: 62-260-421015 · Fax: 62-271-633433 2F-218 YOMA IFC, No.128 Jinma Road, Dalian · Phone: 62-22-4209940 Development Area, Dalian, 116600, China · Fax: 62-22-4209941 Sumedang Sub-Branch Tangerang Branch · Phone: 86-411-8765-8000 Jl. Prabu Geusan Ulun No.76/45311 · Fax: 86-411-8765-8515 Cirebon Branch Tangerang City Business Park Blok F/50 Jl. · Phone: 62-261-206527 Jend. Sudirman No.1 Tangerang/15118 Jl. DR. Wahidin No.51 Cirebon/45122 · Fax: 62-261-206528 · Phone: 62-21-29529226 Zhangjiagang Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-231-242006 · Fax: 62-21-29529227 B104/B205 Huachang Oriental Plaza, 11 Ren· Fax: 62-231-242066 Tangerang Sub-Branch min East Road, Zhangjiagang, Jiangsu 215600, Ruko Pinangsia Blok H No.1 Lippo Karawaci Pelembang Branch China Bogor Branch Kel. Cibodas Tangerang/15139 · Phone: 86-512-5636-6696 Jl. Basuki Rahmat No.886 A PalemJl. Pangkalan Raya No.8, Warung Jambu · Phone: 62-21-55772345 · Fax: 86-512-5636-6697 bang/30127 Bogor/16151 · Fax: 62-21-5577636 · Phone: 62-711-315828 · Phone: 62-251-8377887 · Fax: 62-711-315510 Chengdu Branch · Fax: 62-251-8377209 1F-3F, Ping’an Fortune Center, No.1 Renmin South Road, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610044 China · Surapati Core Branch Sukabumi Branch Phone: 86-28-6557-2366 Jl. PHH. Mustofa No.39, Surapati Core Blok Jl. Jenderal Sudirman No.31-Sukabumi/43111 · Fax: 86-28-6357-2369 F1 Bandung/40192 · Phone: 62-266-6251906 · Swift: HVBKCNBJ · Phone: 62-22-87241326 · Fax: 62-266-6249717 Woori Bank · Fax: 62-22-87241327 Annual Report 2016 207 Serang Sub-Branch Depok Sub-Branch Patrol Sub-Branch Rangkasbitung Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Abdul fatah Hasan No.53 Kel. Cipare Jl. Margonda Raya No.1 Rt 001/011 Kelurahan Jl. Raya Patrol Anjatan Blok Bunder Jl. Raden Hardiwinangun Blok A No.9/42314 Serang/42124 Depok Kecamatan Pancoran Mas/16431 No.52/45256 · Phone: 62-252-203612 · Phone: 62-254-224142 · Phone: 62-21-7522091 · Phone: 62-234-5613627 · Fax: 62-252-203613 · Fax: 62-254-224243 · Fax: 62-21-7522092 · Fax: 62-234-611919 Tabanan Sub-Branch Cikarang Sub-Branch Salatiga Sub-Branch Gianyar Sub-Branch Jl. Ngurah Rai No.73 Kediri/82121 Cikarang Commercial Centre Blok A1-2, Jl. Ruko Wijaya Square B5 Jl.Diponegoro No.110 Jl. By.Pass Dharma Giri No.99/80511 · Phone: 62-361-814160 Cibarusah KM. 40 No.2 Kampung pasir sari kec. Salatiga/50711 · Phone: 62-361-8958295 · Fax: 62-361-814281 Cikarang Selatan/17550 · Phone: 62-298-311828 · Fax: 62-361-8958194 · Phone: 62-21-89835720 · Fax: 62-298-312808 Surabaya Barat Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-21-89835721 Gresik Sub-Branch Surya inti permata II Blok C-6 Jl. HR Muhammad Sidoarjo Sub-Branch Ruko KIG Jl. Tri Dharma Kav. A-14/61117 No.175 Surabaya/60266 Atrium Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Mukmin No.11 Blok B-7 Sidoarjo/60281 · Phone: 62-31-3981758 · Phone: 62-31-7381606 Jl. KH. Hasyim ashari No.49 Cideng/10410 · Phone: 62-31-8922842 · Fax: 62-31-3981720 · Fax: 62-31-7387007 · Phone: 62-21-3451964 · Fax: 62-31-8922841 · Fax: 62-21-3451954 Karawang Sub-Branch Soreang Raya Sub-Branch Mojokerto Sub-Branch Jl. Tuparev No.499 (Johar) Kab. Karawang Jl. Raya Soreang No.412/40900 Kebon Jeruk Sub-Branch Jl. Gajah Mada No.85B/60319 · Phone: 62-267-8454873-74 · Phone: 62-22-5896880 Jl. Kelapa Dua Raya(RayaPanjang) No.2, Rt 008, · Phone: 62-321-383444 · Fax: 62-267-8454875 · Fax: 62-22-5897444 Rw 002 Kel. Kelapa Dua Kec. Kebon Jeruk/12130 · Fax: 62-321-383465 · Phone: 62-21-53660160 Cibinong Sub-Branch Ujung Berung Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-21-53660164 Cianjur Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Mayor Oking No.158 V/16918 Komp Ruko Bandung Timur Plaza No. RA Jl. Jl. Abdulah Bin Nuh No.15/43253 · Phone: 62-21-87904397 A.H. Nasution Kav. 46A Ujung Berung/40612 Diponegoro Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-263-260941, 260943, 260945 · Fax: 62-21-87904443 · Phone: 62-22-7834128 Jl. Diponegoro No.28 Bandung/40251 · Fax: 62-263-280712 · Fax: 62-22-7834153 · Phone: 62-22-87831928/87831909 Singaparna Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-22-87831919 Pamulang Sub-Branch Jemur Sari/Surabaya selatan Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Timur No.45 Singaparna/46416 Jl. Dr. Setiabudi No.71 Kav. 6 Pamulang · Phone: 62-265-543111-3 Jl. Raya Jemursari No.15C Surabaya/60237 Lembang Sub-Branch Timur/15417 · Fax: 62-265-545074 · Phone: 62-31-8480454 Jl. Grand Hotel Lembang No.25 Band· Phone: 62-21-7403205, 7443335 · Fax: 62-31-8480483 ung/40391 · Fax: 62-21-7402330 Ciamis Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-22-2784797 Luragung Sub-Branch Jl. Letjen. Samuji Ruko No.35/46211 · Fax: 62-22-2784975 Sumber Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-265-772221 Jl. Siliwangi No.18 Kec Luragung, Kab KuninJl. Dewi Sartika No.57 Sumber/45611 · Fax: 62-265-777860 gan/45581 Cikarang Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-231-8330618 · Phone: 62-232-870016 Ruko Metro Boulevard Kav. A Jl. Niaga Raya No.10 · Fax: 62-231-8330619 Sleman Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-232-870020 Kawasan Industri Jabeka/17835 Jl. Magelang KM 12.8 No.200/55514 · Phone: 62-21-89836020/021-89837020 Bantul Sub-Branch Pangandaran Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-274-865922 · Fax: 62-21-89835953 Jl. Jenderal Sudirman No.130 Kabupaten · Fax: 62-274-866168 Jl. Parapat, Desa Pangandaran, kec pangandaBantul/55713 ran kab ciamis/46396 Majalengka Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-274-367514 · Phone: 62-265-630400, 630010 Losari Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Abdul Halim No.447 Majalengka/45411 · Fax: 62-274-368787 · Fax: 62-265-630800 Jl. Soekarno Hatta NO.77 Losari/45192 · Phone: 62-233-8285460 Purwodadi Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-231-8832738-39 · Fax: 62-233-8285459 Balaraja Sub-Branch Jl. Letjend. S. Parman No.13 Kel. Purwodadi · Fax: 62-231-8832736 Komplek Ruko Balaraja Center Blok A No.2 Jl. Kec. Purwodadi Jawa Tengah/58111 Kuningan Sub-Branch Raya Serang Km. 24 Talaga Sari Balaraja-tan· Phone: 62-292-423399 Bekasi Sub-Branch Jl. Dewi Sartika No.4/45512 gerang/15610 · Fax: 62-292-423799 Jl. Raya Narogong KM 12.5 No.23A/17151 · Phone: 62-232-8880938 · Phone: 62-21-29015618 · Phone: 62-21-82611045-46 · Fax: 62-232-8880939 · Fax: 62-21-29015474 Leuwi Liang Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-21-82605356 Jl. Raya Jasinga 11A Kel. Cibeber, Kec. LeuwilIndramayu Sub-Branch Ciledug Sub-Branch iang Kab Bogor/16640 Kudus Sub-Branch Jl. DI. Panjaitan No.103/45212 Ruko Dian Plaza Jl. Raden Fatah No.8A Kelura· Phone: 62-251-8640297 han Sudirman Selatan,Ciledug/15225 Jl. Sunan Kudus No.5 a/509000 · Fax: 62-251-8640299 · Phone: 62-234-276236 · Phone: 62-21-7330545 · Phone: 62-291-4249241 · Fax: 62-234-276237 · Fax: 62-291-4246497 · Fax: 62-21-7330706 Ciawi Sub-Branch Cibubur Sub-Branch Jl. Perjuangan No.80 Kp.Karanganyar Rt. 04 Gunung Sabeulah Sub-Branch Pamanukan Sub-Branch Cibubur Times Square Blok B1/1 Jl. Alternatif Rw. 05 Desa Pakemitan Kec Ciawi Kab. TasikCibubur KM 3 Kel. Jatiraya, Kec. Jastisampurna Jl. Gunung Sabeulah Kel.Tawangsari Kec. Jl. Eyang Tirtapraja No.54 Kab. Subang/41254 malaya/46156 Bekasi/17435 Tawang kota Tasikmalaya/46112 · Phone: 62-260-551773 · Phone: 62-265-455163, 455167 · Phone: 62-21-84305050 · Phone: 62-265-326147 · Fax: 62-260-551774 · Fax: 62-265-455162 · Fax: 62-21-84305353 · Fax: 62-265-331135 Majalaya Sub-Branch Cilacap Sub-Branch Purwakarta Sub-Branch Garut Sub-Branch Jl. Alun-alun utara/Jl. Tengah komp ruko permaJl. Jend. A Yani No.46 Cilacap/53212 Jl. Basuki Rahmat No.94, Purwakarta/41114 Jl. Ahmad Yani No.33/44117 ta majalaya Blok C6/40382 · Phone: 62-282-537929 · Phone: 62-264-8227474 · Phone: 62-262-544672 · Phone: 62-22-85963799 · Fax: 62-282-535522 · Fax: 62-264-8227475 · Fax: 62-262-544670 · Fax: 62-22-5959826 Jombang Sub-Branch Cikampek Sub-Branch Magelang Sub-Branch Pangalengan Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Wahid Hasyim No.71 Kota Jombang-JaJl. Terusan Sudirman No.6B(Sudirman CenRuko Metro Square Blok F No.25/56172 Jl. Raya Pintu Pangalengan KM-1/40378 wa Timur/61411 ter)/41373 · Phone: 62-293-326498-99 · Phone: 62-22-5979222 · Phone: 62-321-878906, 872906 · Phone: 62-264-8385171,72 · Fax: 62-293-326356 · Fax: 62-22-5978690 · Fax: 62-321-860904 · Fax: 62-264-8385088 Padalarang Sub-Branch Cilegon Sub-Branch Banjar Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Padalarang No.463 H/40553 Jl. Jend. A. yani Komp Cilegon green megablok Jl. Letjen Soewarto No.92/46321 Blok D3 No.17 Cibeber cilegon/42433 · Phone: 62-265-740557 · Phone: 62-22-6803940/41 · Phone: 62-254-8484772 · Fax: 62-265-740558 · Fax: 62-22-6803935 · Fax: 62-254-8484773 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 208 Boyolali Sub-Branch Wonogiri Sub-Branch Cimahi Cash-Office Cilegon Cash-Office Jl. Pandanaran No.179 B Kab.Boyolali/57313 Jalan Ahmad Yani No.66, Wonogiri Cijerah II blok V No.3 Cimahi Annex Building Lt. 1 Jl. Afrika No.2 Krakatau · Phone: 62-276-323655 · Phone: 62-271-633600 · Phone: 62-22-86065156 Posco Cilegon/42435 · Fax: 62-276-323650 · Fax: 62-271-633433 · Fax: 62-22-6075579 · Phone: 62-254-369755 · Fax: 62-254-369759 Martadinata Sub-Branch Kawali Sub-Branch Suci Cash-Office Jl. RE Martadinata Pav 123 Bandung/40114 Jl. Siliwangi No.262, Desa Kawali mukti Jl. PHH. Mustofa No.35/40124 Ruko Union Cash-Office · Phone: 62-22-71070901 · Phone: 62-265-791560 · Phone: 62-22-7279740 Ruko Union Square Blok A No.6 Lippo Cikarang, · Fax: 62-22-7107091 · Fax: 62-265-791580 · Fax: 62-22-7276361 Cikarang Selatan · Phone: 62-21-89909797 Kepanjen Sub-Branch Jatinangor Cash-Office · Fax: 62-21-89903007 Melawai/Radio dalam Sub-Branch Jl. Radio dalam raya No.4 Kel. Gandaria Utara Jl. Kawi Ruko B 7, Kepanjen Jl. Raya Jatinangor KM 20.5 KKBI IKOP· Phone: 62-34-1379840 IN/45363 Sadang Cash-Office Kec. Kebayoran baru Jakarta selatan/12160 · Phone: 62-21-7211005 · Fax: 62-34-1379839 · Phone: 62-22-7781587 Sadang Terminal Square No.07, 08, 25 Jl. Raya · Fax: 62-22-7781563 Sadang Purwakarta/41181 · Fax: 62-21-7210970 Pamekasan Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-264-8220180 Darmaraja Cash-Office · Fax: 62-264-8220181 Singaraja Sub-Branch Jl. Kabupaten No.114 Jl. Ngurah Rai No.16 Singaraja Kelurahan Kend· Phone: 62-324-333905, 333906 Jl. Raya Darmaraja No.253 desa Darmaraja, Kec · Fax: 62-324-333604 Darmaraja Kab.Sumedang/45372 Cilimus Cash-Office ran Kecamatan Buleleng/81112 · Phone: 62-362-25098 · Phone: 62-262-429000, 429069, 428478 Jalan Raya Cilimus RT 017/04, Desa Cilimus Kebumen Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-262-429070 Kecamatan Cilimus, Kabupaten Kuningan · Fax: 62-362-26605 · Phone: 62-232-615411 Jl. Ahmad Yani No.20, Kubumen Daan Mogot Cash-Office · Fax: 62-232-615412 Manonjaya Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-281-6222212 Jl. RTA. Prawira Adiningrat No.214 A Desa · Fax: 62-281-631616 Jl. Tampak Sirling No.12 Daan Mogot/11460 · Phone: 62-21-56944307 Gading Serpong Cash-Office Manonjaya kec. Manonjaya-Tasikmalaya · Phone: 62-265-380510 Mangga Dua Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-21-56944307 Jl. Boulevard Raya Gading Sepong, Ruko Alexandrite 3, No.21, Kabupaten Tangerang · Fax: 62-265-380356 Ruko Harco Mangga Dua Blok L. No.5 Fatmawati Cash-Office · Phone: 62-21-5421-2159 · Phone: 62-21-6120176 · Fax: 62-21-5421-0975 Surabaya Utara Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-21-6120179 Jl. Kesehatan Raya No.18B Rt 003 Rw 006 Kel Jl. Kertajaya Indah No.9/F-105 Surabaya/60161 Bintaro Kec. Sanggrahan Jakarta selatan/12430 · Phone: 62-31-3572064 Kelapa Gading Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-21-7374693 · Fax: 62-21-7374408 Bojonergoro Cash-Office · Fax: 62-31-3537005 Jl. Boulevard Barat Ruko MOI Blok I No.15 Jl. Untung Suropati Ruko Adipura Block A-11 · Phone: 62-21-29364053 · Phone: 62-353-311271 Batu Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-21-29364054 Cililitan Asabri Cash-Office · Fax: 62-353-311270 Jl. Brantas No.49 Batu-Malang/65314 Jl. Mayjen Sutoyo No.11 Gedung PT Asabri · Phone: 62-341-513709 Kayu Agung Sub-Branch (persero) Jl. Cililitan jakarta Timur/13630 · Phone: 62-21-80876494 Surya Sumantri Cash-Office · Fax: 62-341-513712 Jl. Letnan Muthtar Saleh, Kayuagung, Palem· Fax: 62-21-80876381 · Phone: 62-22-2021760 bang, South Sumatra · Fax: 62-22-20271073 Palimanan Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-711-315828 · Fax: 62-711-315510 Bekasi Cash-Office Jl. Otto Iskandardinata No.503 Palimanan Purbalingga Functional Office · Phone: 62-231-343950 Jl. Ir. H. Juanda No.111 Bekasi Klaten Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-21-88353901 Jl. Ahmad Yani No.42 Purbalingga · Fax: 62-231-343955 · Fax: 62-21-88345693 · Phone: 62-81-89553 Jl. Pemuda No. 246 Klaten, solo · Fax: 62-81-892034 Pelabuhan Ratu Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-271-633600 · Fax: 62-271-633433 Jatibarang Cash-Office Jl. Surya Kencana No.198 Cibadak Kabupaten Sragen Functional Office Sukabumi/43364 Jl. Letnan Joni No.178 Kec. Jatibarang Kab Parung Sub-Branch Indramayu/45273 Jl. Sukowati No.156 Sragen · Phone: 62-266-6441906 · Phone: 62-234-352911 · Phone: 62-71-895015 · Fax: 62-266-435511 Jl. Rayal Parung RT002/RW006, Kacamatan · Fax: 62-234-352910 · Fax: 62-71-895013 Parung, Kabupaten Bogor Bekasi Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-2151-861-9559 · Fax: 62-251-861-5455 Taman Topi Cash-Office Cikajang Functional Office Annex Building Lt. 1 Jl. Afrika No.2 Krakatau Posco Cilegon/42435 Jl. Gedong Sawah I No.1 A Pabaton Bogor/16121 Jl. Raya Cikajang No.80 Garut · Phone: 62-21-82404282 Pasuruan Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-251-8335714 · Phone: 62-62-576094 · Fax: 62-21-82401878 · Fax: 62-251-8335721 · Fax: 62-62-576089 Jl. Panglima Sudirman No.45 Ruko I, Pasuruan, Malang Wates Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-343-561-4700 Juanda/ KK Tajur Cash-Office Wonosari Functional Office Jl. Kolonel Sugiyono No.3-Wates · Fax: 62-343-561-4940 Jl. Raya Tajur Ruko Galaxy No.59 H Bogo Jl. KH. Agus Salim No.71A Wonosari Kab · Phone: 62-251-7559203, 8384254 Gunungkidul · Phone: 62-274-6657325 Pati Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-251-7559205 · Phone: 62-74-3950673 · Fax: 62-274-774338 · Fax: 62-74-3950673 Jl. Ir. Susato No.40 Pati, Jawa Tengah Tanjung Priok Sub-Branch · Phone: 62-24-352-1906 Kendal Cash-Office · Fax: 62-24-352-1900 Jl. Raya Utama No.9 weleri kenda Dalem Kaum Functional Office Jl. Enggano No.58 CTanjung Priok jakarta Utara/14310 · Phone: 62-294-644704 Jl. Dalem Kaum No.5 Bandung · Phone: 62-21-4361667 Sumenep Sub-Brancch · Fax: 62-294-644708 · Phone: 62-33-4233810 · Fax: 62-21-4361668 · Fax: 62-22-4206837 JI. Trunouyo No. 244 Sumenep · Phone: 62-328-6762234 Ungaran Cash-Office Karangnunggal Sub-Branch · Fax: 62-328-6762242 Ruko permata hijau No.1 Jl. MT Haryono No.16 Kel Ungaran Kec Ungaran Barat Kab. Semarang/50511 HONG KONG Jl. Raya Karangnunggal KP. Karangmekar RT/RW 03/09 Desa Hegarwangi Kec. Bantarkalong Kab. Dalem Kaum Cash-Office · Phone: 62-24-76911017 Woori Global Markets Asia Limited · Phone: 62-265-258471~2 Jl. Dalem Kaum No.5 Bandung/40251 · Fax: 62-24-76911001 Rooms 1905-1908, 19/F, Gloucester Tower, The · Fax: 62-265-2584570 · Phone: 62-22-4211906 Landmark, 15 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong · Fax: 62-22-4206837 Serang Cash-Office · Phone: 852-3763-0888 Cibatu Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Serangpandeglang KM 11 Lingkungan waru · Fax: 852-3763-0808 Jalan Raya Cibatu Limbangan Ruko Perum BuBatujajar Cash-Office Lor, Desa/kel. Kamanisa Kec Curug Kota serang/42117 nar Indah Blok C-29 No.15-17 Rt 06 Rw 04 Desa · Phone: 62-254-222133 Jl. Batujajar No.324 Bandung Cibunar Kecamatan Cibatu Kabupaten Garut · Fax: 62-254-8494615 · Phone: 62-22-86861018/17/15 · Phone: 62-262-467708 · Fax: 62-22-86861016 · Fax: 62-262-467707 Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 209 RUSSIA AreyKshat Branch PHILIPPINES Cebu Mambaling Branch AO Woori Bank #154, National Rd. 21 Preak Khsev Village, Wealth Development Bank G/F Metro Store Mambaling, Cebu, N. Bacalso 8th floor, Lotte Plaza, 8, Novinsky Boulevard, Rokar Khpos Commune, S’ang District, Kandal Taft Financial Center, Cardinal Rosales Avenue, Avenue corner F. Llamas Street, Basak San Moscow, 121099, Russia Province, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Cebu Business Park, Cebu City, Cebu Nicolas, Cebu City · Phone: 7-495-783-9787 · Phone: 855-2490-1455 · Phone: 63-32-414-4233 · Fax: 7-495-783-9788 Alabang Branch Steung Meanchey Branch T agbilaran Banking Center Unit 103, South Center Tower Condominium Saint-Petersburg Branch No.19A St, Monireth, Phumdomnak Thom, 2206 Market Street, Madrigal Business Par Ground Floor, No. 15 JS Torralba St., Poblacion Sangkat Stoeung Meanchey, Khan Meanchey, Alabang, Muntinlupa City, Manila 2, Tagbilaran City, Bohol 1st Floor, Atlantic City, 126 Savushkina Street, Phnom Penh, Cambodia · Phone: 63-32-415-5265 · Phone: 63-38-411-4860 Saint-Petersburg, 197374, Russia · Phone: 855-23-901-345 · Fax: 63-32-415-5266 · Fax: 63-38-501-9098 · Phone: 7-812-327-9787 · Fax: 7-812-327-9789 Chom Chao Branch Angeles Marquee Mall Branch Iloilo Banking Center AO Woori Bank vladivostok No.4A, St, Veng Sreng, Chrey Koung Village, Ground Floor , Marquee Mall, Don Bonifacio St., Ground Floor, ACCE Bldg., Mabini Ledesma St., Representative Office Sangkat Chom Chao, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Pulung Maragul Angeles City, Pampanga Liberation, Iloilo City · Phone: 855-23-901-355 · Phone: 63-45-624-0072 · Phone: 63-33-338-4419 Vladivostok Business-Center<Hyundai> Office No.614, 29, Semenovskaya Str. Vladivostok, · Fax: 63-33-338-4417 690091, Russia MYANMAR Legazpi Pacific Mall Branch · Phone: 7-423-240-7014 Woori Finance Myanmar Plc. Cagayan De Oro Banking Center G/F Expansion II, Pacific Mall Legazpi, Landco · Fax: 7-423-240-7015 115/A, Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone Business Park, F. Imperial Street Cor. CircumferGround Floor, Jammin Lui Bldg., corner A. Velez Ward(10 miles), ential Road, Legazpi City 4500 & Gomez Sts. Poblacion, Cagayan de Oro City, Insein Township Yangon, Myanmar · Phone: 63-52-480-0038 Misamis Oriental BRAZIL · Phone: 95-01-643798 · Phone: 63-88-856-8974 Lucena Pacific Mall Branch · Fax: 63-88-856-8942 Woori Bank Brasil Avenida Nacoes Unidas, 14,171, Crystal Tower, North Okkalapa Branch Ground Floor L 1-26, Pacific Mall, M.L. Tagarao Davao Branch Conj.803, Vila Gertrudes, 04794-000, Sao No. M(56), Thiriyadanar Wholesale Market St. Landco Business Park, Brgy. III , Lucena City, Paulo-SP, Brasil NorthOkkalapa Township, Yangon, Myanmar Quezon Ground Floor, Door 8, 9 & 10 Grand MenSeng · Phone: 55-11-2309-4740 · Phone: 95-99-6889-2300 · Phone: 63-42-795-3771 Hotel Pichon St., 1-E Poblacion, Davao City, · Fax: 63-42-795-3773 Davao del Sur · Fax: 55-11-3511-3300 · Phone: 63-82-225-3318 Mingladon I Branch Taguig Market Market Branch · Fax: 63-82-255-3319 115/A, Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone CAMBODIA Ward(10 miles), Ground Floor, Play Ground Zone, Metro Market Woori Finance Cambodia Plc. Insein Township Yangon, Myanmar Market Mall, Mckinley Parkway, Fort Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City VIETNAM · Phone: 95-01-643798 Building No.119B, Street271, Sangkat Phsar · Phone: 63-02-889-0275 Doem Thkov Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh. Mingaladon II Branch · Fax: 63-02-887-4371 Woori Bank Vietnam · Phone: 855-23-999-661 · Fax: 855-23-999-663 4F, 115/A Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone 34F, Keangnam Landmark 72, E6 Pham Hung Ward(10miles), lnsein Township, Yangon MyanCebu Ayala Branch Road, Tu Liem District. Hanoi, Vietnam mar Ground Floor, Taft Financial Center, Cardinal · Phone: 63-82-225-3318 Russey Keo Branch · Phone: 95-01-643798 Rosales Avenue, Cebu Business Park, Brgy. · Fax: 84-04-7300-6806 House No.1A, National Road 5, Sangkat Kilomet Luz, Cebu City Lek6 Khan Russey Keo, Phnom Penh. Nyaungdon Branch · Phone: 63-32-415-4888 · Phone: 855-23-999-664 · Fax: 63-32-415-5777 Room No. 103, 1st Street, 5 Quarter, NyaungPursenchey Branch don Township, Ayarwaddy, Myanmar OVERSEAS OFFICES · Phone: 95-99-7674-7709 Cebu Ramos Branch House No.6A, Russian Blvd, Tangoun Village, MALAYSIA Ground Floor, Hilario Chu Bldg., No. 148 F. Sangkat Kakb, Khan Pursenchey, Phnom Penh. Taikkyi Branch Ramos St. Santa Cruz, Cebu City Woori Bank Kuala Lumpur · Phone: 855-23-999-803 · Phone: 63-32-412-6302 Representative Office Room No.9, Natsinkone Road, Ohtan Ward, Taikkyi Township, Yangon, Myanmar · Fax: 63-32-412-6353 Unit 4129/4130, 41/F, Vista Tower, The Intermark Kean svay Branch · Phone: 95-9-7717-81028 182 Jalan Tun Razak, Kuala Lumpur 50400, House No.330, National Road 1, Toul Tuaut Cebu Carbon Branch Malaysia village, Korkey Communce, kean Svay district, · Phone: 84-04-7300-6802 Hmawbi I Branch Ground Floor, M.C. Briones & Plaridel Sts., Cebu Kandal province · Fax: 60-3-2163-9288 City · Phone: 855-23-720-632 2F No(26) Tatkyee Kone village, Hmawbi Township, Yangon, Myanmar · Phone: 63-32-416-9077 · Phone: 95-9-9-74563586 · Fax: 63-32-416-9078 MYANMAR Takhmao Branch Woori Bank Yangon, Myanmar Office Building No.31, Street2, Takhmao village, Cebu Mandaue Branch Takhmao Commune, Takhmao District, Kandal Hmawbi II Branch No.115(A) First Floor), Pyay Road, 10 Miles, Province, Cambodia 1F No(26) Tatkyee Kone village, Hmawbi TownGround Floor, G/F Meritz Building, A.C. Cortes Insein Township, Yangon, Myanmar ship, Yangon, Myanmar Ave. Ibabao, Mandaue City, Cebu · Phone: 95-01-646951 · Phone: 855-24-998-333 · Phone: 95-9-97456395 · Phone: 63-32-343-8144 · Fax: 63-32-343-8143 IRAN PrekPhnov Branch National highway 5, Kandal Village, Prek Phnov Maubin I Branch Woori Bank Iran Representative Office Cebu Tabunok Branch commune, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Plot No(34), No(396), Building 01, Yei Le road, 1st Floor, No; 18, J St., Moghadas Ardebili St., Ward 7, Maubine Township, Ayeyarwaddy, Ground Floor, AGSy Bldg., National Hi-Way, Mahmodiyeh, Tehran, Iran · Phone: 855-23-900-945 Myanmar (2F) Tabunok Talisay City, Cebu · Phone: 98-22-04-6975 / 98-90-3826-3169 · Phone: 95 9 9712 25895 · Phone: 63-32-272-2955 Ang Snoul Branch · Fax: 63-32-273-6870 #109, National road No.4, Village Bek Chan, CommuneBek Chan, District Ang Snuol, CamMaubin II Branch Cebu Mandaue Pacific Mall Metro Branch bodia Plot No(34), No(396), Building 01, Yei Le road, Ward 7, Maubine Township, Ayeyarwaddy, Ground Floor, Mandaue Pacific Mall Metro · Phone: 855-023-999-355 Myanmar (1F) National Highway corner M.B. Fernan Ave. · Phone: 95 9 9616 12763 Estancia, Ibabao, Mandaue City, Metro Cebu Phsar Depo Branch · Phone: 63-32-239-1072 #138D, St 215, Sangkat Veal Vong, Khan Prum· Fax: 63-32-239-1073 pei Makara, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Kawhmu Branch · Phone: 855-23-900-455 No 192/B, Bogyoke St. South Wd Kawhmu Townshop, Yangon Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 210 Directed by Woori Bank Investor Relations Dept. IR officer. Kim, So Hee banker.ksh@wooribank.com Tel +82-2-2125-2316 www.wooribank.com Created by dong-gam / www.dong-gam.co.kr Woori Bank Annual Report 2016 211 EDGAR (Disclosure Information) 51, Sogong-ro(203, Hoehyeon-dong 1-ga), Jung-gu, Seoul, 04632, Korea Tel. +82-2-1599-2288 / +82-2-2002-3000(domestic) www.wooribank.com
