Innovating with purpose Sustainability Report 2017 Covering January–December 2016  1 “While the world faces enormous challenges, I’m optimistic about the future and confident in Eastman’s ability to address them through strategic collaboration, responsible resource management and persistent innovation. “ — David A. Golden Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer, and Corporate Secretary Contents A message from the CEO 3 Eastman at a glance 4 A message from the CSO 6 Stakeholders and value chain 8 Goals and progress 11 Steering a sustainable portfolio 17 Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 Scope of report 36 Global Reporting Initiative 37 Index 38 Appendix 52 2 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com A message from the CEO Over the past several years, Eastman has been on a transformational journey to becoming a specialty company. Whether it’s through developing more efficient products and bringing innovative solutions to customers, collaborating with world-class scientific institutions to help solve significant global challenges, or working with community partners to have a positive impact, we are committed to enhancing the quality of life in a material way. Through the company transformation, we have significantly increased our focus on innovating sustainable solutions and product applications to meet the needs of a changing world. I believe we have the most robust and compelling innovation portfolio in the company’s history. The power of our innovation efforts is aimed at opportunities where disruptive, global macro trends align with our world-class technology platforms. To continue developing products that make a material difference in people’s lives, we are leveraging our success and expertise in key platforms where Eastman has been a leader for decades. To invest in innovation and growth, a company must also continually improve its operations and manage resources responsibly. Eastman is no exception. We set aspirational goals to steer our efforts toward areas where we can actively make a difference and reduce our environmental footprint. To ensure support of these efforts at every level of the company, I along with other members of senior management include tracking sustainabilityrelated goals such as energy intensity in our annual Personal Performance Commitments. With the publication of this report, we are reaffirming Eastman’s commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact as well as the global Sustainable Development Goals. Throughout the report, I hope you will see sustainability as a common thread woven through our company. Sustainability isn’t something we do; it’s part of who we are. I can’t talk about sustainability without mentioning the Eastman team. Our people are the reason we can continue to invest in innovation and positively impact our world. I’m proud of the foundation we’ve built, and I’m confident Eastman will continue to deliver shared value for decades to come. Mark J. Costa Board of Directors Chair and Chief Executive Officer Innovating with purpose 3 Eastman at a glance Eastman (NYSE:EMN) Named America’s Most JUST Global advanced materials and specialty Company in the chemical industry by additives company that produces a broad range JUST Capital and Forbes Magazine of products found in items people use every day Additives & Functional Products 4 business segments Four consecutive Chemical  Intermediates years as one of the World’s Most Ethical Sixth consecutive  Companies by ENERGY STAR® Partner  Ethisphere Institute of the Year award, fourth Sustained Excellence honor Serving customers in more than 100 countries Approximately 14,000 team members around the world Advanced Materials Fibers 2016 revenue of approximately $9.0 billion Recognized with Responsible Care® Energy Efficiency Awards from American Recognized as a Glassdoor  Chemistry Council for energy efficiency Employees’ Choice “Best Place to improvements 24 years in a row, Work” for three consecutive years receiving eight awards in 2016 4 Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com 2016 sales revenue by region Headquartered in Kingsport, Tennessee, USA H 45% 25% North America Europe, Middle  $4.03 billion East & Africa $2.31 billion 24% Asia Pacific $2.16 billion Eastman’s Corporate  Business Center in  6% Latin America Kingsport, Tennessee,  $515 million awarded LEED® Gold by  the U.S. Green Building Council 2016 sales revenue 20% by end-use market 16% U.S. Department  14% of Energy Better  11% Project award Indian Orchard operations 10% for combustion  and Ghent South operations 7% 7% 6% turbine project at recognized for reducing 4% Longview, Texas, site energy intensity at least  3% 2% 10% in less than five years Other Electronics Energy, Fuels & Water Food, Feed & Agriculture Personal Care, Health & Wellness Consumer Durables Industrial Chemicals & Processing Tobacco Building & Construction Consumables Transportation Recognized for Transportation Safety by two rail companies in 2016 Eastman’s Toy F. Reid Employee  Center named Top in Category for  2016 ENERGY STAR® National Building  14 % energy Competition: Bootcamp savings 63 manufacturing sites* in 14 countries *Including joint ventures Innovating with purpose 5 A message from the CSO Why sustainability matters Since becoming Eastman’s Chief Sustainability Officer, I have spent time asking, “What is the job sustainability should be performing?” In other words, why does sustainability matter? That may seem an odd question from the company’s sustainability steward, but the answer to that question is exactly what a company needs to define before it can set a vision and strategy for creating value through sustainability. The world is facing enormous complexity and challenges: • How do we feed more people with less arable crop land? • As fish have become the primary source of our planet’s protein, what does that mean for natural fisheries and protect the environment in the communities where aquaculture? we operate, as well as understanding the impact of our products. We help our customers and their customers do • And how do we manage the estimated 80% increase in the same thing. We strive for continual improvement to protein demand over the next 30 years? manage our resources responsibly. • If it takes 35 gallons of water to produce a microchip or 100 gallons of water to produce a chicken egg, should As we increasingly understand the challenges and issues we think about our water resources differently? our world is facing, we strategically focus our efforts • If 40% of the world’s population lives within 100 on the right projects and initiatives with the greatest kilometers of a coastline and that percentage is collective impact. Building and strengthening strategic increasing, what does this mean for coastal ecosystems, partnerships and challenging ourselves to enable the most building and construction, and the increasing exposure positive change leads to true, positive social innovation. of cities and populations to extreme weather events? The key to all of this — innovation. Innovation is • How do we capture more of the 174 petawatts of solar imperative. energy that strikes the earth every day? Innovation happens at the intersection of the persistent • How do we exponentially increase resource productivity problems facing the world and world-class technologies and help ensure a sustainable future? and expertise. Innovation steers a sustainable portfolio These are only a few of the many, many questions. that brings solutions to wicked problems. Innovation drives disruptive change in the marketplace. Innovation So how do we change the trajectory? changes the world. We know we must create far more value than the That is how we change the trajectory. And that is how resources we use or the future is not sustainable. As we we define sustainability at Eastman — creating vastly address these growing demands, we focus on driving more value than the resources we use — by steering resource productivity through improved processes that a sustainable portfolio, driving resource productivity, 6 Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Focused good for good Creating value Creating shared value through  corporate responsibility-focused  through stakeholder engagement sustainability Steering Driving a sustainable resource portfolio productivity Creating innovative  Creating productivity value through our value through more sustainable products efficient use of resources and rendering focused good acts by employees and the company for the simple sake of doing good. Sustainability Council As Eastman transforms toward becoming a specialty company, our strategy continues to evolve. The newly Design, Environment, restructured Sustainability Council is leading the charge to Sustainable Portfolio & Natural Resources Social Innovation  subcouncil subcouncil assess our current focus areas, understand emerging issues, subcouncil and establish a sustainability vision for the future. Eastman’s Sustainability Council, established in 2010, While the world faces enormous challenges, I’m optimistic continues to evolve and reflect the changing strategy about the future and confident in Eastman’s ability to and structure of the company. Reporting to the Council address them through strategic collaboration, responsible are three subcouncils designed to activate deeper resource management, and persistent innovation. integration of sustainability into the company strategy. The cross-functional leadership approach of the Council and subcouncils allows for a coordinated and integrated sustainability strategy that not only supports but David A. Golden influences the company’s business objectives and drives Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer, and Corporate Secretary the innovation platform. Innovating with purpose 7 Stakeholders Historically, Eastman, like most companies, focused on and value chain its direct customers. However, to fully understand the value we create and the impact of our products, we must engage stakeholders and influencers along the entire value While we have deep expertise and insight in a chain. We leverage insights from these engagements and variety of areas, we recognize we can’t solve interactions to identify the most important and relevant issues for our stakeholders so that we can not only the world’s problems on our own. We value the prioritize our resources but also challenge ourselves to importance of collaboration and transparency to understand new and varying perspectives — ultimately driving collaboration to generate sustainable solutions drive change both internally throughout Eastman and positive change. While we do not conduct a formal and externally along the value chain. stakeholder assessment annually, we actively engage a diverse range of stakeholders through an ongoing process at the corporate, regional, and local levels to seek feedback on business performance, advance the company’s strategy, understand relevant sustainability issues and macro trends, and ultimately create value for our stakeholders. Stakeholder engagement varies in type and frequency by stakeholder group; however, we do not report specific details of all engagements. Examples are represented on page 9. In preparation for our 2016 sustainability report, we assessed sustainability-related issues that fall within the standard environmental, social, and governance (ESG) framework. The assessments involved secondary research of publicly available information for our leading customers and suppliers as well as investors, nongovernmental organizations, government entities,  and community partners with whom  we routinely engage. 8 Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Research included sustainability and annual reports, websites, and news coverage to gauge priority of sustainability-related issues and initiatives. We conducted surveys of employees and our Community Advisory Panels. Our goal was to identify, analyze, and prioritize relevant issues to inform our sustainability strategy and reporting. Stakeholder engagement We also understand that we cannot drive a successful Stakeholders How we engage and meaningful sustainability strategy without Employees surveys, intranet, campaigns, events, understanding how the rest of the world defines and training, participation in sustainabilityManufacturing focused teams/organizations measures sustainability. Direct customers meetings, calls, conferences, surveys, In our 2016 Sustainability Report, we committed to collaborative projects, website, identify areas where our strategic priorities align with Brands, original industry memberships the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Over equipment manufacturers, the past year, we have mapped these global goals to our and downstream stakeholder priority assessment, aligning key areas of customers engagement to a common sustainability framework. Retail channel Going forward, Eastman’s newly restructured Sustainability Suppliers Council will drive prioritization of the company’s sustainability strategy and SDGs, surfacing issues and Consumers website, social media, trade shows trends from their respective areas of focus and influence Community advisory panels, surveys, website, that are relevant to Eastman and presenting opportunities events, newsletters, collaborative projects to proactively engage. “ As a global company, we engage with a variety of partners and influencers to drive business growth and success for the company. But more importantly, we are a team of 14,000 people around the world, passionate about making a difference by connecting with the entire value chain to make a positive impact in “ our communities and society at large. — Etta Clark Vice President, Global Public Affairs and Policy  9 Stakeholders and value chain | Stakeholder materiality matrix Eastman stakeholder priorities Strategic priorities align with United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Education/ Labor training practices Ethics/Code Product of Conduct safety Climate Financial change return Waste Energy Diversity Supporting and inclusion communities Health care & lifestyles Pollution Whistleblowing Human rights Water Biodiversity Importance to Eastman Board compensation Raw materials Fraud mitigation Matrix Key Leadership compensation Environmental Population Social growth/aging Governance Importance to Stakeholders Key: Sustainable Development Goals 10  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Goals Goals Scorecard and progress Steering a sustainable portfolio GOALS Growth: Deliver new business solutions from our world-class renewable technology platforms In addition to the transformational changes Progress: On track happening at Eastman on a corporate level, we are in Innovation: Ensure all innovation projects are the early stages of a transformational change in our assessed against sustainability macro trends sustainability efforts under the leadership of our CSO Progress: Needs improvement David Golden. With the relaunch of our Sustainability Council, we are driving a new strategic vision, which Driving resource productivity GOALS Energy: Reduce energy intensity by 20% by will help inspire new goals and programs. 2020eeds Progress: Needs improvement Greenhouse gas emissions: Reduce GHG intensity by 20% by 2020 While many of our priority focus areas will not change, we continuously evaluate the way in which we measure Progress: On track and report on those areas to ensure we are committing time and resources appropriately. One thing that hasn’t Water: Develop best practices for water conservation and reuse and assess manufacturing changed is our unyielding commitment to make a sites against these best practices measurable positive impact on our business, employees, customers, communities and the world. Our sustainability Progress: On track/in transition goals steer our efforts so we remain focused on the “big picture” targets of our strategy — areas where Safety: Maintain our strong commitment to a zero-incident culture we believe we can create the biggest change. As part of our Responsible Care® commitment to continual Progress: Needs improvement improvement, we review our goals regularly and establish targets that challenge us to move the horizon forward. Focused good for good This year, we continue to report on the aspirational Engagement: Engage globally in impactful GOALS goals and targets we’ve established as we look toward partnerships that elevate focus areas of the 2020 horizon. As we’ve achieved goals or shifted our Education, Environment, Empowerment, and strategic focus in line with our corporate strategy and Economic Development portfolio transformation, we have added and refined the Progress: On track goals to reflect our priorities. We removed goals achieved during our previous reporting period. We also note focus Health: Increase utilization of preventive health areas in transition with new long-term goals anticipated services by employees and spouses in North by 2018. America by 15% by 2017 Progress: Complete Innovating with purpose 11 Goals and progress | Steering a sustainable portfolio Steering a sustainable portfolio Goal Progress Progress details Deliver new business solutions from On track Delivering innovative products to meet unmet market needs is our world-class renewable technology imperative to our successful transformation to a specialty company. We platforms are increasing our focus on leveraging Eastman’s renewable technology platforms to deliver sustainable growth. Approximately 20% of our new products commercialized in 2016 and first half of 2017 are part of our renewable technology platforms. There are several additional products in the development pipeline that meet this criteria, as well. Steering a sustainable portfolio Ensure all innovation projects are Needs As we move forward with an increased focus on sustainable innovation, assessed against sustainability macro improvement we are driving early-stage consideration of macro trends into our trends innovation and stage gate processes. We are currently implementing a Portfolio Sustainability Assessment, which will position us to standardize and deepen our assessment process of all innovation projects. In 2016, we piloted the assessment tool with targeted projects to allow us to learn, review and adjust to make improvements to the approach. The Sustainable Portfolio subcouncil is responsible for driving the adoption and execution of the new Portfolio Sustainability Assessment. “ The solutions to the world’s most significant issues will come on the molecular level. And because we have the capabilities and unique technologies to deliver those solutions, we have an obligation to commercially provide them. We have an obligation to be more than a chemical company — we have an obligation to be an innovation company and a solution provider. Being at Eastman isn’t just about the bottom line. It’s about making a material difference and enhancing the quality of life. “ — Steve Crawford Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 12  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Driving resource productivity Goal Progress Progress details Improve energy efficiency of operations Needs Through 2016, energy intensity improved 10.1% compared by 20% by 2020 against the 2008 improvement to the 2008 baseline; year-over-year improvement compared to baseline 2015 was 2.6%. We emphasized improved correlation between production and energy use to offset headwinds due to Eastman’s strategic shift to specialty materials, which tend to be more energy intensive to manufacture. See the energy section for more progress details. Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions On track 2016 greenhouse gas intensity decreased 14% compared to the per unit of production (GHG intensity) by baseline. 2 20% by 2020 against the 2008 baseline1 Develop best practices for water On track/ In 2014, we established a goal to develop a water conservation strategy conservation and reuse and assess in transition for manufacturing sites in water-stressed regions by 2015. manufacturing sites against these After completing an initial assessment using the WBCSD Water Tool and best practices Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas in 2014, a cross-functional team surveyed eight of our manufacturing sites considered to be in potentially waterstressed areas. Of the eight sites, we identified no significant gaps, with each site reporting either no scarcity, limited water use, or plans currently in place to reduce water use. In 2016, we established a goal to develop best practices for water conservation and reuse and assess our manufacturing sites against these best practices. Eight North America sites completed assessments in 2016, with a target to complete all U.S.-based sites by the end of 2017. With the restructuring of Eastman’s energy management program to encompass natural resources more holistically and the relaunch of the Sustainability Council, we will continue to prioritize water management, conservation and reuse to determine long-term goals and strategy. See the water section for more progress details. Maintain our strong commitment to a Needs Since introducing the ALL IN FOR SAFETY initiative in 2012, we’ve zero-incident culture improvement changed how we discuss and approach safety at Eastman. While we are making progress, we recognize the need to continue efforts to meet our Note: While we have specific annual safety targets and accelerate our journey towards the ultimate goal of no targets for each safety metric reported, one getting hurt. In 2016, we focused our efforts on communicating our the ultimate goal is zero incidents vision: “Because we CARE, we CHOOSE to ACT, so everyone is SAFE.” Our from both a safety and environmental vision establishes why we choose to act in developing our zero-incident perspective. We will continue reporting culture and the expectation that our entire workforce actively cares. our efforts while emphasizing Eastman’s safety vision. Targets we continue to monitor and report: 2016 OSHA Injury and Illness Rate — 0.80 against target of 0.54 2016 Days Away from Work (DAW) Rate — 0.24 against target of 0.12 Process Safety Incidents as defined by American Chemistry Council in 2016 — 18 incidents against a target of 12 See the safety section for more progress details. Baselines have been adjusted to reflect the acquisition of Taminco businesses in December 2014. 1 Over the last three years, we converted four boilers at two of our domestic sites from coal to natural gas combustion. We plan to convert 2 two more boilers by the end of 2018 at our Kingsport, Tennessee, facility. The conversion from coal to natural gas at Kingsport is the most significant air pollution control project in Eastman’s history. The conversion will enhance our emission reduction efforts and help us in our effort to attain this goal. Innovating with purpose 13 Goals and progress | Driving resource productivity Driving resource productivity (continued) Goal Progress Progress details Reduce nitrogen oxide (NOx) by 20% On track 2016 NOx emissions decreased 7% compared to the baseline. 2 and sulfur dioxide (SO2) by 40% by 2020 2016 SO2 emissions decreased 37% compared to the baseline. 2 against the 2010 baseline Reduce Volatile Organic Compounds Needs 2016 VOC emissions decreased 8% compared to the baseline. (VOC) by 15% by 2020 against the 2010 improvement/ Eastman is evaluating other metrics that assess the company’s actions baseline in transition to protect and enhance air quality to provide greater visibility into the company’s emission reduction efforts. Reduce total number of reportable releases On track 2016 reportable releases decreased 23% compared to the baseline. by 25% by 2020 against the 2010 baseline Eastman has historically collected data for ACC Tier 1 process safety events as defined by RP-754. Starting January 2017, Eastman is now collecting data for process safety events that meet Tier 2 criteria (see page 29). Eastman continues to evaluate and prioritize metrics and processes to ensure we are focusing our efforts and resources appropriately to drive improvement and operational excellence. Reduce Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) Needs 2016 TRI air emissions decreased 9% compared to the baseline. 2 emissions to the air by 25% by 2020 improvement/ against the 2010 baseline1 in transition Eastman is evaluating other metrics that assess the company’s actions to protect and enhance air quality to provide greater visibility into the company’s emission reduction efforts. Reduce hazardous waste (indexed to Needs 2016 hazardous waste indexed to production increased compared to production) by 15% by 2020 against the improvement/ the baseline. 2010 baseline in transition Eastman is evaluating other metrics measuring the management of hazardous waste that provide greater visibility and transparency into how the company manages its waste and drives waste reduction. 1 Baselines have been adjusted to reflect the acquisition of our Taminco businesses in December 2014. Over the last three years, we converted four boilers at two of our domestic sites from coal to natural gas combustion. We plan to 2 convert two more boilers by the end of 2018 at our Kingsport, Tennessee, facility. The conversion from coal to natural gas at Kingsport is the most significant air pollution control project in Eastman’s history. The conversion will enhance our emission reduction efforts and help us in our effort to attain this goal. 14  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Focused good for good Goal Progress Progress details Increase utilization of preventive health Complete We have increased utilization of preventive health services in North services by employees and spouses in America by 19% against our currently stated goal. North America 15% by 2017 Through Eastman Wellness, we remind employees to take advantage of the Eastman health plan benefits with preventive services being covered at 100%. We also encourage employees to engage their personal physicians and Cigna health plan coaches. Additionally, we collaborate with local health service providers in communities where Eastman has a presence, to offer on-site services and screenings for our employees. Engage globally in impactful partnerships On track Education: Strategic partnerships between business and education that elevate help ensure we will have a successful workforce in the future. We will • Education continue to encourage innovative and productive thinking in crosscurriculum, real-world environments to enable students to excel. With • Environment a strong emphasis on STEAM education (science, technology, • Empowerment engineering, arts, and math), we continue to engage in strategic • Economic development partnerships to create a sustainable model for educational initiatives in site communities. One key example of progress in 2016 is Eastman’s launch of the inaugural ocean science capstone course for high school students and support of the National Ocean Science Bowl. Environment: The Eastman team works hard to minimize our environmental footprint by conserving natural resources, inventing more efficient production methods, and developing chemistries that use renewable raw materials. We strengthen partnerships, obtain insights and deliver solutions that help reduce our footprint, support the blue economy and improve the quantity and quality of food sources for our growing population. In 2016, we continued to strengthen our partnership with the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution as well as expand our network to deepen our understanding of the linkage between ocean and climate, including becoming a member of the Consortium for Ocean Leadership. Empowerment: We are committed to building an engaging and dynamic work environment with a mind-set of equality and inclusion that fosters creativity, innovation and camaraderie across our global company. With a focus on gender equity, we are launching a signature program to promote equality and parity across our workforce. Examples of progress in 2016 include Eastman’s support of Room to Read in India and advancing women in leadership in collaboration with Women Leaders in College Sports (formerly NACWAA). Economic development: We take our work seriously and believe that investing in communities builds trust, goodwill and long-term success for all. We support innovative and impactful economic development partnerships that directly benefit residents and improve quality of life. Examples of progress in 2016 include Eastman’s partnership with Appalachian Sustainable Development, Engineers without Borders and Clemson Engineers for Developing Countries. Innovating with purpose 15 Goals and progress | Data Energy and emissions data Total direct and indirect greenhouse NOx air emissions by weight Energy intensity gas emissions by weight (tons) (percent reduction) (GHG = lb CO 2 per lb of product sold) 0.86 0.90 0.88 0.87 11,452 10,922 10,300 8,677 2014 2015 2016 Goal 2014 2015 2016 Goal 2014 2015 2016 Goal SO2 air emissions by weight VOC air emissions by weight TRI air emissions by weight 20,270 (tons) 18,663 14,383 13,697 7.3 6.5 5.1 4.1 (tons) 7598 7865 7467 6378 (Mlb) 2014 2015 2016 Goal 2014 2015 2016 Goal 2014 2015 2016 Goal Reportable releases Hazardous waste (incidents) (kgs waste/kg production) 44 48 47 46 0.0064 0.0083 0.0074 0.0048 See eastman.com/sustainability 2014 2015 2016 Goal 2014 2015 2016 Goal for detailed charts. Safety data 0.63 0.64 0.80 0.54 0.17 0.17 0.24 0.12 11 23 18 12 OSHA injury and illness rate Days Away from Work (DAW) rate Process safety incidents (as defined by American Chemistry Council) 2014 2015 2016 Goal 2014 2015 2016 Goal 2014 2015 2016 Goal 16  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Steering a sustainable portfolio Key subhead macroabout trends topic drive product innovations to enhance quality of life and make a material difference.  17 Steering a Macro trends drive innovation. Macro trends Trend examples Product examples sustainable Health BPA-free Eastman Tritan™ copolyester portfolio and Reduced VOCs Microbial Eastman Tetrashield™ wellness resistance protective resin systems Phthalate-free Eastman 168™ nonphthalate plasticizer Global macro trends drive the strategy Eastman Omnia™ highperformance solvent and portfolio. Natural Lightweighting Saflex® Q series advanced Filtration acoustic interlayer resource Efficient Eastman Cyphrex™ efficiency manufacturing microfibers Sustainably sourced Eastman Naia™  Renewable raw ceullulosic yarn materials Eastman Treva™ Sustainability and sustainable material solutions are at engineering bioplastic the heart of Eastman’s innovation platforms and are a critical driver of the company’s accelerating innovation strategy. The world faces a number of issues tied to Emerging Higher quality V-KOOL® window film disruptive macro trends, and solutions to those issues can automobiles Llumar® window and paint middle be developed on the molecular level. To that end, we have Quality consumer protection film class products identified four key macro trends aligned to our corporate Eastman Tritan™ Odor-free copolyester strategy that we are leveraging to drive innovation: health and wellness, natural resource efficiency, emerging Avra™ performance fibers middle class, and feeding a growing population. We Saflex® head-up display (HUD) interlayer believe it is our responsibility to develop new molecules, technology products, and applications to address these trends — Eastman Impera™ solutions that make a material difference in everyday performance resins lives and enhance the quality of life around the world. Eastman Optifilm™ enhancer 300/400 We have substantively built our application development and market development capabilities so that when we are collaborating with our customers, we understand Feeding a Antibiotic-free Eastman organic acids their markets and technologies to enable us to be valued meats Choline chloride growing as preferred innovation partners. Feed preservation population Traceable feed ingredients Crop protection 18  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Macro trend spotlight: Health & wellness Eastman Tritan™ copolyester for medical devices With a focus on patient safety, today’s health care professionals Health and are more motivated than ever to prevent hospital acquired wellness infections (HAI). Reduced reimbursements for patients who are readmitted because of HAI provide even more motivation to use more effective disinfectants — and use them more often. In today’s health care, it is becoming more common to see medical devices that don’t work satisfactorily. They are unable to do their job — or fail prematurely — because of stress cracking or other defects resulting from exposure to disinfectants and other cleansers. A medical device only safeguards patients and saves lives if it works. Advantages of medical device housings made of Tritan include: • Bisphenol A (BPA) free • Excellent chemical resistance • Superior impact resistance and durability after disinfection, enabling  longer use over the device’s life cycle • Reduced downtime and repair costs for hospitals • Less noise in devices where sound reduction is valued • Halogen-free formulations “ At Eastman, our passion is to create enduring value for our customers and communities through material science and open collaboration. Sustainability is at the center of this passion and is “ at the core of our business strategies. — Erin Bernhardt Director, Strategy Insights & Analytics  19 Steering a sustainable portfolio | Natural resource efficiency Macro trend spotlight: Natural resource efficiency Natural Products made with Eastman’s cellulose technology are derived resource from wood pulp which is sustainably sourced from trees grown efficiency in responsibly managed forests. These products are also produced in a near-closed-loop process in the United States where waste is either recycled, reused, or offered for resale. With an 80year history rooted in science and innovation, our scientists transform this natural resource into versatile solutions that become successful commercial applications. We are continuing to tune our chemistries to meet the latest challenges. Eastman Treva™ engineering bioplastic Treva is a cellulose-based product that can offer both enhanced functionality and improved sustainability. It is chemically resistant and dimensionally stable and has excellent flow and low birefringence. In addition, it has the ability to enable reduced environmental impact, allowing for less material in use and creating durable products that will last longer. Eastman Naia™ cellulosic yarn Naia is a new cellulose-based yarn that offers an inherently soft feel and improved performance compared to other fibers. Third-party tests show Naia is twice as breathable as nylon and has the ability to wick away moisture seven times better than polyester. Solvents used in the production of Naia are recycled back into the system for reuse. Water used in our processes is routinely tested before returning it to source streams to ensure we are returning clean and safe water to the local river. “ Cellulose esters is a technology that extends way back in the Eastman history books, all the way back to the 1920s when Eastman began. Naia illustrates how we are constantly searching for new ways to innovate with our world-class technologies. We’re able to do that because we have some of the brightest scientific minds — women and men who not only understand our own technologies but also collaborate more closely than ever with customers so 20  that we can understand their needs and applications. “ —Jennifer Stewart Vice President, Corporate Innovation Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Macro trend spotlight: Emerging middle class Saflex® head-up display (HUD) interlayer technology Emerging Once reserved for fighter jets and luxury cars, HUD technology is middle finding its way into all sorts of vehicles. Traditionally, details such class as speed, time, and remaining fuel have been located on the dashboard requiring drivers to glance away from the road. HUD technology allows information that a driver needs to be projected onto a display area in the windshield. Thanks to advances in Saflex® polyvinyl butyral (PVB) interlayers — long known for bringing safety, security, improved acoustics and UV protection to laminated glass — HUD interlayers are made by a proprietary process that creates nonparallel surfaces to create a windscreen that provides optical correction, resulting in the highest quality projected image in the market. Advantages include: • Safety and security • Crash avoidance • Navigation • Comfort • Connectivity Innovating with purpose 21 Steering a sustainable portfolio | Feeding a growing population Macro trend spotlight: Feeding a growing population Eastman’s nutritional optimization portfolio Projections show that by the year 2050 the world population will Feeding a growing rise to nine billion. That’s a lot of mouths to feed. And it’s not population just a question of quantity; food quality is as important. Eastman is developing solutions for the animal nutrition industry that can address current issues and ultimately affect the quantity and quality of the end products that farmers offer. Our current portfolio includes solutions to combat some of the problems that can impact animals’ wellbeing, such as environment-induced stress, and allow delivery of better quality food products. We also offer solutions to assure feed hygiene, preventing the growth of Salmonella bacteria in animal feeds to prevent transmission from pigs and poultry into the human food chain. As far as quantity is concerned, we offer solutions to improve the performance of pigs and poultry, allowing farmers to obtain greater yields with less feed. We will continue to expand  our portfolio in animal gut health solutions and in feed preservation ingredients to improve feed conversion ratios and livestock conditions to  feed the growing population. While we are currently focusing our innovation efforts on these four key macro trends, we recognize there are a number of emerging trends and technologies that are becoming increasingly relevant to our businesses. Throughout 2017, we are expanding the way we consider macro trends and integrating sustainability-focused trend sensing into our innovation and business platforms. If innovation is the solution to meet the needs of a growing and changing world, we realize that we must continually look to the future and anticipate the needs of tomorrow. 22  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Steering Driving a sustainable resource portfolio productivity subhead about Demands topic water, for energy, and food continue to increase. We focus on what we can do today to be prepared to meet the needs of tomorrow.   23 23 Driving While Eastman has a long history of working safely, resource meeting compliance standards and operating productivity sustainably, we know today’s performance isn’t sufficient for tomorrow’s demands and today’s resources won’t sustain us into the future if we don’t The world faces complexity and challenges. do something differently now. This drives us to evolve our thinking and not We challenge ourselves to ask tough questions and realize only adapt but also better anticipate future we cannot simply maintain the status quo. We also issues and trends. recognize the growing nexus of energy, water, and food. Requirements for increased energy, potable water, and food will likely exacerbate the challenges in producing the requirements for our growing and developing world. How do we manage producing food without adding more challenges to our limited water sources? How can we provide energy to developing economies while balancing carbon emissions that will impact climate change? These are complex challenges that are even more complicated when we consider they are interrelated. As we address these growing demands, we focus on driving resource productivity through improved processes that protect the environment in the communities where we operate, as well as understanding the environmental impact of our products. We also recognize that there is a higher degree of interest from different stakeholders in the company’s strategy related to climate change. We realize the significance of climate change and the need to take action. We understand that even small actions can have lasting impacts. As we assess the long-term risks and opportunities relative to our business that climate change may represent, we are partnering with leaders in ocean science to better understand the ocean and its relation to climate change. We’ve established an environmental, social, and governance (ESG) council to monitor and manage these insights for the company. With an eye to the future, we’re building on a strong foundation of expertise, insight, and success. 24  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Energy In 2010, Eastman set an aspirational goal of 25% improvement in energy intensity in 10 years, with Energy efficiency. a baseline of 2008 — the year Eastman became an It’s only natural. ENERGY STAR® partner. As reported in 2014, Eastman’s Eastman is proud to be an ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year for the sixth year in a row for our commitment to natural resource management. Worldwide Energy Management team worked with the Department of Energy and the Oak Ridge and Lawrence Berkeley National Labs to develop a refined goal of 20% by 2020 that, while still an aspirational goal, takes into account our rich history of energy efficiency improvements. Through 2016, we’ve reduced energy intensity by 10.1%, making significant improvement of strategic shift to specialty materials, which tend to  2.6% year-over-year compared to 2015. be more energy intensive to manufacture. As a result,  While Eastman’s energy management program is the Kingsport site achieved a 2.8% improvement year global and encompasses a multitude of projects and over year. improvement efforts, in 2016 the team emphasized In 2016, Eastman’s Indian Orchard facility near performance improvement at Eastman’s largest site Springfield, Massachusetts, completed installation in Kingsport, Tennessee, which uses almost 50% of of a solar photovoltaic system with a total electrical the company’s energy. Data from 2015 indicated that generation capacity of 2.5 megawatts. The system progress at this site had stalled. Work was done to includes more than 7,500 individual solar panels and optimize the Combined Heat and Power system at the showcases state-of-the-art data monitoring capabilities. site. In addition, we engaged an external consultant The solar electricity generated is expected to produce to evaluate plans to improve system efficiencies. We approximately 5% of the site’s electricity demand. emphasized improved correlation between production and energy use to offset headwinds due to Eastman’s With the company’s increased focus on innovation, the energy team continues to implement innovative approaches to natural resource management, signified by the restructuring of Eastman’s energy management program in 2016 to become the global natural resource Two Eastman sites have achieved management program. The scope of the program now at least 10% energy intensity includes not only an increased focus on renewable reduction in less than five years, energy but further emphasis on water, recognizing the earning the ENERGY STAR® inextricable linkage between water and energy. Challenge for Industry recognition — Indian Orchard Operations For more details about Eastman’s award-winning in the U.S. and Ghent South energy management program, visit www.eastman.com/ Operations in Ghent, Belgium. ENERGYSTAR. Innovating with purpose 25 Sustainability strategy and goals | Corporate Responsibility | Environment “ We have a long history of responsible management of our resources. We operate sites that range from small facilities making one product to large, integrated facilities making hundreds of products every day. There is no onesize-fits-all solution for operating sustainably and driving continued improvement. It takes engagement and commitment at every level of the company to build a sustainability-minded culture and achieve long-term results. “ — Mark Cox Senior Vice President, Chief Manufacturing, Supply Chain and Engineering Officer Innovation highlight Eastman Tetrashield™ protective resin systems As much as 50% of the energy spent to build a car in assembly plants is consumed in the paint shop. Tetrashield can be formulated at higher solids levels while maintaining excellent application parameters, allowing formulators to offer original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) a coating with a more efficient film build, faster film drying, and ultimately, a more efficient coating process. In some applications, Tetrashield’s exceptional hardness and UV stability enable layer reduction, reducing energy usage and emissions while simultaneously increasing throughput and reducing cost. With Tetrashield, OEMs can coat more cars more efficiently and faster with less paint while using less energy, and staying compliant with environmental regulations. In addition, lab tests show that coatings formulated with Tetrashield reduce volatile organic compounds when compared to other coatings. 26  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Water At Eastman, our water strategies encompass both applicability in other regions of the world and determine conservation and reuse of water at our facilities as well a path forward for assessments for all global sites. as the impact of the ocean on our climate system. We The ocean covers more than 70% of the Earth’s surface have expanded the scope of our energy management and is the source of approximately 97% of the water program to include water and other natural resources. that eventually falls on land as precipitation. Because We established a goal to develop best practices for we understand that the ocean and ocean life are water conservation and reuse and assess manufacturing fundamental to our climate, atmospheric weather, sites against those best practices. In 2016, eight North food, and energy systems, Eastman and the Eastman America sites completed assessments, with a target to Foundation are partnering in innovative ways to help complete all U.S.-based sites by the end of 2017. A water develop, observe and measure ocean processes — and assessment pilot was conducted at Eastman’s Indian educating future generations about their importance. We Orchard operations in Springfield, Massachusetts — continue to collaborate with leading scientists at  leveraging insights from the site’s strong energy program the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI), the — to identify potential projects, develop a process world’s largest nonprofit oceanographic institution. for assessing opportunities, and identify knowledge gaps. The pilot also included training to enhance inThrough our corporate responsibility initiatives, Eastman house capabilities for study methodology. In 2017, we and WHOI launched the inaugural ocean science are evaluating and implementing the findings of that capstone course for high school students in Kingsport, study and have initiated a second study evaluating the Tennessee. Learn more on page 33. reduction of municipal water at the Kingsport facility. The Eastman Foundation continues to expand its support Looking to 2018, we will evaluate best practices for of ocean science through additional collaborations and strategic initiatives. Learn more on page 35. Innovation highlight Eastman Omnia™ high-performance solvent Omnia has an excellent safety profile that enables formulators and end users to comply with increasingly stringent regulatory and market demands. Omnia is also readily biodegradable and nonflammable, helping ensure the safety of people and the environment. • Meets California Environmental Protection • Listed with the highest rating (full  Agency Air Resource Board and United green circle) on the Safer Chemical  States Environmental Protection Agency Ingredients List exemptions for low vapor pressure VOCs for • Approved by EPA’s Safer Choice for  regulated consumer products use in products that may be directly  • Listed by GreenBlue® on its released to the environment,  CleanGredients® database bypassing sewage treatment Innovating with purpose 27 Driving resource productivity | Food and Safety Title and c Food As we learn more about the various organisms such as nematodes, Can we feed challenges facing the world, the fungi and insects, while also serving concern for crop land continues to 2.5 to control weeds and their seeds. build. We ask the question, “How billion more When carried out correctly, prior to can we feed 2.5 billion more people people by seeding or planting, soil disinfection by 2050 when there is no more open land left to cultivate?” A 2050? can create a favorable biotope that promotes healthy crop growth. This growing world population, emerging allows growers to start with a clean environmental concerns and long-term weather field, protecting the crops from a very early stage. variability have challenged the agriculture market Increasing yield from existing land requires more to develop innovative and targeted solutions that productive plants. Eastman continues to work to help ensure the success of crops and the land itself. develop new, sustainable crop-protection solutions, With the addition of the alkylamines stream to our which will be key components to achieving greater portfolio, we are developing effective products that yield with minimum crop loss. protect crops against soil-inhabiting plant pathogenic We view resources holistically, including not only energy, water and food but also our people. Because we care about the safety and wellness of our people, the sites and communities where we operate, and the environment, we set clear expectations and strive for a zero-incident culture — from both a safety and environmental perspective. 28  Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com — Person quoted redentials Safety At Eastman, safety is a core value — never a priority In December 2016, we introduced a new metric that is to be juggled with other priorities on a day-toand process related to injuries and near misses with day basis. We’ve worked hard to accelerate our journey increased focus on Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) and toward a zero-incident culture where the right behaviors Potential Serious Injury and Fatality (P-SIF) events to and attention to consistent processes drive the belief that raise awareness and identify areas of improvement to all workplace incidents and injuries are preventable. mitigate potential risk of serious injuries. The emphasis on collecting all events deemed a SIF or P-SIF in one central We introduced ALL IN FOR SAFETY database allows us to focus resources and efforts on the in 2012 to heighten our emphasis on most critical conditions and behaviors. The data about safety with our employees. Since that P-SIF events will enable a more proactive approach to our time, we’ve changed how we discuss and traditional efforts. approach safety. In 2015, we introduced the vision statement: Because we CARE, Although we have historically collected data and we CHOOSE to ACT so everyone is SAFE. The vision reported Tier 1 process safety events through our statement answers the question of why we make safe internal reporting systems, we are now collecting and choices and establishes the expectation that our entire reporting data for process safety events that meet Tier 2 workforce actively cares — about their own safety and criteria as defined by the American Petroleum Institute’s the safety of everyone around them — speaking up and Recommended Practice 754 (RP-754). By incorporating taking action when anyone identifies a safer way to work. Tier 2 events, we begin to evaluate leading process safety measures so that we can better understand In an effort to drive operational excellence and continue our and proactively address potential risks and areas of focus on reducing potential for injury or incident, we are improvement. now leveraging globally accepted industry practices to build on our current processes for capturing and reporting data Like our occupational safety processes, Eastman goes on injuries, near misses and process safety events. above and beyond to ensure we manufacture products that are safe for our employees to handle and for our customers to use. We also focus on innovating products with consumer safety in mind. Innovation highlight Eastman Impera™ performance resins As regulatory and safety standards increase, Eastman Impera™ performance resins can help tire brands deliver the desired balance of performance and safety without compromising the integrity of their manufacturing process. Impera tire additives help optimize wet grip and rolling resistance without compromising other key performance characteristics or processing. Adding even a small amount of Impera fine-tunes performance, potentially avoiding more significant formulation changes or even tire redesign. • Enhanced wet traction • Responsive handling • Improved balance of compound properties Innovating with purpose 29 Driving resource productivity | Inclusion and diversity Inclusion and diversity Eastman’s 14,000 employees worldwide use their unique skill sets to turn great ideas into materials that make a difference in everyday life. We support and encourage one another and believe that leveraging diversity in our thoughts and experiences allows us to excel in business. As we look ahead at the competitive pressures and innovation required for us to deliver, we must do all we can to enable everyone to contribute to their fullest potential and inspire talented people Catalysts: The Catalysts ERG focuses on the inclusion of to innovate and drive growth. women in achieving company goals that drive business results at Eastman. To build awareness and create change agents for inclusion and diversity, we continued Leadership Learning Labs in 2016. Graduates are charged with taking ownership in driving a more diverse and inclusive culture in our company and communities. In 2016, we launched three Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to accelerate progress in tapping into the full potential of traditionally underrepresented and other select groups across the company: Catalysts, Connect, and Equality. Each ERG is supported by an Executive Team sponsor and open to all employees, encouraging collaboration and innovation to Connect: The Connect ERG has a mission to facilitate the create sustained long-term value. Additionally, the ERGs inclusion of African American and Black team members in cultivate the professional development of employees achieving corporate objectives that drive innovation and through leadership, learning and development, mentoring, targeted business results at Eastman. and networking opportunities across the company and in local communities. Additional employee-driven ERGs are in the early stages of formation. Collaborations for change • American Indian Science and Engineering Society • DigiGirlz • Human Rights Campaign (HRC) • National Council for Women in Technology (NCWIT) • National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) Equality: The Equality ERG has a mission to enable • Paradigm for Parity® Eastman to be a company where lesbian, gay, bisexual, • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers and transgender (LGBT) employees and their allies are • Society of Women Engineers (SWE) visible, fully accepted, valued, and free to be authentic in • Tennessee Thrives all aspects of employment across the company. 30  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Focused good for good Eastman has a strong history of supporting communities around the world. We focus on the right projects in the right places with the right partners.  31 31 Focused We focus on catalytic and transformative projects good for good and initiatives with the greatest collective impact, combining our resources, expertise and influence to drive social innovation. We build and strengthen strategic At Eastman, corporate responsibility is partnerships and challenge ourselves to enable the most positive change through the lens of four priority areas — more than just philanthropy. It shapes education, environment, empowerment, and economic how we operate. We call it “good for development — concentrating our efforts on projects and partnerships that cross multiple priorities. good” because we truly believe in the power of doing good for the simple Education purpose of doing good in the world. We believe in creating educational opportunities that help prepare and inspire students to excel. By leveraging our resources and strategic initiatives, we can maximize the collective impact of educational initiatives focused on science, technology, engineering, arts, and math (STEAM). Environment We focus on initiatives that help promote and drive environmental awareness, environmental stewardship, and energy conservation. Our strategic community investments communicate our commitment to being a responsible steward of our natural resources. Empowerment We are committed to building an engaging and dynamic work environment with a mind-set of equality and inclusion. We understand that a diverse and inclusive workforce fosters creativity, innovation, and camaraderie. Up-to-date news about Eastman and Eastman Foundation’s work in education, environment, empowerment, and economic development is presented at responsibility.eastman.com. Economic development We support innovative and impactful economic development initiatives that directly benefit residents and improve quality of life. We leverage our resources to enable infrastructure efforts and purposefully use local and regionally owned businesses and talent as appropriate. 32  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Bringing ocean science to the classroom Through our ongoing  partnership with the Woods PHOTO: ROOM TO READ, VARUNCH AUDHURY Hole Oceanographic Institution and Dobyns-Bennett High School at the company’s global headquarters in Kingsport, Tennessee, students are being challenged to apply cross-disciplinary learnings to real-world issues and problems in a unique capstone course focused on ocean processes. By interacting with some of the world’s top ocean scientists on active research projects, students are exposed to experiences that will give them a competitive advantage while continuing their education and entering the workforce. Exposure to a capstone course in ocean processes is a unique experience for students, and PHOTO: ROOM TO READ,DANA SMILLIE Dobyns-Bennett is one of only a few select high schools in the United States offering such a program. The school also entered its first competitive team in the National Ocean Sciences Bowl — Regional Blue Heron Bowl  in Wilmington, North Carolina. The all-female team  finished in the top 5 out of 14 teams, competing  against North Carolina’s top performing high schools  Room to Read in math and science. Room to Read, a global nonprofit organization, envisions a world in which all children can pursue a quality education, reach their full potential and contribute to their communities and the world. Eastman shares that same philosophy. In 2016, we began supporting five school libraries in India — Delhi (2), Maharashtra (2), and Telangana (1). The libraries provide a child-friendly learning environment that enables children to develop the skills and habits of reading early in life, encouraging them to become life-long, independent, readers. Room to Read’s involvement includes ensuring  the school has a quality library with books in the children’s local language, as well as teachers/librarians who are trained in the best practices of library management. Ensuring that families, communities, and Dobyns-Bennett High School’s National Ocean Sciences Bowl team. governments are all engaged in the transformation of  the school and committed to its success is fundamental to the program. Innovating with purpose 33 Focused good for good | Transformative projects IDEAcademy In 2016, Eastman and East Tennessee State University’s College of Business and Technology launched IDEAcademy, a free leadership development series LIDANY ROUSE, ALL AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHY designed to bring TED-Talk style leadership training to our communities. The inaugural event featured entrepreneur and author Randi Zuckerberg. As founder and CEO of Zuckerberg Media, she shared her insights as a social media pioneer with audiences of community leaders, students and professionals. The event also boasted a dozen regional speakers, ranging from educators and business leaders to storytellers and innovative designers. Living better locally In partnership with Appalachian Sustainable Development (ASD), Eastman supports and promotes improved access to healthy, garden-grown foods and sustainable agriculture and forestry in areas of Tennessee and Virginia. With numerous programs in place, ASD empowers and educates multiple generations of community members and provides tools needed to fight poverty, revitalize communities, and protect natural resources. This includes a rural food hub, called Appalachian Harvest, that connects farmers to large wholesale markets and distributes local produce from Maryland to Georgia. Women in athletics When it comes to empowering women, Eastman and Women Leaders in College Sports (formerly the National Association of Collegiate Women Athletic Administrators) share the same philosophy. The nonprofit organization has 3,000 members nationwide and encourages the advancement of women through leadership education, networking and career guidance. Eastman collaborates with Women Leaders to effectively reach and empower women and girls to improve their well-being and future development. Since 1997, Eastman has played a major role in the Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame (WBHOF) in Knoxville, Tennessee. Over the years, the WBHOF has inducted more than 150 honorees and welcomes more than 100,000 visitors annually. When the WBHOF was built, Eastman played a major role in the creation of the life-sized sculpture that greets visitors as they walk in the door. The sculpture, depicting a player from the past, a present day player, and a young player representing the future of the game, is referred to as the Eastman statue and highlights the Hall of Fame’s commitment to honoring the past, celebrating the present, and promoting the future of women’s basketball. A smaller version of the sculpture is presented to each of the inductees. 34  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com Understanding the ocean that connects our world The Eastman Foundation joined forces with forward-thinking businesses, industry groups, scientists, governments and The Eastman Foundation serves ocean advocates to support the as a private charitable foundation 2017 World Ocean Summit. that supports initiatives that serve and strengthen communities The Foundation also sponsors the around the world. Directed by National Ocean Sciences Bowl board members who represent all competition, an interdisciplinary ocean science education program of the areas of the company, Eastman’s Consortium for Ocean Leadership based in Washington, DC. Chief Legal & Sustainability In December 2016, the Eastman Foundation approved a multiyear Officer serves as President of the commitment to support the establishment of a new Center at the Foundation, driving alignment Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) focused on observing, of the Foundation’s mission to understanding, and modeling the connection between the ocean and Eastman’s Corporate Responsibility the atmosphere. The energy, water, heat, and gases that the ocean efforts and focus areas. and atmosphere exchange drive the atmospheric circulation, weather, Over the past year, the Eastman and climate but remain some of the least-measured and most poorly Foundation has refined its approach represented components of our weather and climate models. This to philanthropy, strategically new Center will bring together world-class scientists, new technology investing in opportunities and development, and cutting-edge observational and modeling techniques partnerships that reflect its mission to drive understanding through increased public/private partnerships. of doing good for good. The It will also provide new educational initiatives aimed at producing Foundation’s approach extends the next generation of specialists prepared to lead the scientific beyond financial support and community in improving our ability to understand and predict our embraces opportunities that can global environment. truly impact our changing world. In 2016, Eastman and the Eastman Foundation provided funding and in-kind donations totaling approximately $3.2 million to support public/private partnership initiatives. The reach of Foundation efforts, however, extends far beyond dollars to include time, talents, and partnerships. Learn more at The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) focuses on observing, eastmanfoundation.com. understanding, and modeling the connection between the ocean and the atmosphere. Innovating with purpose 35 Scope of report Eastman’s 2017 sustainability report focuses on our progress and challenges Other reports of interest over the past year and includes quantitative data for the year ending December 31, 2016, unless otherwise noted. The report covers Eastman’s wholly owned operations, including Taminco businesses acquired in December 2014. We are committed to including information on newly acquired sites within three years of acquisition. This report follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 framework and meets requirements for the United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress. Based on our 2016 Annual Report: 2016 Databook: stakeholder mapping assessment, we identified the topics of significance and a world of innovation a world of innovation indicators that are most relevant to our internal and external stakeholders and their alignment to both our strategy and the SDGs. We also examined our 2016 Sustainability Report: business opportunities and risks and evaluated external trends related to our Leadership. Innovation. Leadership. Innovation. Impact. business. Impact. The data used in this report were collected through several information Sustainability Report 2016 Covering the period January–December 2015 management processes, including instrumentation, monitoring, sample collection and analysis, engineering estimates, material balances and other 2015 Sustainability methods. Eastman has rigorous internal policies and practices to ensure the Report: Gaining content of this report is accurate. Additionally, Eastman’s internal auditors momentum assess the information in conformance with standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors (U.S.). Internal auditors assessed the information contained in the report to ensure appropriate supporting documentation exists. Many 2014 Sustainability of the financial data included are taken from the consolidated financial Sustainability at Eastman Moving forward together Report: Moving forward together Sustainability Report, June 2014 statements contained in the Eastman 2016 Annual Report. Covering the period January–December 2013 2013 Sustainability Report: Positive progress 2011 Sustainability Report: Connecting science and sustainability 2009 Sustainability Report: Our sustainability journey 36  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Steering Global Reporting Initiative Content Index a sustainable This report aligns with the GRI G4 Guidelines. portfolio Eastman self-declares the 2016 report as “In Accordance-Core.” The information included also serves as Eastman’s Communication of Progress as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). subhead about topic  37 Global Reporting Initiative content index This report aligns with the GRI G4 Guidelines. Eastman self-declares the 2016 report as “In Accordance-Core.” The information included also serves as Eastman’s Communication of Progress as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-1 3, 6 Statement from the most senior decisionCEO message maker of the organization about relevance CSO message of sustainability to the organization and its strategy G4-2 10 Description of key impacts, risks and Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix opportunities 2016 10K report, part II, item 7 Organization profile G4-3 4 Company name Eastman at a glance G4-4 4 Principal brands, products, and services Eastman at a glance Eastman brands G4-5 4 Location of headquarters Kingsport, Tennessee, USA G4-6 Countries where the company is Locations established G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Eastman is a publicly traded company. Total shares outstanding as of December 31, 2016 was 146,488,924. 10K Report G4-8 4 Markets served with geographic Eastman at a glance breakdown Markets G4-9 4 Scale of organization Eastman at a glance 10K Report G4-10 52 Employment by contract type, work time 6 8 Appendix and gender G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by 6 8 Collective bargaining agreements cover 4% of collective bargaining agreements Eastman’s global workforce. G4-12 8 Organization’s supply chain Value chain G4-13 Significant changes in the reporting period 2016 10K report, part II, item 8 Note 2, acquisitions; Note 16, asset impairments and restructuring changes G4-14 Position regarding the precautionary Sustainability governance principle and its application 38  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-15 Adherence to charters, principles and other Responsible Care external initiatives Memberships Product safety G4-16 Membership of associations, including Memberships trade bodies Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 36 All entities included in the organization's Scope of report consolidated statements G4-18 36 Process for defining report content, aspect Scope of report boundardies and GRI principles G4-19 10 Material Aspects identified in the process Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix for defining report content G4-20 10 Boundaries of material aspect within the Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix organization G4-21 10 Boundaries of material aspect outside the Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix organization G4-22 10 Explanation of the consequences of any Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix changes in the boundaries of the report G4-23 10 Consequences of the changes in the scope Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix and aspect in the boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 8 Stakeholders group considered Stakeholder engagement G4-25 8 Basis for identification of stakeholders Stakeholder engagement G4-26 8 Approaches to dialogue with the Stakeholder engagement stakeholders G4-27 10 Stakeholders' concerns Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix Report profile G4-28 36 Reporting period for the information Scope of report provided G4-29 36 Date of most recent previous report Scope of report Innovating with purpose 39 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact persons David A. Golden, Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer, and Corporate Secretary sustain@eastman.com G4-32 37 Table identifying the location of the GRI index Standard disclosures in the report and External Assurance report G4-33 36 External validation Scope of report Governance G4-34 Governance structure Corporate Governance G4-35 Process for delegating authority for Corporate Governance economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 The positions with responsibility for Corporate Governance economic, environmental, and social topics report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37 Processes for consultation between 16 Corporate Governance stakeholders and the highest governance body of economic, environmental and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance 5, 16 Board of Directors body and its committees G4-39 The Chair of the highest governance body 16 Board of Directors is also an executive officer. G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for 5, 16 Corporate Governance the highest governance body and its committee G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body 16 Corporate Governance to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed G4-42 The highest governance body's and Corporate Governance senior executives' role in the development, approval, and updating of the organization's purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. 40  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-43 The measure taken to develop and Corporate Governance enhance the highest governance body's collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance Corporate Governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics G4-45 The highest governance body's role in 16 Corporate Governance the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 The highest governance body's role Sustainability Governance in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 The frequency of the highest governance Sustainability Governance body's review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-48 The highest committee or position Sustainability Governance that formally reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered G4-49 Process for communicating critical Corporate Governance Guidelines concerns to the highest governance body G4-51 The remuneration policies for the highest Corporate Governance Guidelines governance body and senior executives Proxy Statement G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are 16 Corporate Governance Guidelines sought and taken into account regarding Proxy Statement remuneration, including results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total This is considered business confidential. compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees in the same country Innovating with purpose 41 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase This is considered business confidential. in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees in the same country Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards 10 16 Values and norms of behavior such as codes of Code of Business Conduct conduct and code of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for 10 16 Code of Business Conduct seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior and matters related to organizational integrity such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for 10 16 Code of Business Conduct reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Economic G4-DMA 6 Economic performance 2016 10K report, Corporate Overview G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and 2, 5, 7, 2016 10K report, part II, item 8 distributed 8, 9 G4-EC2 52 Financial implications, risks and 13 Appendix opportunities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined 2016 10K report, part II, item 8, note 11 benefit plan obligations Benefits at Eastman G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from None government G4-DMA 6 Market presence 2016 10K report, Corporate Overview G4-EC6 52 Proportion of management hired from the Appendix local community at significant locations of operations 42  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-DMA Indirect economic impact Eastman corporate responsibility Eastman Foundation G4-EC7 52 Development and impacts of 2, 5, Appendix infrastructure investments and services 7, 9 supported G4-EC8 53 Significant indirect economic impacts, 8, 10, Appendix including extent of impacts 17 G4-DMA Procurement practice Suppliers G4-EC9 53 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 12 Appendix Environmental G4-DMA 53 Materials Appendix G4-EN1 53 Materials used by weight or volume Appendix G4-EN2 53 Percentage of materials used that are Appendix recycled input materials G4-DMA 25 Energy Energy ENERGY STAR® G4-EN3 54 Energy consumption within the 7, 8 7, 8, Appendix organization 12, 13 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the 8 7, 8, In 2016, Eastman used about 37 trillion Btu organization 12, 13 (40 million gigajoules) of indirect energy, in the form of purchased steam and electricity to produce our products. G4-EN5 25 Energy intensity 8 7, 8, Energy 12, 13 G4-EN6 25 Reduction of energy consumption 8, 9 7, 8, Energy 12, 13 G4-EN7 25 Reductions in energy requirements of 8, 9 7, 8, 11, Energy products and services 12, 13 G4-DMA 27 Water Water G4-EN8 54 Total water withdrawal by source 7, 8 6 Appendix Innovating with purpose 43 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-EN9 54 Water sources significantly affected by 8 6 Appendix withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water 8 6, 8, 12 Eastman recycles/reuses approximately recycled and reused 400 thousand megaliters of water per year. G4-DMA Biodiversity Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed Biodiversity in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of Biodiversity activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 8 6, 14, Biodiversity 15 G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and Biodiversity national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk G4-DMA 23 Emissions Driving resource productivity G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 7, 8 3, 12, Emissions (Scope 1) 13, 14, Our 2016 direct greenhouse gas emissions 15 using the ACC methodology were approximately 5.8 million metric tons. G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 3, 12, Emissions (Scope 2) 13, 14, Our 2016 indirect greenhouse gas 15 emissions using the ACC methodology were approximately 2 million metric tons. G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 3, 12, Emissions (Scope 3) 13, 14, 15 G4-EN18 13 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 8 13, 14, Emissions 15 Goals and progress Environmental performance G4-EN19 13 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 8, 9 13, 14, Emissions 15 44  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-EN20 54 Emissions of ozone-depleting substance 7, 8 3, 12 Appendix (ODS) G4-EN21 14, 16 NOx , SO2 , and other significant air 7, 8 3, 12, Goals and progress emissions 14, 15 Environmental performance G4-DMA 23 Effluents and waste Driving resource productivity G4-EN22 54 Total water discharge by quality and Appendix destination G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 8 3, 6, 12 Waste management method G4-EN24 14, 16 Total number and volume of significant 8 3, 6, Goals and progress spills 12, 14 Environmental performance G4-EN25 14, 16 Weight of transported, imported, Goals and progress exported, or treated waste deemed Environmental performance hazardous G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and Biodiversity biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization's discharges of water and runoff G4-DMA Products and services Life cycle assessment G4-EN27 23 Extent of impact mitigation of 7, 8, 9 6, 8, Driving resource productivity environmental impacts and services 12, 13, 14, 15 G4-DMA Compliance Appendix G4-EN29 54 Fines for noncompliance with 8 8,16 Appendix environmental regulation G4-DMA Transport Suppliers G4-EN30 54 Significant environmental impacts of 8 11, 13 Life cycle assessment transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization's operations and transporting members of the workforce Innovating with purpose 45 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-DMA Supplier environmental assessment Supplier excellence Together for Sustainability G4-EN31 Total environmental protection Environmental expenditures in 2016 including expenditures and investments by type construction, operating, development and mandated remediation was approximately $263.7 million. G4-DMA Environmental grievance mechanisms Code of Business Conduct Environmental policy G4-EN34 Number of grievances about The company and its facilities and businesses environmental impacts filed, addressed, are subject to complex environmental laws and resolved through formal grievance and regulations. From time to time, Eastman mechanisms and its operations are parties to, or targets of environmental investigations and proceedings that are handled in the ordinary course of business. Labor practices and decent work G4-DMA Employment Careers at Eastman G4-LA1 55 Total number and rates of new employee 6 5, 8 Appendix hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 8 Benefits at Eastman that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after 6 5, 8 We do not report in detail on the return to parental leave, by gender work and retention rate after parental leave by gender. G4-DMA Labor and management relations Careers at Eastman G4-LA4 55 Minimum notice periods regarding 3 8 Appendix operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements G4-DMA 29 Occupational health and safety Safety Benefits at Eastman G4-LA5 29 Percentage of total workforce represented 8 Safety in formal joint management/worker health Process safety and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 46  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-LA6 14 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 3, 8 Goals and progress days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-DMA Training and education Careers at Eastman G4-LA9 55 Average hours of training per year per 6 8 Appendix employee by gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and 8 Careers at Eastman lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular 6 5, 8 We do not report on the percentage of performance and career development employees receiving regular performance and reviews, by gender and by employee career development reviews, by gender and by category employee category. G4-DMA 30 Diversity and equal opportunity Inclusion and diversity G4-LA12 55 Indicator of diversity 6 5, 8 Appendix G4-DMA 30 Equal remuneration for women and men Inclusion and diversity G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 6 8, 10 Eastman establishes and administers women to men by employee category, by compensation based on business needs and significant locations of operation external market competitiveness without regard to gender. G4-DMA Supplier assessment for labor practices Supplier Code of Conduct G4-LA14 56 Percentage of new suppliers that were 5, 8, 16 Appendix screened using labor practices criteria G4-LA15 56 Significant actual and potential negative 8, 16 Appendix impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Human rights G4-DMA Investment Code of Business Conduct G4-HR1 56 Total number and percentage of significant 2 Appendix investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Innovating with purpose 47 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-HR2 56 Total hours of employee training on human 1 Appendix rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained G4-DMA Nondiscrimination Code of Business Conduct G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination Eastman does not publicly report the total and corrective action taken number of such incidents or any of their corrective actions. G4-DMA Freedom of association and collective Code of Business Conduct bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in 3 8 Eastman complies with all laws designed to which the right to exercise freedom of preserve the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining association and collective bargaining. Eastman may be violated or at significant risk, and has not identified any operation at which measures taken to support these rights those rights are at significant risk. G4-DMA Child labor Code of Business Conduct G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identfied as 5 8, 16 Code of Business Conduct having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor G4-DMA Forced or compulsory labor Code of Business Conduct G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as 4 8 Code of Business Conduct having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor G4-DMA Security practices Security G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in 1 16 Security the organization's human rights policies G4-DMA Indigenous rights Code of Business Conduct G4-HR8 Total number and percentage of operations 1 As of December 2016, no incidents of that have been subject to human rights violations involving the rights of indigenous reviews or impact assessment peoples were known to the company. G4-DMA Supplier human rights assessment Supplier Code of Conduct G4-HR10 56 Percentage of new suppliers that were 2 Appendix screened using human rights criteria 48  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative 2 Eastman is not aware of any significant human rights impacts in the supply chain impacts in our supply chain with respect to and actions taken the environment, labor, human rights, or societal issues that occurred in 2016. G4-DMA Human rights grievance mechanisms Code of Business Conduct G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights Eastman does not publicly report the total impacts filed, addressed, and resolved number of such incidents or any of their through formal grievance mechanisms corrective actions. Society G4-DMA Local communities Corporate responsibility G4-SO1 56 Percentage of operations with 1 Appendix implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-DMA Anticorruption Code of Business Conduct G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations 10 16 Eastman conducts an annual risk assessment assessed for risks related to corruption and of 100% of our businesses, which includes the significant risks identified risks relating to corruption. G4-SO4 Communication and training on 10 16 In addition to our Code of Business Conduct, anticorruption policies and procedures Eastman has internal policies that include training on anticorruption. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 10 16 Where any incident of corruption was actions taken identified, appropriate disciplinary action was taken in conformance with applicable laws. In addition, Eastman has internal policies that include training on anticorruption. G4-DMA Public policy Corporate governance G4-SO6 57 Total value of political contributions by 10 16 Appendix country and recipient/beneficiary G4-DMA Anticompetitive behavior Code of Business Conduct G4-SO7 57 Total number of legal actions for Appendix anticompetitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Innovating with purpose 49 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-DMA Compliance Corporate governance G4-SO8 57 Monetary value of significant fines and 16 Appendix total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations G4-DMA Supplier assessment for impacts on society Third Party Code of Conduct Together for Sustainability G4-SO9 57 Percentage of new suppliers that were Appendix screened using environment, labor, human rights, impacts on society criteria G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative We do not report in detail on the negative impacts on environment, labor, human impact on society determined during supplier rights, or society in the suppy chain and evaluation. We give details on the areas in actions taken which corrective measures were defined. Product responsibility G4-DMA Customer health and safety Product safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and Life cycle assessment service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-DMA Product and service labeling Product safety G4-PR3 Type of product and service information 12 Product safety required by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 57 Total number of incidents of 16 Appendix noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 58 Results of surveys measuring customer Appendix satisfaction G4-PR6 58 Sale of banned or disputed products Appendix 50  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2017 Answer G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of Eastman is unaware of any significant fines in noncompliance with regulations and 2016 concerning marketing communications. voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship G4-DMA Customer privacy Third Party Code of Conduct G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Eastman is unaware of any complaints and breaches of customer privacy and regarding breaches of customer privacy or loss losses of customer data of customer data in 2016. G4-DMA Compliance 2016 10K report, part I, item 1, page 19 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for 16 Eastman is unaware of any significant fines in noncompliance with laws and regulations 2016 concerning the provision and use of our concerning the provision and use of products and services. products and services Innovating with purpose 51 Global Reporting Initiative appendix G4-10 • Employment by contract type, work time and for extreme exposures represent potential opportunities. The company gender has diversified product offerings, serves broad markets and regions and attempts to mitigate our exposure to swings in energy and raw Total Employment Employment material prices. These diversified product offerings and diversified Workforce Type Contract Region customer base mitigate potential commercial impact to Eastman. Full-time: Permanent North 97.3% Contract: America: Eastman complies with current regulations of GHG emissions in 95.5% 73% those countries where GHGs are regulated with minimal financial Part-time: Temporary Europe, impact. Proposed legislation and regulations are evaluated and the 14,388 2.7% Contract: Middle East employees as 4.5% and Africa: impact on Eastman is estimated. We engage policymakers directly and of December 15% through trade associations with the objective that any climate change 31, 2016 Asia Pacific: legislation or regulation enacted will not have an adverse impact on 9% the economy or create a competitive disadvantage. Latin America: 3% G4-EC6 • Proportion of management hired from the local community at significant locations of operations Eastman has a large geographic footprint within the U.S. and globally. G4-EC2 • Financial implications, risks and Talent strategies are developed to align with business strategy to attract, opportunities due to climate change acquire and retain talent. Talent is sourced proactively and reactively at Chemical manufacturing by its very nature is energy intense and can the local, regional, national and international levels. Although a majority result in substantial carbon emissions. While Eastman’s operations are of talent is acquired at the local level, we as a company do relocate well energy intense, its use of combined heat and power at its two largest over 100 new hires globally each year to Eastman facilities to begin sites uses up to 40% less fuel, produces significantly fewer emissions their employment with the organization. and therefore has less impact on air quality. Eastman’s use of cogeneration therefore helps reduce the carbon emissions that would Eastman uses a number of different approaches for identifying talent otherwise be required to operate these facilities. Eastman is no more for the organization. Some of the more effective methods are social at risk from climate change regulation than other energy-intensive media, employee referrals, career fairs, visitors to Eastman.com, and industries. Regulatory constraints on carbon emissions can impact the job postings. The company then puts the candidates through a rigorous development of new processes and facilities for Eastman, as well as selection process to assess their level of capability, competencies and our customers and suppliers. alignment with the organizational vision and culture. Emission standards or uncertainty about future standards may delay investments by our customers and, as a result, impact our future G4-EC7 • Development and impacts of infrastructure business opportunities. The direct impact of controlling CO2 emissions investments and services supported from electric power generation may impact the cost of electric Eastman Foundation board members represent all areas of the power supplied to Eastman manufacturing facilities, our customers company. Eastman and the Eastman Foundation provided funding and our suppliers. On the other hand, climate change may represent and in-kind donations totaling approximately $3.2 million in 2016 to opportunities for Eastman with regard to the development and use support public/private partnership initiatives focused on our corporate of materials that enable or enhance efforts to mitigate or adapt responsibility focus areas of education, environment, empowerment, to the effects of climate change. For example, use of window films and economic development. Eastman employees are afforded to enhance energy efficiency, use of interlayers in window glass to opportunities and encouraged to be good corporate citizens by provide strength for storm resistance, and development of coatings participating in volunteer opportunities in their respective communities. 52  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com In 2016, Eastman employees contributed approximately 100,000 hours provides approximately 50% of the steam and electricity for site of volunteer service to a variety of community efforts. Based on current manufacturing from coal to natural gas combustion. reporting mechanisms; not representative of all global sites. G4-EN2 • Percentage of materials used that are G4-EC8 • Significant indirect economic impacts, recycled input materials including extent of impacts Eastman manufactures a large number of products, most of Eastman’s educational and workforce development efforts create which are sold as feedstocks for our downstream customers. With significant indirect economic impacts to our site communities. integrated manufacturing streams, internal recycling of materials and We partner with the Center for Advanced Film Manufacturing developing value-up opportunities for coproduct streams are critical in Martinsville, Virginia, to deliver skills training in advanced film to minimizing waste and maximizing value creation. Opportunities production. Similarly, Eastman partners with the Regional Center for to purchase materials with recycled content are limited due to our Advanced Manufacturing in Kingsport, Tennessee, to develop and vertical integration to basic commodity raw materials and currently equip the 21st century manufacturing workforce. Our commitment represent a relatively small percentage of total purchases. However, to public/private partnerships in the areas of education, environment, Eastman is committed to value added recycling and has many economic development, and empowerment all encourage innovative examples of the use of recycled material including: and productive thinking to create positive change in our site • Recycled acid: Eastman purchases recycled acid for use as communities and around the world. an internal feedstock or for resale as a feedstock to other manufacturers. G4-EC9 • Proportion of spending on local suppliers • Recycled Saflex®: Eastman assets associated with Saflex Eastman’s policy is to procure products and services based on total production recover waste Saflex sheets in the U.S. and European value for the company. Factors that Eastman considers when making regions through a toll agreement with Soca. purchasing decisions include competitive pricing, quality of work • Catalyst recycling program: When possible, Eastman replaces and materials, timely and trustworthy performance. Procurement spent catalysts with fresh catalysts, both of which contain varying strategies are continuously being developed and implemented to amounts of precious metals. As the spent catalyst becomes provide assurance of sources for goods and services necessary to available, the material is sent to catalyst refiners who extract the the company’s operations. Procurement strategies may include the precious metals from the spent material for reuse in the production development of a local supply based on business needs. of fresh catalysts. This recycling program helps reduce the amount of precious metals mined to satisfy global demand. G4-EN1 • Materials used by weight or volume • Other purchased materials made with recycled materials include Eastman is an integrated manufacturing company, purchasing basic drums (steel, plastic, and fiber), bulk boxes, plastic liners and plastic feedstocks to feed three primary streams: olefins, polyesters and and steel pails. In addition to purchasing feedstocks with recycled acetyls. Basic raw materials include ethane/propane for the olefin content, our Special Materials Team oversees the sale of Eastman’s stream, paraxylene for polyesters, and coal as a major building block waste streams to manufacturers who recover and convert these for acetyls. These building block materials are processed through materials into useful products. various downstream processes to yield products that are sold as finished goods. In 2016, major raw materials purchased, including feedstocks and materials consumed as fuel, were nearly 56.5 million tons. Eastman is beginning to implement and, in the future, will look to use fuel sources with lower emissions. At our Kingsport, Tennessee, facility, we have begun converting a powerhouse that Innovating with purpose 53 Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) G4-EN3 • Energy consumption within the organization G4-EN22 • Total water discharge by quality and Eastman used about 101 trillion Btu (107 million gigajoules) in 2016 destination to produce products. About 53% of this direct energy was produced Eastman discharges process wastewater in accordance with applicable from purchased natural gas and coal, and about 20% was recovered permits, licenses and agreements. The wastewater is either treated in fuel from feedstock. Eastman currently meets essentially all steam Eastman-owned treatment facilities and discharged directly to surface and more than 85% of our global electricity needs with cogeneration, waters, or it is treated in Eastman-owned pretreatment facilities and which uses up to 40% less fuel, produces significantly fewer emissions conveyed to third-party providers (utilities, municipalities, etc.) for and therefore has less impact on air quality. As a result, our direct additional treatment and/or discharge, or it is conveyed directly to energy consumption is 63% of our total energy consumption. third-party providers (utilities, municipalities, etc.) for treatment and/ or discharge. G4-EN8 • Total water withdrawal by source For Eastman facilities, the majority of water for manufacturing use G4-EN29 • Fines for noncompliance with consists of withdrawals from adjacent surface waters. Purchases of environmental regulations water from utilities, third parties and groundwater withdrawal account Eastman uses an internal reporting mechanism to ensure that all fines for a less significant portion of total use. An estimated 705 thousand and penalties associated with noncompliance with environmental laws megaliters (ML) of water was withdrawn, purchased or pumped in and regulations are captured in one place. This system applies globally 2016, and greater than 90% of that water is returned to the source. and includes all fines and penalties of any size. For 2016, the company The primary use of the water is for noncontact cooling. is not aware of any nonmonetary sanctions that should be reported. The company paid $85,493 in 2016 for fines and penalties, which does not include amounts paid for supplemental environmental projects. G4-EN9 • Water sources significantly affected by The company spent $91,045 in supplemental environmental projects withdrawal of water in 2016. These expenditures may have included projects for pollution Eastman’s withdrawals do not significantly affect any water source. prevention, support of local emergency response providers, education Comprehensive river studies conducted by the Academy of Natural activities and similar projects that could benefit public welfare and the Sciences of Drexel University, formerly known as the Philadelphia environment. Academy of Natural Sciences at our largest manufacturing facilities in Kingsport, Tennessee, and Longview, Texas, confirm that these rivers provide thriving habitats for wildlife communities. G4-EN20 • Emissions of Ozone-depleting Substances (ODS) Eastman has a written policy that requires all Eastman facilities, subsidiaries and majority-owned joint ventures that operate equipment containing ozone-depleting substances to develop and maintain an inventory of all ODS equipment including an identification of the equipment and type and quantity of refrigerant. 54  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com G4-LA1 • Total number and rates of new employee G4-LA9 • Average hours of training per year per hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and employee by gender and by employee category region Employee category Hours Attrition Attrition Attrition by by Gender by Age Region Professional/Management 24 Male Less than North America: Nonexempt (nonoperations) 13 employees: 9.4% 30 years: 10.8% 10.0% Nonexempt (operations) 70 Female 30 to 50 years: Europe, Middle East employees: 11.4% 6.5% and Africa: 8.4% Technicians/technologists 22 Greater than 50 Asia Pacific: Average 44 years: 14.4% 12.5% Latin America: 7.9% GA-LA12 • Indicator of diversity Hires Hires Hires Gender Age Ethnicity* by Gender by Age by Region Male: 75.3% Less than Minority: 12% Male Less than North America: 30 years: 12.7% employees: 6.3% 30 years: 26.1% 5.6% Female: 24.7% 30 to 50 years: White: 88% Female 30 to 50 years: Europe, Middle East 51.0% employees: 6.7% 5.3% and Africa: 5.5% Greater than 50 Greater than 50 Asia Pacific: years: 36.2% years: 1.0% 13.6% *U.S. population only – self reported Latin America: 8.5% G4-LA14 • Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria G4-LA4 • Minimum notice periods regarding We do not report on the percentage of new suppliers screened using operational changes, including whether these are labor practices criteria because these data are not available. We report specified in collective agreements on the procedure used for assessment. We send our suppliers our In the event of operational changes that involve a change in staffing third-party Code of Business Conduct which includes our expectations levels or otherwise affects employment, the company engages in regarding labor practices, human rights, etc. significant planning to ensure affected employees are treated with the utmost respect and dignity. Labor, as well as employment law requirements, including but not limited to reasonable employee notice G4-LA15 • Significant actual and potential negative of job loss, and requirements under collective bargaining agreements impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and are carefully assessed in every global location. actions taken We do not report in detail on the negative impact on labor practices determined during supplier assessment. We give details on the areas in which corrective measures were defined. Innovating with purpose 55 Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) G4-HR1 • Total number and percentage of significant G4-HR10 • Percentage of new suppliers that were investment agreements and contracts that include screened using human rights criteria human rights clauses or that underwent human rights We provide our third-party Code of Business Conduct to our suppliers, screening which defines our expectations for conducting business with Eastman. Eastman has an established process within our Corporate We desire the same ethical behavior of our suppliers and hold them Development organization that prescreens potential mergers and accountable by annual supplier surveys. acquisitions against criteria with respect to all three dimensions of sustainability — economic, environmental and societal. Eastman is G4-SO1 • Percentage of operations with implemented committed to conducting business activities in accordance with the local community engagment, impact assessments, highest legal and ethical standards. To that end, Eastman’s Code of and development programs Business Conduct includes provisions against child labor, forced labor, Eastman involves Community Advisory Panels (CAPs) at all of our fraud, and discrimination, among others. These same expectations are largest global operating sites. Our panels’ objective is to provide assessed as part of Eastman’s due diligence process on any potential citizens living in site communities with the opportunity to open investment. dialogue with company leaders. As a Responsible Care® company, we also operate a Care Line phone number at company headquarters G4-HR2 • Total hours of employee training on human that community members can call for inquiries. We have a global rights policies or procedures concerning aspects compliance line that provides a confidential way for employees of human rights that are relevant to operations, and others to ask questions about Eastman policies as well as seek including the percentage of employees trained guidance or report concerns that may involve illegal activity or any Each year, 100% of regular full-time and part-time, limited term and other violations of the Company’s Code of Business Conduct. In Eastman-paid employees worldwide are required to complete online addition, Eastman facilitates community engagement efforts at all  training, which is comprised of a single course on the Eastman Code of its global sites, via site managers, HR managers, and public affairs Business Conduct as well as additional courses that focus on specific team members. topics within the Code. These additional courses may be assigned by managers to their employees based on job relevancy, development, or for other reasons. On average, employees receive between five and eight hours of training through this system. New employees receive training on the Eastman Code of Business Conduct, which governs our human rights policy. 56  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 Contents | GRI Index | eastman.com G4-SO6 • Total value of political contributions by G4-SO7 • Total number of legal actions for country and recipient/beneficiary anticompetitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly Eligible U.S. employees may contribute voluntarily to EastmanPAC, practices and their outcomes the Political Action Committee of Eastman. The Advisory Council of Any legal actions that are material for anticompetitive behavior, EastmanPAC approves an annual budget proposed by the company’s antitrust or monopoly practices would be disclosed in Eastman’s director of government relations. The Advisory Council meets annually filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and all such and is made up of employees from U.S. sites, as well as at-large actions would generally be a matter of public record. company representatives. EastmanPAC supports candidates who: • Support business friendly laws and regulations G4-SO8 • Monetary value of significant fines and total • Represent a state/district where an Eastman facility is located number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations • Are members of key committees Any fines or nonmonetary sanctions regulations that are material for • Hold a leadership position within Congress or a state legislature noncompliance with laws and would be disclosed in Eastman’s filings In 2016, EastmanPAC contributed $188,750 to state and federal with the Securities and Exchange Commission and all such fines and candidates in the U.S. No political contributions are made to entities sanctions would generally be a matter of public record. outside the U.S. Eastman works with an outside vendor to file all reports and to make sure all contributions comply with state and G4-SO9 • Percentage of new suppliers that were federal campaign finance regulations. All of EastmanPAC’s Federal screened using environmental, labor, human rights, Election Commission (FEC) filings are available online at www.fec. and impacts on society criteria gov. State disclosure reports are also available by visiting the state We do not report on the percentage of new suppliers screened using campaign finance websites in Alabama, California, Massachusetts, criteria for impacts on society because these data are not available. Tennessee and Texas. In states where the law allows corporate We report on the procedure used for assessment. We send our contributions, Eastman supports state candidates. Corporate suppliers our third-party Code of Business Conduct which includes our contributions to state candidates in Louisiana, Tennessee and expectations regarding labor practices, human rights, etc. Virginia totaled $39,250 in 2016. The federal government requires all registered lobbyists to report personal campaign contributions semiannually. Each year, Eastman employees who meet the G4-PR4 • Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning requirements file the necessary reports. These reports are available product and service information and labeling, by type online at http://lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/. Eastman’s political of outcomes activity policies and guidelines are located on its website: Eastman All of our product safety data sheets and labeling comply with Political Activity. regulatory requirements for hazard communication in all countries and regions. In 2016, we implemented the Globally Harmonized System for Classification and Labeling (GHS) process to define, classify and communicate chemical hazard and safety information for all of our products. Innovating with purpose 57 Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) G4-PR5 • Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction At Eastman, quality is at the core of our success. It is an important part of our legacy, culture, and brand. We strive to run all processes reliably and to the desired targets while avoiding the costs of poor quality. Eastman team members are committed to doing it right the first time, every time. Customer satisfaction is a core principle to our quality processes. We strive to meet all customer requirements with Eastman’s products and services. We get feedback from customers through a variety of sources, including customer service representatives located within the customer’s respective region, customer visits and audits, customer complaints, etc. Eastman has a world-class customer complaint handling system that ensures proper investigation of all complaints using skilled investigators. Where required by customers, Eastman processes meet or exceed certification requirements from external registrars, including ISO 9001. For more on Eastman’s quality program, visit www.eastman.com. G4-PR6 • Sale of banned or disputed products Marketing materials in all formats originate in the business organizations and are reviewed by attorneys and experts in Global Product Stewardship and Regulatory Affairs within Eastman’s Law Department. The team carefully reviews the content of the marketing materials to ensure compliance with applicable advertising laws and regulations as well as Eastman’s Code of Business Conduct. When necessary, reviewers seek input from fellow Eastman experts or thirdparty consultants. 58  Eastman Sustainability Report 2017 page intentionally left blank Eastman Corporate Headquarters P.O. Box 431 Kingsport, TN 37662-5280 U.S.A. U.S.A. and Canada, 800-EASTMAN (800-327-8626) Other Locations, +(1) 423-229-2000 www.eastman.com/locations © 2017 Eastman. Eastman brands referenced herein are trademarks  of Eastman or one of its subsidiaries or are being used under license. The ® symbol denotes registered trademark status in the U.S.; marks may also be registered internationally. Non-Eastman brands referenced herein are trademarks of their respective owners. EMN-ST-5074 7/17
