Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 We create solutions to unlock energy safely and sustainably for future generations. Index Page 2 Corporate Responsibility Report CEO Introduction Introduction to Corporate Responsibility People are the Key to Our Success Health, Safety and Security Integrity is Pride and Effort Environment Supply Chain Management Society About the Report Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index CEO Introduction Page 3 Aker Solutions Strives to be a Model Global Citizen Our first priority is the safety and health of our employees. We also seek to ensure that we operate in a sustainable manner that benefits the environment and communities where we are present. Back to index CEO Introduction Page 4 We continuously work to find ways to reduce the industry’s environmental footprint. We took major steps last year in becoming an even more Our technology serves to improve our customers’ environmental performance streamlined and effective business. This includes introducing a and we have reduced our own energy use and carbon emissions. We last year new organizational setup to replace our business area structure carried out the world’s first test project for carbon capture at Norway’s largest with five delivery centers: Customer Management, Front End, waste-to-energy plant, successfully re¬moving 90 percent of the CO2 from waste Products, Projects and Services. Together these centers reflect burned to create energy. Our carbon capture, utilization and storage technology is the company’s workflow from early engagement with customers an important tool in reducing emissions and curtailing global warming. to project execution and through to life-of-field services. The We have been members of the UN Global Compact since 2008 and remain new setup will simplify how we operate, enabling leaner workcommitted to its principles and to responsible and sustainable business practices. flows and greater synergies. We also expect it to contribute to a We strive for good corporate governance, including protecting health, safety and significant lift in our standardization efforts and further speed up human and labor rights, fair treatment and equal opportunity. We have zero tolerance our global program, #thejourney, which targets an improvement for corruption and continuously work to improve our anti-corruption program. in cost-efficiency of at least 30 percent by the end of 2017. It is We make these commitments and work to fulfil them because this is our expected to facilitate a growth of our services organization and respon­sibility as a company and because we over time have seen business benefits the pursuit of a more international business. in many areas of our operations brought about by proactive management of sustain­ While the global oil and gas market remains challenging, ability risks. We engage with the communities where we operate, including last we have delivered strongly and consistently to customers year in Brazil and India where we took part in initiatives to promote knowledge and across all regions and locations. We are pushing ahead in education. Our employees also participated in numerous charitable activities across pursuit of our vision to be a leader in driving the sustainable most of our locations. development of our industry. Tragically we lost three employees and a contractor in a helicopter crash off the west coast of Norway in April last year. As a company we immediately mobilized our support functions to help the next of kin and employees affected by the accident. We also supported investigations by the Norwegian authorities and operator Statoil to determine the cause of the accident and prevent such a tragedy from happening again. I also want to address the challenges and uncertainty that have taken a hold of our industry. In a market that remains challenging, many of our valued colleagues had to leave the company. We have worked with unions and staff to make the process as fair and transparent as possible. We don’t take these decisions lightly, but we have to be prepared for these challenging times to continLuis Araujo ue and do what is necessary to safeguard our company and future jobs. Chief Executive Officer Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 5 Introduction to Corporate Responsibility To us, corporate responsibility (CR) is about proactive and precautionary business decisions that reflect responsibility, integrity and sustainability. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 6 To ensure that our CR work is relevant to those affected, the company conducted Charters and Memberships a materiality assessment in 2015. Through dialogues with internal and external Aker Solutions is a member of the UN Global Compact, the stakeholders we decided that People, Integrity, the Environment and our world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, and remains Societies should be the main focus of our CR work. committed to its 10 principles. This report is our annual These focus areas are important for several reasons. Taking care of our Communication on Progress (COP). The company is also a people is sound business because we need them to continuously develop, improve and innovate. Our code of conduct and business integrity policies are the foundations of our drive to uphold the highest levels of integrity and avoid Aker Solutions is a member of becom­ing involved in unethical or illegal behavior. We strive to minimize harm to the environment by providing environmentally sound technology for our own and the UN Global Compact, our customers’ activities. We recognize our responsibility to positively impact and the world’s largest corporate strive to ensure that societies benefit from our operations. sustainability initiative Governance The board of directors has the overall responsibility for overseeing and safe­ guarding management of the company’s CR work. The Corporate Business member of Trace International, an international organization Integrity and Compliance team assesses, maintains and reports on CR. With promoting trans­parency and anti-corruption, and participates in the new organizational setup, the company’s delivery centers are responsible informal compliance forums with other Norwegian companies. for implementing, monitoring and reporting on the company’s CR work. Each of Aker Solutions reports and communicates on corporate our locations is responsible for ensuring compliance with local legal CR requireresponsibility based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ments. For a description of the company’s new organizational set-up and delivery framework. The report has been prepared in accordance with centers, see the 2016 annual report. the GRI G4 core level guidelines. Strategy Stakeholders Aker Solutions’ global CR strategy for 2013-2017 sets out our vision and goals. It Aker Solutions uses dialogue with stakeholders to ensure that was developed based on an assessment of sustainability risks and communication our CR efforts are relevant to our context, market and strategy, with internal and external stakeholders. The strategy provides a detailed while also meeting internal and external expectations and inforframework with clear objectives for the direction and ambition of our CR activities. mation needs. The strategy will be revisited in 2017 to ensure alignment with Aker Solutions’ new Our stakeholders are or can be affected by Aker Solutions. organizational setup as well as stakeholder needs and expectations. We interact with investors, customers, suppliers, governments Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 7 and national authorities, banks, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and industry groups, owners, employees, collaborative partners and the like through a variety of channels. Such channels include management meetings, seminars and workshops, customer meetings, quarterly presentations, investor meetings, articles and interactive blogs on the company’s intranet, feedback from training courses as well as dialogue with customers, including structured feedback on our health, safety and environment (HSE) performance after project completion. In 2015 we conducted a materiality assessment where we met and interviewed customer and supplier representatives, investors, government officials, and representatives from non-governmental and industry organizations. Within the company, representatives from our corporate and global offices took part in an internal workshop. A digital survey was also sent to employees. Participants were selected based on ongoing dialogues, previous CR reports and a similar effort in 2011. In these dialogues, the company’s priorities, CR strategy and focus areas were presented to and validated by our stakeholders. The output from the meetings helped us better understand our stakeholders’ information needs, interest in and influence on our business and corporate responsibility work. The output from the 2015 process was also used as a basis to determine the scope and content of this year’s report. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 8 People are the Key to Our Success Attracting, developing and retaining highly skilled and motivated employees globally is key to Aker Solutions’ success. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 9 The company has a diverse workforce, which it seeks to develop and motivate Respecting Human and Labor Rights through world-class competency, career development and leadership excellence. Aker Solutions respects and supports internationally accepted Our ‘people’ focus builds on a strong culture recognized by adaptability, compehuman and labor rights principles. The company also tency and cooperation. understands that a global organization like ours can risk being drawn into human or labor rights violations. We consider the risk Safeguarding Diversity and Equal Opportunity of direct involvement in such infringements to be low; however, Aker Solutions is committed to non-discrimination and equal opportunity, indirect involvement in violations could be a risk due to the size of regardless of gender, nationality or other factors. Approximately 20 percent of our supply chain. our employees are women, due to historical reasons and industry traditions. We seek to reach the desired balance in our workforce through clear requirements for diversity in recruitment, development of individuals and programs supporting equal Our people focus builds on opportunity, as stated in our people policy. There are about 80 nationalities in our workforce, giving us a broad range of a strong culture recognized skills and insights to benefit our customers and business, which strengthens us in an increasingly competitive global environment. by adaptability, competency In the recent reorganization, we paid extra attention to ensuring diversity of and cooperation gender and nationality in the new leadership structure. Diversity and nationality were some of several selection criteria that were used when filling new positions. We believe this will benefit our operations and is directly linked to our strategy of Our Code of Conduct, Business Integrity Policy and UN Global strengthening our global presence. We value diversity of thought and perspective Compact membership underpin our respect and support and believe that actively placing women and a variety of nationalities in key positions for inter­national standards such as the UN Declaration and benefits the entire organization. As reported last year, the company established a Conventions on Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Diversity Council in 2015; however, the implementation of the initiative was postMultinational Enterprises, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental poned due to the reorganization. The initiative is currently being reevaluated. Principles and Rights at Work and the UK Modern Slavery Act. Aker Solutions is strongly committed to equal opportunity and enabling local We also adhere to the Voluntary Principles on Security and staff to move into management. This is mandatory in some places under rules for Human Rights. local content and promoting job creation for nationals. Local management teams Our commitment to these fundamental rights is also actively seek to promote, build and retain local talent, ensuring legal compliance addressed in the Global Framework Agreement between and securing long-term operations. The company is also a partner of Global Aker ASA and the Norwegian and international trade unions Future, a program focused on increasing cross-cultural competence in companies Fellesforbundet, IndustriALL Global Union, NITO and Tekna and supporting highly skilled staff with multicultural backgrounds. dating from 2008. This agreement was renewed in 2012 for an Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 10 indeterminate duration if not cancelled or renegotiated, and focuses specifically on standards for general employment terms, employee relations, non-discrimination, health and safety practices, the prohibition of child and forced labor, and the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Like our supplier declaration and other internal measures, this agreement demands similar standards in our supply chain. We continuously take steps to ensure that human and labor rights violations, including slavery and human trafficking, do not take place in our supply chain or in any other part of our business. In 2016, we enhanced our screening of human rights infringements in our supply chain through additional qualification requirements and background screening of all our suppliers. We initiated the development of a model on how to assess, reduce and report on risks related to such infringements in our supply chain. We expect an increased focus on these issues due to the UK Modern Slavery Act and a general increase in customer focus on the subject. No human rights grievances against the company were filed through formal channels in 2016. Leadership, Talent and Performance Revised leadership principles were introduced in November 2015 and these have been further implemented during 2016. The purpose of the leadership principles is to set the standards for current and future leadership and ensure consistency for every manager in the Aker Solutions system. This is a prerequisite for driving change and achieving our vision of leading the way to a sustainable future for our industry and the world it serves. A leadership program was also launched where the program participants went through an individual assessment based on the leadership principles. 169 leaders were assessed by their team members, manager, peers and others, which meant that several hundred people were directly or indirectly exposed to the revised leadership principles. Building a strong, rewarding and diverse career at Aker Solutions is an important part of what attracts talented employees to our company. We are an international organization with a strong Norwegian heritage. We actively Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 11 welcome diversity of thought and perspective and encourage innovative and personal data, with a team of data protection officers super­vising creative thinking. We take pride in identifying and developing talent across the and supporting its efforts. Focus has been on internal control organization, providing challenging projects and opportunities for our people and establishment of procedures for achieving and maintaining to excel. Talent management through calibrated talent review sessions is a key compliance with EU legislation and the BCR. Going forward, component of ensuring transparency and fairness in our talent development. Aker Solutions will focus on necessary technical and organizational Frequent performance and coaching conversations between managers adjustments in order to achieve compliance with new data proand employees ensure that we all strive for common goals, accelerate performance tection legislation coming into effect in May 2018. and help people grow and develop. The dialogue process is mandatory for all office personnel and recommended for all other personnel. A review of the process Employee Turnover was initiated in November 2016, aiming for further simplification and a stronger 2016 was another challenging year for Aker Solutions. To orientation towards performance improvement and developing our people. enhance effectiveness, establish a leaner organizational structure and adjust capacity at some locations, we were forced Rewarding Hard Work to reduce the global workforce by 20 percent (8.5% if adjusted Aker Solutions offers professional development, worldwide career opportunities, for the acquisition of C.S.E. Mecânica e Instrumentação Ltda). competitive pay and benefits, and a healthy work-life balance. The global voluntary workforce turnover averaged 6.2 Talent is our greatest asset. We want everyone on our team to feel challenged percent in 2016 compared to 5.2 percent in 2015. One possible and fulfilled. The company seeks to build ‘win-win’ relationships by nurturing the skills explanation for the increase is people seeking opportunities in and careers of our employees so they can strengthen us as a company. We also want other industries at a time of uncertainty in our own sector. our employees to reap professional and economic benefits for meeting business targets Staff notice periods range from one to 24 weeks and performance goals, as reflected in our reward system. depending on location and length of service. Our practices In 2016, the company continued to review and strengthen its reward gover­ towards people who leave or are given notice aim to ensure that nance and process. We also strengthened our global reward team to make sure they depart with dignity and a positive view of the company. remuneration for employees was consistent, fair and based on regional and global standards. We worked to embed a commercial and compliant approach to manEmployee Representation aging reward and maximizing the return in our people. We have also seen posiGood industrial relations are an important part of Aker Solutions’ tive impacts on the organizational culture such as securing a more standardized, history and culture. We encourage employee representation in objective and transparent process. our business units worldwide. This is also part of our commitment to human and labor rights. Employees have the right to Protecting Personal Data be heard, represented and to form and join trade unions of their As a Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) approved corporation, Aker Solutions takes data own choice. Employee representatives provide employees with protection seriously. We have established an organization dedicated to protecting influence and lines of communication through participation in Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 12 working committees, on the board of directors, and in operational improvement and organizational change projects. During 2016, union representatives in Norway had regular meetings with management both on a regional and local level, in addition to more regulatory discussions in accordance with union agreements with the company. The Global Works Council, which has replaced the previous European Works Council, held a meeting in October where Aker Solutions’ top management and employee representatives from various countries participated, including observers from our Brazilian and Indian operations. The experience of replacing the European council with a global one has been positive and useful for both management and employee representatives. The plan is to include Malaysia in the council in 2017. Key Staff Figures The company has seen a continuous reduction in its workforce since 2014, a trend that continued in 2016. Locations in Norway, the United Kingdom, the United States and Malaysia have experienced the most significant adjustments for both office and non-office personnel. While the company’s strategy of international growth has to some extent led to fewer employees based in Norway, the main reasons are the challenging oil and gas market and our drive to improve cost efficiency by at least 30 percent in our internal improvement project, #thejourney. During these processes, the company has worked systematically and in cooperation with employee representatives and unions to ensure that the resizing processes have been fair and transparent. Our workforce grew in Africa due to ongoing execution and delivery of projects such as Kaombo and Moho. Our Brazilian workforce also increased after the acquisition of C.S.E. Mecânica e Instrumentação Ltda, which also explains the increase in non-office workers in the following charts. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 13 Key Staff Figures Key Staff Figures 2016* 2015 2014 (1) Total staff 16,177 17,673 20,974 2) Own employees office 8,726 10,898 12,218 2) Own employees non-office 5,659 4,497 4,476 Contract staff 1,792 2,278 4,280 % own employees 88.9% 87.1% 79.6% % external contracts 11.1% 12.9% 20.4% Own office employees % 60.7% 70.8 % 73.2% Non-office employees % 39.3% 29.2% 26.8% % Norway of total own employees 40.6% 48.8% 49.1% Own employees 14,385 15,395 16,694 North America 534 868 923 Brazil (including C.S.E. Mecânica e Instrumentação Ltda) 3,313 1,378 1,485 Africa 216 187 157 Asia Pacific 2,623 2,994 3,595 Europe (excl. Norway and UK) 2 112 127 UK 1,858 2,348 2,216 Norway 5,839 7,508 8,191 Age groups, own employees <30 15.5% 19.5% 22.6% 30-50 61.3% 59.6% 57.8% >50 23.2% 20.9% 19.6% Part Time Own employees Part time own employees Norway 0.9% 0.8% 0.9% Part time own employees UK 2.2% 1.8% 1.4% Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 14 Key Staff Figures Continued Key staff figures 2016* 2015 2014 (1) Recruited 2) Own employees office 360 689 1,464 2) Own employees non office 590 847 517 Age Groups Recruited <30 27.5% 37.6% 41.5% 30-50 49.4% 49.7% 52.4% >50 23.2% 12.8% 6.1% 3) Turnover 6.2% 5.2% 6.2% Gender Distribution % female 2) Own employees office 26.4% 26.5% 26.6% 2) Own employees non-office 3.5% 3.6% 3.2% Total own female employees 19.6% 19.9% 20.9% 2) Own female leaders % 22.4% 22.3% 21.8% *Included in “Total staff” and “Own employees” data are figures from the Brazilian C.S.E. Mecânica e Instrumentação Ltda, which was acquired December 2016. 1. The 2014 figures in this table are estimated to reflect Aker Solutions and exclude numbers from demerged Akastor 2. Regular and temporary employed on our payroll (judicially employed) 3. Regular employed (voluntary resignations) Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 15 Parental Leave Own Regular Employees* Parental Leave Own Regular Employees* Employees taking parental leave in 2015 Employees taking parental leave in 2014 Norway Female Male Total Female Male Total Employees taking parental leave 119 141 260 144 233 377 % still employed in Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended** 60.5% 76.5% 69.2% 88.2% 89.3% 88.9% UK Employees taking parental leave 28 34 62 25 52 77 % still employed in Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended** 67.9% 85.3% 77.4% 84.0 % 94.2% 90.9% Malaysia Employees taking parental leave 48 167 215 46 138 184 % still employed in Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended** 83.3% 92.2% 90.2% 76.1 % 83.3% 81.5% >50 India Employees taking parental leave 19 13 32 21 75 96 % still employed in Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended ** 100% 92.3% 96.9% 90.5% 86.7% 87.5% *This table shows employees who took parental leave in 2015 and who were employed by Aker Solutions 12 months after the parental leave ended. **Percent still employed by Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended. These figures have been affected by redundancies in 2016. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 16 Targets and Initiatives for 2017 The main ambition for Human Resources (HR) is to attract, develop, motivate and retain the most respected workforce in the industry. During 2016, we worked toward goals set for the year. We progressed in efforts to deliver operational excellence through initiatives such as the #thejourney. We also implemented talent management processes for leadership roles, an initiative that will be expanded to other employee groups in 2017. However, we did not reach all the goals set for the year because some were long term and because focus shifted to implementing the re-organization. We have set the following targets for the next three years: B  uild career paths and training programs that fulfill employee development and serve business needs R  einforce a culture of accountable leaders who develop their people, embrace change and continuously improve  stablish highly automated, digitalized and fit for purpose E processes and systems E  nsure workforce planning that supports the Aker Solutions strategy with regards to competence, flexibility, cost profile and geography We implemented a talent E  stablish and develop a dynamic and progressive HR team management processes for that is passionate about adding business value, people`s welfare and continuous improvement leadership roles, an initiative A key priority for 2017 is to implement the corporate reorganizathat will be expanded to other tion that took effect in November 2016. The two focus areas for employee groups in 2017 this effort are: Establishment of a global competency and talent management system for all locations Leadership development and performance management Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 17 Health, Safety and Security Safe operations are at the core of our values and our value proposition to customers. Each and every accident can and should be prevented. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 18 We work hard to ensure that employees and others working on our behalf can Zero Incident Mindset return home safely. The company often engages in work under challenging conAker Solutions has a zero incident mindset, and believes all ditions, making it imperative to maintain the safety of employees and customers, incidents can be prevented. subcontractors, consultants and other parties. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy reinforces our goal of protecting the health, safety and human rights of the 2016 2015 2014 workforce. Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF), including sub0.3 0.5 0.3 contractors Entrenching a Safety Culture Total Recordable Incident Frequency (TRIF), including 1.3 1.3 1.2 Aker Solutions’ Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy states that we strive subcontractors constantly and consistently to reach our zero incident goal. The foundation for this Fatalities, including subcontractors 4 1 0 continuous diligence is the company’s Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) management system, based on our Operating System. This ensures that executive management is focused on HSSE performance and that all Delivery Regrettably, we suffered four fatalities in 2016. Friday, April 29, Centers (DC) set HSSE initiatives and goals for the coming year. Statoil informed us that a helicopter had crashed near Turøy The global Just Care™ program launched in 2005 engages with employees island off the western Norway city of Bergen. The helicopter through a simple message: Taking personal responsibility for health, safety and was on its way from the Statoil-operated Gullfaks B field in the security underpins our Just Care™ culture, and, in the coming year, all employNorth Sea to Bergen Airport Flesland when the main rotor head ees, including senior management, are expected to upload their personal HSSE (MRH) and mast abruptly detached from the helicopter. All 13 commitment to a global intranet page. Through the newly initiated Personal Safety people on board perished, including four who were working for Initiative (PSI) program, a proactive and dialogue-based tool, personal involvement Aker Solutions; three of our staff and a subcontractor employee in day-to-day workplace safety will be further enhanced. who was assigned to us. All levels of the emergency response HSSE mindset is one of our key values. We believe that this is an important teams were notified, mobilized and acted in accordance with contributor in our work to reduce the number of serious incidents. In 2017 a global established plans and procedures. HSSE Mindset Program will be launched at all production units. Each unit is to run In January 2016, one employee’s finger was trapped by four workshops on topics that have been chosen based on reported incidents and moving parts on a Subsea Control Module as he was operating a risk. Participating groups are expected to agree on common key areas for how to paddle valve, causing an open fracture of the finger. The employee achieve improvements within their own area of responsibility. was back at work after one day of sick leave. The incident was All our products are developed based on international standards and reinvestigated, and several actions were implemented, including the quirements for health and safety. invention of a remote-control paddle tool and training relevant personnel in its use. A safety warning saying ‘tool use only’ was also Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 19 added to the valve housing. In addition, a new and updated risk assessment form has been added to the pre-planning checklist for this type of operation. Our Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) is slightly lower for 2016 compared to the previous year. The Total Recordable Incident Frequency (TRIF) remains stable. For 2016 we had a goal of LTIF of less than 0.3 and a TRIF of under 1.2. The LTIF was on target, while the TRIF was nearly there. Most of the personal injuries were caused by hand and finger injuries through the use of tools or manual handling of materials and equipment. Some injuries are also caused by incorrect working positions and ‘slip, trip and fall to the same level’ accidents. Aker Solutions did not face any significant fines or sanctions in 2016 for non-compliance with health and safety regulations. Nor was the company fined or sanctioned for any health and safety violations involving its products and services. This year, we will maintain a strong focus on preventing incidents, and believe that initiating mindset programs and following up Just Rules with planned inspections will help reduce the number of incidents. New Safety Indicators For the years to come, Aker Solutions has introduced a set of new key performance indicators (KPIs) for the safety sector. In 2017, we will focus on the number of ‘Zero Incident’ days, counting days without a recordable injury, work related illness, environmental spills or near misses companywide. We will also introduce a KPI for Serious Incident Frequency (SIF) throughout the company in 2017 to help prevent serious incidents. The main goal is to learn from incidents, near misses and high-risk situations and behavior. Certain types of work account for many of the serious incidents in our industry. To target those incidents directly, the company focuses on Just Rules, a companywide safety program to prevent injuries and save lives. Just Rules was introduced in 2008, and was revised in 2014 to reflect changes in the company risk profile. In 2015/16 a Just Rules compliance scheme was added, and in 2017 we are planning to initiate a system of Just Rules inspections. A new KPI measuring these inspections is also being introduced. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 20 Knowledge Sharing and Monitoring clients and assets are a major priority for Aker Solutions. There All employees have access to HSSE information and documents through a variety of is a joint effort by the industry to ensure that security threats online libraries, our HSSE eLearning courses, and all of our incident registrations in the are adequately managed and the risk reduced. Aker Solutions Synergi database. In addition, the HSSE Community enables professional discus­sions, actively contributes to these improvements in several networks information and document sharing, as well as internal networking and resource sharing, of security professionals. Since cultural awareness is the creating a complete learning package that is available throughout the company. corner­stone of any security operation, the company adheres During the second half of 2016, Aker Solutions underwent a major reorgani­ to the international voluntary principles on security and huzation, which kicked off a renewed focus on global tools and processes, and created an opportunity for streamlining HSSE systems and tools to assure a cost-effective, risk-based approach. Work on planning an improved HSSE reporting tool started in 2016, and will continue in 2017. The goal is a more user-friendly system that allows Aker Solutions opened a Global better sharing of and learning from incidents across the organization. Security Operations Center which HSSE Management of Suppliers and Subcontractors improves response capabilities HSSE focus and commitment by our suppliers is an ongoing challenge. We have seen some serious HSSE incidents and near misses resulting in, or could have resulted in, physical injury and medical treatment of personnel at our suppliers’ man rights, and has included this as part of the review process premises, and therefore see the need for better control of pre-emptive and reactive for security risk assessments at most locations. The compaHSSE measures at our vendors. Our effort to improve internal coordination of HSSE ny opened a Global Security Operations Center in the third efforts toward our suppliers will be transformed from ad-hoc activities to a riskquarter of 2016, monitoring a number of locations worldwide based proactive program for developing supplier HSE. and improving response capabilities for incidents. Research On November 1, 2016, responsibility for HSSE in Supply Chain formally became and develop­ment on the use of technical security is a major part of the new organizational structure, with Supply Chain and HSSE working together contributor to cost-efficiency improvement processes. Securion developing new systems and processes. Our ‘eyes on the ground’ staff, working ty incidents in 2016 included armed robbery, burglaries, theft, in Supplier Quality Surveillance, will be able to identify risks, potential problems, and fraud and threats. Several international incidents also triggered oppor­tunities for improvement. These insights will help develop a risk-based approach responses and preventive measures. to HSSE improvements through supplier accreditation and development. Emergency Preparedness and Response Security Improvements in emergency preparedness continued in 2016 As the global security environment becomes more volatile, identifying and analyzwith an emphasis on more training and exercises. Keeping ing security threats and implementing appropriate measures to protect employees, strategic crisis management and methodology for emergencies Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 21 updated is a continual and dynamic process. The tactical and operational organization has proven their capabilities during emergency responses, with several local mobilizations in 2016. Continued Focus on Employee Health and Sick Leave Follow-up The company’s commitment to the health, safety and well-being of its employees means that our attention is not only directed towards sick leave. We are in the process of promoting a number of preventive measures to help every employee enjoy a healthier work environment and personal lifestyle. The sick leave rate for Aker Solutions remained at 2.8 percent, the same level as the previous year. The highest sick leave rates (4.4 percent) are found at our locations on the west coast in Norway, an area that has been hardest hit by the downturn in the oil and gas market. Our efforts to reduce sick leave never cease, and in Norway, many of the initiatives are led by Aker Care. 2016 2015 2014 Sick leave rate (%) 2.8 2.8 2.6 Aker Care The company’s health care service was fully operational in Region Norway throughout 2016, providing more than 23,000 individual consultations through occupational health, personal health and health promotion services. Aker Solutions owns and manages Aker Care, while healthcare provider AktiMed Norge AS is unAker Solutions promotes der contract to supply most services. Aker Care also provides health care services a number of preventive to most companies in the Aker portfolio. Aker Care served approximately 8,200 employees at Norwegian health centers at measures to help every Fornebu, Egersund, Stavanger, Sandsli, Ågotnes and Trondheim, with satellite offices employee enjoy a healthier at Tranby and Moss and visiting services for our facilities in Kristiansund, Sandnessjøen and Tromsø. work environment and lifestyle Occupational Health Services provided both risk based individual health assessments and management support through systematic health and safety mapping Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 22 and advice, accident and sick leave prevention, as well as monitoring the physical Risk Assessment form now includes some preliminary questions and psychosocial work environment. Significant contributions have been made on health. Furthermore, a standard for medical fitness (Fit for to reduce sick leave at several locations in close cooperation with HR and Travel exam), similar to the one for offshore certification, has management by continuously improving our routines on sick-leave follow up. In recently been developed for those traveling to countries with high addition, our healthcare personnel have guided and supported employees and or extreme medical risk (as defined by International SOS). A “Fit for company management during difficult lay-off processes throughout 2016. Travel” certification (which is valid for two years) will be mandatory Personal Health Services, with physicians, nurses, physiotherapists for those visiting such risk countries. and psychologists, provided convenient and quick consultations for those with health issues that needed medical attention. According to our Customer Targets and Initiatives for 2017 Satisfaction Surveys, employees are still very pleased with the many services The most important goal is to continue our journey towards our delivered. A very successful skin cancer screening in May resulted in close to vision of zero incidents. To get there, our 2017 target is to reduce 400 examinations, with some employees being referred to specialists. our lagging health and safety indicators by 20% compared to Health Promotion Services focused on identifying and mitigating health 2016. This gives a target of an LTIF of under 0.24, a TRIF of under risks, such as stress and unhealthy lifestyles. Approximately 1,000 health 1.04 and a sick leave rate below 2.24 percent. profile tests were performed and followed up with professional advice and Our targets are outlined in our HSSE plan, where we structured exercise classes. Furthermore, our health promoters held numerous set long-term goals for Health, Safety, Security & Emergency lectures and courses on healthy nutrition. To promote physical activity at response, and Environment, and a strategy for 2015-2017 on work, Aker Care organized a “take the stairs” campaign in the fall at all major how to reach these goals. In Q4 2016 we also initiated a process locations in Norway. of analyzing the upcoming HSSE risks and challenges for 2017, Aker Solutions reorganized its global HSSE function toward the end of and made a set of concretized internal projects to mitigate the 2016 and, as a first initiative, local health providers outside Norway are to be risks, and improve areas with the most important challenges. mapped and their services harmonized to ensure high quality delivery. New These activities cover a broad range, including streamlining global standards on prohibited substances and travel health were drafted and HSSE systems and tools, focusing on personal HSSE will be implemented shortly. involvement, and further developing a strong security culture. These plans for 2017 are in line with the overall health Travel Risk Assessment and safety goals set in the Corporate Responsibility Strategy Traveling to or staying in locations with poor sanitation and exposure to foreign 2013-2017. microorganisms undoubtedly increases risk of catching a contagious disease. There is also the risk of exacerbating an existing personal health problem while traveling in areas with a low standard of health care. To mitigate these risks and avoid unnecessary incidents of personal health problems while abroad, the Travel Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 23 Integrity is Pride and Effort Aker Solutions takes great pride and effort in upholding our integrity standards. We are present in several markets associated with high integrity risks and the company continuously works to ensure that our business reflects the highest integrity, everywhere and always. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 24 Anti-corruption Compliance Program Our anti-corruption compliance program is our main tool for ensuring that our business is conducted in a transparent and honest manner. The program has been implemented at all our locations globally and consists of components that together aim to reduce the risk of becoming involved in unethical or illegal incidents. Aker Solutions’ Code of Conduct is the company’s key governing document. It addresses important principles and sets clear rules and expectations for behavior and ethical standards. The Code of Conduct is supported by the Business Integrity Policy, which defines responsibilities for ensuring and implementing our integrity principles and procedures across our global organization. Both our Code of Conduct and Business Integrity Policy were updated in 2016 to reflect the company’s new organizational structure and to meet new requirements from Aker ASA. The anti-corruption compliance framework was further strengthened in 2016 with the issuance of new and updated policies and procedures. As our business evolves, the compliance framework needs to be continuously updated and developed. Among other things, an updated business partner qualification and integrity due diligence procedure was issued to ensure a transparent selection and approval of business partners. A companywide gifts and hospitality register and reporting template for conflict of interest situations were launched and Our anti-corruption implemented. The reorganization of the company also necessitated the complete update of the anti-corruption compliance policy framework. compliance program is our Throughout 2016, all business units focused on following up and closing issues that were identified in a companywide business integrity self-assessment main tool for ensuring that conducted in the fourth quarter of 2015. Progress and results are reported to the our business is conducted company’s audit committee on a quarterly basis. Compliance audits in several of our locations have been performed to verify status and level of implementation. in a transparent and During the audits, a large number of improvement initiatives were identified and honest manner followed up immediately by increasing awareness initiatives, issuing new training material, strengthening our internal processes, involving management, and anchoring and delegating the responsibility for compliance at the local level. By Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 25 year-end, 70% of the improvement initiatives were improved and closed. working and the number of cases are in line with the benchmark In 2016, neither Aker Solutions nor any employee faced legal action related for companies our size. There were 101 reports in 2016, down to corruption, nor were contracts with partners terminated or allowed to lapse due from 116 reports in 2015 and 112 in 2014. About half the reports to violations related to corruption. No legal actions were brought against us for concern employee relations and human resources issues. When anti-competitive, anti-trust behavior or monopoly violations. a report is substantiated, responses can range from internal communication and policy updates to warnings and dismissals. Project Screening The company maintains a ‘lessons learned’ database to share Aker Solutions’ presence in many countries worldwide combined with global tender experience within the organization. The company also has an activities requires a proactive approach and assessment of potential prospects ethics helpline for questions or concerns. The helpline is open to in markets associated with high integrity risks. The assessments are performed all employees at ethics@akersolutions.com. on regular intervals throughout the year prior to any commitments being made. Based on the results of the assessments, the company may decide not to bid Training and Awareness for the potential prospects if the risks are deemed too high. The process aims Continuous focus and awareness on compliance and business to avoid participation in activities considered unethical or illegal. As part of the integrity is important to ensuring that our employees know how process, the risk for corruption, human or labor rights infringements, negative to react and respond if they find themselves in a difficult situation. publicity or environmental damage is assessed. The company performed 97 Although our anti-corruption compliance program, policies and project assessments in 2016 compared with 57 in 2015 and 30 in 2014. A separate procedures are applicable globally, we place importance on corporate risk committee evaluates any project seen as having an extraordinary risk. interacting with employees on the ground to ensure that their local context is considered in our communication and training Reporting Concerns material. This is to ensure that expectations to business conduct Aker Solutions’ whistleblowing channel is open to anyone who wants to report a are understood within the context that the training is conducted. concern, breaches of the Code of Conduct, other internal policies, or laws and Personnel have been assigned responsibility for implementing our regulations. Reports can be made openly or anonymously and are handled by the anti-corruption compliance program at several of our locations. Corporate Business Integrity and Compliance department. This also allows for more frequent interactions and discussions A new web-based whistleblowing tool, together with accompanying with employees at the local level. investigation guidelines, was launched and implemented in 2016. The tool ensures In 2016, several ongoing activities helped ensure continuous protection of the whistleblower’s identity and confidential information. It enables awareness. Regular compliance updates were presented in anonymous communication with the whistleblower and also allows for a more management meetings, a business integrity community was efficient handling of reported cases. launched on our intranet pages, new work processes were The company has seen an increase in the number of reported cases since introduced and policies were translated. Further, a new business the channel was opened in 2010. We see this as a healthy sign that the channel is Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 26 ethics training procedure was issued in 2016 describing the company’s business Targets and Initiatives for 2017 ethics training program and its mandatory training requirements. New mandatory We largely reached our 2016 targets for the integrity and compliance work as set out in eLearning courses were launched for new employees, training materials were last year’s annual report. Due to the reorganization of the company, we were not able to tailored for specific employee groups exposed to integrity risks, and traditional perform a planned employee survey to measure compliance implementation. In 2017 classroom training material was updated to reflect new external and internal our key target is to align the business integrity work and its organization to the new requirements. Since the company sees new business potential in Iran and Russia, organizational setup. We are determined to reach the goals outlined below in 2017. training in international sanction regulations was conducted for relevant employee D  eliver and anchor business integrity and compliance (BIC) strategy and groups. corresponding operational plans to reach the strategic targets At the end of the year, new annual training requirements were issued by our owner Aker ASA, and these requirements will be implemented in 2017. Develop a risk-based internal process of business partner background checks Develop and implement a new risk process Increase focus on awareness training Total number of Total number of Business Ethics employees trained end employees trained end Training Overview* Duration 2016 (incl. contract staff)** 2015 (incl. contract staff)** eLearning: Aker ASA’s zero ~15 minutes ~8,600 ~11,000 tolerance to corruption Classroom course in ~2 hours ~7,700 ~10,700 business ethics eLearning: Corruption and Bribery ~15 minutes ~6,800 ~9,500 eLearning: Human and Labor Rights (include training ~15 minutes ~7,000 ~9,800 in human and labor rights and related company policies) eLearning: Conflict of Interest ~15 minutes ~7,100 ~9,900 eLearning: Gifts and Hospitality ~15 minutes ~7,100 ~9,800 *The table shows only current employees who have completed business ethics training, and does not account for former employees. **The reported numbers have been rounded off to the nearest 100. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 27 Environment The oil and gas industry – particularly in deepwater drilling – carries significant environmental risks, including oil spills and CO2 emissions. Managing such risks is critical to Aker Solutions and our customers, and key to ensuring the sustainable future of the industry. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 28 The company strives to minimize the environmental impacts of its own and customers’ tomers’ needs and activities. So results measured at corporate activities by providing leading technologically and environmentally sound products and level depend largely on the type of projects the company is services. We continuously challenge ourselves to reduce the environmental footprint of engaged to perform. This does not exempt us from our responour own operations, a major goal in the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2013-2017. sibility, but helps explain the fluctuation in our environmental performance despite our continued pursuit of energyand Managing Our Footprint resource-efficient products and services. Aker Solutions’ commitment to continuously reducing its environmental impact is As seen in the table below, our electrical energy expressed in its Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) policy: consump­tion was slightly reduced compared to 2015, while the energy intensity remains fairly stable. Through our improvement  he company designs products and services to have no undue environmental T impact and to be safe and efficient in consuming energy and natural resources  ur operations are conducted with efficient use of materials and energy with a O Aker Solutions has programs in minimum of both waste and environmental damage place to monitor and improve We seek to ensure that our products can be recycled or disposed of safely energy use and to reduce CO2 The HSE policy is implemented through the management system, eLearning and various leadership development initiatives. Programs are in place to monitor and emissions and waste improve energy use and to reduce CO2 emissions and waste. Identifying and managing potential environmental risks are integral aspects of the company’s project tendering and execution, ensuring that appropriate measures are taken for project #thejourney, we strive to reach our production goals with each project and location. These activities contribute to increased environmental fewer man-hours. This has led to a lower number of man-hours, awareness at Aker Solutions and our customers. while we for the time being are still using the same number of Aker Solutions was not subject in 2016 to any significant fines or sanctions for workshops, offices and outdoor areas. Hence, the energy connon-compliance with environmental laws and regulations and no grievances about sumption did not linearly follow the reduction in man-hours. environmental impact were filed through formal channels in 2016. Our consumption of fossil fuel increased for heavy fuel oil, We continuously monitor governmental guidelines, directives and regulations natural gas and petrol/gasoline, while diesel consumption was regarding the environment to ensure that we are informed and prepared for changes. reduced in 2016. The fossil fuel consumption is mainly connected to the use of mobile equipment and some heating (natural Reducing Energy Consumption and Emissions gas), and hence fluctuates over time, depending on our project As a global provider of products, systems and services to the oil and gas industry, portfolio. However, when looking at Aker Solutions’ total CO2 Aker Solutions’ activities and related impacts depend almost entirely on its cusemissions, 80 percent is due to electricity consumption. Our sites in Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 29 the Asia Pacific region are the main driver, responsible for 45 percent of our total CO2 emissions, while only using 15 percent of our total electricity consumption. CO2 emissions are higher there because energy sources are not as green as in Europe/US/Brazil. However, in 2017 we will review the CO2 conversion factors we use, and if possible, start using conversion factors per country (India, Malaysia, Brunei and Australia) instead of per region. Our main corporate environmental goals are a part of the annual HSSE plan. For 2017, we will ensure that environmental aspects and impacts are considered in design and development of products and services. We also intend to improve our green culture to support a sustainable future through energy audits, environmental training sessions and a stronger focus on our environmental KPIs. In addition, we will continue visualizing the environmental benefits from our global operational excellence program #thejourney, with a main focus on more efficient processes plus energy and material reduction. The company has decided not to set a corporate target for CO2 emissions due to the nature of its customer-based business. Handling Waste and Spills The company continues to focus on waste reduction. Total waste varies from year to year, depending on the project portfolio. For example, a decommissioning project will naturally produce more waste than other kinds of projects. In recent years, total waste quantities have been significantly reduced, partly due to a reduction in activity, but also because of waste reduction programs in #thejourney. Aker Solutions’ corporate goal in recent years has been a “best year ever” approach for each year, in combination with the goal of recycling at least 80 percent of total waste in each business area. The company’s recycling factor has been in the 85 to 90 percent range in recent years, with an all-time high of 94 percent in 2014. In 2017 we will revise recycling systems and the way we measure them in a bid to improve even more. The goal for 2017 is to achieve a recycling factor of 90 percent or more. Hazardous waste includes components that require special care before disposal. The company collected 460 tons of hazardous waste in 2016, a decrease Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 30 from the previous year. Waste quantities change from year include a global awareness/training program, a planned revision of our environmental to year in step with our project portfolio. We constantly seek indicators, and a program on how to improve environmental reporting. In addition, it will replacement products and solutions that can reduce hazardous create a corporate Environmental Policy and accompanying standard. waste quantities in our production processes and final products. Our long-term plan also focuses on Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs). Until now, Aker Solutions’ activities generally have limited direct this practice has been mainly initiated by our customers, but we will now also strive to impact on the environment. One Aker Solutions employee permake LCAs an in-house activity as part of Aker Solutions’ heavier emphasis on environforming maintenance work for a customer accidentally spilled mental aspects. As of today, Best Available Technology (BAT) analyzes are applied to 2,297 liters of diesel in the UK sector in 2016. The incident was our product development projects. caused by an error during replacement of diesel filters, in which a drain valve was accidently left open, spilling fuel through drains and a disposal system. The problem was detected and the pump was shut down. British authorities were notified and, Environmental Figures after an investigation, 29 measures were imposed to prevent similar incidents in the future. 2016 2015 2014 Targets and Initiatives for 2017 Energy consumption (MWh)1 109,122 126,750 116,339 The targets and initiatives for 2016 are in line with the environEnergy Intensity (MWh per million mental goals set in the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2013worked hours) 3,291 3,257 2,627 2017. Our aim for 2017 is to have zero spills and to achieve a CO 2 Emissions (Tons) 22,133 27,193 21,188 recycling factor of over 90 percent. CO 2 Emissions (Tons per million worked hours) 667 699 478 Environmental targets for 2017 are governed in the global Recycled waste (Tons)2, 3 6,618 9,187 25,126 HSSE plan. The main goals and objectives are: Total waste (Tons) 3 7,690 10,443 26,636 E  nsure that environmental aspects and impacts are considRecycling factor (%)3 86 88 94 ered in design and development of the products and services Hazardous waste (Tons) 460 592 420 Accidental spills (number) 1 0 0 Improve our green culture to support a sustainable future R  educe energy, emissions, spills and waste through opera­ For 2015, CO2 emissions from travel in Region Norway and Region UK were incorporated. However, 1)  tional excellence and #thejourney emissions from travel are insignificant compared to CO2 from energy consumption 2) Water recycling is not incorporated into the recycling factor, even though recycling is performed at sites These top objectives are being written out in detail in the global where water is a scarce 3) 2015 numbers for total waste, recycled waste and recycling factor were wrong in the 2015 report, due to Environmental Plan during the first quarter of 2017. This plan will an error in our reporting system. The numbers above are corrected, and reflect the actual 2015 results. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 31 Electricity Energy source Consumption 2016 Consumption 2015 Electricity electricity Asia/Australia ex China (MWH) 13,527 15,965 Electricity electricity Europe (MWH) 707 633 Electricity electricity Scandinavia/Brazil (MWH) 60,910 64,324 Electricity electricity UK (MWH) 11,223 10,587 Electricity electricity US (MWH) 3,645 3,078 Total waste (Tons) 7,690 10,443 Recycling factor (%) 86 88 Hazardous waste (Tons) 460 592 Accidental spills (number) 1 0 Non-Renewable Fuels Fuel Source Consumption 2016 Consumption 2015 Diesel (liter) 1,069,463 1,567,257 Heavy fuel oil (liter) 106,623 51,585 Natural gas (m3) 509,221 320,539 Petrol/gasoline (liter)1 57,278 28,174 1)  he 2015 number for petrol/gasoline was wrong in last year’s report, due to an erroneous entry in our T reporting system. The number in the table above is correct. When calculating energy to CO2 emission, we use Greenhouse Gas (GHG) protocol conversion factors. In 2017, we will find more local conversion factors, as described in the chapter Reducing Energy Consumption and Emissions. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 32 Supply Chain Management Aker Solutions works closely with a large number of suppliers to deliver our highly complex subsea and topside projects and studies. We seek an open and transparent relationship with our preferred strategic suppliers and expect all our business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct and international laws and regulations. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 33 A Responsible Global Supply Chain or direct, to meet certain minimum requirements to become Supply Chain Management in Aker Solutions comprises activities such as strategic an Aker Solutions’ supplier. The qualification requirements sourcing, category management, supplier development and accreditation, material are extended or reduced depending on the complexity of the planning, procurement, inventory management and logistics. The Supply Chain product or service to be supplied or on the country or location Management organization employs approximately 800 people, who work at almost of the supplier, with for example; additional questionnaire all of the company’s locations. Material costs make up the bulk of our budgets, questions, quality-, HSEand/or technical audits, and due and thus play a significant role in the success of the business as a whole. Our diligence analyses. All our suppliers must declare their main procured products are tubes, valves, actuators, forgings, connectors and commitment to our ethical standards to be accepted in SQiS. instrumentation. Sourcing of IT services, travel and temporary personnel are also The SQiS system and related processes enable important parts of our indirect procurement. continuous monitoring of our qualified suppliers with daily screening of financial and compliance information. It also enables integration with the internal Audit Management Tool Local presence is an essential with input and tracking of audit reports and findings, lost-time part of our business and enables incidents and near-miss monitoring, alert notification of expiring certifications and tracking of operational performance in relation us to deliver even in the most to timeliness and quality of delivery, HSE performance during project and collaboration and responsiveness. Aker Solutions’ remote locations supplier audit program is risk based where information in SQiS and Qualified Supplier List (QSL), client requirements and supplier evaluation reports are considered and determines With several thousand direct and indirect suppliers around the world, we where the company shall focus its audits. In 2016, the company are highly dependent on a trustworthy and compliant supplier base that fully conducted 187 external audits of suppliers. adheres to our values and expectations in regards to health and safety, human In 2016, 644 new suppliers were prequalified for the and labor rights, environment, quality management, business integrity and company’s qualified supplier list. This process includes screening corporate social responsibility. Through our international presence, we establish on quality management, health, safety and environmental mutually beneficial relationships with local suppliers and subcontractors who management, corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption and contribute with local knowledge and expertise in a complex industrial landscape. compliance management, human and labor rights management, Local presence is an essential part of our business and enables us to deliver supply chain management, human resources and process even in the most remote locations. management. The screening results in a prequalification or a Our supplier base is qualified and monitored through our Supplier Quali­ rejection, and the supplier qualification summary is available to fication and Information System (SQiS), which requires all our suppliers, indirect all purchasing departments. This information, combined with Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 34 operational performance evaluations, gives the procurement department a solid risk picture of our suppliers, enabling an informed selection. The company did not identify significant actual or potential negative impacts on society, human rights, labor practices or the environment in 2016. However, the company rejected certain supplier qualifications based on poor environmental management or compliance risks. Targets and Initiatives for 2017 The 2016 corporate responsibility targets for Supply Chain Management were generally met according to plan. Supply chain-related business ethics and compliance training was prepared, rolled out and updated but has yet to be fully implemented in the new Supply Chain Management organization. Responsibility for launching a new HSE procedure and additional corporate responsibility criteria in supplier management was moved and made part of the Supplier Accreditation Program of 2017 in the re-organization. We are determined to reach the following goals for 2017: Implement business ethics and compliance training material for Supply Chain Management staff E  stablish global sustainability ambitions for Aker Solutions’ Supply Chain Management  ooperative engagement with our suppliers on the importance of business C integrity, our code of conduct, human and labor rights and corporate responsibility E  nhanced corporate responsibility and compliance criteria defined and implemented as a part of the 2017 supplier audit and accreditation program Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 35 Society Aker Solutions considers it important that the communities we work in benefit from our operations. We recognize both the opportunity and responsibility to positively impact our surroundings and we are determined to ensure that our presence is marked by integrity and transparency. Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 36 Revenue Investments in assets Paid taxes Country Employees1 (NOK million)2 (NOK million)3 NOK million)4 Aker Solutions operates in markets that face socioeconomic Norway 5,839 14,080 221 0 challenges such as poverty and corruption. The company does 3,313 several assessments a year to prepare the company for potential Brazil 1,679 116 33 challenges in such markets, and to guard against becoming UK 1,858 5,541 162 45 complicit in unethical activity that could negatively impact the India 1,394 716 1 50 societies where we operate. With an expanding global footprint, Malaysia 848 1,423 44 11 these assessments become more comprehensive, complex and USA 422 968 109 0 challenging, and the results sometimes require difficult decisions. Brunei 343 956 1 15 Nevertheless, the company is determined to never compromise its Angola 176 2,266 25 286 integrity and reputation. Canada 112 218 2 8 Country by Country Report Australia 35 74 0 0 Transparency is essential in an industry that can have a significant Congo 21 707 1 100 impact on local communities. Aker Solutions operates globally, Nigeria 15 46 0 0 including in societies that depend heavily on oil and gas revenue, Ghana 4 122 0 11 suffer from poverty, struggle with corruption and have low Cyprus 2 156 11 1 transparency. Openly sharing information and inviting to honest Other 3 75 2 29 dialogues with our stakeholders is one of the company’s core Sum of countries 14,385 29,026 696 590 values and a necessary effort to improve transparency in our 0 places of operation and build trust with those affected by our Eliminations 2 -3,469 0 0 operations. Total Aker Solutions 14,385 25,557 696 590 The table on the left reflects 2016 revenues, employees and investments as reported by the various Aker Solutions companies in each country. The right column reflects the amount of tax paid to each country. 1) The locations of employees are based on the location of the company where they are employed. Branches are therefore included in the figures for the legal entity. 2) Revenue figures per country include internal and external revenues and are based on location of the Local Content Aker Solutions company that has recognized the revenue. Intercompany sales are subtracted in the line “eliminations” to present external Aker Solutions revenues as in the income statement. Customers or local authorities often require local content 3) Investments in assets include additions to property, plant and equipment as well as technology as prerequisite for executing projects or maintaining local development and other intangible assets during the year. 4) Paid taxes include income taxes, withholding taxes and other corporate taxes, but does not include value establishment. These requirements regularly involve partnering with added taxes (VAT) and other indirect taxes. Taxes reflect to what country the tax is paid, and not the country where the company paying the taxes is located. local companies, sourcing locally or enhancing local competence Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 37 through training and knowledge sharing initiatives. Aker Solutions aims to comply of medical personnel, along with medical equipment and medwith these requirements and follow up continuously, both from corporate and local icines. Aker Solutions provided a motor vehicle, in cooperation offices, to ensure that compliance is in place. We believe that using local staff, products with other companies, while a local NGO provided doctors, nursand services is important. We depend on local knowledge to succeed while striving to es and medical facilities. The aim of this initiative is to promote contribute to improving local social and economic conditions. preventive healthcare in villages that are too remote for patients to travel to hospitals or clinics.  uring 2016, Aker Solutions employees engaged in several knowledge and eduD cational initiatives. At our base in Kakinada, India, some 100 students received a Employee Engagement in Local Communities lecture about the subsea part of the oil and gas industry. They were also given a During 2016, employees across our organization initiated tour of our workshop to see how equipment is maintained and operated. and participated in numerous charitable activities. In Angola, In Pune, India, we signed a memorandum of understanding with Maharashtra employees donated gifts and supplies to underprivileged Institute of Technology, a continuation of the industry-academia collaboration that children. At several locations, our employees collected food and began in 2015 to improve skills among engineering students and make subsea Christmas presents for people in need. Our office in London engineers available for the industry. raised GBP 7,600 for the charity ‘Solving Kids Cancer’ through a variety of efforts that included raffles as well as running and Donations and Sponsorships cycling competitions. In Malaysia, employees took part in As part of building relations with local communities and stakeholders, the company several activities designed to share and promote knowledge in contributes to a variety of good causes and projects. Our local offices lead these the engineering communities and among university students. initiatives, often employee driven, so they can be tailored to local contexts and Employees in Scotland participated in a beach clean at needs. These efforts help improve relations with local communities and organizaAberdeen beach in January to clear debris that had washed tions, while we also aim to contribute and support vulnerable groups. down stream during flooding over the’ Christmas period. Aker Solutions also uses sponsorships to promote the company and its business. Our sponsorships are strategic and aligned with the company’s values. As a matter of policy, we do not sponsor political or religious groups. In Brazil, the company continued to support the Karanba Project, an organization that provides studies, sports and food to children and young people. The company also donated 11 blackboards to the Eunice Borges School in São José dos Pinhais.  ker Solutions helped to improve the health and wellbeing of over 3,000 families in A 25 remote hamlets in the district of Thane, India by facilitating weekly visits by a team Back to index Corporate Responsibility Page 38 About the Report This report presents Aker Solutions ASA’s corporate responsibility perforReport Boundaries mance and activities in 2016. It is made to address the legal requirements We have prepared the report on the basis of the GRI reporting principles for company reporting as specified in the Norwegian Accounting and guidance on boundaries. Act (“Regnskapsloven”) for reporting on corporate social responsibility. The report boundary is, in general, drawn around companies under The report is also our Communication on Progress in 2016 to the the operational control of Aker Solutions ASA. However, we also provide UN Global Compact and presents our continued commitment to impleinformation on some aspects where we have the potential to influence but menting the principles of the UN Global Compact. Aker Solutions has not have direct control. Aker Solutions demerged from Akastor and was published CR reports since 2006, with annual releases since 2010. listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange on September 29, 2014. The historical Our CR report for 2016 has been prepared on the basis of the operational and financial figures for the group are presented as if the deGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. merger occurred at the start of the earliest period presented in this report. The report has been prepared to be in accordance with the “core” reporting level. Our overview of disclosure according to GRI, including referencData Quality es to sections of the report where GRI indicators are disclosed, and the We have restated certain 2015 environmental data, after we discovered list of material aspects can be found at the end of the report. While predata entry errors. We continue to work to improve our data quality to enparing the report, we have also considered the guidance on the reporting hance the reporting processes and transparency, and continuously strive of corporate responsibility issued by the Oslo Stock Exchange. to improve our internal data reporting procedures. The basis and scope of the report has been shaped by our analysis of material impacts and our stakeholders’ expectations obtained through monitoring and dialogue, and more specifically from the materiality assessment conducted in 2015. The report’s content has not been significantly changed from past editions. The initiatives highlighted in this report include those that have an impact on our employees, customers, investors and societies where we are present. Back to index Appendix Page 39 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 ‘core’ level. We The table refers to where information about each aspect/indicator is presented have sought to report fully on all possible dimensions of the indicators, but in our Corporate responsibility report, Annual report or company website. For where this is not possible, we have reported as comprehensively as possible, a complete description of the individual indicators, please see GRI’s website based on the data systems we have. (www.globalreporting.org). GRI Standard Disclosure G4-6 Number of countries where the Note 28 (Subsidiaries) in the 2016 Strategy and Analysis Section in Report organization operates, and names of Annual report. Other Information countries where either the organization Chapter in the 2016 Annual Report G4-1 Statement from the most senior deciCEO introduction has significant operations or that are sion-maker of the organization specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Organizational Profile Section in Report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Note 1 (Company Information) G4-3 Name of the organization Aker Solutions ASA in the 2016 Annual Report Note 28 (Subsidiaries) in the G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Note 4 (Operating Segments) in the 2016 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report G4-8 Markets served Other Information Chapter in the G4-3 Name of the organization Aker Solutions ASA 2016 Annual Report G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Note 4 (Operating Segments) in the G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Subchapter: Key Staff Figures 2016 Annual Report (employees, operations, net sales, Main chapter: People capitalization, products and services) Balance sheet in the 2016 G4-5 Location of the organization's Oksenøyveien 8, 1360 Fornebu, Annual Report headquarters Norway Note 4 (Operating Segments), Note 28 (Subsidiaries), Note 16 (Equity), Note 17 (Borrowings) and Note 23 (Capital Managmenet) in the 2016 Annual Report Back to index Appendix Page 40 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued G4-10 Scale of the reporting organization Subchapter: Key Staff Figures G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as Subchapter: Charters and (employees by contract and gender, Main chapter: People industry associations) and national or Memberships region etc.) international advocacy organizations Main chapter: Introduction Subchapter: Human and Labor G4-11 Scale of the reporting organization Data not available Rights (employees covered by collective Main chapter: People bargaining agreements) Identified Material Aspects G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply Subchapter: A Responsible Global Section in Report and Boundaries chain Supply Chain Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-17 Operational structure of the organizaNote 28 (Subsidiaries) in the 2016 tion Annual Report G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting No significant changes. G4-18 Process for defining report content, Subchapter: Stakeholders period regarding the organization’s size, The new organizational structure is aspect boundaries and reporting Main chapter: Introduction structure, ownership, or its supply chain described in the board of directors’ principles Main chapter: About this report report in the 2016 Annual Report. See also Note 10 (Property , Plants G4-19 Process for defining report content, Subchapters: Strategy and and Equipment) in the 2016 Annual material aspects Stakeholders Report Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: About this report GRI index table G4-14 How the precautionary approach Main chapter: Introduction or principle is addressed by the G4-20 Boundary of the report, within the Subchapters: Strategy and organization organization Stakeholders Main chapter: Introduction G4-15 Externally developed economic, environSubchapter: Charters and Main chapter: About this report mental and social charters, principles, or Memberships other initiatives to which the organization Main chapter: Introduction G4-21 Boundary of the report, outside the Subchapters: Strategy and subscribes or which it endorses Subchapter: Human and organization Stakeholders Labor Rights Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: People Main chapter: About this report Back to index Appendix Page 41 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any Main chapter: About this report G4-32 “In accordance” option, GRI Index Subchapter: Charters and re-statements of information Subchapter: Environmental Figures Memberships Main chapter: Environment Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: About this report G4-23 Significant changes from previous Main chapter: About this report GRI Index table reporting periods G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard No external assurance on the to seeking external assurance Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Engagement Section in Report G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the Subchapter: Stakeholders Governance Section in Report organization Main chapter: Introduction G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Subchapter: Stakeholders G4-34 Governance structure of the 2016 Corporate Governance stakeholders with whom to engage Main chapter: Introduction organization, including committees of Statement the highest governance body http://akersolutions.com/investors/ corporate-governance/ G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Subchapter: Stakeholders Main chapter: Introduction Ethics and Integrity Section in Report G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through Subchapter: Stakeholders stakeholder engagement and response Main chapter: Introduction G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms Subchapter: Anti-corruption of behavior such as codes of conduct Compliance Program Report Profile Section in Report and codes of ethics Main chapter: Integrity G4-28 Reporting period Calendar year (2016) G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for Subchapter: Reporting Concerns seeking advice on ethics and integrity, Main chapter: Integrity G4-29 Date of most recent previous report March 2016 such as helplines or advice lines G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for Subchapter: Reporting Concerns reporting concerns about unethical or Main chapter: Integrity G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding ethics@akersolutions.com unlawful behavior the report or its contents Back to index Appendix Page 42 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspect: Energy Section in Report Category: Economic G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Approach Strategy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: CEO Introduction Main chapter: Introduction Approach Subchapters: Governance and Main chapter: Environment chapter Strategy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Introduction organization Main chapter: Environment Subchapter: Country by Country Report Main chapter: Society G4-EN5 Energy intensity Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Environment G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Income Statement, Note 5 distributed (Personnel Expenses), Note 6 (Other Operating Expenses), Note G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Partly reported in: 7 (Finance Income and Expenses) Subchapters: Reducing Energy and Cashflow chapter in the 2016 Consumption and Emissions and Annual Report Environmental Figures Subchapter: Country by Country Main chapter: Environment Report Main chapter: Society Material Aspect: Emissions Section in Report G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined Note 18 (Pension Obligations) in the benefit plan obligations 2016 Annual Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Approach Strategy Main chapter: Introduction Category: Environmental Main chapter: Environment G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Partly reported in: emissions (Scope 1) Subchapter: Environmental Figures Main chapter: Environment Back to index Appendix Page 43 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse Partly reported in: G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environPartly reported in: gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Subchapter: Environmental Figures mental impacts of products and services Subchapter: Target and Initiatives Main chapter: Environment Main chapter: Environment Material Aspect: Compliance Section in Report G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) Subchapter: Environmental Figures emissions intensity Main chapter: Environment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Subchapters: Governance and Management Approach Strategy Main chapter: Introduction Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste Section in Report Main chapter: Environment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Subchapters: Governance and Management Approach Strategy G4-EN29 Significant fines and total number of Subchapter: Managing our FootMain chapter: Introduction non-monetary sanctions for non-comprint Main chapter: Environment pliance with environmental laws and Main chapter: Environment regulations G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type Subchapter: Environmental Figures and disposal method Main chapter: Environment Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Section in Report G4-EN24 Total number and volume of Subchapter: Environmental Figures Assessment significant spills Main chapter: Environment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance Approach and Strategy Material Aspect: Products and Services Section in Report Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Supply chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Subchapters: Governance and management Management Approach Strategy Main chapter: Introduction G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Partly reported in: Main chapter: Environment screened using environmental criteria Subchapter: A Responsible Global Supply Chain Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Back to index Appendix Page 44 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Subchapter: A Responsible Global G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after Subchapter: Key Staff Figures environmental impacts in the supply Supply Chain parental leave, by gender Main chapter: People chain and actions taken Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Material aspect: Labor/ Section in Report Management Relations Material Aspect: Environmental Grievance Section in Report Mechanisms G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Approach Strategy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance Main chapter: Introduction Approach and Strategy Main chapter: People Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Environment G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmenSubchapter: Managing Our Foottal impacts filed, addressed, and resolved print through formal grievance mechanisms Main chapter: Environment G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Subchapter: Employee Turnover operational changes, including whether Main chapter: People these are specified in collective agreements Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Material Aspect: Occupational Section in Report Health and Safety Material Aspect: Employment Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Subchapters: Governance and G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Management Approach Strategy Approach Strategy Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Health, Safety and Main chapter: People Security G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee Subchapter: Key Staff Figures hires and employee turnover by age Main chapter: People group, gender and region Back to index Appendix Page 45 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, absenSubchapter: Zero Incident Mindset G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Subchapter: Leadership, Talent and teeism, and work-related fatalities Main chapter: Health, Safety and lifelong learning Performance Security Main chapter: People We do not have available gender / region information. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving reguSubchapter: Leadership, Talent and lar performance and career development Performance G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk Subchapters: Continued Focus on reviews, by gender and by employee Main chapter: People of diseases related to their occupation Employee Health and Sick Leave category Follow-up, Aker Care and Travel Material Aspect: Diversity and Section in Report Risk Assessment Equal Opportunity Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Approach Strategy G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in Subchapter: Respecting Human Main chapter: Introduction formal agreements with trade unions and Labor rights Main chapter: People Main chapter: People G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Subchapter: Key Staff Figures breakdown of employees per employee Main chapter: People category according to gender, age group, Corporate Governance Statement minority group membership, and other http://akersolutions.com/investors/ Material Aspect: Training and Education Section in Report indicators of diversity corporate-governance/ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Section in Report Approach Strategy Practices Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: People G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Approach strategy Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Supply Chain Management Back to index Appendix Page 46 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Partly reported in: Material Aspect: Non-Discrimination Section in Report screened using labor practices criteria Subchapter: A Responsible Global Supply Chain Main chapter: Supply Chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Management Approach Strategy Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Integrity G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative Partly reported in: impacts for labor practices in the supply A Responsible Global Supply Chain G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discriminaSubchapter: Reporting Concerns chain and actions taken Main chapter: Supply Chain tion and corrective actions taken Main chapter: Integrity Management Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Section in Report Sub-Category: Human Rights Collective Bargaining G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Material Aspect: Investment Section in Report Approach Strategy Main chapter: Introduction G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Approach Strategy G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in Subchapter: Respecting Human Main chapter: Introduction which the right to exercise freedom of and Labor Rights Main chapter: Integrity association and collective bargaining Main chapter: People may be violated or at significant risk, and Subchapter: Project Screening G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of signifSubchapter: Project Screening measures taken to support these rights Main chapter: Integrity icant investment agreements and conMain chapter: Integrity Subchapter: A Responsible Global tracts that include human rights clauses Supply Chain or that underwent human rights screening Main Chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on Subchapter: Training and human rights policies or procedures Awareness concerning aspects of human rights that Main chapter: Integrity are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Back to index Appendix Page 47 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as Subchapter: A Responsible Global Material Aspect: Child Labor Section in Report having significant risk for incidents of Supply Chain forced or compulsory labor, and measMain chapter: Supply Chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and ures to contribute to the elimination of all Management Approach Strategy forms of forced or compulsory labor Subchapter: Respecting Human Main chapter: Introduction and Labor Rights Main chapter: Supply chain Main chapter: People management Subchapter: Project Screening Main chapter: People Main chapter: Integrity G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified Subchapter: A Responsible Global Material Aspect: Security Practices Section in Report as having significant risk for incidents Supply Chain of child labor, and measures taken to Main chapter: Supply Chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Subchapters: Governance and contribute to the effective abolition of Management Management Approach Strategy child labor Subchapter: Respecting Human Main chapter: Introduction and Labor Rights Main chapter: Health, Safety and Main chapter: People Security Subchapter: Project Screening Main chapter: Integrity G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained We do not currently monitor data in the organization's human rights polon human rights training for secuMaterial Aspect: Forced or Section in Report icies or procedures that are relevant to rity personnel, so we are unable to Compulsory Labor operations report meaningfully on this relevant disclosure. We will explore how to G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Subchapters: Governance and do so in the future. Management Approach Strategy Main chapter: Introduction Material Aspect: Assessment Section in Report Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Subchapters: Governance and Main chapter: People Management Approach strategy Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Supply chain management Main chapter: Integrity Back to index Appendix Page 48 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operaSubchapter: Project Screening Material Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Section in Report tions that have been subject to human Main chapter: Integrity Mechanisms rights reviews or impact assessments Subchapter: A Responsible Global Supply Chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Main chapter: Supply Chain Approach Strategy Management Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: People Material Aspect: Supplier Human Section in Report Rights Assessment G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human Subchapter: Respecting Human rights impacts filed, addressed, and and Labor Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Subchapters: Governance and resolved through formal grievance Main chapter: People Management Approach Strategy mechanisms Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Supply Chain Management SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY Main chapter: People Material Aspect: Anti-Corruption Section in Report G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Partly reported in: screened using human rights criteria Subchapter: A Responsible Global Supply Chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Main chapter: Supply Chain Approach Strategy Management Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Integrity G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative Subchapter: A Responsible Global G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of Partly reported in: human rights impacts in the supply chain Supply Chain operations assessed for risks related Subchapters: Project Screening and actions taken Main chapter: Supply Chain to corruption and the significant risks and Anti-corruption Compliance Management identified Program Subchapter: Respecting Human Main chapter: Integrity and Labor Rights Main chapter: People Back to index Appendix Page 49 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued G4-SO4 Communication and training on anSubchapter: Training and Material Aspect: Compliance Section in Report ti-corruption policies and procedures Awareness Main chapter: Integrity G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Main chapter: Integrity G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Subchapter: Anti-corruption Approach actions taken Compliance Program Main chapter: Integrity G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and Subchapter: Anti-corruption total number of non-monetary sancCompliance Program Material Aspect: Public Policy Section in Report tions for non-compliance with laws and Main chapter: Integrity regulations G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Approach Strategy Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts Section in Report Main chapter: Introduction on Society Main chapter: Society G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by Subchapters: Sponsorship and Approach Strategy country and recipient/beneficiary Donations Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Society Main chapter: Supply Chain Management G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were Subchapter: A Responsible Global Material Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Section in Report screened using criteria for impacts on Supply Chain society Main chapter: Supply Chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Management Approach Strategy Main chapter: Introduction G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative Subchapter: A Responsible Global Main chapter: Integrity impacts on society in the supply chain Supply Chain G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anSubchapter: Anti-corruption and actions taken Main chapter: Supply Chain ti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Compliance Program Management monopoly practices and their outcomes Main chapter: Integrity Back to index Appendix Page 50 Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Continued Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Section in Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Subchapters: Governance and Approach Strategy Main chapter: Introduction Main chapter: Health, Safety and Security G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and Subchapter: Entrenching a Safety service categories for which health and Culture safety impacts are assessed for improveMain chapter: Health, Safety and ment Security G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-comSubchapter: Zero Incident Mindset pliance with regulations and voluntary Main chapter: Health, Safety and codes concerning the health and safety Security impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Back to index Contact Information Aker Solutions ASA COPYRIGHT AND LEGAL NOTICE Oksenøyveien 8, 1366 Lysaker Copyright in all published material including photographs, drawings and images in this publication remains vested in Aker Solutions and third party contributors to this publication as approPostal address: priate. Accordingly, neither the whole nor any part of this publication can be reproduced in any form without express prior permission. Articles and opinions appearing in this publication do P.O. Box 169 not necessarily represent the views of Aker Solutions. While all steps have been taken to ensure NO-1325 Lysaker the accuracy of the published contents, Aker Solutions does not accept any responsibility for any errors or resulting loss or damage whatsoever caused and readers have the responsibility to Telephone: thoroughly check these aspects for themselves. Enquiries about reproduction of content from this publication should be directed to Aker Solutions. +47 67 51 30 00 Web: www.akersolutions.com Back to index
