Renesas Electronics Corporate Headquarters About Renesas Press Center Investor Relations Home About Renesas Share CSR Activities We will contribute to the sustainable advancement of society by creating leading semiconductor solutions Bunsei Kure Representative Director, President & CEO Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API PDFCROWD Our aim is to achieve sustainable growth by becoming a trusted partner of our customers around the world Our company started operating as Renesas Electronics in 2010. Due to various factors, however, including the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011, which struck our main plant, and the persistent trend toward a high yen, we were unfortunately unable to produce results in line with our Back to Top stakeholders' expectations for a certain period. However, we formulated a Reform Plan following our capital increase in September 2013, and execution of our reforms has begun to yield steady results, including achieving operating profit from FY2014 to FY2016. We consider it particularly crucial to further deepen our customers' trust in Renesas Electronics in order to return to the growth track and continue sustaining our development into the future. In order to win this deeper trust, Renesas Electronics has determined to reinforce and revitalize our human resources, as well as to focus our resources on our strategic segments and provide solutions that will increase value for our customers. By becoming trusted partners with our customers, we are confident that Renesas Electronics will also be able to generate stable profits and achieve sustainable growth. We will contribute to the realization of a sustainable society by creating leading semiconductor solutions In recent years, we have experienced global warming, localized heavy rainstorms, large droughts and other abnormal weather, together with issues on a global scale, such as problems of water resources and energy that have become matters of international concern. The expanding disparity between rich and poor, the problem of conflict minerals, problems of human rights and other such issues that can only be addressed by society as a whole, have grown to overwhelming magnitude. In order to resolve issues like these and welcome a future of prosperity, Renesas Electronics is committed to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society by creating leading semiconductor solutions. We will do this by providing semiconductor products that take into careful consideration their impact on the global environment, from design through to disposal, so that our customers can use our products with a sense of security. We will also work to make semiconductor products that consume less power, and enable highly precise energy control functionality by means of our semiconductors, so as to contribute to the heightened energy-saving performance of our customers' equipment. We are also committed to continuing consideration of the problems of human rights, the environment and conflict minerals. Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API PDFCROWD Renesas Electronics has been endorsing and practicing the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption since 2008. By complying with these 10 Principles and putting them into practice, we will act as a global enterprise to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. See more... Renesas Electronics CSR Activities 2017 (Social and Environmental) < Renesas Electronics > Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API PDFCROWD CSR Activities 2017 (Social and Environmental) (Download All 1.32MB) Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API PDFCROWD Division 1_Vision, Mission and CSR (42.9KB) 2_CSR Initiatives (818KB) 3_Environmental Measures (195KB) 4_Compliance (128KB) 5_Risk Management (173KB) 6_Corporate Governance (209KB) Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API PDFCROWD Environmental Report 2017 (Download All 957KB) Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API PDFCROWD
