CSR Code 2014–2015 CSR Code Nowy Styl Group sustainable development report 2014–2015 CSR? Find out what it means to us on page 32. Table of contents How to read our report 2 Management letter 3 1 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 5 4 Our influence on the environment 67 1.1 Summary of the promises we made 4.1 Energy 70 in the report 2012–2013 8 4.2 Water management 73 1.2 Who are we? 14 4.3 Wastewater volume 74 1.3 Our vision and mission 15 4.4 Emissions to air 75 1.4 Business strategy 16 4.5 Material consumption 77 1.5 Development strategy 17 4.6 Waste management 78 1.6 The company’s authorities 20 4.7 Total expenses and investments 1.7 Financial results 21 relating to environmental protection 81 1.8 Investments 22 4.8 Transport 84 1.9 Awards and mentions 24 5 Suppliers 87 2 Our responsibility 27 5.1 Suppliers 89 2.1 Operational Ethics 29 2.2 Systemic activities supporting 6 Our customers 93 sustainable development 32 6.1 Customer health and safety 96 2.3 Quality and certificates 34 6.2 Acoustics 99 2.4 Initiatives and organisations 36 6.3 Influence on the environment 99 2.5 Dialogue with stakeholders 38 6.4 Warranty 100 6.5 Ergonomics 100 3 Employees 43 6.6 Product labelling and assembly 103 3.1 Employment 45 6.7 Customer satisfaction survey 104 3.2 Remuneration 50 6.8 Marketing communication 105 3.3 Fringe benefits 52 6.9 Privacy protection 105 3.4 Education and training courses 53 3.5 Traineeships and internships 56 7 Our neighbours 107 3.6 Anti-discrimination practices 57 7.1 Areas of commitment 110 3.7 Occupational health and safety 58 3.8 Complete tabular data 8 About the report 121 showing indicators 61 8.1 Verification of the report 127 8.2 GRI Content Index 128 How to read our report? OUR PROMISES: Implementation of the Code of EthicsOgłosimy EMPLOYEE SUGGESTION PRO i wdrożymy Kodeks Etyki pracowników, pracowników, postanowiliśmy s An activity through which we fulfil który Specific tasks we promise standardy that wzmocni to naszego działania Examples ofichi interesting pomysłowość. and W marcu 201 the aims and promises we made komunikacji. complete within the next two years. important to pomysłów, the companyuruchomiliśmy Prog in the previous report covering the These are our Szkolenia etyczne steps to achieve longweryfikacji activities through realise i system wniosków which we calendar years 2012–2013. term goals.Przeprowadzimy szkolenia z zakresu etyki, efekty sustainable development goals. kilku tysięcy w w postaci w tym konfliktu interesów i przeciwdziałaniaw 2014 i 2015 roku. Na jedneg korupcji. Te zagadnienia na stałe włączymy sugestii w roku 2014 i 1,3 sug do procesu wdrożeniowego dla nowych z zeszłego roku – zostało od ra pracowników. Dotyczą usprawnień technolog Dear readers, customers, business partners, associates and friends, We are handing you a new sustainable development report. In the report we try to clearly show G4-1 G4-2 G4-14 the progress our organisation has made in the area of sustainable development in the last two years. Every day we act according to a defined mission that always concentrates on people. It is those people for whom we realise our projects in order to make their workplaces healthier and more comfortable. At the same time, we create a strong and ethical organisation for which development also means the development of its employees and the communities in which it operates. We know that our activity has a huge impact on the natural environment; that’s why we constantly work on reducing our influence and undertake different actions that aim to neutralise it with future generations in mind. Over recent years, the Group has undergone some intense changes that aimed to meet modern trends and market requirements. In the market, there are already three generations of employees – X, Y and Z – who have different needs and work styles. Our goal is to look for solutions that will not only attract new talent to an office, but will also allow employers to take care of the generation X employees who have worked in the office for many years. Nowadays the expectations of individual users, who are willing to pay for health and sitting comfort, are growing. For two years we have been supporting these market changes by organising an educational and promotional campaign, “Change your chair,” holding training courses for office managers and offering surveys that aid in designing motivational and effective workplaces. Our new factory enables us to efficiently manufacture personalised products that meet previously defined customers’ needs best. On the pages of this report, we show in detail how we have taken into consideration the rules of sustainable development when implementing internal changes. These rules, which are based on international documents – such as the charter of the UN Global Compact to which we have been a signatory since 2012, and the “UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights” – are integral parts of our business strategy and we are sure they determine our competitiveness and security in the long run. We also present a detailed summary of the promises we made in the previous report. We are happy and proud to show that the majority of them have been successfully completed. For the other promises, we reveal a continuation plan, which we are even much more motivated to undertake. The new “Nowy Styl Group Supplier Code of Conduct” has turned out to be just the beginning of a long-lasting process through which we are going to implement ethical standards for our whole value chain in the coming years. We are also planning to develop numerous eco-friendly initiatives in the areas of transport and production, and complement them with environmental data management systems. The Sustainable Development Strategy, in which we will define our long-term and short-term goals in the areas we consider most important: Product, People and the Environment, will be our guide to the process of realising these plans. We are going to start working on it in 2017. We truly believe that systemic management will not only allow us to undertake CSR activities more effectively, but it will also help popularise them in the whole furniture industry. We warmly invite you to read the report carefully. With kind regards, Management Board of Nowy Styl Group Adam Krzanowski Rafał Chwast Jerzy Krzanowski Dariusz Frydrych Roman Przybylski 1 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 Winning the EY Entrepreneur of the Year award Achieving 3rd place in the European ranking of office Purchasing furniture producers shares of TCC The Chair Company in Turkey 2014 Initiating Creating the ergonomic the Training campaign: “Does Centre it hurt? Change your chair” Starting The Year of the Employee Music – providing Suggestion patronage of the Program European Centre for Music 6 Opening the new factory Parting with in Jasło the subsidiary Baltic Wood Creating the Workplace Finishing Research and Consulting the process of Department and implementing the compiling the first new system ERP discipline-specific report: “Flow at work” 2015 Introducing the Play&Work furniture system Realising stadium into the market projects in Nice and Lyon Joining Sitag AG to Nowy Styl Group Compiling the “Supplier Code of Conduct” 7 1.1 Summary of the promises we made in the report 2012–2013 We have completely realised more than half of the 15 promises we made. Five promises G4-2 are still being realised and two promises – including those connected with the process of implementing the Code of Ethics, which is still under creation – will be initiated in 2016–2017. 100% THE TASKS WE REALISED 100% New Office Furniture In November 2014 we transferred the production of office Factory furniture to the new factory in Jasło. Its official opening was held in March 2015. PRODUCTION Read more on page 23. Eco-transport (the BDF Transport using the BDF mode is realised in Poland and program, which means Germany. We now transport chairs by the BN Office containers are equipped Solution brand, which were previously supplied assembled, ENVIRONMENT with a double floor, chairs in L-shaped cartons. These two changes have enabled us are transported without to limit the number of packaging materials, significantly packaging and L-shaped reduce costs and decrease the amount of exhaust fumes cartons are used) emitted to the environment. Read more on page 84. Competence Development By the end of 2015, we held training courses for Program – training courses production managers, directors and foremen in the in communication, team Operational Department. There were also separate EMPLOYEES management and change training courses in the Sales Department. The Competence management Development Program was accompanied by the Key Competence Program, language courses, and e-learning courses development for new and current employees. At the end of 2015 we also initiated the Management Staff Development project. Read more on page 55. “Spinacz” magazine as Our employees have been used to “Spinacz” magazine for an internal communication years. Each employee is given a colourful paper, which tool in the company they can show to their relatives. In 2015 we published three issues of “Spinacz” and complemented it with a column concerning environmental education and the company’s engagement in sustainable development in order to show our employees how the company realises the CSR policy on an ongoing basis. 8 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 1 Strengthening the dialogue In the last two years we have introduced new channels with customers for communicating with our customers. A new Nowy Styl Group website has been available since the beginning CUSTOMERS of 2014. Taking advantage of the ORGATEC fair, we published a magazine in 2014 addressed to our customers: “UP^STREAM.” Issues also appeared in April and October 2015. Customers who were interested in our offer were provided with current product information in the form of regular newsletters. Read more on page 105. Dialogue with architects Designers and interior design administrators are our key stakeholders; that’s why we grew our list of contacts by over 50% in the last two years. Training courses dedicated to architects and office managers, which were held in our showrooms, as well as the conferences and industryspecific events we co-organised in Poland, were perfect opportunities to share knowledge and listen to their needs. Greater educational In 2015 we initiated the “Year of Music” project and programs support provided patronage of the Krzysztof Penderecki European Centre for Music, which leads a music school for talented SOCIAL young people. In 2015 there were 75 concerts and 76 ENGAGEMENT master courses held in the Centre, which gathered 1,160 young musicians and 30,000 listeners. Read more on page 112. 9 50% THE TASKS WE REALISED 50% Supplier Code of Conduct At the end of 2015 we finished work on the Nowy Styl Group Supplier Code of Conduct. The Code is currently being implemented in several stages. SUPPLIERS Read more on page 86. Systematisation of product We collect material declaration sheets from our suppliers, information by: which allows us to report our resource consumption collecting material comprehensively and create product environmental PRODUCT declaration sheets from our profiles. Our most important products, especially those suppliers which apply to dedicated to a project market, have environmental data the materials used in the sheets. production In order to make our product labelling more unified, we unifying the product created glossaries in 2015. According to the standard labelling system ISO 11469, we mark our products depending on their facilitating quick access to recycling possibilities. warranty conditions preparing environmental data sheets Innovation popularisation; We created an Acoustics Team within our Product development of competences Development Department. Its members were responsible and solutions within for laboratory tests of the acoustic properties of our the areas of acoustics, lowmaterials and their arrangements, which were carried out emissivity and ergonomics; at the AGH University of Science and Technology; they increasing the number also took part in many acoustics training courses. of certified products. In order to popularise our ergonomic solutions, we have created a special catalogue that includes, among other things, the products we promoted during the “Does it hurt? Change your chair” campaign. We have also increased the number of certified products. Read more on page 97. Customer satisfaction In December 2015 we conducted a survey of our survey in the export market customers from 56 different countries through an online questionnaire. The survey was accompanied by a “Save the frog” action. The number of questionnaires gathered did not provide a representative research sample, so we are planning to continue the survey next year. Periodic performance The periodic performance appraisal has been introduced appraisal in sales in the Marketing Department and it will be introduced departments in the Export Sales Support Department’s motivational EMPLOYEES system. Code of Ethics Since the beginning of 2015 we have been working on creating the new Code of Ethics addressed to Nowy Styl Group’s employees. In 2016 we will hold consultations with our employees and then implement the Code. 10 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 1 0% THE TASKS WE DID NOT REALISE Training courses concerning The implementation of the new Code of Ethics will include ethics and bribery training courses for management staff and specially prevention chosen employee representatives from all sectors and EMPLOYEES departments. We will also prepare e-learning courses for all employees. Appointment of an Ethical The appointment of an Ethical Advocate is a part of the Advocate Code of Ethics implementation process, which has not yet been finished. 15 promises 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 100% 1 2 3 4 5 50% 1 2 0% 11 Nowy Styl Group in numbers 2015 G4-6 G4-9 G4-10 3 rd biggest chair and office furniture manufacturer in Europe Expert in furnishing office and public spaces 15 modern production plants in Poland, Germany, Switzerland, Ukraine, Russia and Turkey Energy consumption: 33,059,888 kWh 12 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 1 17 Branches 3,850 in countries Employees: Revenue: 1097 pln mln 100 21 Range: over 11 showrooms countries all over the world in countries Water consumption: 120,448 m3 13 1.2 Who are we? G4-4 An experienced expert in comprehensive office, auditorium and sports furniture solutions An advisor and a partner who offers modern research and consulting services concerning work style and workstation arrangement analysis, change management, ergonomics and acoustics An independent manufacturer with the biggest product portfolio in the furniture industry How do we support our customers? Why is it worth cooperating with us? We offer comprehensive support at each stage of project Exceptional flexibility. We adopt an individual approach to implementation, including the process of planning and designevery project. We define and respond to our customers’ needs. ing an office, auditorium or sports arena (Nowy Styl Group’s We join together diverse resources, the knowledge and podesign process and services) tential of our international companies, brands and the people We conduct research, consult our customers and respond who make up Nowy Styl Group. This is our unique know-how. to their individual needs We are highly independent, which allows us to minimise the We find optimal solutions for every project risk associated with realising several projects at the same time. We have the greatest motivation and openness to cooperation. We develop quickly; we continuously invest in innovative production technologies and certificates. We use the potential of our international distributors and partners effectively (carpets, glass walls, lighting, etc.). We have a wide portfolio that comprises products manufactured by six brands: Nowy Styl, BN Office Solution, Grammer Office, Rohde & Grahl, Sitag and Forum Seating. 14 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 1 1.3 Our vision and mission G4-56 In today’s world people perform less physical work, Values but spend more and more time on mental activities – working, listening to a concert, watching a film at the cinema, In creating and realising our business strategy, we G4-2 or enjoying using multimedia devices. Our bodies fell behind; have been faithful to the same values since the very the process of evolution needs a lot of time to keep up with beginning: Locality, Flexibility and Transparency. In recent civilisation and technology. Bearing this in mind, and thinking years we have defined a few more values, on which we base also about the natural environment, we have defined our vision our relations inside and outside the company: and mission in the following way: Ambition – Nowy Styl Group is made up of ambitious, young at heart people who constantly improve their way of working and Vision look for new solutions in order to achieve even better results. Teamwork – all Nowy Styl Group’s employees work for the We wish for office surroundings to compensate in the best common success of the whole organisation. Because of that, way for changes in the work and life style of the contemporary we treat each other as equals, respect different perspectives, world. We strive to make them as friendly as possible and and value the open exchange of views. adjusted to people and their needs. Humility – appreciating other companies’ experience and knowledge, we constantly learn and improve our qualifications. Mission We are able to admit to our mistakes and draw conclusions from them. At the same time, we are proud of what we have With great passion and respect for the natural environment, already achieved. we help people arrange offices and other public spaces. We Balance – we truly believe that work is a part of life that make sure the spaces respond to people’s needs concerning has to harmonise with life’s other elements. Only when people health and comfort, increase job satisfaction and efficiency, have a happy private life can they be happy at work. With this and fulfil individual requirements regarding ergonomics and in mind, we take care of keeping the right balance between aesthetics. We want them to serve people as best they can. private and professional lives. Honesty – we are of the opinion that ethical standards and decency are equally binding both in business and in private. That’s why we treat our associates and business partners with respect, keep our promises and act transparently. Ambition Teamwork Humility Balance Honesty 15 1.4 Business strategy We realise all of our business activities in two segments: last two years we have created a Workplace Research and the commodity segment, in which we sell chairs to our end Consulting Department, in which we develop our knowledge customers, and the professional segment, in which we sell and experience in arranging effective workplaces. The team a comprehensive service of equipping office and public spaces. includes psychologists, sociologists, and architects, who conUnderstanding the diverse needs of customers from both segduct research processes based on the newest methodologies ments and taking into consideration the different business aims in organisations and among employees and their work styles. we have defined for them, we create specialised organisational After analyses, they prepare projects based on their research structures, an activity plan, and a product offer that allows us findings. to respond to those needs. Over the last two years, our product portfolio for auditoriums Listening to the requirements of the markets we operate in, we and sports arenas has been complemented with telescopic also constantly develop our product portfolio and the catalogue tribunes, mobile tribunes and products realised according to of services which are addressed to both segments. Within the the guidelines given by designers. G4-6 G4-8 RANGE OF ACTIVITIES AT AUSTRIA CH SWITZERLAND BE BELGIUM GB UNITED KINGDOM CZECH UNITED ARAB CZ AE REPUBLIC EMIRATES FR FRANCE KZ KAZAKHSTAN NL NETHERLANDS RU RUSSIA LU LUXEMBOURG TR TURKEY DE GERMANY UA UKRAINE PL POLAND HU HUNGARY SK SLOVAKIA 16 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 1 1.5 Development strategy Along with organic growth and organisational changes, Nowy in the Western European market, we are concentrating there Styl Group is expanding its business activity in foreign marour activity. This kind of strategy facilitates the process of kets. We already belong to three leading office chair and furmanaging the company and allows for its smooth and stable niture manufacturers in Europe, but perceiving huge potential development. 17 Organic growth and acquisitions Nowy Styl Group consists of Nowy Styl position in Western Europe. Our company does not offer the G4-3 G4-7 G4-13 G4-23 Sp. z o.o., its subsidiaries responsible products made by the Sitag brand in Poland because of the for foreign branches in particular countries, and joint-venture license agreement signed between the Swiss company and companies created with local partners. The structure of the Sitag Formy Siedzenia Sp. z o.o., which remained independent. Group changes dynamically together with the company’s development. Also in 2015, after several years’ preparation, we parted with the Baltic Wood company, which dealt with manufacturing In 2014–2015 we realised two strategic transactions. wooden floors for residential interiors. This decision was strategic and resulted from our willingness to concentrate entirely In 2015 we acquired the Swiss company Sitag AG and joined it on our basic business activity connected with arranging office to the Group. The company, which has a long-lasting tradition and public spaces. The company that bought Baltic Wood is and reputation, manufactures office chairs and furniture that Gamrat from Jasło, which belongs to the Lentex Group, a carpet are characterised by unique design and technological solutions. flooring manufacturer. Together with Sitag, we expanded our distribution network in the quickly developing Swiss market and strengthened our Nowy Styl Group’s development strategy is based on the organic growth and acquisition of other companies. By purchasing companies in foreign markets, we are able to expand our knowledge of them and win a distribution network, which allows us to create an offer that will reach local customers quickly and accurately. When making acquisitions, we choose organisations that are financially healthy and mature in terms of various business aspects. By becoming part of the structure of our company, they are given a chance to expand the range of their activity. ADAM KRZANOWSKI President of Nowy Styl Group 18 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 1 NOWY STYL GROUP Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Subsidiaries: Joint-venture companies: Rohde & Grahl GmbH TCC The Chair Company Nowy Styl GmbH Telmex-Nowy Styl Zrt. Rohde & Grahl BV Nowy Styl Ukraine Nowy Styl FR SAS Nowy Styl Russia Nowy Styl UK Ltd. Nowy Styl SK s.r.o. Sitag AG In this report, in accordance with the principle of materiality and influence, we present data concerning the companies that focus on production – Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. and the following subsidiaries: Nowy Styl GmbH and Rohde & Grahl GmbH in Germany; Rohde & Grahl BV * in the Netherlands; and Sitag AG, which operates in Switzerland and Austria. We also describe the business activity of Nowy Styl FR SAS (France), Nowy Styl UK Ltd. (Great Britain) and Nowy Styl SK s.r.o. (Slovakia) to a limited extent. * Rohde & Grahl BV does not deal with the production activity, however the Dutch market is an important market for us in terms of the sales aspects, therefore we decided to include the subsidiary in the report. 19 1.6 The company’s authorities Nowy Styl Group is run by a 5-person management board, with the company’s G4-34 founders – brothers Adam and Jerzy Krzanowski – at the top. The members of the management board are responsible for particular departments of Nowy Styl Group and its subsidiaries. Adam Krzanowski Co-founder of the company and President of its Management Board. He is responsible for the organisation’s Sales Department. Being an experienced entrepreneur and strategist, he has been awarded many times for his business skills, as well as for community involvement and his entrepreneurship-supporting attitude (e.g. the EY Entrepreneur of the Year 2014 title, and the laureate of Responsible Business Awards 2015 from the Executive Club). He loves playing tennis. Jerzy Krzanowski Co-founder of the company and its Vice President since 2009. He runs the investment and purchasing departments and he is responsible for controlling the suppliers and supervising the company’s strategic innovative undertakings. He is deeply engaged in Sub-Carpathian business development and keen on supporting talented young people through the Janusz Korczak Foundation. In 2014 he was awarded the “Dynamic Entrepreneur of the Year” title by Grand Thornton. Jerzy is fond of Nordic walking. He says that the best ideas come to his mind when practising in the open air. Rafał Chwast Vice President of Nowy Styl Group since 2008. Previously he worked for the company Comarch. For three years he was President of the Management Board at the Association of Stock Exchange Issuers. At Nowy Styl Group he is responsible for finance and IT. Rafał is a strategist who skilfully deals with the acquisition of foreign companies. Through courageous investments, he makes the whole company reach the smart organisation level. He won the “Magellan’s Laurels 2014.” Rafał is a classical music lover and initiator of the company’s cooperation with the Krzysztof Penderecki European Centre for Music. Dariusz Frydrych Member of Nowy Styl Group’s Management Board and Operational Director since 2010. He is responsible for supervising teams of employees at eight production plants, both in Poland and abroad. Previously he worked for Delphi Automotive Systems Poland. He successfully applies the experience he gained while working in the automotive industry to the furniture industry. Dariusz tries to instil the spirit of sports competitiveness in his workplace. He is also a member and patron of the Sports Club, as well as an active participant in local sports initiatives. Roman Przybylski Member of the Management Board and Sales Director. He has been associated with Nowy Styl Group since 2003. He is responsible for supervising foreign Sales Departments. He is also a board member of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries. Roman takes care of the company’s notable successes and ensures it remains in good condition. After working hours, he strives to improve the results he achieves in international running competitions. 20 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 1 1.7 Financial results DMA: G4We take care of the stability of our business acHow do we present our financial EC1 EC1 tivity because we know that we exert a huge results? influence on the way our stakeholders function. Market diversification and a flexible business strategy are the sources of our We follow the principle of transparency and apG4-17 financial security. Relying on them, as well as on our efficient ply it to the presentation of our financial results. organisational structure, we are able to make courageous We keep meticulous accounts; we account for our finandecisions and transactions, which enables us to maintain the cial results on time and report them to the relevant instidynamic development of our company. The financial success we tutions. We are also subject to regular external audits. achieved in the last two years is reflected in an increase of more than 20% in sales revenues (an increase of nearly 25% in 2014 We present the financial results included in our financial statecompared to 2013 and a 21% increase in 2015 compared to ments and those made available to the public using consolidated 2014). It is connected both with the organic growth in current data for the entire Nowy Styl Group, namely for the companies markets and the acquisitions we made in new foreign markets. that belong to the corporate group, in which we have 100% of the shares, as well as for the Hungarian company TelmexThis success also translates into greater prosperity for our Nowy Styl Zrt. (which we run together with our Hungarian stakeholders: employees, local communities, and especially partner and in which we have 50% of the shares), without the non-governmental institutions, for which we are a strong division into countries where we operate. This is also how we partner. Paying taxes diligently, we participate in building the analyse data for our everyday activity, for internal purposes. local economy. It is useful because it allows us to measure the scale of the value we generate with the Group for our customers. These The increase in the scale of our business activity allows us consolidated data are presented in the report. to optimise some of our costs. The ratio of operating costs to sales revenues is clearly decreasing in subsequent years. On Golden Payer one hand this results from fixed costs making up a considerable share of the expenses structure (approx. 1/3 of the total) and Our financial reliability is also assessed by institutions from the their increase is not associated with turnover. On the other insurance sector. Based on the Receivables Analysis Program, hand, we implement processes connected with centralising the company Euler Hermes awarded our organisation the Golden services such as IT, Purchasing and Marketing, which helps Payer 2015 title. We are among the 5% of Polish companies us realise them more effectively. that have a rating above CCC, a Payment Morality Index over 80 points (in 2015 it was 99 points for our company) and no active debt collections. This award is a sign of promptness in G4the payments we make – both to our suppliers and employees. EC1 FINANCIAL NOWY STYL GROUP 2014 2015 RESULTS OF NOWY Direct economic value generated 905 564,82 1 097 462,79 STYL GROUP (PLN thousand)* a) Revenues 905 564,82 1 097 462,79 Economic value distributed 848 543,47 986 299,57 b) Operating costs 599 739,11 688 803,12 c) Employee wages and benefits 222 405,20 264 333,03 d) Payments to providers of capital 21 869,74 22 217,52 e) Payments to government 3 922,19 10 399,91 f) Community investments 607,23 545,99 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 57 021,35 111 163,22 * Data from the companies that belong to the corporate group and for which we have 100% of the shares, and from the Hungarian company Telmex-Nowy Styl Zrt., which we run together with a Hungarian partner (50% of the shares). 21 1.8 Investments Our company is one of the most dynamically developing furwhich greatly facilitates the prototyping process. The printer niture groups in Europe. This is both a condition and an effect uses plant-based material: biodegradable polylactide (PLA). of the intense investment in the organisation’s development, especially in its production and information technology infraIn order to manage the organisation’s resources more effectively, structure. in 2015 we finished implementing a new ERP class system. The undertaking almost covered the entire Group because the Our aim is to create an intelligent organisation with the most system is used by all the foreign companies. We expanded modern production possible based on the fourth generation – the range of computerised processes – the changes were both so-called industry 4.0. In this respect we belong to the pioneers, computer and organisation-related. especially in the furniture industry, as shown by the initiatives we undertook in 2014–2015. We were the first in the European furniture industry to decide on integrated product lifecycle management with the PLM class In March 2015 we opened a new Office Furniture Factory in system (Product Lifecycle Management). The use of virtual Jasło, which was a real revolution in our furniture production. designing and manufacturing techniques and systemic product The fully automated processing line increased our manufacdata management can allow for rapid implementation of the turing capacity three times and made our production system products our customers expect and an effective control of our even more flexible, allowing us to realise individual orders as broad offer. We are planning to continue the project for the next effectively as we do long product batches (For more informathree years. Its coordination will be one of the responsibilities tion on the new factory, see the table). of the experts from the Research and Development Centre, which is now being created at Nowy Styl Group. We also continue to invest in production at our other factories. We automate their manufacturing processes and implement We implement these investments using our own funds and new eco-friendly solutions. with the support of public funds. The table below shows the financial assistance we received from the government in 2014 Since 2015 we have been using a 3D printer in our Design and 2015. Department. The device serves for printing product prototypes, G4EC4 PUBLIC 2014 2015 ASSISTANCE Subsidies from the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development to the new factory (PLN), including European Regional Development Fund 5 708 194,25 1 729 496,10 State Treasury 1 007 328,40 305 205,19 Tax reliefs on account of operating within 1 701 823,33 2 909 314,43 the Tarnobrzeg Special Economic Zone (PLN) De minimis aid received from the District 0,00 11 200,00 Employment Agency (PLN) 22 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 1 OFFICE FURNITURE FACTORY IN JASŁO The factory we opened in Jasło is one of the biggest and most innovative production plants in Europe. At the heart of the factory there are two production lines, and its main manufacturing process is completely automated and operated solely by machines – from storing and cutting materials, through veneering, drilling and threading, to completing ready-to-use furniture components in one place. The packaging and assembly processes are partially automated as well. As a result of this, we have almost completely eliminated manual work; employees are responsible mainly for supervising the processes. In the new factory there is a new manufacturing process – production is not carried out based on batches of material, but based on customers’ orders only. It takes place in a so-called “just in time” manner – we produce only those products that have been ordered without creating any stock. Optimal production management is ensured by an integrated MES class system. We manufacture both short and long product series; efficiency is exactly the same, regardless of whether 1 or 100 furniture items are manufactured – it is three times greater than in the other production plants. This allows us to reduce costs and shorten the order completion time by 70%, including for orders that are tailor-made. As a result, we greatly increased our competitive advantage, since personalised products are in demand on the contemporary design market and the “small office, home office” market. In order to improve the quality of the products we manufacture, we invested in state-of-the-art devices, such as an innovative laser for veneering curved elements. While straight-line veneering applications have been on the market for a few years, the technology for curvilinear elements is new and allows for achieving excellent quality and strength parameters for bonding board with edge banding. Our other new devices are two board machines used for cutting cardboard boxes to the size of a particular order. They have enabled us to limit our consumption of materials. To increase the eco-friendly properties of our products, we implemented manufacturing processes based on honeycomb board. The most important advantages of honeycomb board are its lightness together with stability and other crucial constructional functions. Its thickness and inner structure that resembles a “honeycomb” determine its mechanical properties, but its production requires significantly less wood-based materials. The factory construction project was realised using financial support received from the European Regional Development Fund. 23 1.9 Awards and mentions We do not act for awards; however, we record them careBronisław Komorowski for the continuous development of fully and regard them as a sign of appreciation for the way a domestic enterprise. In the same year, the President of our we operate and the successes achieved by our organisation company was chosen as EY Entrepreneur of the Year in Poland. and its individual employees. It is a huge pleasure for us to As a result, he was able to represent the Polish business in the receive prizes awarded at a local level, such as the Pillar of world finals of the competition in June 2015. It was not only the Sub-Carpathian Region Economy, because we treat them a huge honour, but also a great opportunity to promote our as the opinions of our family or neighbours. They watch us company among many different enterprises from around the closely and know not only our company’s successes, but also world, which develop as dynamically as our organisation does. its everyday reality. We are also extremely pleased to receive awards of international importance, when our products are In 2014 and 2015 we managed to complete a few strategic appreciated for their design and functionality by a group of undertakings – we finished the construction of our new facindependent specialists from many different countries. tory in Jasło, acquired the company Sitag AG, which has been operating in the Swiss market for more than 50 years, and Among all the awards we received in 2014, there was a state purchased 50% of the shares of Turkish company TCC The award – the Gold Cross for Merit for Adam and Jerzy Krzanowski, Chair Company. All the projects were positively acclaimed in which was given to our company’s owners by Polish President the business environment. Those standing behind the success Emerging Market Champion 2015 Innovative Project Visionaries 2015 Award in the “Polish of the Year 2015 Main prize for foreign investments” Adam and Jerzy Award for the factory category Krzanowski in Jasło construction project Pillars of TOP Employers Dynamic Polish Economy of Eastern Entrepreneur 2014 Poland of the Year 2014 Sub-Carpathian Honourable mention Laureate: laureate Jerzy Krzanowski Marketing Director of the Year 2014 Economic Award for Magdalena Tokarczyk-Cyran from the Polish EY Entrepreneur President 2015 of the Year 2014 Category: presence Laureate: in the global market Adam Krzanowski 24 Nowy Styl Group 2014–2015 1 of the undertakings were given a few prestigious awards. Adam acclaimed in the furniture industry was the Vote swivel chair and Jerzy Krzanowski became the laureates of the “Visionaries for the German market. The Bürohit award in the “ergonomics” 2015” competition organised by “Dziennik Gazeta Prawna.” category and the positive appraisal by “FACTS” magazine reflect The Kronenberg Foundation at Citi Handlowy awarded us the our approach to creating products, which is characterised by title of the Emerging Market Champion in the “Polish foreign a consideration for appearance that goes hand in hand with investments” category. Jerzy Krzanowski became the Dynamic ergonomic and eco-friendly technical solutions. Entrepreneur of the Year 2014 (prize from Grand Thornton), and Rafał Chwast received the Magellan’s Laurel (mention from We continually highlight the fact that our business success is the Cracow University of Economics Corporation). based on special care for sustainable development. Our CSR activities are assessed by highly regarded Polish experts – among othThe construction of our factory was awarded both as a successers, those from the Responsible Business Forum (FOB), Deloitte, ful investment project (the “Innovative Project of the Year” title the editorial team of “Dziennik Gazeta Prawna” and “Polityka” received from the Polish Enterprise Development Agency and weekly. We are happy and proud of the visible progress we make the 2nd place in the “Industrial Investment of the Year 2014” in this area. In 2015, we were in the top thirty in the Responsible ranking) and in the project management category (the main Companies Ranking (27th position in the overall ranking and 6th prize: Polish Project Excellence Award from the IPMA Polska among companies dealing with chemistry and manufacturing), Association). which means our company moved up 16 positions compared to the previous year. We share the projects we consider the most Every new product we introduce into our offer is an important successful by submitting them for publication in the “Responsible undertaking for us. One implementation that was positively Business – Good Practices” FOB report. The Krzanowski brothers have managed to transform a small family business into a huge furniture company that is recognisable not only in Poland and Europe, but all over the world. The company’s effective strategy, which has been focused on international expansion from the very beginning, has resulted in an impressive scale of export. By competing with others in the most important foreign markets, the company is considered a key player. To represent our country in the international final of the EY World Entrepreneur of the Year competition is to be an undeniable pride of Poland for the 21st century. BARTŁOMIEJ SMOLAREK Partner at EY’s transaction advisory services, Auditor of the EY Enterpreneur of the Year competition Gold Cross of Merit for Adam and Jerzy Krzanowski The Best Magellan’s Laurel Employer 2014 6th place in the “Gazeta Finansowa” ranking Laureate: Rafał Chwast 25 2 Our responsibility 28 Our responsibility 2 2.1 Operational Ethics G4-56 Honesty is one of the values that underline our company’s internal and external relations. In our opinion, ethical standards and decency are equally binding in business and private. That’s why we treat our associates, business partners and competitors with respect, keep our promises and act transparently. We do our best to verify compliance with human rights, labour In 2014 we also started working on the Nowy Styl Group Code rights, environmental protection principles and anti-corruption of Ethics, to define our ethical standards in a more detailed rules among our employees even more effectively. We also way and act as a supervisory tool. First, the Code had to be apply these standards to our suppliers and partners. Their implemented in Poland. We appointed a team responsible for popularisation is one of the obligations we undertook in 2012, the creation process that consisted of employees from three when we joined the UN Global Compact initiative, and to which different departments: training courses, human resources and we continuously adhere, being convinced of its value. the company’s CSR coordinator. We compiled a framework of new ethical regulations for our organisation and created The Group’s documents a system for controlling their observance. All the regulations were based on international conventions and declarations, Nowy Styl Group Code of Ethics and adjusted to our company’s character. We decided to All our employees are subjected to the following documents: use the experience gained by different Polish companies the Code of Conduct and Nowy Styl Group’s Employee Principle and experts, so we turned for help to the Ethical Advocates Card, which pinpoint precisely all our ethical and legal obligaCoalition, which operates at the UN Global Compact office tions. Every new employee is obliged to read the documents in Poland. However, the main consultations are still ahead and accept them. They were also introduced to employees of us – in 2016 our aim is to hold extensive consultations of the foreign companies that were included in the Group’s on the document with employees in all the divisions and structure in 2014–2015. So far, we have not organised any departments of our company. training courses on these issues for our employees. 29 Although we were planning to finish working on the Code and the documents that are observed in all of our departments, choose the Ethical Advocate by the end of 2015, we believe so that our customers and partners can be assured that we that extensive discussions on the document and its effective follow the same ethical standards, regardless of the country implementation are important and require more time. That’s they are in. why we decided to devote one more year to undertaking all these actions. We will use the Code to create a program of DMA: G4All agreements, regulations and other internal SO8 SO8 ethical training courses for our employees, which will explain documents are in conformity with binding law the importance of the document and facilitate the process of in the countries in which Nowy Styl Group operates. We act adhering to all the procedures that regulate ethical issues, transparently and obey relevant rules. None of our companies including human rights. have been imposed substantial financial penalties or other non-financial sanctions resulting from infringement of the law. Supplier Code of Conduct At the end of 2015 we implemented a completely new docuDMA: DMA: G4G4G4We take special care to obey free SO5 SO7 SO7 SO5 SO4 ment that applies to all of our suppliers: the Nowy Styl Group’s competition rules, in terms of our Supplier Code of Conduct. It defines the most important ethical business activity both in the Polish market and in foreign marstandards concerning freedom of employment, freedom of kets. In previous years, these issues were the main theme of the association, employee safety, honest business practices and training courses we held for our distributors. In 2014, together environmental responsibility. More information on the Code with Gotfryd Law Firm, we created a program and organised can be found in the “Our suppliers” section on page 89. a training course for employees in the Sales and Marketing Departments that focused on aspects concerning competition The companies we joined to the Group also have their own protection, as well as consumer rights. documents describing the ethical standards they followed in the past. The management board of the German company Rohde & For us, one of the areas that is exposed to ethical dilemmas and Grahl defined the ethical standards they considered the most which requires knowledge of the law is public tenders, in which important for their market in an announcement addressed to we participate as a potential contractor or sub-contractor. In employees. These are: compliance with regulations, honesty, 2014 we organised two training courses in public procurement carefulness in respecting occupational safety rules, lack of tolerlaw: for sales representatives (Front Office), customer service ance for discrimination, care for information security and data staff (Back Office) and the team responsible for preparing ofprotection, and objection to corruption and bribery practices. fers for the project market, including offers for public sector Their observance is one of the strategic aims included in the investors. company’s business plan. Due to our company’s consistent implementation of the ethical We greatly appreciate our associates’ experience in ethics, policy, as in previous years, we did not record any violations of therefore we used the binding documents of our foreign free competition rules, fair competition rules in the free market, companies when working on the Supplier Code of Conduct or behaviours presenting signs of corruption. and our new Code of Ethics. We aim to gradually standardise 30 Our responsibility 2 OUR PROMISES: Implementation of the Code of Ethics We will announce and implement the Nowy Styl Group Code of Ethics that will strengthen the standards of our operation and communication. Ethical training courses We will hold training courses in ethics, including conflict of interest and anti-corruption practices. These will be permanently included in the assimilation process for new employees. 31 2.2 Systemic activities supporting sustainable development Ethical activities are the basis of corporate social responsibility. We consider our company an active player on the way G4-15 to shaping a world that will be a friendly place for What does CSR mean to us? future generations. Among the 17 Sustainable Development Goals defined by the United Nations for 2030, we perceive four Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a concept that imposes goals whose realisation is clearly supported by our company: a responsibility for social sustainable development on enterGood health and well-being prises and obliges them to include social and environmental Decent work and economic growth factors in their strategic aims. For Nowy Styl Group this atInnovation and infrastructure titude to business has been something natural from the very Responsible consumption and production beginning. However, as the scale of our activities increases, so does the risk connected with our negative influence, along We treat the concept of CSR, along with a number of market with our causative power. Therefore, our intention is to make initiatives and tools facilitating the idea of development in all of our actions more systemic. business, as support in implementing the Sustainable Development Goals. That’s why we report our aims and CSR activities, improve our competences in this field, undergo audits (e.g. the EcoVadis appraisal) and compare ourselves with competitors. Implementation of the Group’s CSR strategy, in which we will define sustainable development goals and their implementation tools, will be the next step on the way to managing our CSR activities systemically. It will be an independent document, yet closely integrated with our organisation’s business aims. OUR PROMISE: Creation of the CSR strategy In order to manage our CSR activities even better we will create our company’s CSR strategy, which will be closely connected with the company’s business strategy. The document will include defined aims and tools, and ways of measuring their implementation progress. 32 Our responsibility 2 Nowy Styl Group’s social responsibility strategy is a rare case in Poland of a local approach to global challenges. Nowy Styl Group was established as a local company and it was slowly becoming mature enough for global responsibility. I truly believe that by analysing the stages of its development, students at the management faculty and future business leaders will be able to understand that the implementation of solutions involving stakeholders and responding to specific needs and social problems has a huge influence on the quality of social capital, enhancing values associated with cooperation and realisation of the common weal. This kind of knowledge is missing in today’s Polish managerial education. We all live in a world that’s becoming more and more difficult, therefore it is worth appreciating the ability possessed by Nowy Styl Group’s leaders – the ability to build “ethical stakeholders’ capital,” influencing the material and non-material value of the company. PROF. ALK DR HAB. BOLESŁAW ROK Director at the Business Ethics and Social Innovations Centre, Leon Koźmiński Academy Decent work Good health and and economic well-being growth Responsible Innovation consumption and and infrastructure production 33 2.3 Quality and certificates In maintaining quality, safety, and environmental aspects of our processes and technologies we are supported by management systems based on the following norms and standards: ISO ISO PN-N OHSAS 14001:2004 9001:2008 18001:2004 18001:2007 Environmental Quality Management OHS OHS Management System Systems Management System Management System EN EN ISO FSC 1090-1:2009 3834-2:2007 Product Factory Production Quality requirements Origin Control Control for welding metals In 2014 we initiated the process of integrating these systems. As well as certifying our management systems, we also certify our products. We test their properties internally, but in recent years we have also increased the number of certificates and seals of approval issued by external institutions: Ergonomie GS Quality Office Toxproof Geprüft certificate certificate test certificate NF Office Ökostrom Hygiene Excellence certificate certificates certificate 34 Our responsibility 2 FSC EcoVadis Wood is one of the basic materials used in the furniture industry. EcoVadis is a platform used in 140 countries that supports All of the roundwood used in our production plants comes from international companies in assessing their suppliers in terms of European Union forests and meets the requirements defined their respect towards the natural environment and social needs. by the regulation EUTR 995/2010. We would like to make the process of assessing our company We also provide our customers with an opportunity to purchase easier for our customers, therefore we voluntarily undergo products made of wood labelled with the international FSC (Forevaluations carried out by independent experts from EcoVadis. est Stewardship Council) certificate, which guarantees that the Their survey is based on the GRI, UN Global Compact and ISO whole wood lifecycle, from sowing the seed to cutting down 26000 standards and consists of approximately 150 differthe tree, is in accordance with applicable standards. Our wood ent criteria. As a result, in 2014 we received the “Confirmed” processing plant is FSC certified and uses FSC certified wood certificate, which confirms our company’s activities are in to manufacture plywood and solid wood. conformity with the global CSR standards. The report about the Group’s strengths and development areas was of added The ratio of certified to non-certified wood used in our manuvalue for our company. facturing processes was 35% to 65% in 2014 and 28% to 72% in 2015. IC ATE CE RTIF tion y Bod ce Gm vi bH tifica ent Ser Cer The anagem ÜD M es that S ifi ÜV cert of T mbH igtei hl G o Gra rberg/V de & Steye Roh 4, 31595 any tei 8 Germ Voig plies t Syste m d ap en d an agem ion: blishe tal Man plicat esta ap has ironmen ope of d Env wing sc o n of lity an follo ibuti . Qua for the Distr eating and S ion re and duct itu t, Proice Furn ) m en ff 8572 elop ic O 7074 under: Dev onom t-No. ts Erg epor iremen ts (R qu of audi at the re ce f th rman proo 08 Perfo rnished has fu 900 ISO 4001:2 1:20 04 0 06 un til 20 18-0 4-29 . 35 1 -05S. ISO from 2015 35 867 TM valid 104 te is 100/ ifica o. 12 cert ion N The istrat 2.4 Initiatives and organisations G4-15 G4-16 We do not operate in a vacuum. As a Group, but Germany also as different companies functioning in different markets, we join initiatives and organisations that define and BSO Verband Büro-, Sitzund Objektmöbel – a German orhelp maintain the right standards for products and business ganisation for office furniture manufacturers that conducts practices – including, in particular, those of the furniture sector. research and produces furniture industry statistics, promotes its members, represents members in standardisation instituInternational organisations: tions, and initiates sector projects. It initiated the creation of the OFML data standard and open applications for designing UN Global Compact – we have been a member of the Global interiors. Compact since 2012. It is an international platform for companies and institutions that obey the UN universal regulations France concerning human rights, employment standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption policy. UNIFA National Chamber of the French Furniture Industry FEMB European Office Furniture Federation is an organisation and the Ethical and Responsible Sales Charter – the most repthat represents the furniture industry in European institutions resentative organisation of the French furniture industry. In in the international arena, collecting standardised economic March 2015, together with 21 members of the chamber, we data. Nowy Styl Group has a representative on the Federation’s signed the Ethical and Responsible Sales Charter (Une charte management board. de relations commerciales éthiques et responsables), which defines recommendations that will allow for achieving the Poland highest product and service quality for customers, maintaining healthy competition within the industry, and ensuring AHK Poland (The German-Polish Chamber of Industry and dynamic development for the whole furniture sector at the Commerce) – for twenty years it has been working for the same time. The issue of companies as good employers is also development of Polish-German economic relations. a very important aspect in the charter. Polish-Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce – it supports the deARSEG Workplace Managers Association – the association velopment of Polish-Ukrainian economic and cultural relations. brings together over 2,000 enterprises and specialists who Executive Club – a business organisation for executives of deal with facility management. the biggest companies from Poland. Family Business Initiative Association – the largest organisaGreat Britain tion that integrates family-run companies in Poland. Sub-Carpathian Business Club – an organisation that conBritish Contract Furnishing Association – a British association nects entrepreneurs and employers from the Sub-Carpathian that gathers more than 250 companies from the commercial region. Its co-founder was Jerzy Krzanowski, co-owner of Nowy interior furnishing sector. Membership of the organisation Styl Group. is reserved only for those companies that offer the highest Koźmiński Foundation – a foundation that runs initiatives quality services. supporting the development of local and business communities British Institute of Facilities Management – an organisation in Poland. Jerzy Krzanowski is a member of the Foundation’s that brings together more than 12,000 facility management Council. companies and experts. It supports the development of compe“Think about the Future” Foundation – the founders of the tences and provides a platform for the exchange of knowledge organisation are the biggest Polish companies that undertake and experience. activities promoting entrepreneurship, including a program of civic economic education. “Smart Start” Foundation – our company is one of the organisation’s founders. We use the foundation to promote Polish enterprises and the professional development of young Poles abroad. 36 Our responsibility 2 The Netherlands VIP – an organisation for specialists in the field of office interior design. MVO Nederland (CSR Netherlands) – in this network of comBNI – an organisation for Dutch architects. panies, entrepreneurs and experts work together to develop tools and share good CSR practices. Slovakia Committee for Office Furniture and Educational Institutions Standardisation at NEN-NEN – a Dutch organisation of standSlovak Chamber of Architects – a main organisation for ardisation. Hans Bloemendaal from Rohde & Grahl BV was the architects in Slovakia that issues the licence to practice the chairman of the committee that prepared the new standard profession. NPR 1813, used for standardising office chairs. As representatives of enterprises, we are responsible for running a business with the care of environmental and social issues in mind. This is the kind of belief that prevails among Dutch entrepreneurs. Customers from the Netherlands have good knowledge of sustainable development, therefore our offer has to be adjusted to their expectations. We take this into consideration when working on new products, but also when realising all the other activities the Rohde & Grahl company undertakes. We strive to popularise high standards in this field, including in the different furniture organisations in which we operate, for example, the Dutch Committee for Educational and Office Furniture. We also took the requirements into account when working on our new furniture standard NPR 1813, which is a Dutch standard for office furniture. HANS BLOEMENDAAL Marketing & Sales Manager, Rohde & Grahl BV 37 2.5 Dialogue with stakeholders We also build our company’s success on among others, and with stakeholders from the Swiss market, G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 good relations with our key stakeholders. which is a new market for us. That’s why we engage them regularly in order to become familiarised with their needs and ideas on how to improve When defining our groups of stakeholders, we analysed our cooperation. We conduct this kind of dialogue through their impact on our company and the influence our company our current communication channels. In the last two years exerts on them. When planning our communication activiwe complemented them with a series of activities addressed ties, we also took into consideration their interest in our to facility managers and employees from the BPO/SSC sector, business activity. STAKEHOLDERS MAPPING – ASSESSMENT OF THE MUTUAL INFLUENCE OF THE ORGANISATION AND STAKEHOLDERS 6 EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENT 5 DISTRIBUTORS LOCAL COMMUNITY NOWY STYL GROUP’S INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDERS SUPPLIERS NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS 4 ARCHITECTS 3 COMPETITORS HIGHER EDUCATION FACILITIES 2 STATE ADMINISTRATION MEDIA 1 PUBLIC OPINION 1 2 3 4 5 6 STAKEHOLDERS’ INFLUENCE ON NOWY STYL GROUP 38 Our responsibility 2 STAKEHOLDERS MAPPING (IN TERMS OF COMMUNICATION) 6 EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENT 5 ARCHITECTS DISTRIBUTORS STAKEHOLDERS’ INFLUENCE ON NOWY STYL GROUP COMPETITORS 4 HIGHER EDUCATION FACILITIES SUPPLIERS 3 STATE LOCAL COMMUNITY ADMINISTRATION PUBLIC OPINION 2 NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS MEDIA 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 STAKEHOLDERS’ INTEREST LEVEL IN NOWY STYL GROUP’S BUSINESS ACTIVITY MAIN AREA OF THE CURRENT CURRENT RESPONDING COMPANY’S ACTIVITY COOPERATION INFORMING TO QUESTIONS 39 Ways of engaging key stakeholders PARTNERS, DISTRIBUTORS individual phone calls website social media newsletters training courses meetings visits to our “UP^STREAM” production plants magazine ARCHITECTS individual phone calls website social media newsletters workshops, meetings conferences SUPPLIERS individual phone calls website social media meetings at the meetings “Supplier of the Year” competition INDIVIDUAL CUSTOMERS website social media traditional media promotional campaigns MEDIA website newsletters individual press conferences meetings LOCAL COMMUNITY website social media traditional media promotional events with campaigns participation of a local community 40 Our responsibility 2 In the case of those groups for which we assess mutual influSelected conclusions drawn from the ence as high and the interest in our organisation as great, we survey: do not want to limit our activities only to informing; we also ensure bilateral communication and when it comes to the most Nowy Styl Group has an image of a responsible company – important issues, we undertake a dialogue. 69.34% of respondents considered Nowy Styl Group a CSR leader or an exceptionally responsible company; only 4% of In order to prepare this report, we conducted a dedirespondents assessed our organisation as a little responsible G4-27 cated questionnaire survey among our key stakeholdor not responsible at all. ers: employees, customers, suppliers and the local commuOur first report was commended by almost 60% of respondnity. They were able to fill in our questionnaire form “CSR ents. Only 20% admitted to their lack of knowledge of the report. practices and sustainable development in Nowy Styl Group” The same proportion of respondents assessed it neutrally. online or on paper. We did our best to make sure the form We should strengthen communication of the CSR report – the reached all the people associated with our company: our data included in the report was used by only 30% of respondemployees – we hung posters in our production plants; our ents. This rate is much greater for people from outside Poland partners and customers both in Poland and abroad – we sent (51%). emails; the residents of Jasło and Krosno – we published an The subjects our recipients indicated as the most interestadvertisement in the local media. The survey also involved ing include: our social partners: the non-governmental organisations with the company’s influence on the development of the which we have been cooperating for the “Charity Ball” and environment and economy the entrepreneurs from the Sub-Carpathian region who have new technologies and eco-friendly solutions in known us for years. production care for customer health and safety In the survey, we asked respondents to assess our previous CSR products and services, quality and safety, product report (2012–2013) and express their expectations concerning labelling the scope and content of the current report. We took advantage motivational system, appraisal and remuneration of this opportunity, and asked them for their thoughts about of employees pro-community activities. We received 509 completed questhe company’s involvement in public life tionnaire forms, the majority of which included the opinions of our employees and customers. We took these conclusions into consideration when assessing the importance of different issues and choosing which aspects to present in the report. The analysis of the questionnaire forms, divided into information needs and opinions of particular groups of stakeholders, was given to all departments of our company, so that it can be included in the operational and communication activities they undertake. 41 3 Employees 44 Employees 3 3.1 Employment Consistent investments in our employees’ development combined with their talent and engagement have enabled us to become the third biggest office furniture manufacturer in Europe. We truly believe that our shared passion and energy will result in the company’s further development and successes. G4For us, the most important source of employee recruitEmployees recruited in Poland: 2014 and 2015 – 98%; emEC6 ment continues to be the local market (the region where ployees recruited outside Poland: 2014 – 98%, 2015 – 97%. particular units operate). It is worth emphasising the very high proportion of senior managers employed from the local market The consistent and strategic cooperation with markets and in the Group’s main Polish headquarters: 2014 – 92%, 2015 – local employees brings a great number of benefits for all the 93%. The rate is also high globally: 2014 and 2015 – 77%. parties engaged, therefore we intend to continue it. For employees in general this proportion was even higher. 45 Employment structure DMA: G4Nowy Styl Group’s employment structure remained the same as it was LA12 LA12 in previous years. Some of the disproportion between the number of women and men working in the company are caused by the nature of the furniture industry and manufacturing. One aspect that is definitely worth highlighting is general employment growth. At the end of 2015, 3,850 people worked in Nowy Styl Group’s companies (as included in this report). Employment structure according to gender 2014 2015 26% 74% Women Men Employment structure according to age 24% 60% 25% 58% 16% 2014 17% 2015 < 30 years old 30 –50 years old > 50 years old Taking into account the “employment structure according to age” criterion, slight shifts of a few percent were visible from the “30–50 years old” range in favour of the range “up to 30 years old.” 46 Employees 3 Employment structure according to the type of contract Compared to the years 2012–2013, approx. 5% changes appeared in the G4-10 employment structure according to contract duration. They were in favour of the people employed on a definite term contract. The percentage of those employed on a full-time contract maintained the same as it was in 2013 – 98%. Employment structure according to the type of contract 2014 60% 40% 98% 2% indefinite term definite term full-time part-time contract contract contract contract 2015 59% 41% 98% 2% Employment structure of the managerial staff G4In 2014–2015, Nowy Styl Group’s management board consisted of five men LA12 aged between 30–50. In 2014 there were three men on the management board of Nowy Styl GmbH (two of them were aged 30–50, one was over 50). In 2015 the board consisted of one man aged between 30–50. In 2014, Rohde & Grahl GmbH was managed by one man who was over 50, while in 2015 the management board consisted of three men (one aged 30–50, two aged over 50). 47 Employee turnover according to gender and age G4We have seen great dynamics in employment, which we associate with the LA1 transformation of the labour market (from an employer model into an employee model). When divided by age group and gender, the statistics clearly show that neither age nor gender has an impact on employee recruitment or turnover in our company. New employees New employees 2014 154 2014 471 2015 137 2015 495 Ended contracts Ended contracts 2014 70 2014 271 2015 70 2015 355 Women Men 48 Employees 3 Return to work and the retention rate after parental leave G4We do our best to ensure our employees feel secure both at work and after LA3 work. The right balance between private and professional life is key. We respect our employees’ private time, as well as their right to take parental leave. We support them in combining two important roles: those of a parent and an employee. G4LA3 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Women Men WHO TOOK 2014 61 employees 93.44% 6.56% PARENTAL LEAVE 2015 63 employees 87.30% 12.70% G4LA3 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Women Men WHO 2014 53 employees 92.31% 7.69% RETURNED TO WORK 2015 53 employees 86.79% 13.21% AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE G4LA3 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Women Men WHO 2014 50 employees 92.00% 8.00% RETURNED TO WORK AND 2015 48 employees 87.50% 12.50% WERE STILL G4EMPLOYED FOR LA3 12 MONTHS RETENTION RATE 2014 0.94 2015 0.91 49 3.2 Remuneration DMA: G4DMA: G4Our remuneration policy is based on the work experience, education and the type of work performed). EC5 EC5 LA13 LA13 equal treatment of women and men for Due to the lack of possibility to report the figures for all the work of the same quality. It is also adjusted to the local legal companies that belong to the Group, we present the data that regulations. However, the remuneration in particular groups is available for some of them. of employees is differentiated by professional factors (e.g. G4Wages of employees occupying the lowest-level positions EC5 according to gender in comparison with the minimum wage Nowy Styl 133.93% Sp. z o.o. 149.65% 2014 – Sitag AG – Nowy Styl 161.53% GmbH 187.18% 100% – minimum wage Nowy Styl 137.32% Sp. z o.o. 149.58% 2015 125.60% Sitag AG 143.30% Nowy Styl 170.38% GmbH 191.53% Women Men 50 Employees 3 In 2014–2015 we recorded an increase in wages for employees In all companies that belong to the Group there is some disoccupying the lowest-level positions. The rate of remuneration proportion between the minimum wage of men and women growth among the Group’s Polish employees is also greater according to the position they occupy, most often in favour than the rate of the statutory minimum wage growth. of male employees. In the case of the Polish market, this disproportion was reduced. OUR PROMISE: In Poland we will implement a program that will help new employees adapt to the organisation (so-called on-boarding). It will ensure new employees are familiarised with all aspects of the new work environment effectively. 51 3.3 Fringe benefits G4For us, fringe benefits are not only tools for motivating Aware of different misfortunes that can happen in life, our LA2 employees, but also a way of supporting their private company managed to negotiate good corporate life insurance lives, especially their family lives. Every year in Poland, our that our employees and their families can use. Our employees employees’ children receive St. Nicholas Day gift packages. in Poland who experience difficult life situations can also count At Easter and Christmas our employees are given additional on support in the form of a financial grant from our internal financial benefits. In 2015 we resumed the organisation of social fund. summer camps at the Baltic Sea for our employees’ children, which are partially founded by the company. This activity Every autumn we organise flu vaccination days. For many years garnered great interest, therefore we are planning to organise we have also provided the “Employee Purchasing Card” in the more camps in the coming years. Sub-Carpathian region – a special discount card that allows our employees to buy products at favourable prices from certain distribution points (shops and service outlets). OUR PROMISE: We will introduce Sports Cards for our employees in the Polish market, which will be financed 50% by the company. This will help us strengthen our employees’ motivation and promote a healthy lifestyle at the same time. 52 Employees 3 3.4 Education and training courses G4The training initiatives and development projects we care of their personal development. The structure of training LA9 realised in 2014–2015 were the continuation of the courses and the methodology of measuring training hours activity strategy we adopted in previous years. We strive are different in particular companies. Therefore the analysis to support our employees’ development by improving their of the absolute values presented in the table below requires specialised and managerial competences, as well as by taking additional detailed explanations. G4AVERAGE NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS IN A YEAR PER ONE EMPLOYEE ACCORDING LA9 TO GENDER AND EMPLOYMENT STRUCTURE Indirect Direct Women Directors Managers Specialists production production Men employees employees NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. Number of training hours 2014 9.65 7.31 35.35 35.70 22.60 3.61 0.05 in a year per one employee 2015 14.86 12.92 54.91 52.82 29.93 4.03 5.13 ROHDE & GRAHL GMBH Number of training hours 2014 1.90 4.17 14.00 10.33 11.82 2.52 0.45 in a year per one employee 2015 1.15 3.39 4.28 8.00 8.66 1.70 1.25 SITAG AG Number of training hours 2015 19.47 5.21 2.00 0.00 18.91 2.25 1.14 in a year per one employee NOWY STYL GMBH Number of training hours 2014 2.43 1.26 0.00 2.91 2.00 2.38 0.00 in a year per one employee 2015 0.89 0.55 16.00 1.45 0.71 0.00 0.00 ROHDE & GRAHL BV Number of training hours 2014 14.00 8.38 13.33 14.00 9.54 n/a n/a in a year per one employee 2015 13.50 9.86 16.00 10.60 10.89 n/a n/a NOWY STYL GROUP Number of training hours 2014 7.00 5.28 15.67 15.73 11.49 2.83 0.16 in a year per one employee 2015 9.97 6.39 18.64 14.57 13.82 2.00 1.88 53 Our employees participate in various training courses (both of people who participate in language courses organised by inside and outside the company), workshops, conferences, and the company is growing (in 2015 it increased by 30% comdomestic and international product and technological fairs. All pared to 2014). We also continue to expand the diversity of the training needs we gather are included in a Training Plan, languages. Our employees’ activity in this field has a double which is compiled every year. benefit: the Group’s international nature generates the need to invest in this kind of skill, and employees acquire additional The most important types of training course that were continued competences that are part of their further development. or developed in 2014–2015 were: all-development courses (e.g. communication, change manNew projects and activities within agement, professional assessment interviews, project managethe area of competences ment, internal coach) specialist courses (e.g. knowledge concerning production, Our priorities in the field of employee development managelogistics, quality, trade and finance as part of defining and ment are strictly connected with the level and improvement implementing current trends in the above stated areas) of their competences. In 2015 we initiated two important professional development – training courses held by the projects in Poland: Training Centre technical courses connected with implementing innovative Key Competences Project software used by constructors Used to pinpoint key – meaning necessary – competences sales courses (e.g. trade negotiations, sales techniques); for particular departments and the whole company in a few product courses selected areas: the Production Section, Logistics Section, domestic and international “know-how” workshops, which Technical Section and Quality Section. The main aim of the aim to encourage employees from different departments and project was to determine at which level our employees are working in different countries to share their sales experience secured. The project also enabled us to identify gaps in our language courses employees’ competences, which we should address with development activities and by defining training needs for There has been a positive change in the number of employees the coming years. taking part in language courses. Year by year the amount The changing market surroundings and the organisation’s expectations constantly confront us with new challenges and define the direction of our HR activities. Recently, our priority has been the development of broadly defined competences in our company. JUSTYNA WULF Personal Director 54 Employees 3 Managerial Staff Development Project we opened a Training Centre designed for holding internal A continuation of the training activities in soft skills training courses for new and current workers in our Polish which were intended for production managers, direcfactories. First of all, the Centre provides new infrastructure tors and masters in 2012–2013. It focused on the practiand devices that will enable the use of practical teaching cal improvement of competences connected with human methods. For instance, during a simulation of a chair factory, management and managerial communication in everyday employees can see how the changes implemented and loss work. The project involved approximately 100 people, whose eliminated influence product quality, production time and competences define the quality of management in the entire cost reduction. manufacturing area. The Centre also involves a special team of trainers and a trainTraining Centre ing program. For small groups it is possible to hold courses in the form of workshops that deeply engage participants, Training courses for workers at production enable them to share knowledge and facilitate integration. It plants helps familiarise employees with the organisational culture Modern concepts of business management in production and introduce them to the company’s international activities. practice (kaizen, lean, muda), the rudiments of manufacturing The Centre is headquartered in Jasło, and we are planning to standards 5S and the culture of cooperation are things that all open a new branch in Rzepedź. The same training program employees at our production plants are obliged to know from is also being prepared for workers at the production plants their first few days at our company. In the middle of 2015 in Germany and Switzerland. EMPLOYEE SUGGESTION PROGRAM Being aware of our employees’ potential to be innovative, we decided to create a tool that would allow us to use their ingenuity. In March 2014 we replaced the existing ideas boxes with the Employee Suggestion Program. Clear ways of verifying proposals along with an award system that motivates employees resulted in us receiving several thousand improvement proposals in 2014 and 2015. On average, there were 0.9 suggestions per factory worker in 2014 and 1.3 in 2015. According to last year’s statistics, 40% of the suggestions were implemented instantly or are now in progress. This applies to technological and constructional improvements, traffic maintenance and safety issues. REALISATION 2014 2015 OF THE EMPLOYEE Suggestions submitted 1 509 1 328 SUGGESTION PROGRAM Suggestions realised or being 928 61% 845 64% IDEAS realised Suggestions rejected 430 28% 302 22% 55 Talent Program The process is continuously being improved, so that it can be best adjusted to the character of our organisation. The formula The crowning achievement of investing in our employees’ perwe use divides interviews into a main interview (held at the sonal development is the Talent Program, which we initiated beginning of the year) and a progress monitoring interview (held in 2012 and finished in 2015. The Team of Talents – people in the middle of the year). Moreover, we ensure these periodic chosen on the basis of their competences and fields in which performance appraisals are linked with other processes within they specialise – went through a series of individual training human capital management – for instance, with the remuneracourses and ran projects within the areas identified as crucial in tion system where there is a system of promotion based on terms of the Group’s business activity. The program had a huge employees’ skill levels. Skills are the subject of the interviews impact on building the talents’ position in the organisation with an employee. Activities within these areas have already and strengthened their self-confidence in using and improving been synchronised and unified in the Logistics Section (in the competences in accordance with our company’s needs. case of storehouses). Periodic performance appraisal The process of holding periodic interviews has also been applied in the Marketing Department and the Export Sales Support G4It is not only dedicated projects that serve to Department. LA11 develop our employees’ competences, but also the regular development activities we have undertaken since 2012, Questionnaire form including the Periodic Interview Process in the Logistics and Quality Sections. Employees receive comprehensive feedback We try to determine how our employees perceive our activities in through the systematic competence and skill assessment, the field of development possibilities and how they assess them revealing strengths and weaknesses and pinpointing areas by means of a questionnaire form, which our new employees for development. must complete after three months of employment. For us, it is an important signal of how our activities are evaluated by those who are new to the organisation. 3.5 Traineeships and internships As well as taking care of our employees’ development, we also think about the staff that will work in the company in 2014 73 apprentices and trainees the future. In Poland we systematically organise internships, 2015 as well as student, graduate and diploma apprenticeships, within the following areas: production, logistics, quality, finance, marketing, sales, trading and HR. In 2015 we implemented 40 apprentices and trainees the “Procedure of Organising Traineeships and Internships in Nowy Styl Group” which facilitates communication between the people engaged and includes apprenticeship evaluation In Germany, where there is a dual system of education that forms for trainees and coordinators. combines theoretical study and vocational training practice, our company’s internship program is very extensive. Students At the same time we cooperate with governmental institutions at vocational schools are on a one-year internship in the folof the labour market to organise internships for people seeking lowing departments at our production plants: metal construcemployment. The best trainees are offered a job at our company. tions, wood processing and marketing. Those who decide to We take part actively in local job fairs in order to understand learn and work simultaneously (for 2–3.5 years) can expect the needs and expectations of future trainees. practice in metal handicraft, upholstery, carpentry, mechanics or varnishing at our company. Graduates who passed their 56 Employees 3 school-leaving exam and graduates from vocational schools Sports Club are enabled to follow the dual education system and complete their training practice in office positions (technologist assistant, Since 2014 we have run the NSG Sports Club. Its activities are digital media designer or constructor) at Rohde & Grahl. Since the result of the passion and commitment of its members. The 2014, together with higher education facilities such as the athletes from the NSG Running Team, NSG Football Team and College of Cooperative Education Melle (BA Melle), we have NSG Cycling Team take part in local and international competibeen running an integrated higher education program that tions wearing the same club colours; they practice together results in a diploma. We educate wood technology engineers, and motivate each other to achieve further successes. We mechanics and managers. We also organise shorter internships treat the Club as a platform for integrating employees beyond and student apprenticeships. the company’s structure and the borders of the countries in which our organisation operates. Meetings are live or held We also offer internship programs in our Dutch branch, for online, on a special tab of the company’s intranet, where the students of Nova College, among others, who complete their club’s members share their feelings after competitions. training practice in the company’s design studio. OUR PROMISE: We will continue the development activities that have resulted from the Managerial Staff Development Project in Poland. We will also prepare further training programs focused on the development of leadership skills for our managers. 3.6 Anti-discrimination practices DMA: G4Diversity is of great value for us and we treat it as race, sexual orientation, political views, social origins, age or HR3 HR3 a source of innovation. Everyday cooperation in an employment type. This is the basic principle written in the international environment is the best proof of this, including internal documents all our employees are obliged to follow. in particular meetings, such as “know-how” workshops, or the We expect the same policy from our partners and suppliers; annual IKA Conference, at which employees from different this is reflected in the Supplier Code of Conduct. departments and countries share their knowledge. In 2014–2015 no instances of discrimination were noted in We provide all employees with professional development any company that belongs to the Group. opportunities, regardless of their gender, background, faith, 57 3.7 Occupational health and safety The safety of our employees is the highest priority for us and Injury and occupational diseases rate the basis of mutual trust in the employee–employer relations. We implement technical improvements in order to ensure safe G4Safety procedures and other measures are effective. LA6 working conditions. We also continually raise our employees’ As in previous years, no instances of fatal or serious awareness of the need to create a culture of safety in our accidents were recorded in our production plants in 2014 and production plants. 2015. There were also no records of occupational diseases. Control In our annual incident analyses we calculate the following coefficients that help us assess the safety level in our factoOur safety management conforms to the PN-N 18001 and ries: the frequency coefficient (the number of accidents to OHSAS 18001 standards. In Switzerland, annual controls are the number of employees), the seriousness coefficient (the carried out by SUVA (Swiss Accident Insurance) and OHSAS number of accidents to the number of working days lost) and 18001 auditors. the incident coefficient, which includes accident seriousness and frequency. OHS Enterprise Committees In 2014, 22 accidents were recorded in Poland, in which DMA: G4G4The companies that belong to the Group have 5 women and 17 men were injured. They resulted in 1,276 days LA5-8 LA5 LA8 OHS Committees with different structures of absenteeism. In 2015 there were 29 accidents, resulting in and representatives, ensuring the adequate representation of 2 women and 27 men suffering injuries. The total number of all employees. In Poland the committee consists of six repredays of absenteeism was 1,336. sentatives (three of them are chosen by the employees via democratic election, while three represent the employer). In In 2014 the German company Nowy Styl GmbH noted 2 acthe German company Rohde & Grahl, there is an OHS Commitcidents that caused injuries. The total number of absenteeism tee that consists of 10–15 people, in accordance with binding days amounted to 21. In 2015 no accidents were recorded. legal regulations. Participation in the OHS Committee is voluntary, so its composition depends on members’ availability. In 2014, 3 accidents were recorded at Rohde & Grahl GmbH, In Switzerland (Sitag) there is an OHS Committee that consists in which 3 men suffered injuries. The accidents resulted in 16 of seven people appointed by the employer. days of absenteeism. In 2015 the company noted 24 accidents causing different injuries to 5 women and 19 men; the total Safety issues are not only defined by the committees. Nowy number of absenteeism days amounted to 465. Styl Group has no trade unions, but there are some other forms of employee representation in the different companies. In 2015 Sitag recorded 9 accidents, in which 7 men and 2 women were injured. The accidents resulted in 70 days of In Poland three representatives were chosen in a democratic absenteeism. election. Among other things, they discuss issues such as assessing the occupational hazards associated with particular tasks, allotting employees personal protective equipment, work clothes and shoes, creating training courses in occupational health and safety, monitoring working conditions and employees’ health, and undertaking activities aimed at improving working conditions. In Switzerland there is a Swiss Furniture Commerce and Industry Association that represents the collective labour agreement. It decides, for instance, upon the mandatory necessity to ensure employees’ health and safety. Thanks to the representatives, committees and accident investigation teams, our employees are able to participate in managing all of Nowy Styl Group’s most important occupational health and safety issues. 58 Employees 3 G4Accident Nowy Styl 8.07 LA6 frequency Sp. z o.o. 9.96 coefficient 2014 Nowy Styl 19.23 GmbH 2015 n/a Rohde & Grahl 10.49 GmbH 80 n/a Sitag AG 67.7 Nowy Styl 7.82 Group 16.10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 G4Incident Nowy Styl 0.46 LA6 coefficient Sp. z o.o. 0.46 2014 Nowy Styl 0.20 GmbH 2015 n/a Rohde & Grahl 0.056 GmbH 1.55 n/a Sitag AG 0.53 Nowy Styl 0.38 Group 0.49 0 0.5 1 1.5 ACCIDENTS IN 2014 2015 NOWY STYL GROUP Total number of accidents causing injuries 27 62 Total number of people injured 27 62 W: 5 W: 9 M: 22 M: 53 Total number of absenteeism days 1 313 1 871 59 OHS CENTRE Safe working conditions are not enough to avoid dangerous situations and accidents. The other equally important aspects are employees’ commitment and suitable behaviour, as well as a culture of safety. Therefore, we pay particular attention to educating our employees in this area. In 2015 we opened the OHS Centre in Jasło, in which we train new and existing employees in the following issues: how to avoid potential hazards, what procedures they should follow, how to report dangerous situations and how to react if an accident occurs. One of the first aid modules is cardiac pulmonary resuscitation. Our employees can practice this using AED defibrillators, which all of our factories in Jasło are equipped with. Just like in the Training Centre, employees can practice on simulators that are specially made machine models. This allows them to understand the character of a particular workstation and the hazards related to it. Exposure to danger At the German company Rohde & Grahl there were 55 employees working on positions exposed to noise in 2014, and 60 G4We do our best to reduce the number of production employees in 2015. In the other Group’s companies, no such LA7 workstations at which our employees are exposed to workstations were recorded. health-threatening factors by automating manual activities. Nevertheless, there are still jobs for which we record exceeded We ensure all employees exposed to exceeded threshold values threshold limit values (TLV) of the following factors: noise, are well prepared for the tasks they perform (see the OHS Centre vibrations, solid wood dust and industrial dust. description), through cyclical training courses and protective equipment, such as goggles, earplugs and headphones. According to measurements taken by external institutions, in 2014 and 2015 the number of these workstations increased along with the growing employment trend. In 2014 there were 243 workstations of this type, increasing to 326 in 2015. OUR PROMISE: In order to strengthen our employees’ engagement with the safety of our factories, we will implement a program for recording potentially accidental events. Employees will indentify the potential hazards themselves and suggest a way to eliminate them. They will be encouraged by a new bonus system. 60 Employees 3 3.8 Complete tabular data showing indicators G4LA12 EMPLOYMENT STRUCTURE OF THE MANAGERIAL STAFF 2014 GENDER AGE Total Men Women <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 2 261 763 737 1 875 412 3 024 Nowy Styl GmbH 62 42 16 50 38 104 Rohde & Grahl BV 21 12 3 19 11 33 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 217 76 55 134 104 293 NOWY STYL GROUP 2 561 893 811 2 078 565 3 454 2015 GENDER AGE Total Men Women <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 2 456 816 837 1991 444 3 272 Nowy Styl GmbH 58 45 18 44 41 103 Rohde & Grahl BV 22 14 4 21 11 36 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 229 77 60 127 119 306 Sitag AG 99 34 19 61 53 133 NOWY STYL GROUP 2 864 986 938 2 244 668 3 850 61 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ACCORDING TO THE EMPLOYMENT G4-10 AND CONTRACT TYPE (BY GENDER) 2014 Indefinite Definite Part-time Full-time term contract term contract contract contact Women 440 323 6 757 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Men 1 284 977 3 2 258 Women 37 5 13 29 Nowy Styl GmbH Men 60 2 0 62 Women 8 4 9 4 Rohde & Grahl BV Men 19 2 1 19 Women 54 22 19 57 Rohde & Grahl GmbH Men 176 41 9 208 NOWY STYL GROUP 2 078 1 376 60 3 394 2015 Indefinite Definite Part-time Full-time term contract term contract contract contact Women 465 351 9 807 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Men 1 303 1 153 6 2 450 Women 39 6 14 31 Nowy Styl GmbH Men 56 2 0 58 Women 12 2 9 5 Rohde & Grahl BV Men 20 2 1 21 Women 58 19 22 55 Rohde & Grahl GmbH Men 190 39 8 221 Women 33 0 6 27 Sitag AG Men 100 0 1 99 NOWY STYL GROUP 2 276 1 574 76 3 774 62 Employees 3 G4LA1 NEW EMPLOYEES 2014 GENDER AGE Men Women <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 436 135 326 225 20 Nowy Styl GmbH 2 4 4 2 0 Rohde & Grahl BV 3 4 1 4 2 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 30 11 17 19 5 NOWY STYL GROUP 471 154 348 250 27 2015 GENDER AGE Men Women <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 440 115 308 216 31 Nowy Styl GmbH 0 4 4 0 0 Rohde & Grahl BV 3 2 2 3 0 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 33 12 21 14 10 Sitag AG 19 4 9 13 1 NOWY STYL GROUP 495 137 344 246 42 G4LA1 ENDED CONTRACTS 2014 GENDER AGE Men Women <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 245 62 133 134 40 Nowy Styl GmbH 3 1 2 1 1 Rohde & Grahl BV 2 2 0 3 1 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 21 5 7 11 8 TOTAL 271 70 142 149 50 63 G4LA1 ENDED CONTRACTS 2015 GENDER AGE Men Women <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 320 52 185 148 39 Nowy Styl GmbH 6 4 1 7 2 Rohde & Grahl BV 1 0 0 1 0 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 18 9 11 6 10 Sitag AG 10 5 3 9 3 TOTAL 355 70 200 171 54 G4REMUNERATION OF THE LOWEST-RANKING EMPLOYEES IN COMPARISON EC5 WITH THE MINIMUM WAGE ACCORDING TO GENDER Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Sitag AG Nowy Styl GmbH 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Women 133.93 % 137.32 % – 125.60 % 161.53 % 170.38 % Men 149.65 % 149.58 % – 143.30 % 187.18 % 191.53 % G4RATIO OF FEMALE MINIMUM WAGE TO MALE MINIMUM WAGE ACCORDING LA13 TO THE POSITION THEY OCCUPY Direct Indirect production production Specialists Managers Directors employees employees 2014 93.46 95.36 92.53 108.79 98.60 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 2015 92.37 92.13 92.33 103.91 101.69 2014 – – – – – Sitag AG 2015 87.65 70.84 88.47 76.53 0.00 2014 86.30 103.44 94.20 77.11 – Nowy Styl GmbH 2015 88.96 105.39 96.11 75.05 – 2014 74.83 74.81 75.87 107.69 104.76 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 2015 70.23 70.67 85.48 73.10 0.00 2014 – – 92.49 75.90 0.00 Rohde & Grahl BV 2015 – – 92.16 88.69 0.00 64 4 Our influence on the environment 68 Our influence on the environment 4 We know that a conscious approach to environmental protection is crucial nowadays, therefore, we feel responsible for the changes that happen within our neighbourhood. We strive to minimise the influence our business activity exerts on the natural environment and people’s living conditions. We continuously do our best to implement new solutions that will enable us to manage our impact on surrounding nature even more effectively. We identify significant environmental aspects and precisely Policy, in which we defined our mission, the aim of our analyse every single process that takes place as part of our business activity and the related ecological aspects. We business activity and that may have an impact on nature. keep in mind the reduction of our negative impact on the We strive to implement eco-friendly solutions that exert the environment; we monitor legal and other requirements, smallest possible influence on the natural environment. Aware as well as identifying environmental aspects, paying parof the role our company performs in the eco-system, we set ticular attention to efficient waste management. We also ourselves pro-environmental aims and monitor their realisation provide our employees with access to training courses, durusing the Environmental Actions Program on an ongoing basis. ing which they can improve their qualifications and increase In order to fulfil our environmental protection obligations their awareness of the influence they exert on the product to an even greater extent, we perform our everyday work quality and the environment. in accordance with the Environmental Management System principles, which are based on the requirements defined by All actions undertaken within our business activity conform the standard ISO 14001:2004. This means we aim to reduce to legal regulations, and the processes run in our production the emissions released into the air and the amount of water plants are regulated by environmental protection regulations generated by the technological processes we conduct, ensure and administrative decisions. the economical consumption of our main production materials and try to make effective use of our waste. DMA: G4In the reporting period, no penalties or sanctions EN29 EN29 were imposed on Nowy Styl Group for violating The issues related to our ecological approach to business administrative decisions or legal regulations relating to envihave been included in the Integrated Management System ronmental protection. 69 4.1 Energy DMA: DMA: G4The scope of our business activity requires the How do we reduce our energy EN6 EN3 EN6 responsible management of energy sources. consumption? Furniture and chair production is inseparable from huge energy consumption. Therefore, the reduction of energy and the use of G4G4The modernised lighting in our production halls EN27 EN6 energy from renewable sources (e.g. the rainbow energy that in Jasło has allowed us to achieve economical is part of the electric energy obtained from external supplienergy management. By introducing lights that switch on ers) are priorities that characterise our eco-friendly approach sequentially in zones where work is being performed and by to manufacturing. replacing old lamps with new ones, we have managed to save approximately 27% of the energy we used previously. The use G4Heat production in our factories is closely linked with the of energy-saving light bulbs (instead of 400-watt lamps) in EN3 demand for heat for technological and social purposes. the Metal Component Production Plant has led to a significant decrease in the amount of electrical energy consumed and heat Part of the heat energy is produced in three boiler houses loenergy generated at a workstation. cated in our production plants. In the Timber Processing Plant, the boiler house is powered by biomass derived from clean wood In order to reduce heat energy consumption in the Timber waste, which provides heat energy for the technological proProcessing Plant in Rzepedź, we have modernised the district cess and the central heating system. The second boiler house, heating network and substations that protect the factory from located in Jasło, is also powered by biomass, which includes heat losses. We have also replaced the old heating network wood waste and dust (sawdust, shavings, wood chips, etc.). with a new one in the form of a trestle bridge. Our last boiler house, which belongs to the Plastic Processing Plant, is powered by charcoal and the heat it produces is mainly We also invest in our production infrastructure. During the used for the central heating system in the winter. process of repairing or replacing machines, we change the existing engines with energy-saving engines of a new generation. We educate and train our employees in energy conservation. The annual event we organise for our employees at Nowy Styl Group’s production plants – the Open Day – was held under the banner of “Ecology” in 2015. The children were familiarised with the most important principles of energy conservation. Later on, the eco-guide was printed in “Spinacz” magazine, which is given to all our employees. ECO-ENERGY At Rohde & Grahl and in the offices located in Voigtei and Steyerberg in Germany, 100% of the energy used is so-called ‘green energy’ which is generated from renewable sources: the local gasworks and Scandinavian hydroelectric power stations. The company has contracted this eco-energy until the end of 2018, as stated with the “Ökostrom” certificate confirmed by TUV SÜD in 2015. The whole of the Nienburg district is famous for using eco-energy. 70 Our influence on the environment 4 In July 2014 we modernised the powder paint shop in the Metal Component Production Plant in Jasło by purchasing new stoves: a drying-after-washing one and one used for paint thermal polymerisation. We also carried out some improvements to the conveyor. The right isolation and more precise regulation of the temperature inside the stove allowed us to save approximately 12% of the natural gas we were using. The change also enabled us to increase the efficiency of painting by approximately 20%, which had a significant influence on shortening the heating time and saving energy. G4EN3 ENERGY 2014 2015 CONSUMPTION [kWh] Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 23 883 002 25 941 036 Nowy Styl GmbH 280 192 275 556 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 5 851 272 5 526 648 Rohde & Grahl BV 174 274 168 928 Sitag AG no data 1 147 720 NOWY STYL GROUP 30 188 740 33 059 888 71 G4EN3 AMOUNT NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. 2014 2015 OF HEAT PRODUCED Purchase 4 534 0 [GJ] Biomass 138 031 135 919 Coal 1 987 2 073 Fuel oil 284 281 Propane-butane gas 0 57 Natural gas [m3] 5 104 8 185 TOTAL 149 940 146 515 ROHDE & GRAHL GMBH 2014 2015 Purchase n/a n/a Biomass 11 319,19 8 700,98 Coal n/a n/a Fuel oil 142,71 291,24 Propane-butane gas n/a n/a Natural gas [m3] 1 890,76 2 630,16 TOTAL 13 352,66 11 622,38 SITAG AG 2014 2015 Purchase n/a Biomass n/a Coal n/a Fuel oil 2 000 Propane-butane gas n/a Natural gas [m3] 1 850 TOTAL 3 850 NOWY STYL GROUP 2014 2015 Purchase 4 534 0 Biomass 149 350 144 620 Coal 1 987 2 073 Fuel oil 427 2 572 Propane-butane gas 0 57 Natural gas [m3] 6 995 12 665 TOTAL 163 293 161 987 72 Our influence on the environment 4 4.2 Water management DMA: G4The rational use of natural resources, such as The water used in our factories comes from two sources – EN8 EN8 water, is highly important in terms of a responsible surface water intakes and the municipal water supply netapproach to ecology and environmental protection. Therefore, work. In all our companies, the water used for living and we continuously improve standards, facilitate the technologitechnological purposes is provided by the external Municipal cal processes in which water is used and strive to reduce its Services Department. The surface water intake, which makes consumption. up approximately half of the total water use, takes place only at the Timber Processing Plant, which is equipped with own The reported increase in our water consumption in 2014–2015, pumping station. especially within the production plants located in Poland, was related to the launch of production in our new Office Furniture Factory in Jasło, where water is used for technological, social and living purposes. G4EN8 TOTAL NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. 2014 2015 WATER INTAKE Surface water 74 737 56 742 ACCORDING TO ITS Municipal water supplies 71 164 58 396 SOURCE TOTAL 145 901 115 138 [m3] NOWY STYL GMBH 2014 2015 Surface water no data no data Municipal water supplies 51 78 TOTAL 51 78 ROHDE & GRAHL GMBH 2014 2015 Surface water n/a n/a Municipal water supplies 2 603 2 863 TOTAL 2 603 2 863 ROHDE & GRAHL BV 2014 2015 Surface water no data no data Municipal water supplies no data no data TOTAL SITAG AG 2014 2015 Surface water no data n/a Municipal water supplies no data 2 369 TOTAL — 2 369 NOWY STYL GROUP 2014 2015 TOTAL 148 555 120 448 73 4.3 Wastewater volume DMA: G4We are always careful to ensure the right manageby the increase in the number of the products manufactured. EN22 EN22 ment and elimination of the wastewater generated However, it is worth highlighting that in 2015 the total wasteduring our manufacturing processes. water volume decreased by approximately 18% compared to 2014 and was at its lowest volume since 2012. Sanitary wastewater is discharged to Municipal Services Department systems. Two of the factories in Poland have their How do we do this? own sewage treatment plants. In the first one, which is located at the Timber Processing Plant in Rzepedź, domestic sewage G4In order to reduce the discharge of wastewater into EN27 is channelled to the Osławica river following treatment. In rivers, we modernised the sewage treatment plant in the second, located at the Metal Processing Plant, industrial Rzepedź in 2015. We fitted it with a new wiring and a system sewage generated during the manufacturing process goes to for controlling the sewage treatment plant. We also reinforced the Jasiółka river following treatment. the Osławica river bank and rebuilt the ditch used for channelling sewage, rainwater and snowmelt. The increased volume of industrial waste (closely connected with the technological process) in 2014–2015 was caused G4EN22 WASTEWATER NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. 2014 2015 VOLUME [m3] Sanitary wastewater discharged 28 687 27 772 to Municipal Services Department Sanitary wastewater discharged to the 3 733 29 745 Osławica river after being purified in the sewage treatment plant Industrial wastewater discharged to the 34 131 5 631 Jasiółka river after being purified in the sewage treatment plant TOTAL 66 551 3 850 NOWY STYL GMBH 2014 2015 Sanitary wastewater discharged 51 78 to Municipal Services Department ROHDE & GRAHL GMBH 2014 2015 Sanitary wastewater discharged n/a n/a to Municipal Services Department ROHDE & GRAHL BV 2014 2015 Sanitary wastewater discharged no data no data to Municipal Services Department SITAG AG 2014 2015 Sanitary wastewater discharged no data 2 369 to Municipal Services Department NOWY STYL GROUP 66 602 54 786 74 Our influence on the environment 4 4.4 Emissions to air G4Realisation of orders, which means the production of How do we do this? EN15 hundreds of thousands of chairs and furniture items, is also connected with the emission of pollutants into the G4Our paint shop is equipped with a new booth for applyEN27 atmosphere. A desire to limit this is one of the most important ing wood stains, which allows us to reduce the amount aims stated in the Group’s binding Environmental Management of dust emitted into the air and improve working conditions. System. In order to reduce the negative impact of the pollutant emissions, we do our best to implement innovative solutions, In the Office Furniture Factory in Jasło we use water-based paint including those connected with monitoring. An accredited in our spray booth, which enables us to limit the hazardous laboratory takes emissions measurements at our production volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. The water-based plants once a year, in conformity with the requirements of the paints are more eco-friendly in terms of their VOC content. Environmental Protection Law. The measurements are based Moreover, they do not exert negative impacts on employees. on standard emission indexes, according to the National Centre for Emissions Balancing and Management instructions, and on We ask external research institutions to conduct periodic tests the indexes defined in permits regarding dust and gas emisof the plywood manufactured at our production plants. We sions into the air for particular systems and production plants. also obtain from external suppliers the relevant documents for chipboard. This approach allows us to continually control We pay special attention to the emission of carbon dioxide, formaldehyde emissions. which is classified as a greenhouse gas and can raise the temperature of our planet. In order to calculate the emisOur suppliers provide us with statements confirming the lack sions, we monitor the working time of the systems that of harmful freons (CFC and HCFC) that deplete the ozone layer, produce them. No other greenhouse gases are emitted by heavy metals and brominated substances in the foam. our factories. In Rohde & Grahl production plants, the excessive paint and The increase in the emission of pollutants compared to solvent particles are bound and separated by means of wathe previous reporting period (2012–2013) was caused ter curtains during the painting process. This enables us to by the intensified production and the extended working significantly reduce the emission of many paint and varnish time of different systems. However, it is worth emphasisingredients as fumes, which are harmful to the environment ing that during all production process we did not exceed and employees’ health. any hourly indexes or the annual emissions stated in the binding permits. ADHESIVES In November 2014, in the Armchair and Chair Production Plant in Jasło, we implemented upholstery adhesives with a lower content of volatile organic compounds. This enabled us to greatly reduce the amount of VOCs emitted. Firstly, we replaced part of solvent adhesive, which had a VOC content of 52%, with a water-based adhesive with an activator free of VOCs. We managed to reduce the amount of VOCs introduced into the production process by approximately 10 tons per year. Secondly, we replaced two other adhesives, with a VOC content of 52% and 38%, with a new one that has a VOC content of 35%, allowing us to reduce VOC emissions by approximately 25%, which means almost 5 tons per year. 75 G4G4EN21 EN15 EMISSION NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. 2014 2015 OF SULPHUR DIOXIDES, Nitrogen oxides (NOX) 32 877,1 37 065,4 NITROGEN OXIDES Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 2 478,7 2 786,9 AND OTHER Volatile organic compounds 35 969,0 41 459,8 SIGNIFICANT (VOCs) COMPOUNDS INTO THE Dust 38 394,2 41 684,1 ATMOSPHERE Carbon monoxide (CO) 28 735,4 32 819,8 [kg]* Carbon dioxide (CO2) [Mg] 10 752,6 12 511,4 ROHDE & GRAHL GMBH 2014 2015 Nitrogen oxides (NOX) 1 370 1 460 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 840 900 Volatile organic compounds 4 760,52 5 578,14 (VOCs) Dust n/a n/a In terms of environmental Carbon monoxide (CO) n/a n/a protection, the New Carbon dioxide (CO2) [Mg] 1 336,04 1 466,53 Technologies Development SITAG AG 2014 2015 Centre is constantly looking Nitrogen oxides (NOX) n/a n/a for solutions that would reduce Sulphur dioxide (SO2) n/a n/a or even completely eliminate Volatile organic compounds n/a 1 442,34 (VOCs) our harmful influence on Dust n/a n/a the environment. We do this Carbon monoxide (CO) n/a n/a by eliminating adhesives in particular products NOWY STYL GROUP 2014 2015 or by applying water-based Nitrogen oxides (NOX) 34 247 38 525,4 adhesives. Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 3 319 3 686,9 EUGENIUSZ GÓRSKI Volatile organic compounds 40 729 48 480,3 Technologist (VOCs) New Technologies Development Centre Dust 38 394 41 684,1 Carbon monoxide (CO) 28 735 32 819,8 Carbon dioxide (CO2) [Mg] 1 336,04 13 977,9 * Nowy Styl GmbH and Rohde & Grahl BV do not conduct production activities, therefore they do not monitor data concerning the following indexes. 76 Our influence on the environment 4 4.5 Material consumption DMA: G4With huge quantities of different materials reAll of the wood used at the production plant in Rzepedź EN1 EN1 quired in our manufacturing processes, we know comes from European Union forests and conforms with the how important it is to use them rationally. By increasing our requirements stated in the regulation EUTR 995/2010, which production capacities, we simultaneously increase the volume mainly applies to eliminating illegal timber logging. During our of the materials used. manufacturing processes, we also use FSC-certified wood and plywood, which guarantees the timber comes from forests Our production process consumes, among other materials, managed sustainably. In 2014 FSC-certified wood made up chipboards, fibreboards, fabrics, plastics and foams. The main 35% of the total timber purchase; this was 28% in 2015. material used in the Metal Component Production Plant is steel, which is supplied in the form of tubes, profiles and sheets of An alternative material used at the Rohde & Grahl production defined shapes and dimensions. This allows us to generate the plants is bamboo, which is used to produce chipboards. Bamboo least possible amount of technological waste. is an exceptionally durable and solid material. Its resources are easily renewable. When manufacturing wooden components, we use lumbered materials that consist of products generated during, for example, the process of sawing longitudinal logs, and peeled timber, which is a collection of multi-dimensional high quality logs. 65% 35% 72% 28% Percentage of the FSC-certified timber logs purchased in 2014 2015 2014 and 2015 FSC wood Other wood 77 G4EN1 MATERIALS NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. 2014 2015 USED Fibreboards, chipboards and others [m3] 9 831 11 800 ACCORDING TO THEIR Plastics [t] 2 678 3 183 WEIGHT Metal ware [t] 11 206 12 103 OR VOLUME Fabrics [m2] 1 514 627 1 614 115 Foam block [kg] 974 123 1 007 430 Lumbered materials [m3] 1 146 1 194 Peeled timber [m3] 15 054 14 946 PLASTICS NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. 2014 2015 CONSUMPTION [kg] Total plastics consumption 2 677 850 3 183 350 Regranulate production 1 444 160 1 354 570 Including those sold outside 126 319 38 963 4.6 Waste management DMA: G4Responsible waste management also means How do we do this? EN23 EN23 ensuring the highest recycling and disposal standards. During the production of furniture and chairs, G4Due to its special focus on production, our Plastic ProEN27 different types of waste are generated (e.g. foams, scraps, cessing Plant has a regranulate section whose task is leather and fabric snips). In many cases, we are able to reto use internal industrial waste and waste that comes from use them in the manufacturing process. In order to recover external suppliers. The regranulate is made of plastic containheat energy, we burn, for example, shavings and sawdust in ers, car bumpers and many other materials that can be reused boiler rooms located at our factories. The surplus is given once again after grinding. This allows us to limit the use of to people who use these waste materials in their household original materials and reduce the amount of waste generated central heating systems. by using them again in the manufacturing process. The other waste materials, which we are not able to reuse, are In 2015 we equipped the Metal Component Production Plant handed over to external companies that provide comprehensive with a new laser for cutting profiles. This device increased the waste management and recycling solutions. precision of cutting and reduced the amount of waste gener78 Our influence on the environment 4 ated, which enabled us to limit steel materials and electrical Implementation of stretch foil wrapping devices with initial energy consumption at the same time. In the same year, after elongation on a machine resulted in a 40% decrease in foil compiling a new application and submitting it to the Marshal’s consumption. This also allowed us to reduce the amount of foil Office in Rzeszów, the Metal Component Production Plant for recycling. In 2015 we equipped the Armchair and Chair obtained a permit for waste management that is valid for the Production Plant in Jasło with three of these machines. next 10 years. This allows us to carry out our manufacturing processes in accordance with legal requirements. In order to manage waste responsibly, we also help our customers utilise products properly. They are allowed to send us We are also organised in the way we manage the oil and fluothe products they no longer need, which we disassemble into rescent lamps used. They are utilised in conformity with the components and send for recycling. binding procedure. BOARD MACHINE In order to improve the management of cardboard packaging in the Office Furniture Factory and the Armchair and Chair Production Plant in Jasło, we implemented new board machines. They are used to produce cardboard boxes made out of a cardboard ribbon. Implementation of the machines that cut out cartons adjusted to particular orders, enabled us to make a significant change in the packaging management process. With classic packaging technology, cartons are made by a supplier and delivered to a company as a packaging material intended for direct use. This technology imposes specific management methods, e.g. purchase of the minimum quantity, carton storage, or defining a finite number of carton variants. Excessive amount of variants can cause a growth of the carton storage area, especially in the case of the variants characterised by low rotation. Thanks to the board machine, we can purchase a cardboard ribbon of certain widths and cut out cartons that are perfectly adjusted to a specific, ordered product. This allows us to perfectly match cardboard boxes to our products, reduce or even eliminate the carton storage, and replace it with a significantly smaller storage for a cardboard ribbon. We are also able to precisely define the number of cartons needed for a particular production volume. By introducing this kind of improvement, we have managed to reduce the cost of the technological waste generated during the process of cutting cartons. 79 G4EN23 WASTE NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. 2014 2015 ACCORDING TO THE Waste handed over to external companies 4 521 5 737 METHOD OF MANAGEMENT Recycling within own production plants 21 968 20 984 [Mg] TOTAL 26 489 26 721 NOWY STYL GMBH Waste handed over to external companies 61 66,51 Recycling within own production plants no data no data TOTAL 61 66,51 ROHDE & GRAHL GMBH Waste handed over to external companies 748,75 732,76 Recycling within own production plants n/a n/a TOTAL 749 733 SITAG AG Waste handed over to external companies no data 78,7 Recycling within own production plants no data 190 TOTAL 268,7 NOWY STYL GROUP Waste handed over to external companies 5 331 6 615 Recycling within own production plants 21 968 21 174 TOTAL 27 299 27 789 80 Our influence on the environment 4 G4EN23 WASTE NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. 2014 2015 ACCORDING Hazardous waste 399 402 TO ITS TYPE [Mg] Non-hazardous waste 4 122 5 335 TOTAL 4 521 5 737 NOWY STYL GMBH Hazardous waste no data no data Non-hazardous waste 22,7 29,2 TOTAL 23 29 ROHDE & GRAHL GMBH Hazardous waste 22,61 44,46 Non-hazardous waste 726,14 699,3 TOTAL SITAG AG Hazardous waste no data 0 Non-hazardous waste no data 37 TOTAL 37 4.7 Total expenses and investments in environmental protection DMA: G4In order to reduce the influence our company exerts How do we do this? EN31 EN31 on the environment, we control all processes on a regular basis and continuously invest in new solutions that In order to limit our influence, we invest in, among other things, help us minimise the negative effects of our business activity. certification of the environmental protection system, emission We constantly monitor all movements, so that we can respond measurements, noise and water measurements, and training quickly and accurately to the changing results and parameters. courses, which have been mentioned as one of the most important aspects of our Integrated Management System Policy. Without the continuous monitoring of our activity, we would In both 2014 and 2015 we incurred the biggest expenses not be able to fully realise our pro-ecological aims. Therefore, within the area of waste management. besides external audits, we also deal with internal monitoring that is carried out by dedicated teams of auditors. 81 G4EN31 TOTAL NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. 2014 2015 EXPENSES Certification audits 88 477,00 69 431,00 AND INVESTMENTS IN Environmental fee 131 563,00 130 939,00 ENVIRONMENWaste disposal 386 656,00 548 479,00 TAL PROTECTION [PLN] Emission measurement + report 6 350,00 7 260,00 concerning emission standards Noise emission measurement – 11 000,00 Water and wastewater 6 567,00 4 046,00 measurement Maintenance costs 11 700,00 – Training courses 12 890,00 1 400,00 Decision issues – 15 900,00 TOTAL 644 203,00 788 455,00 ROHDE & GRAHL GMBH 2014 2015 Certification audits 30 908,66 53 276,69 Environmental fee n/a n/a Waste disposal n/a 293 053,43 Emission measurement + report n/a n/a concerning emission standards Noise emission measurement n/a n/a Water and wastewater 186,59 186,39 measurement Maintenance costs 2 013,80 2 334,70 Training courses n/a n/a Decision issues n/a n/a TOTAL 33 109,04 348 851,21 82 Our influence on the environment 4 SITAG AG 2014 2015 Certification audits no data 49 490,98 Environmental fee no data – Waste disposal no data 123 137,33 Emission measurement + report no data 23 604,60 concerning emission standards Noise emission measurement no data – Water and wastewater no data – measurement Maintenance costs no data 1 495 351,41 Training courses no data 106 220,70 Decision issues no data – TOTAL 1 797 805,02 NOWY STYL GROUP 2014 2015 Certification audits 119 385,66 172 198,67 Environmental fee 131 563,00 130 939,00 Waste disposal 386 656,00 964 669,76 Emission measurement + report 6 350,00 30 864,60 concerning emission standards Noise emission measurement 0 11 000,00 Water and wastewater 6 753,59 4 232,39 measurement Maintenance costs 13 713,80 1 497 686,11 Training courses 12 890,00 107 620,70 Decision issues 0 15 900,00 TOTAL 677 312,05 2 935 111,23 83 4.8 Transport DMA: G4Bearing in mind the fact that our influence on the How do we do this? EN30 EN30 environment is not limited to a production site, we also strive to reduce our impact in terms of transporting our One of the most important aims of the transport policy products to end customers and distributors. Being a global supis to optimise the distribution process while reducing the plier, we deliver hundreds of thousands of chairs and furniture negative influence on the environment. Among other things, items to different customers all over the world. Therefore, we this is achieved with the L-shape packaging method, which are aware of the need for a responsible approach to the whole doubles the TIR-lorries’ load carrying capacity. Every single logistical process. pallet can hold more products, which has enabled us to limit the amount of materials used for packaging and significantly The decrease in fuel consumption is the result of transferring reduced transport costs. We have also minimised the quantity the transport of our products and product components to of exhaust fumes emitted to the environment. external companies – distribution takes place by means of an external car fleet. Among our current carriers, we chose those At Rohde & Grahl GmbH 80% of chairs and 95% of furniture who possess vehicles that have low exhaust fumes and CO2 items are transported in reusable blankets. Moreover, the fleet emissions. The main logistics partners we cooperate with when used by our German companies meets the EURO 5/EURO 6 distributing our products are DB Schenker, Raben, DHL, Dachser, emission standards and is almost completely equipped with Heppner, Rohlig Suus, Onetex and Zettransport. Our transport AdBlue Technology, which helps reduce the emission of nitrofleet consists of 104 cars and four lorries, all of which meet gen oxides by 90%. the combustion standards, from EURO 1 to EURO 4. Our total storage area covers 55,300 m2. We have 14 storehouses located across Europe, which allows us to plan more effective combined deliveries sent to end customers from particular storage places. BDF TRANSPORT SYSTEM In 2014 we implemented the BDF transport system, which uses replaceable containers and double-bottom containers, as well as transporting chairs without packaging. BDF-type replaceable bodyworks are used in logistics for high-volume goods. With a capacity of approximately 120 m3, they are able to accommodate 38 Euro-pallets (120×80 cm), making maximum use of the surface. The standard semi-trailer, with a capacity of 90 m3, accommodates 34 pallets. The double-bottom system enables us to ensure better use of the loading area for products that cannot be transported on top of one another. By using sliding hooks, we are able to change the height and length of the second layer, which results in increasing the loading capacity of a standard trailer from 33 pallets to 55 pallets. When transporting furniture and chairs without packaging in the design sector, we respond directly to our customers’ needs and adopt an eco-friendly approach to transport at the same time. When being stored and transported, our chairs are additionally protected against damage, for example, with protective armrest and castor pads. Instead of cardboard boxes, our products are covered with fabric bags and fastened to the walls of a container with special belts. Implementation of the BDF container system significantly reduces our negative impact on the environment. This allows us to limit cardboard waste and use the full potential of the available loading area. 84 Our influence on the environment 4 We supply Nowy Styl Group’s goods to customers living in Poland and abroad, taking constant care of minimising our interference with the natural environment. Our pro-ecological approach to transport, which involves, among other things, maximisation of vehicle loading capacity and the continuous monitoring and reduction of CO2 emissions, is one of the essential aspects our long-term cooperation is based on. BEATA KONECKA Marketing Manager Schenker Sp. z o.o. G4EN30 TRANSPORT NOWY STYL SP. Z O.O. 2014 2015 FLEET COMBUSTION Diesel fuel 217,914 180,795 FUEL CONSUMPTION Petrol 25,634 26,666 [Mg] LP gas 71,423 69,278 ROHDE & GRAHL GMBH Diesel fuel 91,49 75,9 Petrol 0,86 10,51 LP gas 4,081 2,893 SITAG AG Diesel fuel no data 122 Petrol no data 2 LP gas no data 0 NOWY STYL GROUP Diesel fuel 309,404 378,695 Petrol 26,494 39,176 LP gas 75,504 72,171 TOTAL 411,402 490,042 85 5 Suppliers Suppliers 5 5.1 Suppliers Sustainable supply chain management is one of the biggest challenges of corporate social responsibility. Within the area of direct purchases alone we cooperate with over 2,500 suppliers from many different countries. The supply chain does not just involve the suppliers of the materials we need for production purposes; it also includes organisation and production planning, technological processes, internal transport and shipment logistics. DMA: Reliability of supply is the basis on which our company We also diversify our suppliers and types of transport, conEC9 functions. In order to ensure we have stable supplies, we tinuously improving our standards and requirements for their use different methods for supplier diversification: we maintain services. In the last two years we reduced the number of cara wide portfolio of material suppliers from different countries, riers we work with and only prolonged our cooperation with unify products and create a base of alternative technologies. companies that use vehicles with low exhaust fumes and CO2 We have similar production technologies at our production emissions. plants located in various countries (Germany, Ukraine and Russia). Moreover, we constantly cooperate with suppliers and Our purchasing procedures are based on the standard ISO transfer some aspects of production to them, even though the 9001:2008. technology at our factories is sufficient. This provides protection in case of emergencies. 89 Local suppliers, global purchases G4DMA: According to our principle “We think globally – act delivered by local suppliers. In 2015 the participation of local EC9 EN32 locally,” we strive to obtain materials from local companies in direct purchases increased to 55%. We make markets. The “local market” means the market of a country our other purchases from suppliers from outside countries in which our production plants are located. It is particularly in which we carry out production. For instance, Polish supimportant in terms of direct purchases connected with our pliers that delivered components to our factories in Jasło are manufacturing activity, the value of which accounts for the now delivering orders for German companies as well. This is majority of our company’s expenses. In 2014, 50% of maa result of cost rationalisation and broader changes in our terials and intermediate products (according to value) were purchasing policy. 50% 55% 2014 2015 Local suppliers SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Our organisation’s leader in introducing ethical standards to the supply chain was Rohde & Grahl, which operates in the Netherlands. The Code the company established was signed by almost all suppliers, collectively responsible for 95% of supplies. Since the end of 2015 Nowy Styl Group has had a binding global document – Supplier Code of Conduct – which concisely defines our basic requirements concerning working conditions, labour practices, environmental protection and fair business practices. The Code is a global document, equally binding for suppliers of all Nowy Styl Group’s companies. Its acceptance is a prerequisite for new partners to cooperate with our organisation, while current suppliers must gradually undertake the process of accepting and adjusting to the requirements stated in the Code. We are creating tools for verifying the observance of this document, which we will use for new partners’ appraisals and during periodic audits. The implementation is scheduled for completion in 2016 and 2017. 90 Suppliers 5 The growing scale of our company’s activity allows us to DMA: G4G4In the process of selecting our suppliers, G4-12 LA14 EN32 LA14 optimise purchasing processes. Since the middle of 2014 we take into account, among other criteria, we have been centralising our supply chain. By concentrating quality, environment, OHS and finance. We pay close attenthis process in the Central Purchasing Division, we can control tion to verifying new partners who have to undergo an audit the expenses of the whole Group and use the scale and synergy concerning, for instance, the environmental and OHS criteria, more effectively: the prices of materials and components used in as well as the group of partners defined as key suppliers. In different production plants are negotiated centrally. The centraliboth 2014 and 2015, 100% of new companies in this circle sation process also enables us to implement the same purchasing completed the “Supplier Environmental Questionnaire” and strategy and procedures, as well as the right management of other documents verifying the binding OHS policy. the purchasing category and the purchasing staff throughout the organisation. Now we also take ethical criteria into consideration, in particular the observance of human rights. The Central Purchasing Division is responsible for verifying new suppliers. In Poland, it also took over responsibility from the Quality Department for controlling the quality of supplies delivered by external companies to our production plants and conducting on-site inspections at suppliers’ locations. When clients increase their requirements, the whole industry begins to develop. For many years we have been working with Nowy Styl Group, which is one of our key clients, on improving our products’ quality, safety and environmental parameters. To meet the needs of the Group’s orders, we have implemented cardboard boxes with no metal staples, so that they could be utilised more easily. The “Supplier Code of Conduct” includes those rules that we have always followed in our company, however it forces us to monitor them more systematically. The document is, for us and the whole industry, a signal that without constant care for observing basic standards concerning human rights, we cannot count on cooperation with the biggest furniture market players. KRZYSZTOF JAŻDŻYK CEO of Model Holding AG Nowy Styl Group’s Supplier of the Year 2014 OUR PROMISE: We will implement the Supplier Code of Conduct in all companies that belong to the Group. We will create a questionnaire for supplier ethical appraisal, which will be used during the initial verification of new suppliers. We will also monitor observance of the Supplier Code of Conduct during periodic meetings and audits of our suppliers. 91 6 Our customers 94 Our customers 6 The word “customer” does not really reflect the way we treat the people we cooperate with and the organisations we equip with our products. The word “partner” seems much more appropriate. When building our relationships with people we focus mainly First of all, when designing our products and services, we on their permanence and make sure they are based on trust make sure they meet users’ technical, technological and quality that stems from the real benefits we offer the other party. expectations. The design process also includes a selection of suitable materials – not only in terms of their cost-effectiveness, Creating and maintaining these relations with our business but also their durability, ecology and ergonomics of the final partners are key tasks of all departments. Every single activity solution. As suppliers are the source of those materials, we pay described in this report has a more or less direct influence on special attention to selecting them carefully and maintaining positive relationships with our customers. good relationships, ensuring our products are of the highest quality. For us, product quality control and the whole logistics process are key stages of the production process. 95 6.1 Customer health and safety G4G4DMA: When designing our products, we think One of the certificates our products have obtained is the GeEN27 PR2 PR1 first of all about customers. Their comfort prüfteSicherheit (GS) certificate – a widely acclaimed docuand health are absolute priorities for us. Our furniture is not ment which confirms that a product with this mark meets covered by the European Union “New approach directives” strict German and European standards and the highest safety concerning product safety, therefore it is sold on the “free requirements. The certifying body is the German research market.” However, the lack of top-down regulations does not institute TUV Rheinland, which we have been cooperating prevent us from precisely controlling the processes of the with for many years. products we manufacture. Our products undergo tests carried out in our own research centre in Jasło (Poland) and in other In 2014 we obtained the French certificate NF-Office Excellence external certified research units both in Poland and abroad. Certifié and after the audit in 2015 it was renewed. NF-Office Excellence Certifié is a confirmation that the certified office Our wide product portfolio involves diverse products, from furniture is high quality in terms of its dimensions, mechanihomeoffice products (some products manufactured by the cal strength, durability, functional safety and performance Nowy Styl brand, as well as the SOHO – Small Office Home in reaction to fire. Moreover, the document guarantees that Office offer) to products designed for the project market, which a manufacturer is able to produce products of the same quality, sets extremely high standards concerning ergonomics, qualas well as implement and monitor social and environmental ity and product recycling possibilities, and which is the most commitments. NF-Office Excellence Certifié is the only French important market when it comes to our company’s functioning. office furniture certification mark issued by an independent We operate in practically every market segment and sales accredited certifying body in this field. channel, offering products made by the following six brands: Nowy Styl, BN Office Solution, Forum Seating, Grammer Office, We also possess certificates issued by other research instiRohde & Grahl and Sitag. tutes, for example, the Polish Research and Certification Office COBRABiD-BBC (certificate of compliance with B quality mark), G4The homeoffice products are approved for distribution Institute of Technical Supervision, Wood Technology Institute, PR1 on the basis of a construction assessment and potential Institute for Building Technology and the Czech Engineering risk evaluation. All products implemented for the professional Test Institute (Szutest). (project) market are subject to internal tests. The internal tests are also confirmed in part by test reports conducted by indeThe level of tests carried out by external institutions is 100% pendent research institutions, including accredited units that for products manufactured by the Grammer Office brand, 100% are entitled to issue certificates. In 2014–2015 we increased (for chairs) and 95% (for furniture) for the Rohde & Grahl brand, the number of these documents obtained for our products. and 40% for the Sitag brand. At research institutes we also test the performance of our furniture in terms of its reaction to fire and UV radiation. In order to provide our customers with reliable information on the certificates our products have, we systematically manage knowledge in this area through an internal “Certificates” Portal on the company’s SharePoint platform. This Portal is where our employees can easily find the latest documents for our furniture and components, such as seals of approval, test reports, certificates and statements. Due to the character of the projects they are designed for, the Forum Seating products are often subject to European Union directives concerning construction products, as well as the directives on electronic equipment. When designing these products, we always make sure they meet rigorous standards for durability and safety of use. 96 Our customers 6 THE STANDPRODUCTS MADE BY THE NOWY STYL AND BN OFFICE SOLUTION BRANDS: ARDS WE OBSERVE Stationary chairs: WHEN MANUFACTURING EN 16139 Furniture. Strength, durability and safety. Requirements for non-domestic seating OUR EN 1022 Domestic furniture. Seating. Determination of stability PRODUCTS EN 1728 Furniture. Seating. Test methods for the determination of strength and durability EN 14703 Furniture. Links for non-domestic seating linked together in a row. Strength requirements and test methods EN 12727 Furniture. Ranked seating. Test methods and requirements for strength and durability Operative chairs for educational institutions: EN 1729-1 Furniture. Chairs and tables for educational institutions. Part 1: Functional dimensions EN 1729-2 Furniture. Chairs and tables for educational institutions. Part 2: Safety requirements and test methods Operative chairs: EN 1335-1 Office furniture. Office work chair. Part 1: Dimensions. Determination of dimensions EN 1335-2 Office furniture. Office work chair. Part 2: Safety requirements EN 1335-3 Office furniture. Office work chair. Part 3: Test methods EN 1022 Domestic furniture. Seating. Determination of stability Furniture (desks): EN 527-1 Office furniture. Work tables and desks. Part 1: Dimensions EN 527-2 Office furniture. Work tables and desks. Part 2: Mechanical safety requirements EN 527-3 Office furniture. Work tables and desks. Part 3: Methods of test for the determination of the stability and the mechanical strength of the structure EN 14074 Office furniture. Tables and desks and storage furniture. Test methods for the determination of strength and durability of moving parts Storage furniture (cabinets, pedestals): EN 14073-2 Office furniture. Storage furniture. Part 2: Safety requirements EN 14073-3 Office furniture. Storage furniture. Part 3: Test methods for the determination of stability and strength of the structure 97 THE STANDARDS WE PRODUCTS MADE BY THE NOWY STYL AND BN OFFICE SOLUTION BRANDS: OBSERVE Conference and café tables: WHEN MANUFACTURING EN 15372 Furniture. Strength, durability and safety. Requirements for non-domestic tables OUR EN 1730 Furniture. Tables. Test methods for the determination of stability, strength and PRODUCTS durability Hygienic Compliance with requirements for use in office and public spaces (corresponds approvals from with hygienic requirements in terms of safety concerning the presence of the National hazardous substances) Institute of Hygiene Wood Opinion on the hygienic class E1 – formaldehyde emission EN 717-1 (the 3OH Technology cabinet as the representative of the Easy Space furniture line) Institute PRODUCTS MADE BY THE GRAMMER OFFICE BRAND: EN 1335, EN 16139 PRODUCTS MADE BY THE ROHDE & GRAHL BRAND: Chairs EN 1335, EN 16139, NPR 1813 Furniture EN 527-1, EN 527-2, EN 527-3 PRODUCTS MADE BY THE SITAG BRAND: EN 1335 1-3 98 Our customers 6 6.2 Acoustics In 2014 we appointed a dedicated team responsible respond to specific acoustic problems characteristic of office for acoustics and the implementation of acoustic prodareas. One of the solutions that has been applied in the proucts. The team developed its knowledge of the properties of duction line is an eco-friendly sound-absorbing material made acoustic materials and their arrangement through tests and of 85% recycled PET. training courses. We carried out acoustic tests of our products in several domestic and foreign research centres: in Cracow In 2016–2017 we intend to continue our activities within at the AGH Laboratory of Technical Acoustics, in Warsaw at the area of acoustics. We are planning to conduct acoustic the ITB Acoustic Laboratory and in cooperation with one of tests for selected samples and products. We will also develop the most regarded acoustical consulting firms in the world – our competences in measuring the acoustic parameters Nagata Acoustics. of a space: we will purchase special equipment for taking acoustic measurements and conduct test measurements. We Now we are working on designing a line of sound-absorbing will also train our business partners in the different aspects products intended for office and public spaces, which will of acoustics. 6.3 Influence on the environment A great number of our clients systematically manage their G4In order to ensure the safety of our products and miniEN27 influence on the environment and monitor it in all areas of mise their influence on the environment, we are careful their activity. to select the right materials and components. Our basic activiWe wish to provide these clients with complete inforties in this area include: mation on environmental properties of our products. carrying out periodic tests of the plywood produced in our We collect material declarations from our suppliers, which factories in Rzepedź at external institutions in order to control enables us to report the overall material consumption and creformaldehyde emissions; ate environmental product profiles based on the international obtaining relevant documents from our suppliers, which EPD (Environmental Product Declaration) cards. In Poland we define formaldehyde emissions for furniture board; prepared pilot environmental cards for the Intrata chairs and working on eliminating the use of adhesives; the Hexa seat. The cards cover 75% of the products made by trying to reduce emissions from adhesives – in 2014 we the Grammer Office brand (the Sail, Globeline, Match and Tiger introduced an adhesive with 35% VOC content (it replaced chairs), a huge part of the Sitag brand’s offer (SITAGTEAM, adhesives with 52% and 62% VOC content); the process of SITAGEGO, SITAGPOINT, SITAGWAVE, SITAGWORLD, SITAG replacing solvent adhesives with water-based adhesives is EL100), and the Vote chair made by the Rohde & Grahl brand a progressive process which is ongoing; (implemented in 2014), which is designed for the contract obtaining statements from suppliers confirming that foams market. Moreover, products made by all of our brands are do not contain any freons (CFC and HCFC), heavy metals or marked to indicate the plastics they have been fabricated brominated substances; from according to the standard ISO 11469. obtaining statements from suppliers assuring that their materials contain neither halogenated flame retardants nor dyes with heavy metals (Pb, Sn, Cd, Hg) and providing information on their recyclability. 99 6.4 Warranty We do our best to ensure our customers are able to appreciinstitutional clients with whom we negotiate warranty condiate our products’ quality and safety of use throughout the tions individually. Work on getting the warranty on our B2C warranty period and for a long time after its expiration. This channels is in progress now. is regulated through relevant rules in our contracts. Our customers are provided with an efficient after-sales service Product compliance with regulations by professional technicians in six Polish commercial regions. The after-warranty service is provided at 35 points run by G4In 2014–2015 no instances of non-compliance with PR2 distributors of the Nowy Styl brand all over the country. regulations regarding health and safety with respect to products and services were reported by any of our brands, Our customers are able to access the warranty conditions concerning in particular: on our dedicated website. As standard, all our products have instances of non-compliance with regulations resulting a two to five-year warranty (depending on the brand). In the in a fine or penalty; case of product realisations for the project market, we provide instances of non-compliance with regulations resulting a ten-year warranty. in a warning; instances of non-compliance with voluntary codes. The content of the warranty dedicated to the B2B sector is placed on a non-public website due to the large number of 6.5 Ergonomics When designing our products we also strive to ensure they To meet our customers’ special needs, we also design chairs have a positive influence on the end customers’ health by many for users with unusual disorders. Arthrodesis and MediTre are patented solutions concerning not only chairs, but also furniexamples of these products. ture. The offer of highly ergonomic chair mechanisms includes: GLIDE-TEC (used in products made by the Grammer Office When it comes to ergonomics, knowledge is key – in the probrand), cess of designing and selling (choosing), as well as when using Duo-back (used in products made by the Rohde & Grahl the final product. With this in mind, we thoroughly train our brand), employees, distributors and users in this field. S-MOVE (designed for the 4ME chair line made by the BN Office Solution brand). 100 Our customers 6 EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGN In 2014 we initiated the ergonomic campaign “Does it hurt? Change your chair” which was aimed at end customers and the distributors of the Nowy Styl brand in the Polish market. Since June 2015 we have been running a dedicated website, www.zmienkrzeslo.pl, which is used to inform and educate people in ergonomics, as well as to present the chair models covered by this promotion. The action is supported by an extensive information campaign: we conducted three radio campaigns, a social media campaign (the Nowy Styl brand profile on Facebook) and through other Internet channels – Google AdWords, Facebook Ads and YouTube. Principles of the campaign: 50 Ergo Points all over Poland Each Point is equipped with a promotional stand, leaflets, a sticker and a circle used to mark the chair that is being promoted Each Point has a permanent exposition of the chairs chosen for the campaign, and at least one additional item of each chair in stock The chairs covered by the promotion are as follows: @-motion, Intrata Operative, Orlando UP, Gem, Taktik Mesh and Offix (each chair is available in only one chosen configuration and with the BONDAI or SEMPRE finishes) TABLE OF THE ERGONOMIC STANDARDS WE FOLLOW ERGONOMIC EN ISO 9241-1 – Ergonomic requirements for office work with visual display terminals STANDARDS (VDTs) – General Introduction (LGA) EN 1335-1 – Office furniture. Office work chair. Part 1: Dimensions. Determination of dimensions (IMP) EN 527-1 – Office furniture. Work tables and desks. Part 1: Dimensions Test programme 2 PfG 947 for the German certificate TÜV Rheinland “Ergonomie Geprüft” (based also on EN 1335-1) Ergonomic assessment protocols – Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine – the Easy Space and SQart furniture system Quality Office NPR 1813 – Dutch ergonomic requirements 101 Within the area of ergonomics, we also undertake different We also present our products in trade and ergonomic magamarketing activities, an example of which is the video “Healthy zines (for example, “Ergonoma Journal”, “Das Büro”, “Facts”, workplace” that presents, in a comprehensible way, how to “OnOffice”). In 2014–2015 these magazines featured many properly design and arrange a workstation so that it exerts articles about our chairs, for example, on the 4ME and Xenium a positive impact on the user’s health and comfort. The video tests, and presenting other solutions, such as the Play&Work was produced in four languages (Polish, English, German and furniture system. French) and published on YouTube. The total number of views at the time the report was compiled was over 20,000. OUR PROMISES: We will expand our knowledge of the requirements for products and components that are binding in Europe and in the world. We will compile descriptions including environmental data for our further products. We will develop specification for our suppliers regarding environmental requirements based on the FEMB LEVEL certification requirements. We will try to obtain the following documents, which confirm the highest quality and safety in terms of durability, use, low VOC emissions and lack of hazardous substances: GS certificate, Ergonomie Geprüft, and Schadstoff Geprüft TUV for our newly implemented products designed for the project market. We will continue our activities connected with promoting innovative solutions in acoustics and low VOC emissions. We will purchase a chamber for carrying out internal tests controlling the VOC and formaldehyde emissions. 102 Our customers 6 6.6 Product labelling and assembly DMA: G4G4Our cooperation with customers does not end chairs made by the Rohde & Grahl brand are delivered asPR3 PR3 PR4 when our manufactured chairs or furniture sembled without an assembly manual; are shipped to them. For our products, this is just the beginning. chairs and furniture made by the Sitag brand are delivered Therefore, we ensure they are delivered to recipients with the assembled without an assembly manual. proper labelling, as well as legible assembly and usage manuals. For Forum Seating products, the assembly process is most With the idea of precise labelling in mind, in 2015 we often carried out by a properly trained staff member or by created a product glossary which unified the vocabuan external company we cooperate with. In other cases, lary used in different countries to describe our products. The we prepare not only assembly manuals, but also assembly glossary is available internally in Polish, English and German. templates. Because we offer our products in many different countries, the The aim of product labelling is also to facilitate logistics promajority of manuals are prepared in one of 12 languages – we cesses. We use labels for a customer’s data, details of a paralso prepare multilingual versions, for instance, for chairs made ticular order, information about us (the manufacturer), as well by the Grammer Office brand. as information about the product and ecological standards or certificates. Our assembly manuals are varied due to the diversity of our customers. For furniture, all documents are available on our We have several standard label models in accordance with internal portal SharePoint. Because we offer different types of legal regulations binding in a given country and labels dedishipment and delivery of goods (e.g. individual supply along cated to particular customers. In the Office Furniture Factory with assembly), we are able to adjust our communication on there is one valid indentifying label size printed automatiand inside the product packaging. Disassembled furniture cally in different manufacturing cells. The label is prepared always includes manuals. We also include information on the according to a standard layout or our customers’ individual maximum desktop load (desks with electric adjustment) and expectations. the maximum load of shelves in cabinets. Chair made by the Grammer Office and Rohde & Grahl brands Assembly manuals for chairs are highly are marked using sticky labels placed on the underside of the diversified: seat, while products made by the Sitag brand have a product chairs made by the Nowy Styl brand – manuals are placed label with the name of the producer (product information is in cardboard boxes together with the product (at the request available in the Internet). of the customer products can be shipped without a manual); chairs made by the BN Office Solution brand are delivered G4Due to our legible and systemic product labelling, no PR4 assembled or in L-shape cartons, they do not include an asinstances of non-compliance with regulations concernsembly manual; ing product labelling and product information were reported chairs without a headrest made by the Grammer Office in any of our brands in 2014–2015. The Trade Inspection also brand are packed in L-shape cartons; they are accompanied did not detect any instances of non-compliance with voluntary by a simple assembly manual; codes and regulations resulting in a fine, penalty or warning. chairs with a headrest made by the Grammer Office brand are delivered assembled without an assembly manual; 103 6.7 Customer satisfaction survey DMA: G4Our business model is based on the diversification Summary of customer satisfaction PR5 PR5 of channels and sales methods of our products survey conducted in 2014–2015 and services. This translates into an extended sales structure. Despite this, the customer is still the most important part of November 2015 – Nowy Styl brand customer satisfaction the whole process. Therefore we strive to get to know our survey. The survey was carried out among 82 distributors of the customers’ opinions on all of the company’s activities. Nowy Styl brand – the companies that permanently cooperate with Nowy Styl Group from 12 different Voivodeships of Poland. We adjust the tools we use to measure our customers’ satisfaction according to the market and client group – whether they Its aim was to determine the level of customer satisfaction in are business clients from the project market or distributors the following six areas: (1) the Group’s image, (2) customer who sell our products to individual customers. service, (3) complaint handling, (4) promotion of the Nowy Styl brand – the marketing support and Partner Portal, (5) the The current method of collecting this kind of information is via situation in the market and competition, (6) cooperation on customer contact with our sales representatives. We adopt this projects. approach for our clients from the project market. For the Forum Seating brand we check customers’ satisfaction every 6 or 12 Survey participants were unanimous in saying that the Nowy months during warranty inspections. In 2014 we carried out Styl brand, which is highly regarded in the market, has a huge 259 warranty inspections, and in 2015 we completed 153. influence on their sales. In the other areas their opinions were much more divided. Below you can find the aspects customers Questionnaire surveys are conducted with different frequencies defined as our strengths and weaknesses. They have allowed and in a various formats, depending on the market. The survey us to identify the most valuable practices and sales leaders methodology and questionnaire form are based on the standard (the survey was conducted by region), as well as to create ISO 9001 (in Germany, Switzerland and the Netherlands). a recovery plan for the areas in which some shortcomings were noticed. In the Netherlands, both in 2014 and 2015, we conducted qualitative interviews at 16 companies belonging to our key Dutch clients. Two-thirds of the companies responded that Nowy Styl Group is a partner worth recommending. It is now common practice for us to carry out quality audits two months after every project realisation. Our strengths: Our weaknesses: 96% Our employees’ knowledge and competences (good and very good marks – 79/82 – 96%) 65% Shortage of marketing materials (“Yes” – 46/82 – 65%) 92% Complaint handling (quick/very quick/appropriate – 76/82 – 92%) 26% Order completion time (long/too long – 21/82 – 26%) 82% Partner Portal (good/very good assessment of functionality – 70/82 – 82%) 69% Reaction time to request for proposal (good/very good marks – 59/82 – 69%) 104 Our customers 6 6.8 Marketing communication DMA: G4The vast majority of the products we manufacof printed materials we use, which has also had a positive PR7 PR7 ture consist of highly advanced technological influence on environmental protection. solutions. Our customers’ choices are mainly determined by technical parameters and commercial terms. Therefore we However, electronic tools cannot completely replace traditional take special care to ensure the accuracy and completeness of sales and information tools. Pricelists, product catalogues and the information with regard to our products and services in brochures in which we present our solutions and services are our marketing communication. We clearly separate this type permanent and indispensable elements of our communicaof communication from promotional messages. In 2014 and tion. Their content, such as the range of products presented 2015 we did not record any complaints regarding breaches of in the “Selection” catalogue, is adjusted to our customers’ customer privacy, losses of customer data or violation of the preferences in particular markets. binding legal standards in the fields of advertising, promotion and sponsoring. Printed marketing materials are particularly popular in the German market, so we undertake special activities there in Our range of activities in many different markets and segorder to compensate for the influence our large-scale printing ments results in communication channels being very well has on the environment. All printed materials of Nowy Styl developed. Direct contact with a business client is the basis of GmbH are made on recycled paper, which means the CO2 our communication; that is why we intensively train our sales emission generated during the printing process is offset and representatives to give them sound knowledge of our products catalogues and pricelists are certified as environmentally and the ability to choose optimal solutions. neutral. In addition, our architects and experts in the field of ofAt the 2014 ORGATEC fair, we published the premiere fice arrangement methods meet with customers at trainissue of the “UP^STREAM” magazine, for our customing courses and conferences in order to share their knowledge ers. The German and English version of the publication was so and experience. Designers and interior design administrators positively acclaimed that we decided to make it a periodical. are our key stakeholders, therefore in the last two years we Later on we also created the English and Polish language increased our contacts by over 50%. In 2014 and 2015 we version. In the magazine, which is issued twice a year, we participated with these key stakeholders at 64 events held all place information about the Group’s business activity and over Poland, for example, in the meetings organised by the future plans, as well as promoting the idea of a well-designed studio Virtus, by regional Chambers of Architects and in those office. The paper version of the magazine (with a print run of held in the BPO/SSC market. 3,000–3,500 copies) is delivered to our customers, partners and distributors. All the magazine issues are also available on Websites, the Nowy Styl Group app, the Partner Portal for our website (www.nowystylgroup.com/upstream). distributors, Internet, social media and mailings are the electronic tools for sellers, partners and customers that we use in We also send up-to-date product information to interested all of the markets in which our company operates. Developing parties in the form of regular newsletters. these tools has enabled us to considerably limit the number 6.9 Privacy protection DMA: G4Through constant communication, we provide our General for Personal Data Protection) requirements. We PR8 PR8 customers and partners with access to the latest do not make them available to any third parties nor apply information about our products and services. And because we any illegal solutions to follow our customers’ activities or value good relations, we do our best to protect their privacy. to obtain information about them. Our customer and partner databases are based on trade In 2014 and 2015 no complaints regarding breaches of contracts and created during many meetings. They all are customer privacy and losses of customer data were recorded. stored on secured services according to GIODO (Inspector 105 7 Our neighbours 108 Our neighbours 7 Our group of neighbours is growing along with the company’s development. As real cosmopolitans, and according to our motto “We think globally – act locally,” we strive to become friends with every new surrounding in which our company functions. This means we do our utmost not to disturb its balance, but also to use its potential and participate in shaping its future. DMA: DMA: G4G4The biggest local community, in our opinion about other ideas concerning the local environS01 EC8 SO1 EC8 which we have been functioning for ment, CSR activities and promotion. Since 2015 we have been 24 years now, consists of inhabitants of the Sub-Carpathian providing opinions on regional development strategies and region located in the south of Poland. We use the region’s advising on methods of solving social problems at the forum natural resources and we are one of the most dominant of the Sub-Carpathian Social Dialogue Council, in which we repemployers, employing over 2,800 people from Krosno, Jasło resent entrepreneurs from the Polish Confederation Lewiatan. and neighbouring towns. This number not only illustrates our influence on the region, but also highlights the role of Our commitment is also visible in the other local markets and the Sub-Carpathian region in our business activity. It means countries in which our company operates. As sales are carried that over 97% of our Polish employees come from the region, out locally, so is the choice of initiatives and groups of recipients making up 73% of all the Group’s employees. Because of that, that need our support. This is dealt with by our local managers we concentrate our strategic projects in the Sub-Carpathian in Germany, France and Slovakia. region and try to manage them systematically. The form and scale of our social commitment is the outcome Participation in the life of the region helps us understand its of the identified needs of a particular community, the influence needs and problems, and facilitate its development. In 2014 we exert on it (positive or negative) and the compatibility with and 2015, at the invitation of local authorities in Jasło, we our company’s business aims. We engage in those regions took part in consultations on the strategy and development where our support is particularly needed and where we feel of the town. We put forward our own ideas and expressed competent enough to help. 109 7.1 Areas of commitment 1) Social projects support and charity the Bogusława Nykiel-Ostrowska Open Hearts Foundation, the Foundation for the Preservation of Jewish Heritage, and G4In our unwritten social commitment policy, there is one the Municipal Hospital in Krosno in Poland; Plan Nederland EC7 assumption from the outset: the supported undertakings (an organisation protecting women’s rights all over the world) should be organised for or support the communities in our and KWF (an organisation supporting patients with cancer) locations. In Poland, the most important region of support is in the Netherlands; and Global Heart Watch (an institution the Sub-Carpathian region. That is where our help concentrates dealing with the prevention and first aid in case of heart aton the education of children and teenagers, especially those tacks) in France. threatened by social exclusion (including disabled people). In total, the sum of the Polish companies’ donations amounted As well as undertaking our own initiatives, we also provide to PLN 607,233.15 in 2014, and PLN 545,989.35 in 2015. goods-in-kind and financial support to individual people and Part of the amount was allocated in kind: in 2014 we gave health care, education and culture institutions. In 2014–2015 over 600 items of furniture to people in need, and a further this included the Association of the Krosno Development Sport, 400 in 2015. 110 Our neighbours 7 DONATIONS 2014 2015 (PLN) Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o., including 607 233 545 989 Charity Ball 66 058 92 472 Scholarships and social 154 895 138 006 projects realised by the Janusz Korczak Foundation Rohde & Grahl BV 10 461 41 843 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 4 184 22 177 A  mounts converted from Euro according to the annual average exchange rate for 2014 (4.1845) and 2015 (4.1843) 111 How do we do this? 2015 – NOWY STYL GROUP’S YEAR OF MUSIC PL In order to support young people full of passion and enthusiasm for classical music, we took patronage over the Educational and Musical Programs at the Krzysztof Penderecki European Centre for Music in Lusławice. On 25th March 2015 we signed a contract for our cooperation with the Centre, initiating the “Nowy Styl Group’s Year of Music” project at the same time. In 2015, 65 concerts and 33 special educational classes which gathered 1,160 young artists and 23,900 listeners were held in Lusławice under our patronage. Another event we provided patronage over was the release of the “Lusławice Musical Talents” album, which included pieces performed by participants of the programs. This album went to more than 2,000 our customers both in Poland and abroad. We also took part actively in organising cultural events: the “Touch the Music” exhibition at GAGA – the Gallery of Architecture in Garden of Arts in Cracow, the first edition of the Sinfonietta Festival in Cracow, the international music festival “Emanacje,” with concerts held throughout Lesser Poland, and one of the inaugural concerts organised by the Multifunctional Concert Hall “Jordanki” in Toruń. As part of the “Year of Music” project, we also undertook a series of activities promoting knowledge of classical music in our close environment (among our employees, customers and partners) and facilitating access to it. We organised competitions and sent invitations to different events. The project to equip the Multifunctional Concert Hall “Jordanki” in Toruń was completed and marked with its members participating in an inaugural concert. In September 2015 we organised a special concert “Seriously in the factory” for our employees in the production hall of our newest office furniture factory. Young musicians from the Lusławice Orchestra performed on the stage. In 2016 the “Year of Music” project was awarded in the “Responding to Poland” ranking in the “Social Project” category. See more at www.nowystylgroup.com/rokmuzyki CHARITY BALL 2014 AND 2015. Every year our New Year’s event is attended by approx. 1,000 PL children from Sub-Carpathian educational care centres and family-type children’s homes. In 2014 the main motto of the event was: “Safety above all” – the children had fun while learning how to give first aid and testing fire fighting equipment. They also created 38 colourful dolls, which were later sold in an auction organised to support a sick girl – Dominika. In 2015 the ballroom was transformed into a “Medieval manor house” – all the attendees took part in calligraphy workshops, swordplay and armour craft exercises. They also learnt court dances and juggling tricks. Every year we give the institutions that participate in the ball St. Nicholas Day gift packages – depending on their wishes, the packages include household appliances, audio devices, tourist and sports equipment, or funds for trips and courses for children. SCHOLARSHIPS – for many years our scholarship program has been run by the Janusz Korczak PL Foundation, the creators of which are Nowy Styl Group’s founders themselves. 52 pupils and students from the Sub-Carpathian region used the program in 2014 and 54 in 2015. We subsidise tuition at universities, but also training courses that help young people be admitted to university. Among our scholarship holders, there is a great number of future doctors, lawyers, teachers and computer specialists. 112 Our neighbours 7 We are a partner of THE CHILDREN UNIVERSITY IN JASŁO where every year 100 children aged PL from 6 to 9 years old discover their passion for learning during interactive lectures. THE NOBLE BOX project is a completely grass-roots initiative of Nowy Styl Group’s employees. PL Every year, our employees get together in different locations to prepare a Christmas box for families from the Sub-Carpathian region. CHARITY EVENING FOR BUSINESS – we organised a charity fashion show (the Feel Good Fashion NL show) in which the models were disabled people. At the event we ran networking session for people from outside the labour market with “Match Fair” local entrepreneurs (we managed to create 267 such “pairs”). During the evening we also raised money for teenagers’ sports activities. 113 2) Popularisation of sport integrate, and promoting a physical culture among employees through the Sports Club are our major activities towards the Sponsoring sports events, supporting sport among children popularisation of sport. and teenagers, for whom it is an opportunity to activate and How do we do this? SPORT SPONSORING – we provide support in organising local races and sporting events that PL DE promote a physical culture and awake the spirit of competition in our close neighbourhood. We participated in organising the 1st Magura Ultra-marathon, the 19th Independence Race NL in Krosno, Krosno Aquatics Championships and the 1st Night Charity Swimming Marathon. We also sponsor the university sports team “Solar Team Twente” from Enschede, which came in 2nd place in the world solar car race in Australia in 2015. Achievements of the young constructors and sportsmen can be followed at http://www.solarteam.nl/. In Germany we also support a local horse riding school (Reitund Fahrverein) in Steyerberg. SPORTS CLUB – more information on page 57. PL DE NL FR 114 Our neighbours 7 3) Vocational and academic We take part regularly in local job fairs in order to recognise education the needs and expectations of future employees. During conferences and meetings with students, we share our professional Cooperation with universities in terms of educating graduates knowledge and business experience. We also make use of the who will succeed in the labour market; promoting talented scientific facilities at the universities we cooperate with – we young people. conduct tests in university laboratories (e.g. acoustics tests at the AGH University) and invite their experts to work on In Poland we cooperate with universities and vocational schools development projects together with us. in the Sub-Carpathian region (University of Information Technology and Management, Rzeszów University of Technology, Our partner in Slovakia is the Department of Architecture at the State Higher Vocational School in Krosno), in Lesser Poland University of Technology in Bratislava. Together we organise (AGH University of Science and Technology, University of a competition for students, during which we award the best Economics) and in the Mazovia region (Warsaw University of projects every semester. Life Sciences, Warsaw School of Economics). Our organisation is a partner of two university faculties. We support students We particularly value partnership-like relations with academic in writing diploma theses about our company and we also staff; we truly believe that close cooperation between busiorganise internships, as well as student, graduate and diploma ness and science is the source of our innovative character and apprenticeships, systematically and on a large scale (more ensures our competitive advantage in the long run. information on page 56). We cooperate with state institutions of the labour market in this field as well. 115 4) Entrepreneurship & economic trepreneurship for many years. Our Vice-President – Jerzy development promotion and support Krzanowski – co-created the Sub-Carpathian Business Club. In recent years, we also organised economic educational activities on a local and domestic scale for different age groups, including young children, teenagers and students through different organisations, such as the Smart Our company is often shown as a symbol of democratic ecoStart Foundation, Family Business Initiative Association, and nomic changes in Poland after 1989. And indeed, the entreKoźmiński Academy (see the full list on page 36). Our experts preneurship of the company’s founders – Adam and Jerzy participated in various debates and discussion panels during Krzanowski – would not have translated into such a spectacular the most important business and economic events in Poland business success if it hadn’t been for the free market. We (e.g. the Economic Forum in Krynica-Zdrój, the European Ecohave encouraged people to take advantage of this freedom nomic Congress and the Public Debate Forum “Economy of by supporting local authorities in developing the regional enCompetitive Poland”). 5) Industry organisations support we build close relations and for whom we strive to become a partner in order to improve the quality of interior equipment Architects, office facility managers, office design administraservices together. tors and HR specialists are the professional groups with whom How do we do this? STATUTORY ACTIVITY SUPPORT AND PROMOTION OF TALENTED YOUNG PEOPLE PL In 2014 and 2015 we helped furnish the new headquarters of the Lower Silesian Chamber of Architects located in a restored kindergarten on a Wrocław model housing estate WUWA 2. SK We also cooperate with the Slovak Chamber of Architects and partner the “Cena ARCH” prize which is a prestigious distinction awarded by an international jury and the “ARCH” magazine to the best architectural projects realised in Slovakia. TRAINING COURSES, WORKSHOPS AND SEMINARS FOR ARCHITECTS PL DE We educated them in office ergonomics and the space planning method based on the Activity Based Workplace concept. NL They are held during events our company co-organises, but also in the form of closed meetings in our showrooms. EXPERT PUBLICATIONS PL At the beginning of 2015 we co-created the report “Fit-out cost guide” compiled by the company CBRE. It was the first guide in the Polish market addressed to companies planning to relocate or modernise their offices. We presented office furnishing in three different finishing standards. In October we published our first expert report – “Flow at work – Factors determining the optimal experience at work.” The document contains theoretical deliberations and empirical investigations about motivation and occupational psychology. Based on the concept of flow and practical experiences connected with workplace optimisation, the report defines certain actions that should be undertaken by employers and employees in order to create favourable working conditions that facilitate the achievement of flow in their professional lives. 116 Our neighbours 7 6) Environmental protection support through the promotion of pro-ecological attitudes and financial assistance provided to organisations that protect the environment How do we do this? Selected social activities undertaken by Nowy Styl Group in 2014–2015 WE CONTINUED OUR COOPERATION WITH THE MAGURA NATIONAL PARK, PL which is one of the most beautiful nature conservation areas in the Sub-Carpathian region. We donated 5% from the sale of the Sedia Natura chairs to tourism education and responsible tourism programs run by the Park. Moreover, at the end of 2015, we conducted an educational campaign, “Save the frog.” What do the frogs’ lives in the Sub-Carpathian region look like and how can we help them? See our video at www.nowystylgroup.com/savethefrog. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION – as part of the celebration of the Open Day and the Children’s PL Day we conducted workshops in ecology for more than 500 our employees’ children at the factory in Jasło. We complemented our internal magazine “Spinacz” with a regular column “EKO-LOGIKA,” in which we wrote about the nature and how to protect it. Since 2009, Nowy Styl GmbH has belonged to THE BAVARIAN ENVIRONMENTAL PACT DE (UMWELTPAKT BAYERN). 117 Cooperation between Nowy Styl Group and the Krzysztof Penderecki European Centre for Music is a model example of commitment and business social responsibility. The activities undertaken by the Centre and supported by the Group translate into an improved quality of life for all the region’s inhabitants. They provide tens of thousands of people with access to concerts and educational events at the highest level. Together we serve to popularise the broadly defined culture by increasing the circle of its recipients every year. ADAM BALAS Director at the Krzysztof Penderecki European Centre for Music OUR PROMISES: Creating social commitment rules and a donation policy We will create a social commitment and donation policy that will facilitate the process of investigating aid applications, help us integrate charity with our company’s business activity more effectively and improve our relations with social partners. Continuation of the Year of Music project We will continue the project connected with our patronage of the Krzysztof Penderecki European Centre for Music in order to support the professional development of talented young musicians. 118 Our neighbours 7 119 8 About the report 122 About the report 8 This is the second corporate social responsibility report compiled by Nowy Styl Group. It includes results of the business activity conducted by Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. and its subsidiaries within the period 01/01/2014 to 31/12/2015. The report is issued biennially. The previous report, “CSR Code,” which covered the calendar years 2012 and 2013, was published in 2015; it is available as a PDF on the following website: www.nowystylgroup.com/csr-code Just like the previous report “CSR the Group in 2015, and Rohde & Grahl BV. However, in the G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-22 Code,” this publication has been current report we do not provide information about Baltic prepared in accordance with the Wood SA, which has not belonged to Nowy Styl Group since G4-23 G4-28 G4-29 G4-30 G4-31 basic option (Core) of the Global the end of 2015. Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines (GRI G4). Compliance with the standard has been verified by an independent auditor – The indicators presented in the document have been chosen Deloitte Advisory Sp. z o.o. The financial data presented in according to our customers’, employees’, partners’ and suppliers’ the report has been taken from our financial reports audited expectations, as well as the benchmarking of our competitors by independent expert auditors (PwC Sp. z o.o.). This assures and Nowy Styl Group’s policy. us and the recipients of the report that the data included in the report and connected with the following key areas In accordance with the GRI methodology, we have selected of sustainable development – relationships with employees, the sustainable development aspects and issues important for influence on the environment, local community and the our company through a three-stage process: market, and the effectiveness of the management of these identifying key indicators for the whole industry according aspects – are complete and reliable. to the current benchmarking of competitors; prioritising aspects based on dialogue with stakeholders The data shown in the report apply to the Nowy Styl Group’s (meetings with representatives and a questionnaire survey production companies and one company running a commercial open to everyone); activity (Rohde & Grahl BV) which is crucial in terms of finance. holding validating consultations with the management board, Compared to the previous report, the scope of the document during which we determined the scope of the report and parhas been extended to include Sitag AG, which was joined to ticular indicators. 123 KEY INDICATORS IDENTIFIED AS KEY ASPECTS ASSESSED AS LESS SUSTAINABLE FOR THE COMPANY IMPORTANT FOR THE COMPANY DEVELOPMENT Economic: Economic performance, Market presence, ASSESSMENT Indirect economic impact Ordering procedures ASPECTS Environmental: Energy, Water, Emissions, Materials, Overall Wastewater and Waste, Products and services, Compliance with regulations, Transport Employees: Employment, Occupational Health and Safety, Education and training courses, Diversity and equal opportunity Human rights: Non-discrimination Society: Local community, Anti-corruption, Anti-competitive behaviour, Compliance with regulations Product Customer health and safety, responsibility: Product and service labelling, Marketing communication, Compliance with regulations Assessed as key by the company’s stakeholders (according to a comparative analysis) Assessed as key by the company’s employees (according to a questionnaire survey and validation with the management board) Assessed as key by the company’s stakeholders and employees 124 About the report 8 As a manufacturing company, we focused mainly on a compreWe engaged employees from our companies in Germany, the hensive presentation of environmental indicators. This year we Netherlands, Switzerland, France, Great Britain, Czech Republic added new ones which we were not able to report in previous and Slovakia in compiling the document. Unfortunately, we years – G4-EN1, which applies to material consumption acwere not always able to present the overall data for the whole cording to weight and volume, G4-EN6, which describes the Group. Therefore, in some parts of the report we have shown efforts to reduce energy consumption, G4-EN27, which defines data regarding selected companies, setting ourselves the aim initiatives whose aim is to reduce the impact of products and to collect the overall information in the coming years. services on the environment, and G4-EN15, which determines a method for measuring the greenhouse gases emitted and We would like to thank all those whose commitment made their volume. Although the competitor analysis showed average this report possible. importance of “Product responsibility,” we decided to complement it with new data (G4 PR9) since it is a main impact zone for our key stakeholders. A new indicator that appears in this Contact: report is G4-EC4, which we have used to present the financial support we received from the government. Alina Szastok PR and CSR specialist Nowy Styl Group’s Sustainable Development Report is a highly +48 510 005 355 analytical document and describes all the activities undertaken alina.szastok@nowystylgroup.com by the company cross-sectionally. Therefore, its creation involved employees from all the company’s departments and Przemysław Różowicz external stakeholders. The report is global, which is why we took Marketing & CSR Manager into consideration the initiatives undertaken in all of our main +48 510 005 424 markets when presenting the results of our business activity. przemyslaw.rozowicz@nowystylgroup.com 125 126 127 About the report 8 8.1 Verification of the report 129 8.1 GRI Content Index Index Indicator name Page STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (such as G4-1 CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability 3 to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Description of key impacts, opportunities and risks 3, 8 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation 19 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 14 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 136 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries G4-6 where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically 12, 16–17 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 18–19 Markets served including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-8 16–17 customers and beneficiaries G4-9 Scale of the organisation 12–13 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, region and gender 12, 62 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements No collective G4-11 Not applicable agreements G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain 91 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, G4-13 18 structure, ownership, or its value chain Explanation whether and how the precautionary approach or principle G4-14 3 is addressed by the organisation Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, G4-15 32, 36 or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ G4-16 36 international advocacy organisations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES All entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements G4-17 21 or equivalent documents G4-18 Process for defining the report content 123 G4-19 Identified aspects of social and environmental impacts 123 130 About the report 8 Index Indicator name Page Significance of the identified aspects of social and environmental impacts G4-20 123 for particular business entities Limitations regarding the aspects of social and environmental impacts G4-21 123 concerning the entities from outside the organisation Explanations of the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements and their influence No G4-22 (e.g. mergers, acquisitions, the change of a year/the reference period, the type restatements of organisation, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting period in the scope and aspect G4-23 18, 123 boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 38–39 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 38–39 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency G4-26 40 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, G4-27 and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, 41 including through their reporting REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) 123 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 123 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) 123 G4-31 Contact point 125 G4-32 CSR Index 130 Organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability G4-33 129 report, the explanation of the scope and basis of any external assurance provided and the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organisation including committees of the highest G4-34 governance body responsible for particular tasks such as creating the strategy 20 or supervising the organisation ETHICS G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, code of ethics 15, 29 131 Index Indicator name Page Category: economic ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE DMA: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 21 Direct economic value generated and distributed including revenues, operating G4costs, employee wages and benefits, subsidies and other community investments, EC1 21 economic value retained, payments to providers of capital and payments to government G4EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 22 ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE DMA: MARKET PRESENCE 50 G4Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage EC5 50, 64 at significant locations of operation G4Percentage of senior management at significant locations of operation that are hired EC6 45 from the local community ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT DMA: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT 109 Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services G4EC7 supported – commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements and the impact of these 110 activities on the society G4Identification and description of the significant indirect economic impact, including EC8 109 the scale and extent of the impact ASPECT: ORDERING PROCEDURES DMA: ORDERING PROCEDURES 89 G4EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers in main locations of the organisation 90 Category: environmental ASPECT: MATERIALS DMA: MATERIALS 77 G4EN1 Materials used by weight and volume 77–78 ASPECT: ENERGY DMA: ENERGY 70 G4EN3 Direct and indirect energy consumption within the organisation 70 G4EN6 Reduction of energy consumption (partial reporting) 70 132 About the report 8 Index Indicator name Page ASPECT: WATER DMA: WATER 73 G4EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 73 ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4EN15 Total direct greenhouse gas emissions by weight 75 G4EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight 76 ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE DMA: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 74, 78 G4EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 74 G4EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 78–81 ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES DMA: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 99 G4Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services EN27 70, 78, 96, 99 and extent of mitigation ASPECT: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS DMA: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS 69 G4Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions EN29 69 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations ASPECT: TRANSPORT DMA: TRANSPORT 84 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods G4EN30 and materials for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members 84–85 of the workforce ASPECT: OVERALL DMA: Overall 81–83 G4EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 81–83 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT DMA: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 90 G4Percentage of suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria EN32 91 (partial reporting) 133 Index Indicator name Page Category: social WORKING CONDITIONS ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT DMA: EMPLOYMENT 48 G4Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age LA1 48, 63 group, gender and region G4Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary LA2 52 or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender 49 ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY DMA: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 58 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker G4LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 58 health and safety programs G4Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA6 58 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender G4LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 60 G4LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 58 ASPECT: EDUCATION AND TRAINING COURSES DMA: EDUCATION AND TRAINING COURSES 53 G4Average number of training hours per year per employee by employee category LA9 53 and by gender Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support G4LA10 the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career 54–55 endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development G4LA11 reviews by gender and by employee category 56 (partial reporting) ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY DMA: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 46 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee G4LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 46, 61 indicators of diversity 134 About the report 8 Index Indicator name Page ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN DMA: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN 50 G4LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category 50, 64 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES DMA: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES 91 G4Percentage of suppliers that were screened using employment practices criteria LA14 91 (partial reporting) ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION DMA: NON-DISCRIMINATION 57 G4HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 57 SOCIETY ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITY DMA: LOCAL COMMUNITY 109 G4Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, SO1 109, 110 impact assessments and development programs ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION DMA: ANTI-CORRUPTION 30 G4Percentage of employees that the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and SO4 30 procedures have been communicated to (partial reporting) G4SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 30 ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR DMA: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR 30 G4Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and SO7 30 monopoly practices and their outcomes ASPECT: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS DMA: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS 30 G4Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions SO8 30 for non-compliance with laws and regulations 135 Index Indicator name Page PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY DMA: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 96 G4Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and PR1 96 safety impacts are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4PR2 codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during 96, 100 their life cycle by type of outcomes ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING DMA: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING 103 Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s G4procedures for product and service information and labelling, and percentage PR3 103 of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4PR4 codes concerning product and service information and labelling by type 103 of outcomes G4PR5 The results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 104 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS DMA: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS 105 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, 105 and sponsorship by type of outcomes ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY DMA: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 105 G4Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8 105 privacy and losses of customer data The paper used in this publication was made from FSC-certified wood and in accordance with the EMAS eco-management system. www.NowyStylGroup.com
