Sustainability and Global Compact Implementing the Principles May 2017 1 Letter from the Executive Board Sustainable practices both in our project activities and in-house are highly important to us: Under the umbrella of the proven sustainability management of OeKB Group, we have made significant strides in this respect over the past years. Since 2012, OeEB’s sustainability reporting forms part of the OeKB Group report. In addition to this reporting on the level of OeKB Group, this document aims at highlighting some basic principles in respect of our approach to sustainability. As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we continue to be fully committed to the principles of this framework. For us as a development bank, human rights, labour and social standards, environmental and climate protection, and anticorruption measures are fundamental themes integral to our activities. Michael Wancata Andrea Hagmann Page 3 of 8 Sustainability and UN Global Compact – Implementing the principles Development must be broad-based and sustainable if it is to achieve a real improvement in living conditions for everyone. The careful use of resources, responsible practices in project execution, and respectful relations with all players are fundamental to the work of OeEB. Our sustainability policy is framed accordingly: Sustainability policy  We act in accordance with all legal requirements and from a holistic mind-set. In our projects this means that we respect and consider the people affected, their intercultural setting, as well as environmental and other social aspects.  Good communication with all stakeholders is important to us. We see dialogue as an opportunity to improve OeEB and as helping to put sustainability into practice in our work.  We only carry out projects in which the risks seem calculable and manageable, in order to ensure an effective contribution to the sustainable economic success of our clients and of OeEB.  Long-term business success involves the responsible use and management of natural resources that we believe will be vitally important to future generations. Such responsible stewardship also safeguards the basis for our entrepreneurial flexibility and strengthens our position as a development bank recognised for sustainable action. Sustainability at the Vienna office and relating to OeEB’s projects As part of OeKB Group, OeEB is integrated in the proven sustainability management of OeKB Group. The staff members of OeEB benefit from the diverse services on offer – for example, in-house healthcare, use of the OeKB cafeteria, and resources for making work and family life more compatible. All corporate responsibility aspects related to OeEB’s presence in Vienna – as a tenant of OeKB at the Strauchgasse address – are published in OeKB Group’s comprehensive Integrated Annual and Sustainability Report. (For further information on OeKB Group’s approach to sustainability see https://reports.oekb.at/igb-2016-en/) With regard to OeEB’s projects, a number of developmental effects are assessed up front and regularly monitored during project implementation. This includes the number of people employed by OeEB’s clients and the amount of tax revenues and net foreign currency revenues generated by OeEB financed projects and companies. These effects are evaluated using the tool for Corporate Policy Project Rating (GPR©) developed by DEG (Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH), the German development finance institution. In addition, OeEB has developed a Results Framework as a planning and management tool that both presents the objectives set and measures the degree of their achievement; thus providing information on how well OeEB fulfils its mandate. In order to measure the accomplishment of the economic, strategic and developmental goals of OeEB, the framework assigns various indicators to them, which are analysed at the portfolio level. Core figures relating to OeEB’s portfolio and its development effects, as well as project examples, are published annually in the Development Report: http://www.oe-eb.at/en/about-oeeb/pages/development-effects.aspx The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) with their overarching goal of ending poverty as enshrined in SDG 1 and further goals serve as important points of reference for the strategic positioning of OeEB. Given our general mandate and mission the following SDGs are of particular relevance: SDG 7 on affordable and clean energy, SDG 8 on decent work and economic growth, SDG 9 on infrastructure, SDG 10 on reduced inequalities, SDG 13 on climate action as well as SDG 17 on partnership for the goals. UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a values-based platform that enables companies and other stakeholders to network on the basis of a shared commitment to human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. OeEB became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2008 and supports its aims, both at the bank's office in Vienna and in its project work. OeEB claims in its mission statement that the bank finances sustainable development. This requires OeEB to always remain mindful of the environment, with respect to resource management and the social soundness of the financed projects. Otherwise, the goal to achieve lasting and fundamental improvement in the life situation of people in developing countries and emerging economies cannot be reached. This aspiration is, after all, also enshrined in OeEB’s mission statement, namely to “create better living conditions by promoting a healthy economy”. OeEB respect applicable local and national environmental and social standards. When financing projects, the bank also strives for the alignment of its clients’ business practices with international environmental, social and human rights standards. Project classification according to environmental and social risks OeEB’s financing and equity investment projects are classified into categories, according to the risk of possible negative impacts on the environment and on people. This is done using the tool called Environmental and Social Risk Indicator (EaSI), developed by Germany's DEG. For financial institutions and funds the categorisation is performed according to the share of risky projects in the portfolio and possible risks with internal labour conditions at the relevant institutions. New projects signed in 2016 by risk category Category/risk Number of projects in 2016 Category C: Low risk 4 Category B: Medium risk 1 Category B+: Elevated medium risk 2 Category A: High risk 12 N/A 0 Page 5 of 8 The classification by risk is the first step in the environmental and social assessment. Based on the risk category, follows a second step in the classification process in which the lenders or investors in a project (who typically act under the coordination of the lead arranger) undergo a detailed assessment. The here governing principle is: the higher the risk, the more scrutiny is requested. Initially identified potential impacts on people and the environment are analysed in greater depth (often by independent specialists). Furthermore, mitigating measures are formulated, together with the client to address any negative effects. The thereby compiled package of measures is normally put into an action plan which can be incorporated as binding condition into the legal agreement with the project partner. As the ultimate responsibility for the actual implementation of these measures lies with the client, the assessment also considers the client’s willingness, expertise and capacity in this respect. OeEB backs only those projects where the project partner is prepared to fulfil its responsibility for the measures determined by this process. Through the use of resources from the Advisory Programmes, OeEB is able to support clients’ efforts in this regard (for example, by providing funding for the services of specialist consultants). As a fundamental benchmark in all projects, OeEB observes the ecological and social standards agreed by the Association of European Development Finance Institutions (EDFI) for joint projects. These include the adherence to local and national law and the Core Labour Standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) in the case of all projects. For higher-risk projects, international standards, which were developed by the World Bank’s subsidiary IFC (International Finance Corporation), are applied in addition. They have become the established market benchmark; e.g. the Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability, as well as the Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Guidelines of the World Bank Group. When working with financial institutions and funds, it is especially important to ensure that these institutions are able to pursue the compliance of their clients with respect to the applicable standards, according to the risk profile of their portfolio. The compliance with environmental and social standards is regularly monitored over the length of the project. In projects with high environmental and social risks, the monitoring is often performed by independent experts. Client relationship management generally also calls for on-site visits to verify the information received. i. Human rights Upholding human rights is an inviolable principle for OeEB. This not only applies to the activities in Vienna and the respectful treatment of employees, but is also reflected in the assessment of project operations to ensure they contribute to favourable, sustainable development. That contribution requires the safeguarding of human rights. The environmental and social impact assessment referred to above therefore takes the human rights effects into account. This assessment criterion considers the situation of the project employees as well as of other population groups within a project's area of influence. The IFC Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability in their most recent version (2012) take comprehensive account of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (UNGP). With regard to people potentially negatively affected, the IFC Performance Standards include a number of safeguards. In addition, special attention is given to displacement and affected indigenous communities. OeEB also actively participates in the national dialogue concerning human rights in the context of private sector development projects, as well as in the therewith related international dialogue, given its membership at the EDFI network. Also internally, OeEB is continuously reviewing its approach to Human rights issues. ii. Labour and social standards As part of OeKB Group, OeEB both complies with the legal requirements and participates in OeKB Group’s programmes regarding its employees. (See also OeKB Group’s Integrated Report at https://reports.oekb.at/igb-2016-en/) To help staff balance the demands of work and family, a fee-based use of the OeKB day-care centre is available. OeEB’s employees also have low-cost access to OeKB’s cafeteria and sports centre, as well as to health care initiatives and the services of the company doctor. Standards in project activities OeEB aims at helping create better income opportunities for people in developing and transitional economies through jobs in companies or financial institutions that it provides finance to. What matters here is not just the number of jobs but also their quality. Compliance with basic labour and social standards in the projects is therefore something that OeEB insists upon before signing a contract and that is subsequently verified. OeEB’s minimum requirements in this regard are local regulations and the ILO’s Core Labour Standards. Among other potentially disqualifying factors, this implies that child labour and forced labour are automatic reasons for eliminating projects from consideration. The companies, financial institutions or funds receiving financing must also meet minimum standards regarding employee pay and work hours. Of further importance is work safety, such as the use of protective clothing and similar precautions, particularly when dealing with hazardous activities. For projects, classified as higher-risk, working conditions also present aspects in which conformity with the IFC Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability are requested. When projects of OeEB involve sectors where risks to workers are especially high, such as the textile industry, the assessment may also incorporate other international standards. These include for example the SA8000® Standard, or certified management systems under the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series Standard (OHSAS). Together with over 30 other international finance institutions, OeEB is also involved on a more general level in the global “Let’s Work Partnership”, which started in 2013. The aim of the Partnership is to develop knowledge and practical approaches for the jobs agenda in general that would serve as a public good for the development community, with a focus on more and better private sector jobs. iii. Environment Careful use of resources and care for the environment begin in-house for OeEB. As it is OeEB’s mandate to contribute to sustainable development, considerations of the environmental dimension both in the project work and in-house are integral to the bank’s activities. Under the sustainability management of OeKB Group, environmental performance parameters are diligently adhered to and monitored, e.g. through the support of the Eco Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) or the participation in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The resulting sustainable operations data can be found in the 2016 integrated annual report of the OeKB Group; see also https://reports.oekb.at/igb-2016-en/ . Page 7 of 8 The international nature of our projects means that air travel is unavoidable for OeEB employees. Since 2011 OeEB offsets the carbon dioxide emissions from business trips. OeEB compensates these with a reforesting project in Ethiopia run by BOKU, the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences in Vienna, in which CO2 is offset by newly planted forests. This project, which includes strong participation of the local population, also contributes to the protection of the soil and biodiversity and receives scientific support from BOKU. (http://www.boku.ac.at/en/wissenschaftliche-initiativen/zentrum-fuer-globalen-wandelnachhaltigkeit/themen/nachhaltigkeit/boku-co2-kompensationssystem/klimaschutzprojekte/aufforstung-undnatuerliche-wiederbewaldung-in-nord-gondar-aethiopien/) Projects’ environmental safeguards and benefits In the course of the project activities, the financing projects are categorised and assessed as described above. Furthermore environmental measures are formulated with the clients. OeEB applies the World Bank Group's technical Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Guidelines and for all projects rated as higher-risk, the IFC Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability (IFC PS) are applied. In keeping with the imperative of sustainable development, the projects themselves also contribute to a better environment. Focal themes for OeEB are the use of renewable energy in developing and transition economies and the improvement of resource efficiency, particularly energy efficiency. Both are important ways to counter climate change. Details on these sectors in OeEB’s portfolio are outlined in the Development Report (http://www.oe-eb.at/en/about-oeeb/pages/development-effects.aspx). In addition, it is worth noting that in 2015 OeEB has reported over EUR 80 million of climate finance-relevant flows and commitments. This amounts to almost half of the EUR 170 million that Austria contributes in total in this context. Examples of projects supported include the construction of a small hydro power plant in Albania, a participation in a globally active climate fund, a credit line for the financing of a wind park in Panama or co-financing for measures to build capacity and knowledge for local financial institutions to improve the environmental and social risk and opportunity management in Bangladesh. (http://www.oe-eb.at/en/projects/pages/default.aspx) iv. Anti-corruption and anti-money laundering Given OeEB’s specific mandate, the client base is predominantly concentrated in the private sector in developing countries. OeEB thus attaches particular importance to careful handling of the issues of corruption and money laundering and to employees’ awareness of potential related risks in day-to-day business activities. An exact verification of client identity is made in line with the applicable anti-money laundering legislation of the European Union, currently in particular the “Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive” (2015/849/EU) which is implemented in the Austrian Financial Market Money Laundering Act. Also, specific regulations on anti-money laundering and terrorism finance were developed for OeEB’s personnel and are constantly updated in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations as well as the circulars of the Austrian Financial Market Authority to ensure that the appropriate anti-money laundering measures are taken before entering into a business relationship with a customer and during the course of the institution’s projects – from checking client identities, to the loan disbursement stage, all the way to the time of loan repayment. Strauchgasse 3 1011 Vienna, Austria Tel. +43 1 533 12 00-0 Fax +43 1 533 12 00-5252 office@oe-eb.at www.oe-eb.at
