Bens Electronics Services COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS November, 2017 1 Looking back at the results of the period 2016/2017, I am proud to say that for Bens Electronics it was a year of challenges and victories. In the month of May, Bens Electronics took an important step for redefining the concepts of communications speed and quality, proving the functionality of the first 4G network in Coastal Region. The possibilities 4G opens for business, administration, medicine, education, entertainment and other sectors are outstanding. In 2017, Bens Electronics also managed to reconfirm at international level its certificate of Conformity with ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System. This means that the processes within the company are planned to provide qualitative services and customer service and that we are committed to do our work with devotion and passion. I am pleased to confirm that Bens Electronics Services Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During our past one year since joining the membership of the UN Global Compact, of particular note has been our adoption of the disclaimer on corruption which is now included as a footnote in all our emails to any entities we communicate with. At Bens Electronics, we feel grateful and fortunate to work with Safaricom, a company with a global strategy, but local approaches, taking into account the specific, traditions, values and experts of each market it operates on. In this respect, Safaricom is among the most sustainable corporations in Kenya. We are also proud to contribute to company’s success and create original, useful services along its supply chain that are appreciated by our customers, but also by stakeholders in Safaricom. I can assure you that during this year we will continue to offer the best communication solutions on our market. Besides, we will come up with ambitious plans aimed to prove that technologies must serve the society, to solve problems and open new horizons. I kindly invite you to read more about the results we accomplished in Corporate Sustainability and hope that our report will convince you that Bens Electronics Services creates a world with better opportunities for people in Kenya. BENEDICT MAKOKHA CEO Bens Electronics Services Limited 2 3 Service, Collaboration and EfficiencyThese words aptly describe Bens Electronics leading data and networking services, but they also represent the foundation of our company, from the high level of our local customer service and technical expertise to the honesty and integrity of our technicians, staff and leadership. It is our goal to earn your trust and to meet or exceed your expectations in every way, from first contact and beyond. From small companies to enterprise-level corporations throughout Coastal Region of Kenya, Bens Electronics’ expert team delivers a broad range of fast, customized network and telecommunication services, backed by our highest level of local customer service, security and support. MISSION It is the mission of Bens Electronics to build on our legacy of innovative and reliable data and network services and to anticipate and exceed the unique and changing needs of our clients. We’ll be there for you every step of the way with innovative products and services, personalized customer service and the expertise of our highly trained technical staff when you need it. Most importantly, at Bens Electronics, we believe how you do business is as important as what you do as a business. We practice our core values of honesty, integrity and trust every day and in everything we do. CORPORATE VISION Bens Electronics is committed to forging itself into a regional-leading broadband communications and information service provider. To that end, the company will work to take a leadership role in the expansion of network and telecommunication services while improving its brand image and overall competitiveness. It will give play to the advantage of full service operation to promote the growth of fixed data Internet services on behalf of our clients. It will step up its efforts in WiMax installation services to accelerate its transformation towards a leading information service provider in Kenya. It will further integrate a variety of resources to improve its operational efficiency and quality of customer services. Bens Electronics has the principle that our actions must accord with the interests of society. We place our products and services in the interests of the safety of people, the economic use of resources and environmental sustainability. 4 PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. BENS ELECTRONICSA RESPONSIBLE COMPANY As our business has grown, we have fully embraced in the fact that our workers are the most important asset for our current and future relevance in the community and organizations that consume and pay for our services. To this extend, we have put in place policies and practices that ensure that the most basic right of each of our worker is to enjoy working at Bens Electronics regardless of their positions or salary levels. This has been made possible by observing several internationally proclaimed human rights principles in addition to 5 We offer employment opportunities with gender balance as a key consideration We encourage women to take up technical roles We foster an enabling and friendly working environment for all our workers We create awareness amongst all our workers and those we come in contact with about the importance of respecting humanity and human rights. Zero tolerance to child abuse within the communities where we leave or, by extension, amongst our own employees within their families. We give preferential employment opportunities to our local communities in a bid of widening inclusiveness In 2017...  We have maintained high levels of work place safety by adopting a participatory approach to a comprehensive Occupational Safety and Health policy. This has seen zero occurrence of workplace related accidents or incidents over the past three years.  One area Bens Electronics has not featured positively is in the inclusion of employment opportunities to persons with disabilities due to the nature of our works. However we donated generously to organizations that cater for such members of our society and other less privileged people by participating in CSR activities.  Our organization carries out its business entirely within our borders and hence least exposed to any potential of practicing Human Trafficking. Furthermore it’s our policy to condemn and not to do any business with any known drug or human trafficking individuals or organizations. 6 PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Bens Electronics recognizes the fundamental right of all our employees to form trade unions and to join these trade unions of their own free will. Our employees will neither receive undue advantage nor suffer any disadvantage because of their membership in trade unions. Within the framework of respective legal regulations, in so far as these are in harmony with the ILO Convention no. 98, we respect the right to collective bargaining for the settlement of disputes pertaining to working conditions, and endeavour together with our partners to work together in collective negotiations and in a constructive manner marked by mutual confidence and respect. Bens Electronics management values the employees well-being very highly which is illustrated by the following measures implemented this year namely;  Providing basic facilities like clean drinking water, personal protective gear, company paid basic medical services for workers and their defendants  Holding regular open meetings to discuss new requirements by the organizations we work for  Running of a reward scheme for best performance  Assisting our workers access credit facilities (SACCO) for their financial empowerment  Giving workers achievable work targets  Upholding the dignity of our workers by not allowing use of derogatory or abusive language at the work place  We ensure that salaries are paid on time and allowances paid promptly  Not allowing intimidation or use of abusive language at work  In the past two years all our lowest cadre workers have had salary increments and now earn above the government approved minimum wages by 100% with an additional house allowance. 7 PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our remuneration and social benefits conform at the very least to national statutory standards, provisions, or respective agreements. We observe the provisions of ILO Convention no. 100 with respect to the principle of .equal remuneration for work of equal value. We comply with national provisions regarding working hours and vacation. Any employee may complain to their respective line manager or the company’s leadership if they believe they have been subject to unfair treatment or have suffered disadvantages with respect to working conditions. Employees will not suffer any disadvantage because of lodging such complaints. PRINCIPLE 5: Effective abolition of child labour. Bens Electronics condemns child labour and respects rights of children. All departments in Bens Electronics adhere to the stipulations of ILO Convention no. 138 and no. 182. The company does not engage in child labour. We have signed up and fully comply with our government’s code of conduct in respect to child labour and forced labour. All our workers are above 18 years of age including those who join our organizations on temporary internships. PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We uphold and affirm that there is and must be equal opportunity among our employees, regardless of the colour of their skin, ethnicity, race, gender, age, nationality, social origin, handicap, or sexual preference. We respect the political and religious convictions of our employees and collaborate as long as they are based on democratic principles and tolerate those of different persuasions. 8 PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The Environment is a topic we at Bens Electronics recognize as central to the very existence of the human race as we know it today. Though the nature of our day to day business activities impact minimally on the environment, the long term net effect of other causes of environmental degradation must still concern us all Energy Saving At Bens Electronics At Bens Electronics, the company has, in the last couple of years used solar energy to power the offices. Once we decided to go the solar electricity way, all employees became acutely aware of energy conservation practices: Switch on the lights only when needed, use LED lights that are more energy efficient, and Shut down electronics when idle. We have achieved: 1. Energy output from solar per day: 11 KW/h 2. Energy consumption/day: 8 KW/h daily 3. Electricity costs/ saved: about KES 10,000.00 The knowledge that we are, however small this extend may be, contributing to reducing the carbon footprint in our environment is quite fulfilling. It is our expectation to continue on this trend as it has a positive effect on the environment as well as saving energy costs. Performance Indicators KWh Sources of Energy Consumed 2000 Solar 700 1000 Grid 1000 2000 1300 1000 0 2015 2016 2017 9 PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Our basic principles of environmental protection reflect our duty toward the environment and the basis for many initiatives that are implemented throughout the company. Bens Electronics has an environmental friendly packaging policy integrated in daily business routines. Consignments are packed responsibly to reduce weight and unnecessary volume. We recycle all the packaging we receive from suppliers and partners. All packaging sent from our warehouse is done by recycled cardboard boxes and pallets. We see these measures as a helpful in reducing our use of resources as well as having a positive impact on our operational costs. We are also engaging with local communities in an initiative we have named: “Solar Lighting as a Shared Community Resource Approach”. The details of what we are doing are founded on installation of Communal Solar Charging Stations and distributing LED lights with capacity to operate for over one week duration without need for a recharge. These lights are handed over to school kids, or hospitals in rural communities who use and come back for a recharge on weekly rotational basis. This way, a simple 40-points Solar Charging Station can serve about 280 households in a community over one week period. The cost of installing the solar panels and batteries is shared among many people thus reducing the overall individual acquisition burden.. PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Bens Electronics observes all requirements in relation to current legislation about disposal of electronic waste. Bens Electronics continually focused on the environment and works continuously to prevent dangerous products that constitute a threat to health and to the environment. We use, wherever possible, products made by environmentally conscious suppliers. Bens Electronics complies with environmental stipulation as described in the draft Environmental Management and Co-ordination (E-Waste Management) Regulations 2013. 10 In Kenya the risks of corruption while doing business is extremely high and the leadership of Bens Electronics detests and condemns this culture in the strongest terms possible. This position underlies our signing up with the UN Global Compact and other initiatives that support the fight against this scourge. The effects of corruption cause untold suffering among members of the world especially the poor as resources that would have been channeled towards giving better basic services are diverted and denied the very people who need it most. What we have achieved This year, Bens Electronics committed to strengthening its anti-corruption training in order to equip its employees on what to look out for during business transactions. This was implemented successfully and this will be a training exercise the company will make on regular basis for knowledge sharing among the employees. We have adopted an HR Policy Manual that addresses many issues touching on ethical behavior in its widest sense but particularly emphasizing on honesty, integrity, conflict of interest, transparency, accountability. Bens Electronics as a policy of choice does not do business with organizations or individuals who are involved in graft or kickbacks. Within the company, we have put in place measures to encourage ethical behavior among our employees and in the way we do business or interact with other companies that give us business. Our major business partner Safaricom Ltd has a comprehensive Code of Ethics that we are signatories to and do all we can to comply by ensuring that our employees are aware and indeed practice its key points COMMITMENT FOR THE NEXT COP Bens Electronics is very pleased that the company’s contribution to Light a Life Initiative has been very beneficial in promoting and supporting the organization’s endeavor in Mombasa and Kilifi Counties. The company still commits its self to providing renewable energy solutions to vulnerable communities. Timeline – by the 1st quarter of 2018, we will deliver lighting to support learning in primary schools across Kilifi County. We commit to continued training on anti-corruption and quality management systems. 11 BENS ELECTRONICS SERVICES LTD. P. O. Box 726 Nyali, MombasaKenya E-mail: info@benselectronics.co.ke Tel: +254 (0)722422211, +254 (0)733773426
