EMPOWERING PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CONTENTS 4 Our commitment to creating a sustainable future Message from Federico Marchetti 6 Executive Summary 7 Key facts 9 PART ONE: YNAP’S SUSTAINABILITY VISION 10 Who we are 11 Strategy 11 Our global operations 12 Milestones for a forever pioneer 15 Our Sustainability Vision 17 Our sustainability pillars 18 Our approach 26 Guide to this report 28 Education: Empowering potential 31 Empowering our people 40 Driving digital education 48 Empowering Women: Unlocking ambitions 50 Women at YNAP 52 Inspiring women 56 Supporting parents 58 Responsibility: Minimising impacts 60 Customer priorities 69 The supply chain 70 Our environmental impact 72 Making a difference in our communities 75 PART TWO: DISCLOSURES ON SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 77 Methodological note 78 General standard disclosures 87 Specific standard disclosures 103 How we approach our material topics 108 GRI-UN Global Compact principles linking table 109 Independent assurance report 3 OUR COMMITMENT TO CREATING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Message from Federico Marchetti In 2009 YOOX GROUP introduced sustainability Supporting our employees’ growth extends beyond compensation. We into its core practices including the launch of are committed to growing an inclusive and supportive culture by rethinking YOOXYGEN, a pioneering platform for promoting the workplace with flexible working programs for parents and mobile environmentally friendly brands, and the Ecoapps tailored to improve communication and enable on-the-go knowledge boxTM, one of the first e-commerce packaging sharing and collaboration. We are proud that our initiatives have led us to be made entirely of recyclable materials. This year, recognised as an employer of choice globally. we’re delighted to pledge YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP’S steadfast commitment to sustainability. • In 2016, YNAP was cited among the Top Employers in Italy for the third year • YNAP was included in the ‘Top Attractors in the UK’ ranking by LinkedIn. Empowering People is YNAP’s new sustainability vision based on three commitments: Responsibility – Together with its people, YNAP is on a constant journey to manage environmental impacts responsibly. We are a member of the • Education United Nations Global Compact and part of RE100, a shared international • Empowering Women commitment by leading companies to 100% renewable power by 2020. • Responsibility We are Fur Free in our multi brand online stores and in 2016 we joined the International Fur Free Retailer Programme, supported by the Fur Free Alliance Education – YNAP’s ability to build a workforce that values education through (FFA). In addition our first Statement as of financial year 2016, according to the professional training for both our employees and the greater community UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, was published on our Group website. is a remarkable achievement. As a member of the Digital Skills and Jobs Coalition, we’re set to join the European Commission initiative to contribute We must work as a catalyst, sharing knowledge, innovating, leading by training for 1 million people by 2020. Additional education initiatives span example, to translate our vision into a reality. teaching students coding through Imperial College London, volunteering in classrooms in Italy and London as part of the global Hour of Code campaign to bring computer science to schools, and partnering with SDA Bocconi School of Management in Milan to design a master’s in digital luxury fashion. Federico Marchetti Empowering Women We’re convinced of the benefits of having gender balance and ending gender inequality in the workplace. We commit to CEO, YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP provide equal pay for work of equal value. Our Group is proof empowering women leads to a successful company and in 2016 we achieved the following: • 61% of 4,128 YNAP employees are women • 63% of YNAP’s new hires were women • Within our most senior groups of employees (Executive Team and Top Management, Senior and Middle Management) 100 are women compared to 104 men • Of these 204 leaders, women hold a number of our most strategic and key executive roles and are paid approximately 14% more than average. 4 5 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY KEY FACTS YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP’S Sustainability Vision is focused on Empowering People and middle and senior management roles; women in executive, top management, senior and middle OUR PEOPLE it is built on three commitments: Education, management roles are earning on average 14% 4,128 Empowering Women and Responsibility. more than their male counterparts (22% and 5% respectively). In 2017, with the appointment of OUR PEOPLE make us strong. Our worldwide our Chief People Officer and our most recent employees Team is made up of 4,128 employees from over appointment of the President of Off-Season who 33 40% 96% 75 nationalities. Employees have an average age are both women, we reached a 50% female Over of 33, with 40% aged under 30. In 2016 we received presence in the Executive Team. In 2016, YNAP over 60,000 CVs and 192 successful referrals came from our employees. 96% of employees have permanent contracts. was cited among Top Employers in Italy, and was also included in the first “Top Attractors in the UK” ranking released in June 2016 by LinkedIn. years average age of our staff are aged 30 or under 75 of employees have permanent contracts nationalities among NET-A-PORTER was listed among the “Top our employees Providing quality EDUCATION is essential for 300 Graduate Employers” in the UK by The supporting the digital transformation of our Guardian newspaper. To support and promote the business and helping to build a diverse talent pool outstanding women working in the IT industry, in that will benefit our industry and wider communities. 2017 YNAP sponsored the Women in IT Awards EDUCATION YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP is a member of the 2017. Since its launch in February 2014, PORTER European Commission’s Digital Skills and Jobs magazine has championed Incredible Women Coalition, set up to provide training for digital jobs for 1 million young people by 2020. Additionally, we and produced world-leading editorial content which celebrates incredible women from all walks Teaching children the basics of coding The London Tech Hub, a new centre 40 Partnering with SDA Bocconi School are partnered with Imperial College London on of life. in partnership for innovation, business ideas of Management an initiative to teach children the basics of coding, with Imperial College will house a generated from in Milan for a course with an emphasis on girls, aged 8 to 14 from low RESPONSIBILITY for managing and reducing the 20% London our tech team’s first in Digital Strategy, socio-economic backgrounds. We are creating a social and environmental impacts of our business is ‘hackathon’ talent incubator network, called Talent in the Net, crucial for the industry. YOOX GROUP introduced Marketing and which will offer both schoolroom and workplace sustainability into its practices in 2009 when it increase in tech jobs for the next wave e-commerce for experiences. We are partnered with SDA Bocconi launched YOOXYGEN a pioneering platform at YNAP of luxury e-commerce the MAFED Master School of Management in Milan, to develop a for environmentally friendly brands. YOOX will new master’s course on digital strategy, marketing extend its commitment to promoting responsible and e-commerce. We also run an MBA Internship Programme, enabling students from leading practices in fashion through a new partnership with Parsons School of Design in New York. YNAP’s EMPOWERING WOMEN universities to join us as interns each summer. At commitment to sustainable packaging dates 61% 63% 51% YNAP we are committed to building an inclusive back to 2009 when YOOX GROUP introduced the Women leaders culture that supports the growth of employees Ecobox™ which is made out of 100% recyclable and we are creating an ecosystem that promotes materials, certified by RESY, FSC and SFI. In 2016 at YNAP paid of YNAP employees of YNAP new hires in of middle and senior on average and supports innovation. We are rethinking YNAP joined the international Fur Free Retailer managers are women 14% the workplace and opening a new Tech Hub in Program supported by the Fur Free Alliance (FFA) are women 2016 were women London, boasting 70,000 square feet of space and NET-A-PORTER has been a certified member and housing up to 650 employees, amounting of the Responsible Jewellery Council since more than male to a 20% increase in tech jobs at YNAP. Global 2014. We are a member of the United Nations Hackathons give our tech teams opportunities to Global Compact and part of RE100, a shared counterparts imagine smart new solutions for the business, and international commitment by leading companies in 2016 51 teams produced 40 digital solutions for to 100% renewable power by 2020. Our new our business. In-Season hub in Milan is being built towards RESPONSIBILITY achieving the “excellent” level of the BREEAM EMPOWERING WOMEN and closing the certification. Our first statement in accordance gender pay gap is not only the right thing to with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, which covers YOOXYGEN Adherence to the We are committed Our new Milan do, but it is a key business priority for YNAP. In 2016, has been published on our website. We is forming Fur Free Retailer to going distribution centre 2016 we achieved the following results: 61% of work to make a difference in wider communities, 100% a partnership on Program with all our is targeting YNAP’s employees are women; 63% of YNAP’s and in 2016 we supported over 20 charities and new hires were women. Women hold 51% of social initiatives. responsible fashion multi-brand online “excellent” level of with Parsons School stores renewable by 2020 BREEAM sustainable of Design building certification 6 7 PART ONE: YNAP’S SUSTAINABILITY VISION 8 9 WHO WE ARE STRATEGY YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP is the world’s of hard-to-find clothing and accessories for men leading online luxury fashion retailer. The Group and women from the world’s most prestigious is a Global company with Anglo-Italian roots, designers, as well as a unique selection of home the result of a game-changing merger, which in design objects, exclusive collaborations with Mobile to renew Creative content Impeccable service Smart data October 2015 brought together YOOX GROUP world-renown artists, environmentally friendly vision of fashion and THE NET-A-PORTER GROUP, two companies brands and kidswear. luxury Creative content Impeccable service Personalized that have revolutionized the luxury fashion industry that delights our as part of the customer journey since their birth in 2000. THE OUTNET / www.theoutnet.com, launched in Customer-centric customers experience powered by smart 2009, is the most fashionable fashion outlet, and approach focused data Uniquely positioned in the high-growth online has grown to be the go-to destination for the styleon mobile usage luxury sector, YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP has conscious shopper looking for the best designer an unrivalled client base of more than 2.9 million products at great prices. high-spending customers, over 29 million monthly OUR GLOB AL OPERATIONS unique visitors worldwide and combined 2016 net Editorial content is at the core of the modern revenues of €1.9 billion. YOOX NET-A-PORTER e-commerce experience and the ultimate GROUP has offices and operations in the United reference point for global consumers in the States, Europe, Japan, China and Hong Kong and fashion space, whether online or offline – anytime, delivers to more than 180 countries around the anywhere and on any platform. The Group’s media world. and publishing division creates award-winning content for its titles including PORTER and the YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP is listed on the digital editions, which connect with consumers in Milan Stock Exchange as YNAP. a unique and authentic way. YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP / www.ynap.com YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP is the e-commerce is a unique business with an unrivalled offering partner of choice for leading fashion & luxury covering all luxury fashion customer segments, brands, designing and managing ONLINE through its multi-brand in-season online stores FLAGSHIP STORES, offering their latest collection NET-A-PORTER, MR PORTER; its multi-brand offon the Internet. With over 17 years of experience in season online stores YOOX and THE OUTNET; global luxury e-commerce, YOOX NET-A-PORTER and its numerous ONLINE FLAGSHIP STORES GROUP offers brand partners a wide range of “Powered by YNAP”. services, including creating and developing the creative concept, innovative interface design, NET-A-PORTER / www.net-a-porter.com, state-of-the-art technology and R&D, highlaunched in 2000, has become the world’s premier precision global customer logistics, unrivalled online luxury fashion destination for content and customer care, international web marketing and commerce. A true innovator, NET-A-PORTER is e-commerce strategy development. renowned for its unparalleled editorial content and is a leading destination for the world’s most Through a joint venture established in 2012, YOOX coveted designer brands. NET-A-PORTER GROUP partners with Kering to manage the Online Flagship Stores of several of MR PORTER / www.mrporter.com, launched in the French Group’s luxury brands: Bottega Veneta, 2011, has established itself as the award-winning Saint Laurent, Alexander McQueen, Balenciaga, Over 180 countries served DCs global retail destination for men’s style, combining Stella McCartney, McQ and Brioni. US, UK, Italy, China, Hong Kong, an unparalleled product offering from the world’s 1 order processed Japan best menswear brands, watchmakers and specialist In 2016, YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP joined every 4 seconds grooming brands. forces with Symphony, an entity controlled by Digital production facilities Mohamed Alabbar’s family, to establish a groundLocal Offices US, UK, Italy, China, Hong Kong, YOOX / www.yoox.com, established in 2000, is breaking joint venture to create the Middle East’s New York, London, Milan, Japan the world’s leading online lifestyle store for fashion, undisputed leader for online luxury retail. Bologna, Hong Kong, Shanghai, design & art, offering an extensive assortment Tokyo Same-Day Delivery in London, Manhattan, Customer care covering Connecticut and Hong Kong all time zones Butler service and authenticity RFid seal 10 11 YNAP’S PIONEERING MILESTONES YNAP has always worked hard to be one step ahead, reimagining and recreating the future. Innovation is in our DNA and we will continue to strive to be first in the future. Launch of the first YOOX is the 1 fashion e-commerce company st NET-Ain luxury content & to release a yearly SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Development of the first commerce shoppable PORTER cross-channel services in luxury for APP on Apple TV launches the Launch of YOOX’S ECOBOX™: some ONLINE FLAGSHIP STORES for MR PORTER first fashion the responsible packaging composed of 100% magazine recyclable materials, certified internationally on tablet YOOX features the by RESY, FSC and SFI YNAP and first SHOPPABLE Launch of MR IBM forge a YOOX and Before any other VIDEO “Dinner PORTER, global game-changing NET-A-PORTER competitor, YOOX in Milan”: an The first ONLINE partenership combines RFID retail destination interactive movie FLAGSHIP STORE launch their iPhone to drive industry technology and for men’s style with shoppable Powered by YOOX APP, among the innovation for first in fashion automation in its global content is launched: an omni-channel marni.com retail! techno-logistics platform world in Interporto Bologna 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 YOOX enters CHINA as the first mover in fashion e-commerce with the launch of NET-A-PORTER Emporio Armani’s Launch of YOOX Chinese ONLINE YNAP presents its and NET-Alaunches the first 5-year plan “Fast to market “Same FLAGSHIP STORE YOOX Group and NET-A-PORTER PORTER: the first Launch of KERING partner to create presents PORTER: Forward to 2020” online fashion Day Delivery” at its Capital Markets THE OUTNET, a JOINT-VENTURE the first shoppable destinations in the most dedicated to managing magazine Day in London Europe fashionable outlet the mono-brand online First MOBILE stores for several brands The most innovative TASKFORCE of the French luxury merger in history: the of YOOX goods group world’s leading online YOOX pioneers in launching luxury retailer is born: “See Now, Buy Now” feature YOOX Group is listed YOOX NET-A-PORTER – online shopping directly on the MILAN STOCK GROUP (YNAP) from the runway EXCHANGE on December 3rd, 2009. It is the first IPO in Italy after YNAP & Mohamed Alabbar partner YOOX presents YOOXYGEN, 18 months and the only in ground-breaking joint venture the first to market online shopone in 2009 to create the leading online luxury in-shop, exclusively dedicated retailer in the Middle East to sustainable fashion 12 13 OUR SUSTAINABILITY VISION IS FOCUSED ON EMPOWERING PEOPLE As the world’s leading online luxury retailer we have a responsibility – and also an opportunity – to empower people to create a more sustainable future. Our Sustainability Vision is built around three pillars: Education Empowering Responsibility Women We promote We operate our quality education We are building business responsibly as a foundation for an inclusive, global and we are focused improving people’s workforce and on reducing lives. empowering women. impacts. We must work as a catalyst, sharing knowledge, innovating, leading by example, to translate this vision into a reality. 14 15 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PILL ARS We are in a unique position, working with large numbers of leading brands and also touching millions of customers globally, to tackle the social and environmental challenges we face. We asked the people we connect with every day – our customers, our brands, our suppliers, our employees and members of the wider community – what concerns them most, and what they expect from us. Our Sustainability Vision is the first step in our journey and lays the foundations for our long-term Sustainability Strategy, in which we will define our targets for progress. Education We will invest in the development of employees, and provide tangible ways for them to get involved in realising YNAP’s Sustainability Vision. We will promote a dynamic culture, creating workspaces and an ecosystem that inspire innovative thinking. We will continue to invest in digital education to assist in developing the skills necessary for a thriving digital economy, creating a large, diverse talent pool from which our industry, and wider communities, will prosper. Empowering Women We will support and promote equality for women. We believe that closing the gender pay gap is not only the right thing to do, but it is a key business priority. We will empower women, helping them to fulfil their potential, and we will recognise talent based on individual merit. There should be no barriers to realising ambitions. We will continue to contribute to the global dialogue on gender parity and celebrate inspirational women through our world-class editorial content, partnerships, and business initiatives. Responsibility We will lead developments in our industry, collaborating with brands and suppliers to improve practices. We are committed to providing information about supply chains, enabling customers to make informed choices about luxury fashion purchases. We will continue to re-invent our business with sustainability in mind and work hard to develop new ways to make our business smarter and more efficient. We will pursue more green partnerships and collaborations with NGOs and charitable organisations as well as supporting start-ups and entrepreneurship to grow the digital economy. Our Sustainability Vision is also inspired by four of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals for 2030: 16 17 OUR APPROACH Stakeholder engagement Our approach to sustainability has been Disclosures on many aspects of our social and To help us determine our sustainability pillars we listened to the OUR guided by two main factors: our long-term environmental performance will soon become people who know us best. We involved 24,000 customers, selected STAKEHOLDERS business strategy and the engagement of mandatory. experts and partners, and dozens of our own people to get as full a our people, our partners and our industry. picture as possible of what is expected of us. • Customers As of next year, companies such as ours will be • Employees Strategically, we recognise that sustainability required to disclose relevant non-financial and Our company impacts many points in the luxury value chain. To avoid a narrow • Investors will help our business to thrive into the future. diversity information under a European Union or top-down approach, we engaged with a broad range of stakeholders to • Suppliers and We are working to embed sustainability into our Directive (2014/95/EU). The London Stock hear different perspectives, priorities and expectations. strategic partners governance, business functions and the culture of Exchange and Italian Stock Exchange have issued • Brand partners our company, and also supporting our employees guidance on environmental, social and governance These included: • Followers and to engage with sustainability in their everyday lives. (ESG) reporting to encourage more consistency readers in disclosures from listed companies. In addition, • Our most loyal customers, via a broad, global listening exercise involving • Community We are also guided by our stakeholders’ priorities as of financial year 2016 we are making annual 24,000 people • Academic institutions and expectations. We are deeply interconnected statements in accordance with the UK Modern • Government with our customers and luxury brands, and Slavery Act 2015. These developments provide an • A panel of 11 experts and key partners (mostly brands and educational and public sector promoting dialogue is at the centre of our occasion for us to act. partners), via in-depth interviews organisations Sustainability Vision. • Non-profit In setting out a new sustainability course for YNAP, • Almost 40 YNAP managers and employees, including all of our Sustainability organisations, NGOs Sustainability we are determined sustainability should reach all Leadership Committee, in thematic workshops and charities business functions and become integrated into • Industry and in our business our business model. To help us define the most relevant economic, social and environmental trade associations topics for our company, we presented our stakeholders with an initial list of 26 • The media As a key step in this journey, we have introduced a topics drawn from the following sources: We have a strong sense of responsibility and Sustainability Policy at Group level that defines our recognise our important role in society. We commitment and lays out the ways environmental • Benchmark of fashion and luxury companies also have the ability to influence the social and and social issues are owned and governed. environmental impacts of our business and the • Benchmark of e-commerce peers wider industry. Responsibility for our sustainability approach lies with the Sustainability Department, which • Requirements of RobecoSAM, compiler of the Dow Jones Sustainability The merger of YOOX GROUP with NET-A-PORTER reports to the Chief Executive Officer and the Index, for the retail sector GROUP to create YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP Board of Directors. The Board acknowledges the in October 2015 presented an opportunity to sustainability report publication. The role of the • YOOX GROUP’s sustainability report for 2014 start a new sustainability journey. We are also Control and Risk Committee, which is made up building on a tradition of previous sustainability of three non-executive, independent directors, • The Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines for sustainability reporting reports published by YOOX GROUP, the first in is being expanded to include sustainability fashion and luxury e-commerce. Its pioneering topics as part of its evaluation of corporate risks Prioritising these topics allows us to focus our efforts where it matters most YOOXYGEN initiative, launched in 2009 as a and the internal control system, in line with the and where we can make a real difference. We asked participants to rank corporate sustainability programme and platform recommendations of the Italian Stock Exchange’s top­ics by importance and the topics were refined into a final list of 22 topics for eco-friendly fashion, has also been instilled in code of corporate governance. (refer to page 24). These topics form the basis of the content of this report and the new group. we include an explanation of how we approached each topic and report on a To support the committee in this task, YNAP is set of indicators which covers them all. YNAP began its sustainability journey last year creating a Compliance, Ethics & Risk Committee, by first assessing our position, listening to our which will ensure the sustainability strategy is We intend to continue this dialogue process in 2017 and involve an even stakeholders and starting to define a baseline aligned with the company’s values and Code broader range of stakeholders. for future action. This report – the first by YNAP – of Ethics, and guide decisions on sustainability presents a picture of where we are today and also matters. sets out our vision for a more sustainable future. To ensure topics are addressed across the business, Over the coming months and years we will we have created a Sustainability Leadership develop this vision into a long-term sustainability Committee bringing together representatives from strategy that will set out our ambitions and targets all YNAP functions to set concrete and measurable in accordance with YNAP’s Five Year Plan. targets, and define actions and initiatives. The Sustainability Department also co-ordinates with our senior executives. 18 19 The external perspective According to our feedback sustainability is now very much a mainstream concern. Customers and the people we spoke to inside the luxury industry told us that we should take the lead. What industry experts say To better understand wider trends and views and our position with respect to the longer-term challenges and opportunities in our industry, we spoke to our peers in the fashion and digital worlds, brand partners, industry experts and academic experts in sustainability, as well as sustainable investors. Many told us they are convinced there has been a tipping point recently in awareness of sustainability issues within the luxury industry. Businesses are expected to act responsibly. They are expected not simply to give back but to be proactive in making the world a better place. Increasingly, the onus is on companies to offer quality products The internal perspective and services that have positive social and environmental impacts, and provide information to empower customers to make their own Empowering People is at the centre of our Sustainability Vision and responsible purchasing decisions. we engaged a cross-section of employees from around the company to find out what they thought about how we could improve. We were told that if retailers like ourselves and brands work together, the fashion industry can become more sustainable. Almost 40 managers, ranging from the customer insight, buying and technology teams to human resources, operations and editorial took part in eight thematic and cross-functional workshops in London, Bologna, Milan “YNAP and New York. We heard ideas about a range of topics including gender equality, employment COULD BE A PIONEER IN and employee welfare; energy and environmental impacts; technology and SUSTAINABILITY, AS IT HAS BEEN IN THE LAST YEARS IN innovation; ethics and business integrity; customer engagement; packaging TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION. YNAP CAN BE THE and shipping; transparency; and responsible fashion. We focused on exploring the interconnection between our most important issues and how ACTOR WHO DRIVES THE FASHION SECTOR TOWARDS they touch different parts of our value chain. Another goal was to align the SUSTAINABILITY: BRANDS ARE OPEN TO DOING THEIR sustainability process with our Five Year Plan, which sets out our strategic PART.” business plan and was launched in July 2016. Stefania Lazzaroni, General Manager We learned that engaging, motivating and empowering employees to work together in the most productive and transparent way is important for Altagamma, Foundation gathering Italian high-end brands the business, especially following the merger to create the new Group. We “BRANDS debated how, for example, YNAP can embed a deeper culture of innovation and sustainability within the organisation, putting it into the daily activities of all employees. ARE STARTING TO REALISE THAT SUSTAINABILITY IS NOT JUST ‘NICE-TO-HAVE’. We recognised that it is essential for the business to be clear about its CUSTOMERS ARE BEGINNING TO DRIVE THIS NOW TOO position on sustainability issues and involve employees as they interface AND BRANDS ARE INCREASINGLY UNDERSTANDING with customers, brands, suppliers and many other stakeholders. This means aligning sustainability to make it part of the way people work at YNAP, and THAT IT CAN BE A POINT OF COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE.” being transparent about the company’s sustainability approach and activities both inside the organisation and in the outside world. Charlotte Keesing, Walpole, the alliance of Britain’s finest luxury brands 20 21 What our customers say The response to our work towards creating a more sustainable business in the Our customers expect YNAP to be luxury fashion sector was enthusiastic and supportive. responsible when it comes to sustainability. They expect us to do our best to mitigate Here is what some of our customers had to say about sustainability and our environmental impacts and treat all the business: people we interact with in a decent manner. “I AM A high percentage of customers who took part told us they want to choose products that reflect how they live and echo their values. GLAD THAT YOU ARE TAKING THE TIME TO BE AWARE OF POTENTIAL IMPROVEMENTS FOR Customer concerns are varied. Some are SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY IMPACT – IF ALL BUSINESSES, concerned about where products are made, LARGE OR SMALL, DID THEIR PART, IT WOULD DEFINITELY the working conditions involved in production, MAKE A DIFFERENCE. BRAVO AND GOOD LUCK WITH how materials are sourced and how animals are YOUR DIRECTION OF TRYING TO IMPROVE OUR PLANET” treated; others are more concerned about the use “PROVIDING of environmentally friendly packaging and green delivery options. When it comes to social causes, many of our customers look to us for partnerships SUSTAINABLE and initiatives that support specific projects rather OPTIONS IS A GREAT IDEA FOR THOSE WHO FIND IT VERY than ask for general charitable donations. IMPORTANT. BUT YOUR BRAND IS KNOWN FOR THE LUXURY We learned that sustainability in luxury fashion is not about pleasing a niche group of “ethical” AND EXCELLENT SERVICE – DON’T CHANGE THAT” “SUSTAINABILITY shoppers. There are widespread concerns about a range of social and environmental issues and many of our customers says they would like to make choices that reflect their values but they often lack the information to do so. ACROSS FASHION MANUFACTURING IS SUCH A VAST SUBJECT – OFTEN WITH HIDDEN OR CONFUSING INFORMATION – THE FACT THAT YOU ARE EVEN Customer Insights CONSIDERING AND DISCUSSING THIS IS BRILLIANT!” from our stakeholders: “AS A MAJOR PLAYER IN THE FASHION INDUSTRY, The most sought-after information about brands and products are country 72% YOU ARE IN A VERY GOOD POSITION TO MAKE A CHANGE FOR MANY LIVING BEINGS (HUMANS AND ANIMALS). THIS of manufacture (74%), production of customers said social or environmental IS SOMETHING IMPORTANT TO ME AS A CUSTOMER” “TRANSPARENCY and working conditions (56%), considerations drive their purchasing decisions sourcing of materials (53%), at least some of the time the treatment of animals (50%) and environmental impacts (48%) FOR CUSTOMERS IS SO IMPORTANT AND MANY HIGH63% STREET BRANDS ARE DOING GREAT THINGS AND MAKING HUGE PROGRESS. I FEEL THE DESIGNER BRANDS Many customers are socially engaged ARE SOMEWHAT LAGGING BEHIND AND SO A COMPANY said they would choose environmentally through regular donations (39%), SUCH AS YOURSELVES COULD REALLY SPEARHEAD THE friendly packaging supporting charities through their NEED FOR CHANGE IN THESE AREAS” purchases of services or products (39%) or volunteering (24%) 58% “ I N F O R M AT I O N ON WHAT AND HOW A PRODUCT IS MADE AND THE said having more information about the ethics IMPACT IT HAS ON OUR PLANET WOULD NOT ONLY BE and sustainability of products would influence WELCOMED BUT SO APPRECIATED.” their luxury shopping choices 22 23 The issues that matter Our “top” sustainability topics: The stakeholder engagement process helped us to identify and prioritise the topics that what they mean for us matter most to our business and to our various stakeholders. These are our “material” topics. Customer engagement We defined these “material” topics by ranking them based on preferences expressed by participants and To enhance the customer experience, we need to fully understand our by analysing the results of the customer survey. Members of YNAP’s Sustainability Leadership Committee customers’ priorities and concerns, their lifestyles and their values, and how and our external interviewees were asked to identify the most important and least important topics. these inform their shopping choices. This means helping customers make Customers were asked questions evaluating the relative weight of issues that are relevant to them. informed choices by providing them with information about relevant social and environmental issues that are important to them. An internal ranking showed how important each issue is for the long-term success of the business while an external ranking captured how important issues are in stakeholder decisions and perceptions of YNAP. Customer & brand partner satisfaction Maintaining the highest levels of customer loyalty involves offering a luxury Our “material” topics, which are based on an overall evaluation of their importance evenly balancing shopping experience that reflects each customer’s personal preferences and internal and external priorities, are presented below. The size of each segment in the chart reflects the context. With brands, we can exchange knowledge and the power of our overall weight of each topic. platform, supporting them as our industry adopts more sustainable practices. We isolated a cluster of nine “top” topics that were in the top half of both internal and external rankings. We also identified topics where there is a notable difference between internal and external perspectives. Employee engagement Our people are key to our future success and we aim to engage our employees in our new sustainability agenda, making it a natural part of their Data security daily activities. Inside YNAP, this includes sharing knowledge and promoting & business continuity Innovation management important values. Health Waste & water & safety Ethical business conduct The behaviour of all employees and those doing business with our Group Energy use Community involvement should meet ethical principles of conduct and be grounded in the principles of probity and transparency. Creation of employment Carbon emissions & job stability Gender equality Respecting and promoting inclusion and ensuring everyone has equal Talent retention possibilities to achieve and succeed at YNAP. More broadly, empowering Sustainable women to lead in the luxury, retail and technology industries. packaging & attraction Innovation management Career development Innovation is at the heart of our success and continues to drive our business in Supplier understanding customers, acting quickly and capturing opportunities. Inside management & training our organisation, we promote an innovative work culture and create work environments that encourage new thinking and experimentation. Product quality Employee engagement Responsible sourcing & buying YNAP can work with suppliers, partners and the industry to better satisfy customer expectations about ethical and sustainable aspects of products, such as in the origin of materials, working conditions and practices, and animal right. Employee welfare Customer engagement Sustainable packaging Our packaging choices are one of the most tangible ways in which customers Gender equality become aware about how sustainable a company we are. It shows in the Customer & brand materials we use and how we use them. Packaging also offers a chance for partner satisfaction Human rights customers to make a choice about the environmental impact of their online Brand protection shopping. & management Ethical business YNAP top topics YNAP material topics Talent retention & attraction conduct Responsible To make our business the best it can be, we must continue to attract and sourcing & buying External expectations exceed retain high calibre employees who will ensure YNAP’s future success. Internal expectations exceed 24 25 GUIDE TO THIS Part two: REPORT Disclosures on sustainability performance The second part of the report is organised around the indicators of the This report is presented in two parts to capture the two different Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 guidelines, which we have followed for our dimensions of our commitment. Part One contains our Sustainability sustainability reporting. This is where YNAP’s disclosures can be accessed in Vision, outlining our priority areas, and detailing the exciting a clear, direct format. initiatives we are currently supporting and will soon be embarking on. Part Two presents the facts and figures that demonstrate how we Following the methodological note, the general standard disclosures include operated and detail our performance in 2016. information that all companies are expected to report on and is about who we are as a company, our business and employees. Part one: The specific standard disclosures provide qualitative and quantitative YNAP’s Sustainability Vision information about our material topics and how we manage them. It is organised into three categories – economic, environmental and social. The first part of the report is organised around three chapters, reflecting the three pillars of our Sustainability Vision: these are Education, Empowering Where appropriate, the second part of the report makes references to other Women and Responsibility. chapters or to other corporate documents available on our website. Each chapter outlines how we are addressing this priority: the business approaches and processes that underlie our actions as well as the concrete initiatives we are engaged in. Some are presented through the eyes of our people and the partners we work with, featuring quotes and brief interviews. • The chapter on Education details our commitment to promoting learning, skills and empowerment. These are key for the long-term success of the economy, our industry and our business. In this chapter we explain our approach to topics such as talent attraction and retention, employee engagement and how we promote a culture of innovative thinking. We provide examples of community involvement connected to education and how we support the creation of employment and job stability. • The chapter on Empowering Women describes what we are doing to make YNAP a positive work environment for women and to promote gender equality. The chapter presents key figures and outlines what life is like for women at our company. It also presents our initiatives to empower women in different walks of life with a particular focus on luxury, technology and retail and showcases stories from which we can all draw inspiration. • The chapter on Responsibility explains how we work to reduce impacts and operate responsibly across our value chain as well as how we ensure customer and brand partner satisfaction as well as customer engagement. We detail our initiatives and commitments related to topics including responsible sourcing and buying, supplier management, community involvement, carbon emissions, energy use and sustainable packaging as well as how innovation management drives a smarter, more efficient organisation. 26 27 EDUCATION: EMPOWERING POTENTIAL YNAP is a fast-growing company operating in a rapidly evolving industry and we recognise that it is crucial for our expansion and long-term success that we find and develop young talent to take us forward and develop the luxury online industry. The creation of YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP in 2015 brought together two exceptional teams and we believe we now have the most talented people in the industry working with us. We recognise the key role that our people play in our success and we defined developing talent as one of our priorities in our Five Year Plan. It is important that we continue to attract and retain the best talent in the industry and build an ecosystem of innovation. As well as building up our own teams, we have made a significant contribution to developing talent in our industry and we will continue to invest in building the wider talent pool. We believe education empowers potential and improves lives and we are committed to investing in the education of young people. We will continue to invest in digital education, developing the skills necessary for a thriving digital economy, creating a large, diverse talent pool from which our industry and wider communities will prosper. We promote education and work to empower potential in two areas: EMPOWERING DRIVING DIGITAL OUR PEOPLE EDUCATION ࢉࢉ The importance of nurturing talent ࢉࢉ Coding for schools in our communities ࢉࢉ How we find and attract new talent with Imperial College London ࢉࢉ How we develop talent through constant ࢉࢉ Incubating student ideas and tech talent learning, coaching and mobility ࢉࢉ Partnering with SDA Bocconi in Milan ࢉࢉ Inspiring disruptive thinking with for master’s in digital technologies of luxury fashion a new Tech Hub in London and internal Hackathons ࢉࢉ MBA internships from top schools to lay ࢉࢉ How we are building our company the foundation for career success culture 28 29 EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE We want to attract the brightest and the best to join YNAP and the OUR PEOPLE 2016 happiness and wellbeing of our team is of utmost importance to us. We are working to create a company culture that inspires people to We are truly global, grow and do their best work. having operations in Europe, China, Hong We have created a suite of learning and development activities and launched Kong, Japan and the a coaching programme to encourage a culture of constant learning. We give US our people the opportunity to experience different cultures and countries. We are working to promote a healthy work-life balance, and supporting the • 4,128 employees needs of moms and families. worldwide • 33 years is the We are also working to create opportunities for our people to contribute average age to making YNAP a more sustainable company and to lead sustainability • 40% of our staff are developments in the industry. aged 30 or under • Over 75 nationalities among our The importance of talent employees • Over 60,000 CVs for our company and industry received across different channels • 96% of our We’re proud of the know-how and experience we have in-house. employees are in Our employees are what makes us strong and their knowledge and skills permanent roles are pivotal to our continued success. • 192 successful referrals from our We are committed to finding and fostering fresh talent and the search for the employees in 2016 best people is a priority for our company and our industry. See all our employee We are working to provide opportunities for our employees to grow and learn figures for 2016 from with us and reach their professional goals. page 79. We recognise we must contribute to building a wide pool of digital abilities that are needed to transform our business. 30 31 How we find and attract new talent Finding and attracting the very best people to join our company is of utmost importance to us. We review tens of thousands of candidates a year and look to our own people to recommend potential hires. We are building a diverse workforce and we undertake various activities to boost our employer branding, and our HR teams work closely with recruiters to advertise posts. We attend career fairs in association with various universities and educational facilities, including the University of Bologna, the University of Trento, and the Condé Nast Centre of Fashion & Design in Shanghai. We participated in 11 career fairs in the US alone in 2016. During these fairs, we have the chance to discuss career opportunities with pre-screened candidates, gain access to How we nurture CV databases, and also tell prospective candidates who we are and what we stand for. We plan to increase the number of career fairs we attend in 2017. We participate in campus events and workshops to recruit young people and also enable them to learn more about our business and our industry. and develop talent We make connections and participate in networking events where students can meet businesses, collaborating with, for example, the London Business Learning is a key part of life at YNAP. Just as important as finding new School in 2016. We host workshops to share our professional experience and people is nurturing talent in-house, ensuring employees want to stay with us. give students the chance to solve business challenges. This included a project with Bocconi University last year. As part of our employee retention strategy, we are working to create a positive and inclusive work culture. A culture that is based on learning from each other We host open days for university students around the world, including our and sharing information and approaches globally, and promotes openness to offices in Italy and the UK, the US and China. These help us tell our story and new insights and ways of working. present internal opportunities available. We visit universities to promote our MBA Summer Internship Programme, including Harvard and Columbia. We Our Learning & Development team focused on the following priorities in 2016: also teach university courses and seminars. building management capability, supporting the talent and performance process through skills development, developing ad hoc learning activities We promote opportunities on our website, LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook, for the business, delivering an induction programme and supporting key job boards, university events and our intranet, to encourage mobility within behaviour change projects. the organisation. In 2016 we received more than 60,000 CVs via these channels. We delivered over 25,000 hours of learning and development activities in 2016. This included: management courses, core skills training, technical Our employees understand what it takes to be successful within our business skills training, induction programmes for new starters, e-learning modules and we encourage them to help us identify future talent. Our “Bring a Talent” via electronic portal, bespoke workshops across teams, English and Italian referral programme encourages employees to tap into their professional language courses, and support to those seeking professional qualifications. networks and refer external candidates for open positions. We get hundreds of referrals each year in this way and hired 192 people in 2016, about For YNAP, employee retention has three key elements: knowing, one in seven of our new hires. growing and flowing talent across our organisation. Knowing our talent means understanding our employees’ skills and potential. We measure this, for example, by conducting an internal analysis of employee talent and opportunities for promotion. We are introducing peer coaching and a programme is currently being piloted in the UK, US and Italy. This gives our employees the opportunity to engage in mutually enriching experiences with their colleagues. By connecting individuals across different departments, they will be able to learn more about different parts of the business. 32 33 We encourage mobility Inspiring disruptive thinking We encourage opportunities for employees to experience different We foster a culture of innovative thinking, enabling an innovative cultures by taking up a different position within the organisation or ecosystem that will allow us to thrive and prosper into the future. taking on a short-term placement at one of our offices worldwide. Innovation informs our approach across the organisation and we empower By promoting mobility within our organisation we share the breadth of employees to experiment and reinvent the future. experience of our global workforce. Following the recent merger, it also helped meld the two companies together. It integrates cultures and provides Our culture is one that encourages people to be open minded, take risks them with a deeper understanding of how our company works at a global and be bold within an ecosystem of innovation. We promote trial and error scale. As part of our secondment programme, we help cover costs such as testing as it enables us to learn from our discoveries and mistakes. We give relocation, housing, luggage, tax advisory, visa fees, etc. our employees the freedom to experiment and see failure as an opportunity for us to grow and develop. We encourage fresh thinking by providing innovative work environments, typical of our new Tech Hub in London, and encouraging smarter and more flexible ways of working. We make sure our staff are equipped with the necessary technology, including customised mobiles, to optimise processes Meet Eesha who travelled from London to Milan with and enhance their office life. YNAP – Eesha Phakey, Recruitment Partner, YNAP Working at YNAP is about collectively solving business problems in innovative ▶▶ How did the opportunity arise to live abroad with YNAP in Milan? ways. Collaborative opportunities such as Hackathons for our employees to With the merger between YOOX and THE NET-A-PORTER GROUP a experiment with new ideas. number of my Corporate Business areas were going to be headquartered in Italy, meaning that I had more stakeholders based there. I was given the We are making mobile an essential part of a productive workday for our opportunity of working on assignment in Milan for five months in 2016 which employees as it is a natural part of our customers’ shopping experience. was an incredible opportunity and something that has been invaluable to my development within the business. We’ve partnered with IBM to customise these phones for our business, using IBM MobileFirst for iOS apps. The devices include services and apps that are ▶▶ What did you gain from your secondment experience? tailored to enhance communications and collaboration, streamline processes and make life easier and more efficient for staff. Through out my assignment I have gained so much knowledge about the recruitment process in Italy as well as a better understanding of the relevant We believe this project will help us to become Mobile Employer of the Year employment laws. I also built strong relationships with my stakeholders on the in 2020. ground in Italy and got a much better understanding of Italian culture. ▶▶ What was it like to experience Milan? Embedding yourself and learning a new culture in a country where you do not speak the language is tough however, working with an incredible team and having a great support network both in Italy and UK really helped me. Overall I feel extremely lucky to have been given this opportunity and I strongly believe it was of great benefit not only to me but the business as a whole. 34 35 New Tech Hub: Global Hackathons get our White City, London teams thinking We are opening a new Tech Hub in London in April 2017 to inspire Our first global Hackathon in May 2016 was staged to give our tech OUR FIRST GLOBAL our enlarged tech teams to do their best work. teams a dynamic opportunity to imagine smart new solutions for the HACKATHON business. To ignite the creative spark in our employees, we recognise the right work • 51 teams across environment is needed. A space that stimulates the senses, and provides Tech creatives, designers, programmers and developers collaborated in London our London and opportunities for people to connect and collaborate with others. and Bologna for the event. Bologna offices took part in our Our new Tech Hub will be a major centre for digital innovation in London. We weren’t just looking for solutions to existing problems. We wanted ideas first global Based at the heart of an up-and-coming innovation zone, White City Place, it about how to improve an existing solution. While developers are generally Hackathon will bring together our London technology teams. steered from managers within our business, this process enabled us to hear • They produced their ideas first hand. 40 digital solutions Boasting 70,000 square feet of space, our Tech Hub will accommodate up for our business to 650 employees, a 20% increase in tech jobs at YNAP, alongside our Italian We turned up the heat by adding time pressure. Our tech people had just tech hub in Bologna. over one day, or approximately 13 working hours, to come up with a winning idea. This focused the teams’ energies on completing the task at hand. Award-winning architects, Grimshaw, have put innovation at the heart of the building. One-quarter of the interior will be dedicated to adaptive space, The teams produced more than 40 digital solutions for our business as part of where areas can be transformed for different purposes and to the needs the Hackathon. The winning Hack went to an idea to build a personal social of staff. Flexible features will be installed throughout the building, to foster shopping platform where customers can interact with our personal shoppers. imaginative and cultivate synergy among teams. The building will have LED Second best was an idea for a mobile tool that adds product links and other and motion sensor lighting, building management system (BMS) controls to features to enhance fashion show videos. The winning Hacks are being taken regulate energy use, solar shading systems, data centre cooling systems and forward and built into our tech roadmap. indoor plants and greenery. Following the success of the first Hackathon we organised a follow-up in January 2017 at our Bologna and London offices. We will collaborate with IBM to bring in augmented intelligence through their cognitive system, Watson. “WE Going forward, we plan to host Hackathons across the business every year. ARE THRILLED TO BE WORKING ON THIS NEW DYNAMIC AND FLEXIBLE FIT-OUT FOR YOOX NET-A-PORTER “HACKATHONS GROUP. THEIR ATTITUDE TO ADAPTABILITY AND CHANGE EXACTLY MATCHES OUR OWN.” BRING US BACK TO OUR START-UP ROOTS. WE TRY NEW IDEAS, WE Sir Nicholas Grimshaw, Chairman and founder of Grimshaw WORK FAST, WE COLLABORATE, WE WORK WITH PEOPLE WE DON’T NECESSARILY WORK WITH EVERY DAY TO TRY ON A NEW ROLE WHICH IS FANTASTIC.” Christian Ferguson, Developer, YNAP “THE THING I LIKE MOST ABOUT THE HACKATHON IS BEING ABLE TO WORK WITH PEOPLE THAT YOU DON’T NORMALLY WORK WITH. THERE ARE LOTS OF TEAMS THAT HAVE COME TOGETHER, WITH DIFFERENT MEMBERS OF THE YNAP COMMUNITY.” Aoife McLarnon, Product Owner, YNAP 36 37 How we are building our company culture Our Human Resources and Internal Communications are working towards creating a sense of a team culture as well as sharing company news and updates with our employees. To engage employees around the corporate values launched in July 2016 YNAP created the Values Competition, asking employees to contribute ideas to how we could portray the company’s values visually. The entries were judged by our CEO, Federico Marchetti, and award-winning film director, Luca Guadagnino. The competition was won by Will Victoria, Customer Care Lead from New Jersey, who got the chance to work with an external Art Director and creative team to bring the idea to life. The final artworks will be featured at YNAP locations around the world and used in our Group HR learning and development programmes. We listened to the feedback from our people and have updated the values to take on board their views. This year YNAP will be introducing a structured process to enhance employee engagement. This includes improving knowledge of our business operations, how individuals contribute to the strategic objectives of our organisation and bringing the values to life. In 2017 the company will also be introducing a new ‘Social’ programme which will be co-ordinated by a committee of volunteers from within the Group. Volunteers have been appointed from all levels of seniority and across all sections of the business. The committee will develop and run a social, cultural and communities programme. We are also working towards involving our employees in our new sustainability agenda, and we aim to improve transparency across the organisation and embed sustainability into our daily routines. We care about our employees and their wellbeing and happiness is paramount to us. Kids Day We have started to introduce health awareness campaigns on topics such We organise fun and educational days inside YNAP, opening our doors as managing blood pressure and how to quit smoking and we’ve seen to our employees’ children giving them the opportunity to find out improvements as a result. We have healthy eating initiatives, and offer what their parents really do at work. Last year we hosted Kids Day organic food options in vending machines at our offices. We provide a direct in our offices in Italy, the UK, the US, China, Japan and Hong Kong. assistance line to a psychologist to help support employees on issues they may be facing. Children aged three and older received an office tour, participated in activities and games and enjoyed treats. We held workshops to enable children to In 2016 we piloted a Summer Working Hours scheme to give employees a express their creativity by developing an imaginative project. Children had chance to manage their workload more flexibly from late June to mid-August. the chance to be a photographer or model for a day and take part in a photo Following a successful trial in the US, employees globally (excluding shiftshoot. based or customer-facing roles) were able to organise their schedule over a shorter week and leave the office at 1pm on Fridays. For children under three years old, we organised storytelling and colouring. The days were a huge success and we plan to continue to host Kids Day at We also organise wellbeing events including sports initiatives, and provide our offices each year. classes on yoga, meditation and dance, and help foster relationships by organising social activities including BBQs and drinks after work. 38 39 DRIVING DIGITAL EDUCATION Providing quality education is necessary to support the digital transformation of our business and the broader economy. We believe education improves lives and we are committed to promoting knowledge in the wider community as well as our industry. Digital is impacting the fashion and luxury world and a shift is needed in education and training. At this time of soaring demand for digital skills, we share the challenges of the knowledge economy, and the onus is on us to respond. We have become a member of the European Commission’s Digital Skills and Jobs Coalition, set up to provide training for digital jobs to 1 million young people by 2020. The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, the global agenda for sustainable development, also highlights the need to boost the number of people with the technical and vocational skills necessary for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship. Our education programmes cover the whole lifecycle of learning: supporting the teaching of digital skills and bringing coding to the classroom at primary and secondary schools; incubating tech talent in secondary school students; in higher education, partnering with world-class universities such as SDA Bocconi School of Management in Milan to develop the abilities necessary for our industry. We also offer internships that provide students with career opportunities at YNAP. We are extending our education initiatives by supporting the Elisa Sednaoui Foundation (ESF). YNAP hosted a fundraising dinner in Milan in March 2017 for Funtasia in Italy, an ESF project that offers educational and cultural support for children in need. The programme is based on the development of self-esteem, team and solution-driven work for kids, youth and even adults. The ESF’s first cultural and educational centre is already operational in Luxor, Egypt. How we support education at different ages We’ve developed an approach to education that covers the whole lifecycle of learning, from primary school to university and beyond. Our education programmes aim to teach young people, of all ages, digital skills and share knowledge of luxury fashion e-commerce. #1 At primary and secondary schools we support digital training. #2 At universities, we support the creation of new courses to provide the skills and abilities that are necessary in our business. #3 From education into work: young professionals can get work experience and learn more about our organisation through our graduate internships. 40 41 Coding for schools in our communities Learning to code is fundamental to understanding computing and we are “CODING IS AN EXCELLENT ENTRY POINT FOR STUDENTS INTO COMPUTER SCIENCE. IT promoting opportunities to teach children coding from the earliest age. HAS VARYING DEGREES OF DIFFICULTY AND CAN BE Our tech specialists entered classrooms in Italy and London as part of the ADAPTED FOR A TRUE BEGINNER TO MORE ADVANCED global campaign: Hour of Code, an international initiative organised by PARTICIPANTS. WE HAVE ALSO FOUND THAT CODING Code.org to bring computer science and programming to schools. Millions IS VERY EFFECTIVE IN ENGAGING UNDERREPRESENTED of children take part every year through events held in over 180 countries. GROUPS – SUCH AS FEMALES. COMPUTER SCIENCE WILL Our digital teams taught code to approximately 250 pupils from primary and ONLY THRIVE THROUGH A DIVERSE COMMUNITY AND WE secondary schools. They led coding sessions for about 120 students from 4 to ARE DEDICATED TO ENSURING THAT HERE AT IMPERIAL 13 years old in Italy, in collaboration with the Golinelli Foundation in Bologna COLLEGE LONDON.” and the TAG Innovation School in Milan. “WE In London, we were involved in the Imperial College Coding Camp Powered by YNAP. Organised by the Department of Computing at Imperial College London, the programme teaches children the basics of coding. It involves HAVE A SIMILAR MIND-SET AND WE SHARE A children, with an emphasis on girls, aged 8 to 14 from low socioeconomic LOT OF STRATEGIC PRIORITIES WITH YNAP WHEN IT COMES backgrounds in the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham. Children TO OFFERING THE CODING PROGRAMME. THEIR SUPPORT are invited to attend free coding sessions at the university campus, facilitated ALLOWS US TO EXPAND THE NUMBER OF OPPORTUNITIES by Computing undergraduate students. AVAILABLE AND ENGAGE WITH MORE STUDENTS, ESPECIALLY FOCUSING ON THE WHITE CITY COMMUNITY. MOREOVER, YNAP BRINGS SOFT RESOURCES, HELPING US TO MARKET THE PROGRAMME AND CREATE A SOCIAL MEDIA CAMPAIGN FOR IT. IT’S ALSO VERY POWERFUL TO ENGAGE WITH THEIR STAFF AND UTILISE EMPLOYEES TO TALK ABOUT CODING AT YNAP.” Professor Daniel Rueckert, Head of the Department of Computing, Imperial College London 42 43 Digital technologies of the luxury industry YNAP has partnered with SDA Bocconi School of Management in Milan, one of the world’s leading business schools, to develop a new master’s course on digital strategy, marketing and e-commerce. From 2017, a new master’s course on digital strategy, marketing and e-commerce course will be part of the university’s Master in Fashion, Experience & Design Management (MAFED). We are helping to design the syllabus and create a field project for students, and our managers will teach and contribute as guest speakers. The MAFED programme was launched by SDA Bocconi in 2002 with Incubating student ideas Fondazione Altagamma, the association of Italian luxury brands. The idea for the new course stemmed from YNAP’s membership of Altagamma and and tech talent participation in working groups related to digital aspects of the luxury industry. Education is especially valuable when it connects to its real-life application in business. When our employees get involved it’s an enriching experience for them too. “OUR YNAP is creating a talent incubator network, Talent in the Net, that lets schools, businesses and students harness their digital skills and generate STUDENTS ARE DIGITAL NATIVES ideas through shared learning, mentoring and work experiences. AND COMPANIES EXPECT THEM NOT ONLY TO The programme was launched in Italy in 2016 in collaboration with the BE FAMILIAR WITH DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES IN Golinelli Foundation and employer organisation Unindustria, focusing on two THEIR DAY-TO-DAY LIVES BUT ALSO TO BE ABLE TO schools in Bologna, the Salvemini Institute and Belluzzi Institute. For 2017, DEPLOY DIGITAL SKILLS AND TECHNOLOGIES IN we’re looking to extend the format at other locations. THEIR BUSINESSES. THE PARTNERSHIP WITH YNAP IS A GREAT WAY TO STRENGTHEN THE DIGITAL About 60 students will be supported by YNAP’s team for three years, alternating schoolroom and workplace experiences. The programme will ASPECT OF OUR PROGRAMME.” teach students about agile methodologies and help them develop apps and websites. Emanuela Prandelli, Director of MAFED “GETTING INVOLVED IN THIS SCHOOL PROJECT WAS SO REWARDING BECAUSE I SAW AT FIRST HAND HOW REAL-LIFE BUSINESS SITUATIONS STIMULATE THE LEARNING EXPERIENCE AND ADD AN EXTRA DIMENSION TO EDUCATION. A PROJECT LIKE TALENT IN THE NET IS A WIN-WIN FOR ALL INVOLVED AND GAVE ME GREAT FAITH IN THE ABILITIES OF FUTURE GENERATIONS.” Federica Romagnoli, Head of Change Programme at YNAP and Talent in the Net trainer 44 45 From education into a new career Laying the foundations for future career success – Meghana Gandhi joined YNAP’s post-merger inteStudents from top universities around the globe can gain solid work MOST BUSINESS gration team after getting an internship opportunity experience through our intern and graduate programmes. CASE APPLICANTS with the company as an MBA student. CAME FROM: We run an MBA Internship Programme, enabling students from leading ▶▶ Tell us about your MBA programme universities to join us as interns each summer. I completed my MBA at London Business School (LBS), concentrating in marketing and luxury management. I knew that after the MBA, I wanted to The programme in 2016 drew over 200 applications from around the world. work in the fashion industry, and LBS had launched a luxury management Over 100 resumes were selected to produce a case study, of which 84 were course in conjunction with Walpole. submitted. The selection process led to us hosting promising students from Stanford, Harvard, SDA Bocconi, Chicago Booth, and London Business ▶▶ What was your internship like? School. It was fast-paced, and I had to get up to speed very quickly. In fact, I spent my We also have a Technology Graduate Programme, which includes a sixvery first day in a workshop on brand relations. Having interacted with people month internship followed by a 12-month work placement. Participants gain from across the Group was a huge asset when I joined full-time. a comprehensive understanding of our business, and professional experience in web development, business analysis, software testing, cloud computing ▶▶ What did you learn? and delivery management. The programme is open to graduates with a While I had previously worked on a merger and had experience managing technology, computer science or engineering bachelor’s degree. projects, YNAP was on a much larger scale. Every day, I was learning how best to manage complex decision-making, push projects forward and ensure stakeholder alignment. ▶▶ What aspect of the internship made you want to work at YNAP? Global reach of applicant pool Most notably, my smart, high-energy, curious colleagues, as well as the ability UK: 10% to work across countries and cultures. My boss was great about giving me ownership as well as many opportunities to interact with senior people in the business. ▶▶ What do you like most about your current role? The project I am managing touches many different parts of THE OUTNET, which means that I work with and learn from people in different places and in very different roles, ranging from internal communications to merchandising and digital production. This has really deepened my knowledge and Others: 5% understanding of how the business works. US: 35% Italy: 28% Spain: 11% France: 11% 46 47 EMPOWERING WOMEN: UNLOCKING AMBITIONS YNAP supports and promotes equality for women. We are proud of our ability to build a global workforce that empowers women leaders. We believe that empowering women and closing the gender pay gap is not only the right thing to do, but it is a key business priority. Our approach to executive compensation has led to gender pay equity in our workforce. We are proud to be at the forefront of developments and contribute to the global dialogue on gender parity led by the UN Women Global Equal Pay Coalition and the Equal Pay Pledge White House led initiative in the US under the Obama Administration. We hope that other companies will follow our lead and adopt similar fair hiring, promotion and compensation practices. We believe that women are key to forging a better world and we celebrate inspiring women through our world-leading editorial content, partnerships and business initiatives. Our commitment to women spans the following areas: WOMEN AT YNAP INSPIRING WOMEN WOMEN EMPLOYEES AT YNAP ࢉࢉ We promote and support equality in the ࢉࢉ PORTER magazine celebrates workplace Incredible Women • 61% of our people are women ࢉࢉ We support women in all levels of the ࢉࢉ We support women-led, sustainable • 63% of YNAP’s new hires are women tech industry brands • 51% of our senior and middle managers are women ࢉࢉ We are recognised globally as a top ࢉࢉ We support charity work to empower employer and recruiter women through fashion • APAC is our region with the highest percentage of female employees on average • Our most senior groups of employees – executive team, top SUPPORTING PARENTS management, senior and middle managers – are composed of ࢉࢉ We are supporting the needs of parents between 100 women and 104 men and providing flexible working programs • Of these 204 leaders, women are paid approximately 14% more on ࢉࢉ We are developing initiatives to support average than their male counterparts mothers returning to work 48 49 WOMEN AT YNAP We promote an inclusive and diverse culture at YNAP and equality for women is an issue that is important to us. “MAKING A CHANGE AND ATTRACTING MORE WOMEN INTO TECH IS NOT JUST ABOUT WOMEN. IT We are committed to supporting and promoting equality in the workplace IS ABOUT CREATING A BALANCED COMMUNITY, WHERE THE and it will be a key focus in the coming year as we begin working to further ONLY CRITERION TO ENTRY IS HAVING A SKILL AND A GENUINE develop our equality agenda. INTEREST IN THE SUBJECT’” Equality for women is part of our Diversity and Equal Opportunities Policy Irina Tsyganok, Full Stack Software Developer, and Social Accountability System, which ensures equal treatment irrespective of gender, age, ethnicity, culture and all forms of disability. Current and future YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP employees must be treated and evaluated solely on their job-related skills, qualifications, behaviour and performance. Discrimination is not tolerated. In 2016 YNAP also participated in panel discussions about women in We are actively monitoring our company-wide gender data and already in 2017 leadership in the tech sector in London organised by The Agile Roundabout see positive developments within our Executive Team with the appointment and Circle. of our Chief People Officer and our most recent appointment of the President of Off-Season who are both women. They join the In-Season President and In 2017 we are setting up working groups in various departments to look into Co-Chief Operating Officer who are both women. These recent high-level our practices such as collaborations with external groups, human resources additions increase to four the number of women in leadership positions. That policies, recruitment, training and events. equates to a 50% female presence in the Executive Team. Recognition for YNAP as With a current focus on board diversity and regulation pushing companies to meet minimum levels of female representation among directors, we believe a top employer and recruiter these figures demonstrate the important role played by women in operational, leadership roles at YNAP. Women are actively contributing to building our culture, achieving our strategic goals and innovating the luxury e-commerce sector. We are proud to have been recognised for our work as an employer internationally. Women in tech YNAP was cited in 2016 among Top Employers in Italy (an accolade given in early 2017 for a third year, in particular for the development and promotion of YNAP supports the global movement to increase the representation its employees). The award is based on research by the Top Employers Institute of women at all levels of the tech industry and we are committed to into aspects of human resources such as management policies, corporate making improvements. culture, benefits and employee initiatives. YNAP is committed to inspiring more young girls and women to pursue YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP was included in the first “Top Attractors in the careers in technology and software engineering and we are creating equal UK” ranking released in June 2016 by LinkedIn, the world’s largest professional opportunities. network on the internet. The ranking of 25 top employers for attracting talents was based on the number and views of job applications, engagement and We are proud to have sponsored the Women in IT Awards 2017, organised new hire staying power. by business-technology magazine Information Age, to recognise the outstanding innovation achieved by women in the IT industry. We supported NET-A-PORTER was listed among the “Top 300 Graduate Employers” in the the “Entrepreneur of the Year” category, won by Brynne Herbert, founder and UK by The Guardian newspaper. The ranking was based on a survey conducted CEO of MOVE Guides, a company that helps human resources teams move by Trendence, a research institute specialising in employer branding. Over their employees around the world. 52,000 students from 120 UK universities voted, making it one of the most representative student polls. Our involvement in the event also saw Claire Lamb, Head of Front End for In-Season, as a judge for the awards and Irina Tsyganok, a developer at our London office, who started on the Technology Graduate scheme in September 2014, was shortlisted in 2017 for the “Rising Star” category for her standout achievements and inspiring passion for technology. 50 51 INSPIRING WOMEN We touch women’s lives in many ways and we commit to supporting and celebrating women in different walks of life. “YOU , LIKE ME, SEE YOURSELF NOT AS A VICTIM, BUT RATHER AS A MEMBER OF A We aim to inspire women through award-winning content, promote women GROWING CLASS OF WOMEN, DAUGHTERS OF A who are leading sustainable brands, and support charity work to empower GENERATION OF EQUALITY. WE HAVE INHERITED women through fashion. FAR TOO MUCH TO BE RESIGNED TO ACCEPT INJUSTICE AND TOGETHER WE ARE MUCH TOO We have a powerful role to play. Through our work in luxury, retail and technology STRONG TO EXCUSE IT ANY LONGER.” we come into contact with extraordinary women who can be an inspiration to us all. We work to tell their stories, connect them with other women and work to form partnerships with those who share mutual aspirations. Amber Heard (actress) Celebrating incredible women “HAVE FAITH IN YOURSELF. YOU’LL FIND THAT ONCE YOU SET YOUR CONFIDENCE Since its launch in February 2014, PORTER magazine has produced LEVELS HIGH, YOU REALLY CAN DO ANYTHING.” world class editorial content with inspiring interviews with incredible women, authoritative fashion and a truly global perspective, as well Simone Biles (gymnast) as an innovative shopping experience. Editor-in-Chief, Lucy Yeomans explains: “At PORTER, we have always aimed to be 100 per cent on the side of our woman. This informs the way we tackle every story, be it a feature or a fashion shoot, to the type of events and brand “IT IS MY HOPE THAT MY STORY, AND YOURS, WILL INSPIRE ALL YOUNG WOMEN OUT extensions we offer”. THERE TO PUSH FOR GREATNESS AND FOLLOW PORTER magazine’s annual Incredible Women List selects and features THEIR DREAMS WITH STEADFAST RESILIENCE. WE women who are celebrated not just for their achievements, but for having a MUST CONTINUE TO DREAM BIG, AND IN DOING positive impact on others. SO, WE EMPOWER THE NEXT GENERATION OF WOMEN TO BE JUST AS BOLD IN THEIR PURSUITS.” At the heart of the list, PORTER also honours its top 10 Voices of the Year – the Serena Williams (tennis player) women who stood up and spoke out for change, using their voice to empower women worldwide. The 2016 Incredible Women List, features four ‘Voices’, penned original open letters by gymnast Simone Biles, actress Amber Heard, tennis player Serena Williams and writer-comedian Sharon Horgan. The 2016 List was announced in a special 24-page editorial supplement in the PORTER has also recently launched its Incredible Women Talks. Winter Escape issue of PORTER, which is sold in 60 countries with a print run of 350,000 copies. The list was celebrated with a special dinner at the Victoria In May 2016, THE OUTNET partnered with Ocean Drive Magazine to host & Albert Museum in London, in association with Cartier, where PORTER a cocktail event celebrating its 2016 “Women of Influence” issue and its partnered with Letters Live to stage a special performance of inspiring letters honoured guests at The Carillon Hotel in Miami Beach, Florida. The partnership written by and to incredible women, both present day and historical. The event gave THE OUTNET the opportunity to forge and strengthen relationships with also saw a collaboration with non-profit organization Women for Women professional women in Miami, reward local VIPs, and drive brand awareness. International, with an opportunity for guests to donate to the charity, which helps marginalized women in eight countries affected by war and conflict. 52 53 Women as drivers Unlocking potential through of sustainable fashion fashion We have collaborated on capsule collections with women-led brands To help women realise their professional potential, THE OUTNET that put sustainability at the heart of their mission. collaborates with a UK charity, Smart Works, to empower women through fashion. In 2016 we worked with two brands that are gaining reputations for the way they are putting society and the environment at the heart of their practices, We support Smart Works in its efforts to help women find work by offering promoting their distinctive capsule collections. them clothes that are suitable for an interview and advice for a successful job interview. NET-A-PORTER launched an exclusive holiday capsule collection with Los Angeles-based Reformation, a brand well known for its focus on minimising Smart Works, which operates in two London centres as well as several other its environmental footprint. This collection marked the first time the brand UK cities, aims to give women the confidence and self-belief along with the had collaborated with a global retailer, making its eco-friendly fashion widely practical tools they require to succeed at interview and start a new chapter available outside the US for the first time. To celebrate the occasion, NET-Aof their life. PORTER co-hosted a dinner with the chief executive officer of Reformation, Yael Aflalo, in London. In addition to offering interview clothes and style advice, we assist Smart Works in other ways. We raise funds internally for them, giving away part of Founded by Aflalo in 2009, Reformation is known for effortless silhouettes our UK Christmas Raffle in 2016. At our offices, we hosted a breakfast event that celebrate the feminine figure, as the collection evokes a theme of Studio for their volunteers, giving them a tour of the office and gifting them a small 54 and the glamorous 70s. The 21-piece capsule consisted of 11 new designs article of clothing curated by one of our fashion editors. and three signature pieces, from floor length gowns, chic mini dresses, cool jumpsuits and edgy two pieces to classic tops and blouses. All materials used in the collection were sustainable, such as eco velvet, eco rib, georgette and “THE OUTNET silk in rich jewel tones. TEAM HAS BEEN Reformation, home to the first ‘sustainable sewing factory’ in the US, infuses green measures into every aspect of the brand. From recycled and eco fabrics A DEDICATED SUPPORTER OF OUR WORK, CELEBRATING THE to a heat reflecting roof and clean energy in the factory, to recycled hangers in TRANSFORMATIVE POWER OF FASHION TO HELP WOMEN IN stores and eco-friendly packaging for at-home shipments, NEED, ALLOWING STAFF TIME TO VOLUNTEER AS STYLISTS, DONATING STOCK AND RUNNING FUNDRAISING EVENTS.” In 2016, YOOXYGEN collaborated on an exclusive capsule collection with Studio One Eighty Nine. For the project, Studio One Eighty Nine created several one-of-a-kind pieces that blended traditional African textiles with Kate Stephens, CEO of UK charity, Smart Works contemporary silhouettes, made available on YOOXYGEN, the area of YOOX for responsible fashion brands (see the “Responsibility” chapter). Studio One Eighty Nine, headquartered in Ghana, West Africa, and in the United States, is a social enterprise that provides a platform to help promote and curate African and African-inspired content and brands. It focuses on empowerment, creating jobs and supporting education and skills training. The two co-founders, actress Rosario Dawson and former Bottega Veneta communications executive Abrima Erwiah, work closely with Ghana-based artisans whose techniques have been passed down for generations. 54 55 SUPPORTING PARENTS YNAP supports the needs of mothers and parents. We are working to harmonise benefit plans globally and already provide a range of flexible working environments as we continue to build a culture where our employees can learn, grow and thrive. In 2016, under our annual part-time work plans, 147 employees worked on part-time contracts, and 69% of these part-time workers were women. There were also in Italy 32 people with tele-working agreements, for which we give priority to employees on mater­nity leave or with particular family circumstances. We are using technology and smart working tools such as mobile apps so that employees can work on-the-go and foster a more flexible working schedule. To support parents, we have also organized activities for children during the summer months. This has included offering stipends and discounts on summer camps. These have included offering 50 summer camps in Milan and Bologna, available through the KidInTown portal in partnership with Jointly Il Welfare Condiviso. YNAP contributed with discounts of 15-20% on bookings. Additionally, for any summer camps not included on the portal, YNAP offered to cover up to 50% of the cost up to €200 per child. We are currently developing initiatives to support mothers returning to work Meet Elisa, who jumped at the opportunity of a new and in 2017 we will be providing individual coaching programmes for mothers role in London – Elisa Radaelli, Buying Manager, THE before, during, and after maternity leave periods. These aim to help women OUTNET adjust to returning to work after motherhood. We also provide allocated parking for women that are pregnant in some offices, where possible. ▶▶ Why did you take up a long-term assignment in London and how did YNAP help? YNAP runs its own Kids Day (see the “Education” chapter) for the children of employees and we are working to provide support with child care from 2017. In July, I completed my first five years at YOOX and I had almost finished my Executive MBA. I felt I wanted to explore and improve, and realised I was ready for a new challenge. YNAP helped with the tough parts, like finding a house and a school for my son Greg. On 1 September, when I arrived at our offices in Westfield he was starting a new school in London. ▶▶ How did your family influence your decision? My son has been at the centre of my choices for 13 years and moving to London was a huge opportunity for him. He was so enthusiastic I knew it was the right choice. ▶▶ What do you think of London? You have to keep up with the pace and respect the city’s rules. I think it’s good that it asks a lot of you because it gives you so much in return. ▶▶ What does your family enjoy the most? What do you think of the culture? Hyde Park is definitely the “benefit” we enjoy the most, going jogging, walking, boating, it’s such a wonderful natural setting. Then we’ve been exploring the British Museum, the Tate… People are very kind and helpful and it’s good to take time to get to know them over a cup of tea! 56 57 RESPONSIBILITY: MINIMISING IMPACTS We commit to leading sustainability developments in our industry and collaborating with brands and suppliers to improve practices. Making responsible decisions with a focus on customer priorities is our way of living our values and helps us to manage and reduce the social and environmental impacts of our business. Through the power of ‘Artificial Intelligence’ – technology that can ‘think’ like a human – we are making our processes more efficient and understanding customers like never before. We commit to providing more information about supply chains, enabling customers to make informed choices about luxury fashion purchases. We also commit to measuring and reporting the impacts of our business and We are focusing our work in four main areas: working towards minimising impacts across our activities. CUSTOMER PRIORITIES THE SUPPLY CHAIN ࢉࢉ Providing more information about supply ࢉࢉ We uphold strict standards in both chains and fighting digital counterfeiting supplier management and in purchasing ࢉࢉ YOOX partnering with Parsons School goods for re-sale of Design ࢉࢉ The Ecobox™ sets our standard in OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT sustainable packaging ࢉࢉ Our new In-Season hub in Milan is ࢉࢉ We have joined the Fur Free Retailer targeting the “excellent” level of the Program BREEAM certification system ࢉࢉ We are members of the Responsible ࢉࢉ We have renewed our commitment Jewellery Council to 100% renewable power by 2020 ࢉࢉ We connect with customers both ࢉࢉ Our focus on technology allows us in digital, through the use of smart data, and to invest in green IT also in person ࢉࢉ We’re taking luxury e-commerce to the next level with cognitive computing MAKING A DIFFERENCE IN OUR COMMUNITIES ࢉࢉ We work to make a difference in wider communities, and in 2016 supported over 20 charities and social initiatives 58 59 CUSTOMER PRIORITIES YOOX partners with Customer expectations about sustainable luxury fashion are integral Parsons School of Design to the ways in which we manage our business, from the products we sell to the packaging in which purchases are delivered. We are working together with The New In April 2017, YOOX will extend its commitment to We are working to empower customers to make informed choices based School’s Parsons School of Design in New promoting responsible practices in fashion through on their values, and also collaborating with brands and partners to promote York to promote responsible fashion. a partnership with Parsons School of Design in greater awareness about sustainability in luxury. New York. The long-term goal of this initiative is YOOX launched YOOXYGEN in 2009 as a to develop YOOXYGEN through education and We are committed to providing more information about supply chains – pioneering initiative for our sector, combining collaborations. including those of brands and partners who are willing to do so – and leading a corporate sustainability programme with a by example in all the areas we can directly influence. platform for environmentally friendly brands. YOOX and Parsons will work together in two areas. First, they will introduce the YOOXYGEN Award, It is important that our customers have confidence in the authenticity of the YOOXYGEN has become YOOX’s destination for which will give senior students at Parsons School products they purchase from us. As leaders in luxury fashion e-commerce, responsible fashion enthusiasts, offering socially of Design the opportunity to win a six-month this is a critical issue for our company and for our brand partners, and we and environmentally conscious clothes, footwear, internship at the company’s headquarters in Milan, are continually working to protect the integrity of brands in the digital accessories and jewellery. YOOX customers can with a view to designing and producing a Spring/ environment. This constitutes the foundation of our trust relation with select from a wide variety of responsible brands Summer womenswear sustainable collection. customers and luxury brand partners. and designers including Prabal Gurung, Vivienne Second, YOOX and Parsons will collaborate in Westwood Anglomania, Edun, Maiyet and Rorario defining self-guiding principles for the selection of We recognise that counterfeiting is a serious problem but also an issue where Dawson and Abrima Erwiah’s label, Studio 189. All future YOOXYGEN brands. we have the technological capabilities to take preventative action. We are items are delivered in our sustainable packaging, also proactive in maintaining the allure of luxury products even in a nonwhich has been trademarked as Ecobox™. The ultimate goal of this initiative is to provide physical, digital retail context. This benefits our brand partners and the wider Throughout the years, YOOXYGEN has also YOOX’s customers with more information about luxury goods sector. To support brand partners, “fake prevention” measures supported the Green Cross International initiative products and brands. We aim to raise awareness and include managing domain names and online research of intellectual property to provide clean drinking water and promote empower customers to make informed choices. infringements (e.g. domain cybersquatting, improper use of trademarks, hygiene and sanitary education for children and improper use of legal texts and images). We are also developing new disadvantaged communities. software for online research of violations which will contribute to timely legal action being taken. Customers also expect their data to be secure with us. Our responsibility in this regard extends to our brand partners and our corporate data. We also need to provide a safe working environment for our employees in terms of cyber security. We have a dedicated team who guarantee our security systems are constantly monitored and up to date, in line with current regulations and standards on data protection and the latest changes in technology. We share information “SHAPING DESIGN EDUCATION TO INTEGRATE BROADER THINKING ON SUSTAINABILITY AND security policies with employees to ensure proper conduct throughout the TRANSPARENCY IS VITAL FOR DESIGN STUDENTS, AND organisation. WILL SUPPORT ADDRESSING THE NECESSARY CHANGES IN THE INDUSTRY. THE PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN YOOX AND PARSONS AIMS TO HIGHLIGHT SMART APPROACHES TO DESIGNING GARMENTS, AND HELP ENGAGE CUSTOMERS IN THE PROCESS.” Burak Cakmak, Dean of Fashion at Parsons School of Design 60 61 We are delivering sustainable Customer reactions to our new self-seal boxes: packaging Packaging delivers a powerful message about the kind of company we “I LOVE 63% of our top customers said it’s are, and many of our customers want packaging that is sustainable. important to them THAT YOUR that our packaging Packaging is a vital element of our customer experience. As a company we fulfilled 8.4 million customer orders in 2016, which gives a sense of the scale NEW PACKAGING HAS A PULL TAB TO is environmentally of impact that our packaging choices have. MAKE IT EVEN EASIER TO UNBOX MY friendly. NEW GOODIES.” We are working hard to ensure that our packaging reflects the luxury products “SMALLER we sell as well as meeting our commitment to environmental sustainability. We are working to identify quality improvement and exploring packaging innovation. Our commitment to sustainable packaging dates back to the decision by YOOX to introduce the Ecobox™ in 2009. The Ecobox™, still used today by YOOX, alongside other packaging options, features a sustainable choice of BOX SIZE IS FANTASTIC – MUCH EASIER materials, and comes in different sizes and formats that enable an optimisation TO MANAGE, AND BETTER of space. ENVIRONMENTALLY TOO.” The Ecobox™ is made out of 100% recyclable materials, certified by RESY, FSC and SFI. It is made using cellulose gathered under environmentally, “PREFER YOUR NEW LIGHTER STYLE socially and economically sustainable conditions. We encourage customers OF PACKAGING WITH LESS PAPER.” to re-use their Ecobox™ for returns too. An important element in the sustainability of all our packaging is the purchasing of paper and cardboard. The paper we use does not contribute to the destruction of primary forests. It comes from forests that are managed responsibly, both in social and environmental terms. Our purchasing policy states that paper and cardboard will be chosen as products comprised of virgin fibres certified according to the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), the leading independent forest certification system. In 2016 we tested new boxes for orders from THE OUTNET. The new self-seal boxes have a reduced size and depth, meaning less tissue paper. The smaller size also saves on freight, leading to lower carbon emissions. The savings are encouraging: -41% tissue paper use, -19% cardboard use and -15% shipping volumes, compared to boxes previously used. 62 63 We have joined the Fur Free Collaboration Retailer Program for responsible jewellery We are proud to confirm that our multi-brand stores are fur free. NET-A-PORTER is certified by the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), a not-for-profit, standards setting and certification organisation, and We have joined the international Fur Free Retailer Program supported by we are extending coverage to our whole Group by the end of the the Fur Free Alliance (FFA), an international coalition of leading animal and year. environmental protection organizations worldwide. The program recognizes and supports retailers who have committed, in writing, to a no-fur policy. The mining of precious metals such as gold and platinum can have severe social and environmental impacts. The standard ensures that our multi-brand online stores promote commercial policies in line with animal rights, by excluding items and accessories made Through our involvement with the RJC we can assure customers that the from animal fur. products we sell are aligned with international best practice. Working with recognized organisations provides us with frameworks for improving the way Our decision to go fur free follows a long-standing relationship with the we operate. Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) and the Italian Anti-vivisection League (LAV). We have been through a rigorous education process with the The RJC’s Code of Practice, updated in 2013 after an 18-month multitwo organisations and we will continue to work with them to keep ourselves, stakeholder review process, addresses human rights, labour rights, and our partners, updated about fur and ethical sourcing. environmental impact, mining practices, product disclosure and many more important topics in the jewellery supply chain. We adhere to the organisation’s Code of Practice and ensure our processes “THE conform to its principles. Furthermore, we provide information to the RJC about our practices, based on the principles of the Code. This self-assessment HSUS APPLAUDS THE YOOX NET-A-PORTER is independently verified. NET-A-PORTER has been a certified member of the GROUP FOR DEMONSTRATING ETHICAL LEADERSHIP IN RJC since 2014. We will work to renew the certification in 2017 and extend coverage to the YNAP Group. THE LUXURY FASHION INDUSTRY. THIS MOVE SHOULD ENCOURAGE DESIGNERS AND OTHER RETAILERS TO OPT In addition, NET-A-PORTER’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which is modelled FOR STYLISH AND FUNCTIONAL ALTERNATIVES TO FUR on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour AND SHED THE CRUELTY ASSOCIATED WITH COMMERCIAL Organization (ILO) conventions, requires that all suppliers of gold provide TRAPPING AND FUR FARMING.” assurance that the metal has been mined in a manner that respects human and labour rights. PJ Smith, Senior Manager of Fashion Policy for The HSUS “YNAP , WITH THE RENUNCIATION TO THE TRADE IN FUR PRODUCTS, REACHED AN IMPORTANT STEP THAT REPRESENTS A MILESTONE WHICH THE FASHION WORLD SHOULD REFER TO. IT’S A TANGIBLE SIGNAL THAT THE CLOTHING INDUSTRY CAN BE MORE SUSTAINABLE AND ETHICAL, WITHOUT NECESSARILY RESORTING TO THE USE OF ANIMAL PRODUCTS.” Simone Pavesi, Manager of Animal Free Fashion Area for LAV (Lega Anti Vivisezione) 64 65 Listening and responding to customers Our customers are driving innovation in our company. We aim to transform customer input into innovations for our business, whether it’s re-designing one of our apps based on customer feedback or aligning our editorial content to better coincide with our reader interests and preferences. Our Voice of the Customer (VOC) programme enables us to enhance our services through customer-focused innovation. The programme, led by our Customer Insight team, measures satisfaction across the main touchpoints of the customer experience (on-site, post-purchase and returns and exchanges). It runs across NET-A-PORTER, MR PORTER and THE OUTNET and will be extended across our platform in 2017. Engaging with our customers We connect with customers both in digital, through the use of smart CONNECTING data, and also in person, through a team of personal shoppers and TO CUSTOMERS networking and engagement events. THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA NET-A-PORTER and MR PORTER get closer to customers through teams of personal shoppers who often head out to meet customers in person. They • 9 social media offer a range of services to our top In-Season customers such as previews of channels VOC initiatives allow us to interact with customers We create innovative solutions based on our the up-coming season, showing new items before they are available online, • About 1.5 million in a number of ways of which the following were customer feedback. Here are some examples of tailored style advice and help getting special or hard-to-find items, fitting, or followers on our typical in 2016: what we did in 2016: post-purchase services. Twitter accounts • About 3.5 million • Customer profiling research (for • Editorial and content: Feedback influenced Special customer events are also popular and can include networking initiatives likes on our NET-A-PORTER and MR PORTER): A largethe strategy and re-design for digital editions to attract a broader group of shoppers. These include invitation-only “Style Facebook pages scale qualitative and quantitative research with new content strategy, diversifying model Suites” at so-called pop-up temporary stores and designer dinners. Other • About 4.4 million project to gather detailed insights about target casting and focusing on more localised content. events include Shop Wear Care in London in November 2016 in aid of the followers on our customers, their fashion and shopping needs, Feedback and research has also influenced our Great Ormond Street Hospital children’s charity. We also hosted events with Instagram accounts preferences, pain points and relationship with approach to social media content as well as designers including Mary Katrantzou, Missoni and Nicholas Kirkwood in 2016. the brand the marketing and brand strategy for PORTER • MR PORTER own label research: Concept Magazine As part of our FRONT ROW loyalty programme for THE OUTNET, which now testing-based research project to inform future • Models on THE OUTNET: In response to has over 22,500 participants, we hosted 36 events in 2016 for participants. marketing product strategies best aligned with hearing that customers wanted to see more These were held in 10 locations from Dubai, the US, Singapore, Hong Kong, customer needs and preferences for launch of representative models, creative shoots with the UK and Australia. own label more diverse models were introduced to speak • US Acquisition Landscape Research for to a wider audience THE OUTNET: A large-scale qualitative and • Re-design of MR PORTER app: Customer “TO HELP quantitative market research project focused on feedback influenced the app’s re-design and the understanding how to optimise the journey and inclusion of new features THE BUSINESS LEARN ABOUT OUR experience of first-time shoppers on the site CUSTOMERS, THEIR EXPECTATIONS, EXPERIENCES, AND BRING THEM • Product selection research for YOOX: We want our customers to help guide our TO LIFE; ENSURING THAT THE CUSTOMER IS KEPT AT THE HEART OF THE Survey of customer preferences, conducted in sustainability commitment too. Last year we BUSINESS IN THE IDEAS WE INSPIRE, THE DECISIONS WE MAKE, AND THE collaboration with the merchandise and buying engaged 24,000 of our top customers globally. team, with regards to brands and fashion styles, Find out what they had to say on page 22. BEST-IN-CLASS EXPERIENCES WE CREATE.” associated with separate data mining activities, Mission statement of our Customer Insight team to inform product selection 66 67 We are investing THE SUPPLY CHAIN in cognitive commerce Today, there is broad awareness of the importance of a sustainable supply chain in the luxury industry. We recognise our responsibility as We’re taking luxury e-commerce to the next level with cognitive the luxury sector’s leading e-commerce platform. computing. We recognise that our customers, and society more broadly, expect retailers YNAP pioneered luxury e-commerce and to maintain our leadership position to take responsibility for impacts along the supply chain of the goods they we must continue innovating. To thrive, we must continue reinventing our sell. When we asked our customers about their shopping choices, 58% said business and develop new approaches that have benefits for our industry and having more information about products would influence their purchasing for society and the environment too. choices. We stimulate innovation from within our business, using intelligent technology First, we buy products and services for our own use such as transport, to predict what our customers will buy, when and where. This has powerful editorial, technology, and here our policy on “indirect” procurement ensures implications: it makes our processes and the work of our employees more we evaluate and verify the ethical, legal and financial integrity of suppliers, efficient and it optimises distribution, built around a smart, interconnected even as regards labour practices, occupational health and safety and the and global logistics network. In the end that translates into more personalised environment. We launched a procurement portal in 2016 enabling us to shopping experiences and stock allocation that is organised around customer improve our indirect purchasing strategy and processes. preferences and trends. Second, we purchase millions of goods each year for re-sale on our platform Cognitive computing is at the centre of these new possibilities and, in through our In-Season and Off-Season online stores, doing business with partnership with IBM, we are pioneering how it can be applied to luxury thousands of brands with different levels of involvement. We recognise that e-commerce. Cognitive commerce, as we call it, interacts ‘naturally’ with our role here is to work with the industry so that we are able to give customers customers to understand their actions and deliver experiences tailored to assurances about the sourcing of these products. Within this category, our their needs. With Watson, IBM’s question answering computer system, we can specialised buying teams manage purchasing. reach new levels in efficiency, customer understanding and personalisation. Additionally, our numerous ONLINE FLAGSHIP STORES “Powered by YNAP” As digital transformation opens up new ways for us to interact, we will offer are based on long-term relationships with leading fashion and luxury brands, a seamless shopping experience across multiple channels; this is our ‘omnifor which YNAP is the exclusive partner. Here, our aim is to continue to engage channel’ strategy. We are reaching out to customers to get their input and brand partners in sharing our values and working together to find ways to transforming their ideas into innovations for our company. improve practices to ensure the sustainability of the luxury value chain. We’re making our inventory management and distribution smarter Our goal is to improve standards with regards to our supply chain in all of these than ever through our omni-stock programme. areas. We work to ensure workers are treated with respect and dignity, working conditions are safe, manufacturing processes are ethically responsible, and Optimising our distribution capabilities with this technology gets products the conduct of our business reflects our principles of integrity, honesty and to our customers faster and improves our operational efficiency. At the fairness. same time, we are moving towards a single system built around two central distribution hubs in Italy that will send stock for all our brands to regional The prevention of forced and child labour, harsh treatment and harassment distribution centres in key cities around the globe. as well as principles of Freedom of Association and Non-Discrimination are key elements of our Supplier Code of Conduct and the principles of the An added advantage of omni-stock is that we will be able to integrate with Social Accountability SA8000 standard established by Social Accountability third-party distribution centres and even with stores of our brand partners, International. increasing the global efficiency of our distribution. In 2016, we used the SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) platform for The benefits will be improved lead time for the customer and more efficient key suppliers and private labels, as an additional instrument to perform risk stock management, with positive outcomes for the environment. Our future assessments on our supply chain. We are a member of SEDEX. carbon footprint will testify to this trend. 68 69 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL Our commitment IMPACT to 100% renewable power We recognise that it is our duty to reduce the environmental impacts To create a low-carbon society, we all need to reduce our reliance on of our business and our carbon footprint across our value chain. We fossil fuels. We’re working on this as part of our commitment to using are making improvements by adopting a Group-wide approach to 100% renewable energy sources by 2020. environmental and energy management. YNAP is part of RE100, an international initiative that connects many of the world’s Following the creation of the YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP, we are working most influential companies in a shared commitment to 100% renewable power. to standardise practices and energy management across the organisation. Our environmental management system has been certified according to ISO YOOX GROUP was the first Italian company and fashion e-commerce business 14001 standard in Italy and Japan and we are working towards the progressive to join RE100. The initiative was created by The Climate Group and CDP in 2014. extension of the certification to the whole Group. We are also looking to It involves companies around the globe from Europe, the US, India and China. increase our recycling efforts, which in 2016 saw 86% of our waste recycled. Our goal is to source all our power from renewable sources by 2020. In 2016, this To increase transparency and accountability, we disclose our Group stood at 35%. Our work to standardise our approach to energy management performance data through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a not-forfollowing the integration of the two companies involves reviewing contracts profit organisation that collects and analyses data about environmental with energy suppliers with a view to meeting the RE100 objective. This has impacts. been confirmed as part of the Group’s sustainability approach. Read more about the environmental management of our operations on page 88. Greening our IT YNAP’s new buildings Our focus on technology allows us to invest in green IT to lower the are sustainable environmental impacts of our operations. We are working to make technology reduce our environmental impacts in two ways. Our new In-Season hub in Milan will be a benchmark for the Group’s First, we are enabling smarter, more flexible ways to work, focusing on environmental commitment and showcases the ways in which we are internal collaboration and mobility which boosts the need for employees to seeking to reduce our impacts. work together across locations. In light of this, we are upgrading our video conferencing systems worldwide, working in partnership with Cisco Systems Our new warehouse in Milan, will serve as the global distribution centre for to revamp 130 meeting rooms. In-Season operations. The new facility, which will start operating in 2017, will be a key piece of the omni-stock logistics network. Second, we are adopting best technologies for data centres and server farms, for use in-house and when working with suppliers. We have reduced the The warehouse will use a data-driven inventory management system size and energy use of our servers by using blade technology from Hewlett to replenish local distribution centres around the globe. Through a full Packard Enterprises, whose Design for Environment programme focuses on deployment of radio-frequency identification (RFID) tagging we will be able energy efficiency and offers advantages in terms of materials and service to track every item in each stage of the distribution channel. models that reduce impacts and increase longevity. We are working towards achieving certification under the Building Research In Italy, we use a BT data centre in Milan that assures business continuity for Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) with an our front-end systems – even in extreme cases such as earthquakes – and also “excellent” rating level (the second highest out of five). boasts a cooling system that draws on the water table to reduce energy use by 50%. An integrated building management system (BMS) will monitor electricity use, lighting, temperature control and humidity. For the storage and retrieval We also use a green data centre owned by Acantho (part of Gruppo Hera) of goods, automated shuttle systems have energy recovery features. To in Imola, Italy, which reduces energy consumption and emissions compared prevent fires here and at our logistics facility in Bologna, electrical equipment with traditional centres thanks to free cooling (drawing directly on outside air) will be used to modify the nitrogen-to-oxygen ratio in the air, preventing the and a natural-gas powered trigeneration system to supply both electricity and combustion process. cooling. 70 71 MAKING A DIFFERENCE IN OUR COMMUNITIES We support wider communities and empower them to take positive action. As a Group, we are working to create long-term partnerships with charities and NGOs as part of our sustainability priorities. Our brands also work with charitable organisations, embracing causes that are important to our customers. We also listen to our own employees about the causes they believe in and enable them to take action by donating or getting involved directly. Women are a big focus for our community action. You can read more about what we’ve done in the “Empowering Women” chapter. In 2016 overall we supported more than 20 charity and social initiatives around a range of themes. Health awareness MR PORTER sold blue shirts as part of its Father and Son Day initiative, which encourages men to talk openly about themselves, their body and serious illnesses, and donated the proceeds to The Royal Marsden cancer research and treatment centre in the UK. We were also active in supporting the White Ribbon Alliance, Maggie’s Cancer Caring Centre and The Society of Memorial Sloan Kettering in New York. Promoting craftsmanship and talent During 2016 Milan Design Week, YNAP partnered with Fondazione Cologni dei Mestieri and Living Corriere della Sera in presenting “Doppia Firma”, an Social inclusion experimental project bringing together design innovation with the traditions of great Italian artists. Other collaborations saw Vogue Italia and YOOX Young people from the San Patrignano rehabilitation community in Italy confirm their support for the sixth edition of The Next Talents, during Milan’s created a collection of bags in the minimalistic style of the luxury fashion Fall/Winter Fashion Week; the creation of an exclusive capsule collection for label, Marni, which were available for sale on YOOX, with the proceeds going YOOX by Studio 189, the ethical fashion brand co-founded by actress and directly to the community. We were also involved in supporting the Wrap philanthropist Rosario Dawson and fashion expert Abrima Erwiah; and NET-AUp London Charity Coat Drive, the Salvation Army Present Appeal and the PORTER’s fundraising support for Design Trust, which helps creative projects Circolo San Pietro. that develop expertise, build research initiatives and content related to Hong Kong and the Greater Pearl River Delta Region. Emergency relief and environmental causes In collaboration with YOOX, 20 fashion designers including Simone Rocha and Marco De Vincenzo, teamed up with Mattel to create a new line of Barbie dolls with proceeds going to the rebuilding of a historical building destroyed by the earthquake in Arquata del Tronto, Italy, in August 2016. YOOXYGEN also continued its long-term support of Green Cross International. 72 73 PART TWO: DISCLOSURES ON SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 74 75 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE With the publication of the 2016 Sustainability Report (hereinafter also the “report”), YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP (hereinafter also the “Group”, “YNAP Group” or “YNAP”) is providing its first disclosures on its commitments, activities and performance in economic, social and environmental spheres. The YNAP Sustainability Report, which will be published annually, meets “In Accordance – Core” application level of Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 (GRI G4) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which currently represent the leading international standard for sustainability reporting. The sections ‘General Standard Disclosures’, ‘Specific Standard Disclosures’ and ‘How we approach our material topics’ constitute also the GRI Content Index. This 2016 Sustainability Report was subject to an assurance activity by independent auditors KPMG S.p.A. (whose report is included at the end of the document). The data and information in the report refer to the year ending 31 December 2016 and, apart from exceptions indicated in the individual sections, the reporting scope is the same as for the Annual Report 2016. Data exceptions where indicated in the individual sections are due to data unavailability as a result of change management processes in the data collection. YNAP is committed to progressively report omitted data from next reporting year. All economic and financial data included in this Sustainability Report originate from the Annual Report 2016. The content of the Report was determined through a materiality analysis based on the results of internal and external engagement activities with relevant YNAP stakeholders (see the “Stakeholder engagement” section). The results of the materiality process are reported in the “The issues that matter” section. The Group is committed to further dialogue and stakeholder involvement on sustainability topics. In addition, the Group is committed to enhancing the reporting of material topics in future reporting years. Since this is the first reporting year for YNAP Group, the 2016 data comparisons with the two previous years are not included. The figures were calculated using the best methods available, which are indicated alongside individual GRI indicators where applicable; in some cases, specified by a note, data were estimated. 77 GENERAL STANDARD G4-10 Number of employees DIS CLOSURES A total of 96% of employees have permanent contracts, underscoring YNAP’s wish to ensure and strengthen job stability Employees and internships and to invest in human capital with a long-term perspective. The by geographical area percentage of employees engaged under permanent contract Strategy and analysis in Italy was 93%. Junior positions are commonly filled by people who join the 1% 4% company through internships: in 2016, 179 internships were 1% 26% G4-1 undertaken (58 were ongoing at year-end). YNAP choses 24% Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the promising graduates from leading universities internationally to organisation join the YNAP Graduate Programme. This 18-month programme of work and learning provides professional skills in the realm   See: “Our commitment to creating a sustainable future: message from Federico of fashion e-commerce alongside an overview of the whole Marchetti” organisation. In 2016, the company hired 16 people through its Organisational profile Graduate Programme, joining the technology team in London and Bologna. To allow for a balance between work and private life, YNAP G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8 provides annual part-time work plans to employees who ask for Name of organisation, brands and services, location, countries them. In 2016, 147 employees worked on part-time contracts, 44% of operation, legal form and markets served 69% of them women. As a global organization we accommodate   See: “Who we are” and “Our global operations” and “Report on Corporate flexible working requests. Working remotely is a practice across   Governance and Ownership Structure” in the Annual Report 2016 YNAP Group. Employees at our Italian locations can ask for Italy China supplementary agreements to modify their contracts into teleUK G4-9 working agreements: 32 people took up this option in 2016. In Japan Scale of the organisation these cases, priority is given to employees on maternity leave or US Hong Kong with particular family circumstances. Total number of employees Our staff is drawn from a broad range of geographical Note: YNAP has a total of 4,128 employees, of whom 61% are women. Trend of the total number backgrounds, with over 75 nationalities represented in our 8 Employees based in France and Spain are There was an increase of 6% in the number of employees from 2015. of employees local offices. Most are based in the UK (44%), Italy (26%) and the excluded US (24%).   More information on ‘HR composition’ under G4-10 2016 4,128 Total number of operations EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT The Group operates through 8 local offices, 7 distribution centres 2015 3,901 MALE FEMALE TOTAL (of which 3 are automatized) and 8 digital production centres. CONTRACT AND GENDER (No.) Net revenues Permanent contract 1,576 2,401 3,977 Full-year net revenues in 2016 were Euro 1,871 million, up 17.7% on an organic basis Fixed term or temporary contract 40 111 151 (+12.4% reported). Total 1,616 2,512 4,128   More information on financial performance can be found in the Annual Report 2016. Total capitalisation Market capitalisation as at 31 December 2016 was Euro 3.6 billion. PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT MALE FEMALE TOTAL Quantity of products or services provided TYPE AND GENDER (No.) In 2016, the average number of monthly unique visitors to YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP’s Full-time employees 1,531 2,298 3,829 online stores increased to 28.8 million compared with 26.7 million in 2015. The number of orders grew to 8.4 million, up 18.2% on the previous year, with an Average Order Value Part-time employees 45 103 148 (AOV) excluding VAT of Euro 334, compared with Euro 352 in 2015, mainly reflecting Total 1,576 2,401 3,977 unfavourable exchange rate movements. Active customers increased to 2.9 million at 31 December 2016 compared with 2.5 million at 31 December 2015.   See: “Who we are” 78 79 management processes on supplier management systems and applications were put in EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHICAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL place in 2016. This will allow to report in 2017 the “percentage of the procurement budget AREA AND GENDER (No.) used for significant locations of operation spent on suppliers local to that operation”. UK 634 1,174 1,808 As a large global organisation, YNAP has many other indirect suppliers, which relate to general business operations. These include – but are not limited to – transport, editorial, Italy 508 558 1,066 customer care, marketing, office management and technology. YNAP implemented an Indirect Procurement Portal in 2016. The Portal has been rolled out across the Group in US 394 622 1,016 January 2017 and represents the main point of contact between YNAP and its indirect Hong Kong 60 115 175 suppliers. The portal increases innovation and transparency in negotiations while simplifying the purchasing process and relationships with suppliers. Indirect suppliers are China 11 19 30 enrolled onto the Portal on an ongoing basis. More than 1,000 have already been enrolled and assessment on environmental, human rights, labor practices and impact on society is in Japan 8 20 28 progress. YNAP will provide additional information on assessments’ results in 2017. France 3 3 All indirect suppliers undertake an accreditation process to collect relevant corporate, Spain 1 1 2 commercial, labour, occupational health and safety, environmental and legal information in accordance with the strategic nature, materiality and risk inherent in each supply/ Total 1,616 2,512 4,128 counterparty. The accreditation process requires suppliers to acknowledge the principles of the YNAP Code of Ethics, the Organisational Model pursuant to the Italian Legislative Notes: Decree 231 of 2001 (hereinafter also referred to as “Model 231”) and the International For this first reporting period, it was not possible to report data on ‘total workforce by employees and supervised Social Accountability Standard SA8000. YNAP furthermore reserves the right to undertake workers and by gender’ and on ‘significant variations in employment numbers’. The information on ‘supervised third-party audits on an increasing number of strategic suppliers or on those for which workers’ and ‘significant variations in employment numbers’ is currently unavailable. YNAP is identifying critical aspects were identified during the accreditation process. improvements in its data collection process to allow the reporting of this data in the future. Considering the nature of YNAP’s business, there are natural variations in staff levels in the course of the year, in In the period 2015-2016, YNAP carried out audits that focused on its private label suppliers, particular at our distribution centres during the Christmas period as the number of orders rises. with a total of 35 audits out of a total of 65 such suppliers. Based on audits’ results no risks have been identified for incidents of child labor and young workers exposed to hazardous work and for incidents of forced or compulsory labor. In 2017, a further 15 audits and 5 followG4-11 ups have been planned based on the audits carried out in 2015-2016. During 2015 YNAP Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements introduced a monitoring plan for private label suppliers with regards specifically to chemical In Italy, the collective bargaining contract for the company’s sector covers all employees safety, in line with the rules and regulations in force in its key markets (e.g. REACH, CPSC, Gb except for managers, who are covered by the collective contract for managers. This Standard, etc.). During the audit process, suppliers are given the opportunity to discuss the indicator is not applicable for other regions of the Group, where collective bargaining process with highly qualified auditors who provide a professional opinion that, if necessary, agreements are not in place. aims to set in place an improvement plan, which YNAP undertakes to monitor over time. G4-12 G4-13 Organisation’s supply chain Significant changes to the organisation’s size, structure, The Group is committed to ensuring that work conditions in its supply chain are safe, ownership or supply chain workers are treated with respect and dignity, manufacturing processes are ethically and environmentally responsible and the conduct of its business is based on principles of YNAP Corporation integrity, honesty and fairness. The prevention of child and forced labour, harsh treatment YOOX Corporation merged with Net-a-Porter Group LLC with effect on the 1 October and harassment as well as principles of Freedom of Association and Non-Discrimination 2016. The merged company changed its name to YNAP Corporation and registered its are key elements of the Supplier Code of Conduct, which is modelled on the Universal headquarter in Delaware, USA. YNAP Corporation is currently owned by The Net-A-Porter Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization (ILO). Group Limited (70.8%) and by YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP S.p.A. (29.2%). The ‘YNAP Modern Slavery Statement’ provides further information on policies and contractual terms currently used with suppliers. The document also explains the approach Joint Venture with Alabbar to audit and risk assessment activities, and sets out future commitments. In November 2016, YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP and Symphony, an entity controlled by   The ’YNAP Modern slavery statement’ can be found online at www.ynap.com Alabbar, partnered in a joint venture to create the Middle East’s leader for online luxury retail. YOOX is served by an international portfolio of 2,284 direct suppliers, including 65 The joint venture, 60% controlled by YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP, will operate in the suppliers for its private labels. There are 2,586 direct suppliers working for NET-A-PORTER, Gulf Cooperation Council countries (“GCC”) and manage all the Group’s existing multiMR PORTER and THE OUTNET. Through its supply chain choices, YNAP contributes to brand online stores in the region as well as, in agreement with the Brands, select existing the economic growth of its local areas. For YOOX, 82% of suppliers are Italian and 14% and future Online Flagship Stores with significant business potential in the Middle East. from other European countries. For NET-A-PORTER, MR PORTER and THE OUTNET, The joint venture will establish on-the-ground operations to provide the Middle Eastern 30% of suppliers are in the UK, 36% in the US and 17% are from Italy and France. Change luxury customer with a fully localised offer, which will allow YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP to accelerate its growth in the region. 80 81 This joint venture strengthened an existing relationship that was forged when Mohamed G4-16 Alabbar became a strategic shareholder in YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP through the Memberships of associations and national or international subscription of a €100 million capital increase in April 2016. advocacy organisations In 2016 YNAP became a member of Walpole, an alliance of 170 British luxury brands. G4-14 Membership provides YNAP with networking opportunities, knowledge sharing within our Precautionary approach industry and potential for business collaborations. YNAP will also work closely with Walpole In Italy and Japan, YNAP operates under an Occupational Health & Safety Integrated to nurture new talent and drive growth in the UK luxury marketplace. In the spirit of our Management System compliant with British Standard OHSAS 18001:2007 and the UNI EN Anglo-Italian roots, this British alliance complements our partnership with Altagamma ISO 14001:2004 standard. For our Italian sites, audits were carried out in 2016 with a view Foundation in Italy, which supports companies excelling in the sectors that best represent to maintaining certification as well as internal audits for legislative compliance and on the Italian quality in products and services. YNAP is the first “digital” company to join the environmental management system. association. The goal for 2017 for our Italian sites is to obtain ISO 50001 certification of the Energy The Sustainable Development Goals were announced in September 2015 by the United Management System. Nations as part of “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” to guarantee human rights for all, gender equality and the empowerment of all women and For US and UK sites, the specialised audit firm DNV GL has carried out audits on compliance girls. They are integrated and indivisible, and balance the three dimensions of sustainable with environmental, health and safety regulations and a gap analysis against the OHSAS development: the economic, social and environmental. YNAP seeks to contribute to 18001:2007 and 14001:2004 standards. achieving the SDGs, recognizing their importance to its business and aligning its projects The Model 231 aims to prevent specific types of crime that could be committed by and initiatives. employees and/or collaborators in the interest of or to the advantage of the company.   More information on ‘precautionary approach’ under G4-56 Material aspects and boundaries G4-15 Economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other G4-17 initiatives Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents YNAP Group adheres to the ten principles of the Global Compact, the United Nations programme promoting sustainable corporate growth. The 2016 Sustainability Report   See: “Methodological note” represents the Group’s Communication on Progress (COP). G4-18 YNAP confirms its commitment to guide its strategic vision, corporate culture and daily Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries operations in respect of human and labour rights, protection of the environment and the   See: “Our approach”, “Methodological note” and “How we approach our material fight against corruption. topics” The ten principles of the Global Compact are universally shared and derive from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration, the Rio Declaration and the G4-19 United Nations Convention against Corruption. Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content YNAP is a member of RE100, an international programme for increasing corporate demand for renewable energy. It encourages member companies to achieve 100% energy use from   See: “The issues that matter” renewable sources by 2020. In 2016, 35% of YNAP energy consumption came from lowcarbon sources. G4-20, G4-21 Boundaries within and outside the organisation Through the certification of NET-A-PORTER, YNAP adheres to the Responsible Jewellery   See: “How we approach our material topics” Council (RJC), an international initiative for responsible sourcing in the jewellery sector. The objective for 2017 is to extend the certification to the YNAP Group. G4-22, G4-23 In 2016 YNAP renewed its membership of Parks – Liberi e Uguali, a non-profit organisation Restatements of information and significant changes in scope helping partner companies to develop corporate strategies and good practices that and boundaries respect diversity, with a particular focus on LGBT inclusion. There are no restatements or significant changes in the scope and topic boundaries because this is the first reporting year for YNAP Group. Stakeholder engagement G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Stakeholder groups identified and engaged; approach to engagement and key topics and concerns raised   See: “Stakeholder engagement” and “Methodological note” 82 83 Report profile Lead Independent Director The Board of Directors on 30 April 2015 nominated a Lead Independent Director to represent and co-ordinate the point of view of non-executive and especially independent G4-28, G4-29, G4-30 Reporting period, date of previous report directors. The Lead Independent Director must have sufficient expertise in accounting and and reporting cycle finance, acts as chairman of the Compensation Committee and sits on the Committee on   See: “Methodological note” Related Party Transactions.   See: www.ynap.com (Home > Governance), the Annual Report 2016, the Report on G4-31 Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure 2016 and “Sustainability in our Contact point for questions regarding the report business” section of “Our approach” Sustainability team of YNAP Group at sustainability@ynap.com Ethics and integrity G4-32, G4-33 “In accordance” option and external assurance   See: “Methodological note” and “Independent assurance report” G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour Governance YNAP’s values and the Code of Ethics together represent the guiding principles and guidelines for the behaviour that the Group, from the Board of Directors down, expects to maintain with regards to its stakeholders. At YNAP there is widespread awareness that G4-34 ethical business conduct is the basis for the Group’s success both in economic terms and Governance structure of the organisation for its credibility. YNAP S.p.A. adopted the principles and criteria recommended by the July 2015 version The corporate values – Young at Heart, Nimble, Authentic People – reflect a common of the Italian Stock Exchange’s Corporate Governance Code. YNAP Group has adopted Group culture and the way we wish to work together as a global team in the future. The a traditional management and control model (pursuant to Articles 2380-bis et seq. of the values will be communicated through the Group in 2017 based on the creative concept Italian Civil Code) based around the Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of Directors, Board of that came out of the ‘Imagining YNAP’ competition in Summer 2016 ( See: “How we Statutory Auditors and External Auditors. are building our company culture”). The current Board of Directors has 11 members: seven directors are independent (64% YNAP’s Group values also underpin the Internal Control System and are applied in all of directors) and three are female (27%), fulfilling the requirements of independence and aspects of its regulatory and compliance model. gender balance set by existing provisions and regulations. The current board will remain in office until the shareholders’ meeting called to approve financial results for the year YNAP intends to further elaborate its Code of Ethics in two documents to better involve all ending 31 December 2017. stakeholders in its application: an Employee Code of Conduct and a Supplier Code of Conduct. The latter will be applicable to all multi-brand online store suppliers and modelled The board has nominated four internal committees, all made up of members of the Board on conventions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour of Directors: Organization (ILO), which established international human and labour rights. This will • Appointment Committee: comprised of three non-executive directors, the committee complement requirements made upon indirect suppliers ( See: G4-12 Organisation’s is responsible for ensuring a transparent nomination process that respects the balance supply chain). of the board. YNAP adopted its Model 231 in 2009 to prevent offences defined in Italian Legislative • Compensation Committee: comprised of three non-executive, independent directors, Decree 231/2001 and subsequent amendments. Legislative Decree 231/2001 provides for this advisory body has the main duty of submitting proposals to the Board of Directors a direct liability of legal entities, companies and associations for certain crimes committed regarding the compensation of the CEO and of directors holding specific positions as by their representatives. The Board of Directors resolved to update the Model in light of well as the criteria guiding the compensation of managers with strategic responsibilities. amendments to regulations, case law and internal organisational changes on 16 December 2010, 31 July 2013. • Control and Risk Committee: comprised of three non-executive, independent directors, The Code of Ethics is an integral part of the Model 231 by outlining the ethical principles the committee is responsible for defining the guidelines for the internal control and risk and conduct that should be followed by employees and anyone else who works with or management system and periodically assessing the system’s suitability, efficiency and for the company. Compliance with the Code of Ethics and with Model 231 is monitored functionality. The committee’s scope is being expanded in 2017 to include sustainability by the Group’s Internal Audit department, which carries out checks on relevant company topics and the way they relate to YNAP’s internal control and risk management system. areas and processes. As required as part of the Model 231 legislation, a Supervisory Body • Committee on Related Party Transactions: comprised of three independent ensures the effective and consistent implementation of the Model. This Body has three directors, the committee has all the duties described in the Procedure on Related Party members, two external members and one internal member (Head of Internal Audit). Transactions. 84 85 YNAP is committed to aligning its strategic vision, corporate culture, daily operations and supply chains with respect to human rights across its value chain. The Group has established SPECIFIC STANDARD the following policies: • Policy on Social Accountability: the policy and the adoption of the Social Accountability DIS CLOSURES Standard SA8000 comply with principles and requirements on labour rights and workplace conditions. Compliance is achieved through two specific procedures: ‘Remedy for child and minor labour’ and ‘Management of concerns’. • Whistleblowing Policy: this deals with all types of concerns regarding suspected or alleged violations by YNAP Group management, members of corporate bodies, Economic employees or third parties with specific regard to the principles and requirements ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE outlined in the Code of Ethics, Anti-Corruption Compliance Programme, Model 231 and the SA8000 management system. G4-EC1 Mandatory training materials are made available to all Italian employees on Model 231 and Direct economic value generated and distributed Social Accountability Standard SA8000. YNAP is updating the training modules to take into The values below give an indication of the Group’s ability to create wealth and distribute consideration the current updates on Model 231 and the SA8000:2014 standard. it to its various stakeholders. In accordance with GRI guidelines, the statement below distinguishes between three types of economic value: generated, distributed and retained. These responsibilities and commitments are reinforced by the Group’s membership of the Global Compact ( More information on Global Compact under G4-15) and will report total number of training hours and percentage of employees trained in 2017. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED During the reporting period, there have been no grievances filed with the company with (EURO THOUSANDS) regards to human rights or its impact on society. As regards labour practices, 31 grievances were filed in the UK, where a formal grievance policy is in place. All of these either resulted Economic value generated by the Group 1,941,924 in no action being taken or were not upheld or were partially upheld (2 grievances were open at the end of 2016). The number of grievances filed in the US in 2016 was 5. All of these Revenue 1,870,706 either resulted in no action taken or were partially upheld. There was no grievance case in Other income 70,954 APAC in 2016. In Italy 9 concerns were raised through the “speak up” line in place as part of the application of Social Accountability Standard SA8000. The Social Performance Team, Financial income 1,299 composed of employee representatives of all sites certified under the standard, met three Value adjustments to financial assets 371 times in 2016. YNAP replied openly to all the concerns raised via the company intranet. Furthermore, in line with recent revisions to the Italian Stock Exchange Corporate Write-down of receivables Governance Code and international best practice, the Group has defined the prerequisites Exchange rate differences (1,406) and methodology for the implementation of an integrated compliance model. This was done to create a dynamic and integrated approach to risk management at a Group level, Economic value distributed by the Group (1,815,711) one that enables YNAP to identify emerging risks in a timely manner and guarantee the Operating costs (1,544,944) right set of information is used to support decision-making.   See: Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure 2016 Employee compensation (251,820) Payments to lenders (3,733) Payments to investors Payments to government authorities (1) (15,068) Gifts to third parties (146) Economic value retained by the Group 126,213 Depreciation and amortizations (91,170) Provisions (1,113) Reserves (2) 33,930 (1) Payments to government authorities includes differed taxes (2) For 2016 the amount was estimated based on the proposed allocation of profit 86 87 MARKET PRESENCE CONSUMPTION OF PAPER G4-EC6 (TONS) Proportion of senior management hired from the local community YNAP has a significant proportion of its senior management drawn from its main A4 paper 21 geographical locations. The business model ensures the Group remains close to its A3 paper 2 customer base through careful understanding of customer needs and by localising its services. At Group level, 83% of senior management, including executives, were drawn Paper consumption for ‘Porter Magazine’ and ‘MR PORTER Post’ 2,116 from local communities (countries where we operate with corporate offices or distribution Total 2,139 centres). The figure is 94% for Italian operations, 78% for the UK, 75% for the US, 100% in Japan and 20% in Hong Kong. Notes: Paper consumption by YNAP Corporation, Mi Shang Trading Co. Ltd, YOOX Japan KK, YOOX Asia Ltd, The NETPROCUREMENT PRACTICES A-PORTER Group China Limited, The NET-A-PORTER Group Asia Pacific Limited is excluded from the reporting scope. G4-EC9 Paper consumption for offices is either FSC or ECOLABEL/PEFC. Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations All paper for ‘Porter Magazine’ and ‘MR PORTERT Post’ is either PEFC or FSC certified. In the case of Cyclus of operation Offset 100% recycled (2% of total paper consumptions for magazines) from post-consumer waste.   See: G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain ENERGY G4-EN3 Environment Energy consumption within the organisation YNAP is committed to reducing its energy use and maximising energy efficiency and savings. MATERIALS Heating/cooling and lighting of its plants and buildings represent its main energy consumption. YNAP defines its management approach of these aspects as part of its G4-EN1 Environmental Management System, adopted by the Group since 2013 and certified Materials used according to the ISO 14001:2004 standard in Italy and Japan. The Group is working towards YNAP purchases paper and cardboard according to environmental sustainability criteria extending the certification also to UK and US facilities. as part of its procurement approach. The main use of paper is for publication of ‘Porter Furthermore, the Group is installing a Building Management System to monitor the energy Magazine’ and ‘MR PORTER Post’. The main use of cardboard is for packaging products consumption, lighting network and the control of both temperature and humidity of for shipping to customers. Change management processes on systems and applications buildings. were put in place in 2016 and will allow the reporting of additional materials used by YNAP (mainly plastic and polyester) in 2017. As required by Italian law, YNAP undertook an energy diagnosis in 2015 to analyse its consumption and identify possible improvements to its energy performance. The Group   See: “We are delivering sustainable packaging” is currently working on a number of energy saving initiatives with a view to achieving environmental as well as financial benefits. The initiatives range from raising awareness about good practices internally to investment in environmentally friendly technical solutions. CONSUMPTION OF CARDBOARD (TONS) In 2016, YNAP finished installing LED lighting systems, sensors and dimmers at our offices in Zola Predosa (Bologna) and Milan and upgraded the server room at Zola Predosa. The Cardboard for deliveries 4,060 server farm at the Interporto warehouse 15.1 (Bologna) was fitted with a so-called freecooling system (using outside air and ground water for cooling). Further actions are planned Notes: for 2017, including a Building Management System (BMS) to optimise air conditioning Cardboard consumption by Mi Shang Trading Co. Ltd, YOOX Japan KK, YOOX Asia Ltd is excluded from the systems. At Italian locations, YNAP is also in discussions with landowners and energy reporting scope. suppliers to increase the amount of energy use from renewable sources. Data relating to cardboard for deliveries was estimated based on the number of boxes used for deliveries In the US, energy audits have been carried out for Distribution Center 2 (DC2). LED lighting (including, where applicable, stickers, shopping bags and delivery notes) of all multi-brand online stores (inseason and off-season), for Online Flagship Stores as well as for deliveries to peripheral warehouse. Inner boxes has been installed at the warehouse’s car parks and will be extended to offices and other were included only when directly sourced by YNAP. spaces at DC2 in 2017. Similar actions are planned for 2017 at DC3 in Hong Kong. New locations – such as the Tech Hub in London and new Milan warehouse – are also planned with efficient use of energy in mind.   See: “New Tech Hub: White City, London” and “YNAP’s new buildings are sustainable” 88 89 These are key focus areas for YNAP and a number of projects are underway to reduce ENERGY CONSUMPTION – NATURAL GAS emissions from commuting and shipping, for example: (CUBIC METRES) • The Mobility Management programme aims to optimise travel to and from work and Natural gas (consumption for heat) 338,702 improve employees’ quality of life. YNAP’s Commute Plan looks at ways to promote carpooling and car sharing and improve corporate travel (hybrid company shuttle service Note: or leasing fleet, Bluemotion technology for cleaner engines). Natural gas use refers to those locations where it is used for heating: YNAP S.p.A. (Milan; Zola Predosa; Interporto); • YNAP is active in zoning and routing system optimization, projects that aim to efficiently NET-A-PORTER Group Ltd (DC1); YNAP Corporation (DC2, Clifton). manage deliveries, optimizing routes and, consequently, reducing trips and fuel consumption. • YNAP encourages remote working, as it reduces travel for its employees. It provides ENERGY CONSUMPTION – ELECTRICITY technological facilities to employees working remotely, enabling them to participate in (KWH) video conferences, web meetings, etc. Total electricity purchased 20,982,856 • YNAP participates in DHL’s GOGREEN programme, measuring and reducing its carbon footprint and offsetting emissions through investments in climate protection projects. of which: The collaboration focuses on only a portion of the shipping DHL does for the Group, in particular the items that are sent intra-group between distribution centres in Bologna from renewable sources 7,329,542 and Hong Kong. The Group is evaluating whether to extend the initiative. DHL runs the form non-renewable sources 13,653,314 programme on its international air freight service and calculates emissions based on the exact weight of packages and the distance covered. Through the DHL GOGREEN Note: program it was possible to achieve a reduction of 3,040 tons of CO2 equivalent in 2016. Energy consumption for NET-A-PORTER Group Ltd.’s Network House location is for the period July-December 2016. Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Scope 1 includes all direct emissions of greenhouse gases. In the case of YNAP, these are WATER CO2 emissions generated by the consumption of natural gas for heating and from its own vehicle fleet. G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Emissions from vehicles refer to the company’s electric hybrid fleet of cars that are assigned to senior management and a limited number of pool cars that can be used by all employees YNAP ensures the responsible daily management of water consumption across its facilities, at our Italian locations. Total emissions from business travel were 179 tons of CO2 in 2016. even though it accounts for a small part of its environmental impact. Emissions in 2016 from the Premier Delivery service in London, Manhattan, Connecticut Group’s water comes from municipal water mains and the majority use is for hygiene and and Hong Kong – carried out with a fleet of 59 vans owned by YNAP – were 688 tons of sanitation purposes. CO2 in 2016. Note: CONSUMPTION OF WATER Source for calculation method: ‘Greenhouse gas reporting – Conversion factors 2016’ – Department for Business, (CUBIC METRES) Energy & Industrial Strategy (UK) – 2.65464 kg CO2 /litres (diesel); 2.18614 kg CO2 /litres (petrol). Water for ordinary consumption 26,408 The following table presents emissions from use of natural gas. Note: Water consumption of Mi Shang Trading Co. Ltd, YOOX Japan KK, YOOX Asia Ltd, The NET-A-PORTER Group China Limited, YNAP Corporation for Manhattan Office, The NET-A-PORTER Group Asia Pacific Limited for HK Office and the NET-A-PORTER Group Ltd for DC1 and Network House is excluded from the reporting scope 2016. TOTAL DIRECT EMISSIONS (TONS OF CO2) EMISSIONS Natural gas (consumption for heat) 686 G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17 Note: Direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions The data is based on direct energy consumption reported in the ‘Energy consumption – natural gas’ table. CO2 emissions were calculated using the coefficient of 2.02 kg CO2 per cubic metre of natural gas. (Source: ‘Greenhouse YNAP is committed to measuring its carbon footprint to understand the impact of its gas reporting – Conversion factors 2016’ – Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (UK). business and find ways to reduce both direct and indirect impacts. To this end, the Group puts measures in place to improve energy efficiency. For instance, as a member of RE100, the Group is 100% committed to renewable energy by 2020. 90 91 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Scope 2 covers CO2 emissions generated by the purchase of electricity. Scope 3 includes emissions that, despite being connected with the Group’s core business, In accordance with the new version of “GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance – An amendment are not directly controlled by YNAP. to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard”, YNAP has calculated Scope 2 emissions using Emissions from electricity consumption by strategic partners the dual reporting approach based on the following methodologies: YNAP, in partnership with strategic suppliers at its Interporto warehouse (Bologna), is • Location-based method: emissions are calculated based on average emission factors starting to report on GHG emissions deriving from their energy consumption for activities for national electricity networks that the Group uses. carried out on behalf of YNAP. • Market-based method: emissions are calculated based on emission factors defined in contracts with electricity suppliers. For YNAP’s first report, in the absence of specific TOTAL INDIRECT EMISSIONS DERIVING FROM contractual information under the ‘Quality criteria’ of the GHG Protocol, YNAP has used emission factors of the ‘residual mix’ for emissions linked to non-renewable electricity CONSUMPTION OF STRATEGIC PROVIDERS supplies at its UK and Italian facilities. As for renewable supplies at these facilities, the (TONS OF CO2) application of GO Certificates has offset these emissions (more than 2,600 tons of CO2). Electricity purchased 923 For all other locations, national average figures have been used. YNAP is committed to improving its methodology for ‘market-based’ calculation by working with its energy Note: suppliers to identify specific emission factors. Emissions have been calculated based on electricity consumption in those parts of the Interporto warehouse that are managed by YNAP’s strategic suppliers. The following coefficient has been used: Italy (0.39899 kg CO2 /kWh). Source: ‘Greenhouse gas reporting Conversion factors 2015’ Department of Energy & Climate Change (UK) LOCATION-BASED METHOD Emissions from deliveries TOTAL INDIRECT EMISSIONS YNAP is monitoring and reporting on its 2016 environmental impacts linked to shipments to (TONS OF CO2) the final customer, a factor that represents its main source of indirect emissions. Emissions generated by YNAP’s main suppliers for this service (UPS and DHL) were 55,084 tons of Electricity purchased 9,778 CO2 equivalent, coming from more than 9 million shipments to final customers and YNAP’s Notes: regional distribution centres. The figure has been estimated based on data in the ‘Energy consumption – electricity’ table. Emissions have been calculated with the following coefficients: Italy (0.39899 kg CO2/kWh); UK (0.40957 kg CO2 /kWh); Environmental impact of employee travel US (0.49845 kg CO2 /kWh); Japan (0.52941 kg CO2 /kWh); Hong Kong and China (0.76969 kg CO2 /kWh). Environmental impacts arising from employee travel at YNAP are mostly linked to emissions Sources: for Italy, US, Japan, Hong Kong and China: ‘Greenhouse gas reporting – Conversion factors 2015’ – from air travel. The impact of rail travel is limited. This is due to the Group’s international Department of Energy & Climate Change (UK); for the UK: ‘Greenhouse gas reporting – Conversion factors 2016’ – Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (UK). presence and the need for travel arising from the merger process. The Group is working to develop a corporate culture that encourages video-conferencing and that will progressively increase tele-working. MARKET-BASED METHOD There is an additional impact from use of personal vehicles for business purposes. In future, the Group intends to extend its reporting activities to cover these emissions too. Through TOTAL INDIRECT EMISSIONS the Jojob carpooling initiative, the company has saved about 2 tons of CO2 emissions from (TONS OF CO2) 605 journeys totalling over 16,000 km. Electricity purchased 7,135 TOTAL INDIRECT EMISSIONS FROM BUSINESS TRAVEL Notes: (TONS OF CO2E) The figure has been estimated based on data in the ‘Energy consumption – electricity’ table. CO2 emissions from electricity purchases have been calculated based only on energy consumption from nonAir travel 2,547 renewable sources. Rail travel 31 Emissions have been calculated with the following coefficients: US (0.49845 kg CO2 /kWh); Japan (0.52941 kg CO2 /kWh); Hong Kong and China (0.76969 kg CO2 /kWh). Source: ‘Greenhouse gas reporting – Conversion factors 2015’ – Department of Energy & Climate Change (UK). Note: Emission factors for the residual mix were used for Italy (0.43459 kg CO2 /kWh) and the UK (0.48284 kg CO2 /kWh). Indirect emissions from business travel were calculated based on kilometres travelled by air and train, as provided Source: ‘European Residual Mixes 2015 – Association of issuing Bodies. Version 1.0, May 2016’. by travel agencies working for YNAP. For calculating CO2 equivalent emissions from air travel, conversion factors were used to cover the different categories (‘domestic’, ‘short haul’ e ‘long haul’); for rail travel, ‘international rail’ conversion factors were used to calculate emissions. Source: ‘Greenhouse gas reporting – Conversion factors 2016’ – Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (UK). 92 93 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Social – Labour practices   See: G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17 Direct and indirect GHG emissions and decent work EFFLUENTS AND WASTE EMPLOYMENT G4-EN23 G4-LA1 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method New employee hires and employee turnover Waste at YNAP mostly relates to packaging and office materials. The Group raises The reporting period 2016 coincided with the initial phase of integration following awareness among employees by equipping offices with bins and containers for correct the merger of YOOX GROUP and the NET-A-PORTER GROUP in late 2015. Employee waste disposal. Furthermore, it promotes the recycling and re-use of electronic and IT numbers in the period were particularly influenced by this process, which represented an equipment. For example, PCs, mobile phones and other items are donated to schools and extraordinary event in the context of rapid business growth. Furthermore, YNAP’s employee non-profit organisations. base is subject to greater variations because of the high representation of younger, more Of the 2,589 tons of waste generated in 2016, 64% came from paper and cardboard mobile employees (40% of employees at end-2016 were aged 30 or under). packaging as can be expected from the nature of YNAP’s business. Waste disposal method In this context, 1,136 employees joined the company in 2016 with 1,045 leaving, resulting has been determined based on information provided by the waste disposal contractors. A in a turnover rate of 25.3%. During the year, 63% of new hires were women and 64% were total of 86% of waste was recycled; the rest went in part to waste-to-energy plants (6%) and aged 30 or under. in part to landfill (8%). EMPLOYEES HIRED AND WHO LEFT MALE FEMALE TOTAL TYPE OF WASTE THE GROUP (No.) (TONS) Employees hired 416 720 1,136 Non-hazardous waste 2,586 Employees who left the Group 397 648 1,045 Paper and cardboard packaging 1,650 Plastic 72 EMPLOYEES HIRED AND WHO LEFT <30 30-40 41-50 >50 Wooden packaging / wood 200 THE GROUP BY AGE (No.) Other 664 Employees hired 722 319 60 35 Hazardous waste 3 Employees who left the Group 552 398 70 25 Total 2,589 Notes: EMPLOYEES HIRED Waste consumption of Mi Shang Trading Co. Ltd, YOOX Japan KK, YOOX Asia Ltd, The NET-A-PORTER Group AND WHO LEFT THE HONG ITALY UK US CHINA JAPAN TOTAL China Limited, YNAP Corporation for Clifton Distribution Center, The NET-A-PORTER Group Asia Pacific Limited for HK Office and NET-A-PORTER Group Ltd for Westfield (only confidential paper is reported) is excluded from GROUP BY REGION KONG the 2016 reporting scope. Data relating to the Italian offices do not include the quantities of waste managed (No.) through local municipal companies. Hazardous waste is mainly toner and electronic devices.The category ‘other’ includes the disposal of mixed Employees hired 254 495 310 13 6 58 1,136 recyclables packaging and metal and general waste. Employees 107 533 330 12 1 62 1,045 who left the Group SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN33 Environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken G4-LA2   See: G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain Benefits provided to full-time employees YNAP carefully considers the importance of employee welfare, conscious that providing social, health and wellness benefits is the best way to retain employees and build a highly committed workforce. During 2016 a welfare and wellbeing survey was conducted on a representative panel of employees at Italian locations. The survey was the first initiative of this kind for the company and will be expanded to include employees in other locations. The results have been used to define future actions to align the Group’s welfare offering to actual employee needs. The following examples are representative of the Group’s 94 95 approach to welfare and its main initiatives: INJURIES • YNAP recognises and awards its employees for their work and helps internal teams foster MALE FEMALE TOTAL (No.) relationships with one another through team-building initiatives and social activities. • YNAP supports mothers with flexi-hours programmes and tele-commuting. Italy (excluding injuries while commuting) 2 2 • The Group provides classes on yoga, meditation and dance; organises fun and UK 3 7 10 educational activities for the children of staff; runs health awareness campaigns and provides a direct assistance line to a psychologist to help support employees on workUS 22 16 38 related issues (stress, etc.). Hong Kong 1 1 YNAP cares about its employees and values the contribution that each one brings to the China organisation. YNAP believes in rewarding its employees for their efforts and dedication to work. According Japan to this vision, YNAP plans a welfare programme which provides exclusive incentives and Total 27 24 51 benefits for all employees for improving quality of life and well-being. The main benefits are: • Life insurance • Medical and hospitalisation benefits ABSENTEE DAYS DUE TO INJURIES MALE FEMALE TOTAL • Disability and invalidity coverage through the inclusion in the Group’s life and personal (DAYS) accident insurance policy • Parental, maternity & family care leave Italy 36 36 • Paid sick leave • Staff discount on the Group’s multi-brand online stores UK 46 382 428 • Initiatives encouraging a healthy and sustainable lifestyle (gym courses, healthy meals, etc.). US 120 118 238 Hong Kong 1 1 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Total 202 501 703 G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism Management of occupational health and safety is a priority for YNAP, which invests to TRAINING AND EDUCATION preventative action, training and raising awareness of good practices internally. G4-LA9 In order to comply with occupational health and safety legislation, particularly with regards Average hours of training to Legislative Decree 81/08, the Group has adopted for Italy and Japan an Occupational Health and Safety Management System compliant to BS OHSAS 18001:2007 and Employee learning and development are key to helping staff grow professionally. Through certified by qualified third parties. In addition, YNAP has adopted for Italy and Japan an the global development offer, employees can access a wide variety of learning instruments. Environmental Management System compliant to the UNI EN ISO 14001:2004, integrated A total of 25,265 hours of training were provided through the Learning & Development with the Occupational Health and Safety Management System, certified by qualified third team in 2016. Company departments also can organise specific training activities to meet parties. The Group is working towards extending this certifications to UK and US facilities their varying learning and development needs. In order to support employees in the as well. Operations team in 2016, about 29,000 hours of training were delivered (relative to DC2 In 2016, there were 51 injuries recorded resulting in a total of 703 absentee days. Our and DC3). This training on inbound and outbound processes and quality control served to US locations recorded a total number of 38 injuries. These were not serious injuries and ensure high service levels. each resulted in a limited number of absentee days. For this reason, there was no need to   More information on learning & development can be found in the ‘Education’ chapter implement corrective measures to the H&S Management System. No fatal accidents were recorded. Note: Total training hours include 4,300 hours of induction training for employees hired at UK and US locations that were Injuries occurring while commuting need only be recorded by relevant Italian regulations. estimated based on average training hours. YNAP is aligning its training data collection at Group level, which will At Italian locations, 16 such injuries were recorded, leading to 204 absentee days. There allow for reporting on average hours of training by gender and by employee category from the next reporting was one case of occupational illness (UK). year. YNAP commits to reporting the frequency and seriousness of injuries, absentee rates and occupational illness rates from 2017. Change management processes on human resources G4-LA11 systems and applications were put in place in 2016 and will allow hours worked and hours Employees receiving regular performance and career development scheduled to be worked to be registered in the same way at Group level. reviews YNAP’s continued success depends on employees’ ability to maintain and drive the highest standards of performance in their roles, in line with business aims and objectives. 96 97 Effective two-way communication with employees is key to create a high-performance EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN culture focused on the identification of clear individual goals and a continuous performance management process. For this reason, employees and managers are encouraged to meet G4-LA13 regularly throughout the year to ensure continual feedback, guidance, direction and Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men recognition. To support the career development of employees and in response to feedback In terms of basic salary, women in executive, top management, senior and middle from across the Group, the annual performance review process MYPR (My Performance management roles are earning on average 14% more than their male counterparts Review) has been simplified. This will make sure that all employees are evaluated in the (22% and 5% respectively). In the rest of the organisation, women are still at a disadvantage same way across all global locations. In addition, the Performance Management Policy (by 9% on average), a situation that is common in most developed economies (see Eurostat has been designed to be used in conjunction with the MYPR to provide support to all Gender Pay Gap statistics and SDG Index compiled by Sustainable Development Solutions employees, from motivating and engaging high performers to addressing performance Network and the Bertelsmann Stiftung). YNAP commits to continue reporting these numbers gaps. publicly every year and will work transparently to understand and close pay gaps where they YNAP, which is reviewing and aligning its performance evaluation systems at Group level, exist throughout the company. will report quantitative information for this indicator from the next reporting year. RATIO OF BASIC SALARY OF WOMEN TO MEN DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY G4-LA12 Executive Team and Top Management 122% Governance bodies and employee numbers according to gender and other indicators of diversity Senior and Middle Management 105% Office workers 91% Note: EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY MALE FEMALE TOTAL For this first reporting year the ratio has been calculated considering the basic salary only. YNAP is evaluating AND GENDER (No.) the future disclosure of this ratio based also on remuneration figures and by significant location of operation considering data confidentiality. Executive Team (1) and Top Management 14 5 19   See: “Empowering Women” Senior and Middle Management 90 95 185 Office workers 1,512 2,412 3,924 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR PRACTICES Total 1,616 2,512 4,128 LA15 Actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in the supply chain EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY   See: G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain <30 30-40 41-50 >50 TOTAL AND AGE (No.) LABOUR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Executive Team (1) 4 11 4 19 and Top Management G4-LA16 Grievances about labour practices Senior and Middle Management 3 113 54 15 185   See: G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour Office workers 1,656 1,714 340 214 3,924   Social – Human Rights Total 1,659 1,831 405 233 4,128 (1) Executive Team – YNAP is actively monitoring its company-wide gender data. In 2017 there were positive developments within the Executives Team with the appointment of the Chief People Officer, Deborah Lee, and the President Off-Season, Alessandra Rossi. With these two recent appointments YNAP increased to four the number of women in leadership positions, taking to 50% the proportion of women who are direct reports to the INVESTMENT CEO. G4-HR2   For information about the composition of governance bodies in terms of diversity, see Total hours of employee training on human rights the Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure 2016   See: G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 98 99 NON-DISCRIMINATION ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR G4-HR3 G4-SO7 Incidents of discrimination Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, No incidents of discrimination were recorded in 2016. anti-trust, and monopoly practices No legal action related to anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices was FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING recorded in 2016. G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers at risk COMPLIANCE Based on YNAP’s activities and its geographical presence, no activities or suppliers currently G4-SO8 assessed have been identified in which freedom of association or the right to collective Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations bargaining could be exposed to significant risks. In 2016 the Group received no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non  See: G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain compliance with laws and regulations. CHILD LABOUR SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers at risk G4-SO10 Significant negative impacts on society in the supply chain   See: G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain   See: G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers at risk G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society   See: G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain   See: G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT   G4-HR11 Significant negative human rights impacts in the supply chain Social – Product responsibility   See: G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-PR1 Product and service categories for which health and safety impacts G4-HR12 are assessed for improvement Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, YNAP manages processes to ensure that product quality is held in high consideration with addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms an emphasis on compliance with quality and safety standards. It adopts quality control   See: G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour guidelines and operating procedures to ensure methods and criteria meet high product   quality standards. Within these procedures, quality critical issues are identified to enable frequent updating and improvement of these significant aspects. Social – Society In particular, there is a process in place that YNAP’s buyers are required to follow when placing purchases of new products. For any products that are subject to technical or safety standards (e.g. electrical goods, sunglasses, cosmetics etc.), the Group has an established procedure, complete with internal training guidelines, and does not make any products ANTI-CORRUPTION available on site until it is assured of their compliance in these areas. Checklist are followed before placing an order to ensure that a full technical file of documents is in place for each G4-SO5 applicable product. Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents of corruption were recorded in 2016. 100 101 HOW WE APPROACH Clothing, bags, shoes and accessories are labelled in accordance to Group shipping instructions which are based on applicable international legislation. OUR MATERIAL TOPICS The procurement process is distinguished by intense product selection and quality control which takes account of specific economic, quantitative, ethical and sustainability criteria. YNAP carries out continuous and strict quality checks on all products before their digitalisation and selling, meeting high quality and security standards. This process is subject to continual improvements and it involves qualified suppliers, designers, manufacturers YNAP is aware of the extent of its economic, environmental and social impacts and and dealers. recognises which stakeholders are affected by its business, both internally (‘inside’) and externally (‘outside’). For this reason, the “boundary” has been reported for each material topic. G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with product Topics identified as material ‘inside’ the organization apply to all entities of the organisation health and safety regulations and voluntary codes and no specific limitations have been identified; employees perspective has also been No incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the incorporated when the inside boundary has been defined. For topics identified as material health and safety impacts of products and services were recorded in 2016. ‘outside’ the organisation, the stakeholders for which each topic is material have been reported and a ‘worldwide’ geographical location has been identified. Since this is the first PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING report for the Group, the disclosed impacts in the Sustainability Report relate mostly to internal boundaries. G4-PR5 To guarantee that the ‘Principle of Materiality’ is consistently applied, all topics identified as Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction material through the materiality process have been linked to GRI-G4 topics. Some topics YNAP is committed to reporting results of its customer satisfaction measurements in future that were identified as material through the materiality process (‘YNAP Material Topic’) reporting periods. were not directly attributable to G4 topics because they are specific to YNAP’s business.   See: “Listening and responding to customers” The following table summarises for each material topic the internal and external boundaries and links to GRI-G4. The ‘Disclosure on management approach’ column indicates where MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS in the report information can be found about how YNAP responds to its impacts for all material topics. G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products   See: “We have joined the Fur Free Retailer Program” and “Collaboration for responsible jewellery” CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No significant complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data were recorded in 2016. COMPLIANCE G4-PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services In 2016 there have not been incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the provision and use of products. 102 103 BOUNDARY LINK DISCLOSURE BOUNDARY LINK DISCLOSURE MATERIAL MATERIAL STAKETO GRI-G4 ON MANAGEMENT STAKETO GRI-G4 ON MANAGEMENT TOPICS INSIDE OUTSIDE TOPICS INSIDE OUTSIDE HOLDERS TOPICS APPROACH HOLDERS TOPICS APPROACH Customer • • Customers Stakeholder See: “Listening and Innovation • • Customers YNAP Material Topic See: “Education” and engagement engagement responding to customers” management “Responsibility” chapters in the “Responsibility” Brand chapter partners Customer • • Customers Product Responsibility See: “Listening Suppliers & brand – Product and Service and responding and partner Brand Labelling to customers” and strategic satisfaction partners “Customer priorities” partners in the “Responsibility” chapter Responsible • • Brand Environmental See: “The supply chain” sourcing partners – Supplier in the “Responsibility” Gender • • Community Labour Practices See: “Empowering & buying Environmental chapter equality and Decent Work Women”chapter Assessment Suppliers GovernDiversity and Equal and See: G4-12 ment and Opportunity See: G4-15 strategic Labour Practices public partners and Decent Work – sector Supplier Assessment organisafor Labour Practices tions Employee • Stakeholder See: “How we are Human Rights – engagement engagement building our company Supplier Human culture” and “Driving Rights Assessment digital education” in the “Education” Society – Supplier chapter Assessment for Impacts on Society Ethical • • Brand Ethics and integrity See: G4-56 business partners Product Responsibility conduct Society – – Marketing Customers Anti-corruption Communication Suppliers Society – Sustainable • • Customers Environmental – See: “We are delivering and Anti-competitive packaging Materials sustainable packaging” strategic Behaviour in the “Responsibility” partners chapter Society – Compliance GovernSee: G4-EN1 ment and Labour Practices and Talent • • Community Labour Practices See: “Empowering public Decent Work – Labour retention and Decent Work – our people” in the sector Practices Grievance & attraction Academic Employment “Education” chapter organisaMechanisms institutions tions Labour Practices and See: G4-LA13 Human Rights Decent Work – Equal – Human Rights Remuneration for Grievance Women and Men Mechanisms Waste • • Community Environmental – See: G4-EN8 Society – Grievance & water Water and G4-EN23 Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Environmental – Effluents and Waste 104 105 BOUNDARY LINK DISCLOSURE BOUNDARY LINK DISCLOSURE MATERIAL MATERIAL STAKETO GRI-G4 ON MANAGEMENT STAKETO GRI-G4 ON MANAGEMENT TOPICS INSIDE OUTSIDE TOPICS INSIDE OUTSIDE HOLDERS TOPICS APPROACH HOLDERS TOPICS APPROACH Brand • • Brand YNAP Material Topic See: “Customer Product • • Customers Product Responsibility See: G4-PR1 protection & partners priorities” in the quality – Customer Health management “Responsibility” chapter and Safety Carbon • • Customers Environmental – See: G4-EN15, G4-EN16 Product Responsibility emissions Emissions and G4-EN17 – Compliance Brand partners Health • Labour Practices See: G4-LA6 & safety and Decent Work – Suppliers Occupational Health and and Safety strategic partners Human rights • • Suppliers Human Rights – See: G4-12 and G4-56 and Investments Career • Labour Practices See: “How we nurture strategic development and Decent Work – and develop talent” partners Human Rights – & training Training and in the “Education” chapter Non-discrimination Education See: G4-LA9 and G4-LA11 Human Rights – Freedom of Community • • Community Economic – Economic See: “Driving digital Association and involvement Performance education” in the Collective Bargaining Non-profit “Education” chapter organiand “Making a difference Human Rights – zations, in our communities” Forced or Compulsory NGOs and in the “Responsibility” Labour charities chapter Creation of • • Community Labour Practices See: “How we nurture Human Rights – employment and Decent Work – and develop talent” Child Labour & job stability Employment in the “Education” chapter Human Rights Economic – Market – Human Rights Presence Grievance Mechanisms Data security • • Brand Product Responsibility See: “Customer & business partners – Customer Privacy priorities” in the Human Rights – continuity “Responsibility” chapter Supplier Human Customers Rights Assessment See: Report on Corporate Governance and Employee • Labour Practices See: G4-LA2 Ownership Structure welfare and Decent Work – 2016 Employment See “How we are building our company culture” in Supplier • • Suppliers Economic – See: G4-12 the “Education” chapter management and Procurement Practices strategic partners Energy use • • Suppliers Environmental – See: “Our environmental and Energy impact” in the strategic “Responsibility” chapter partners See: G4-EN3 106 107 GRI – UN GLOB AL COMPACT INDEPENDENT PRINCIPLES LINKING TABLE ASSURANCE REPORT GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES GRI DISCLOSURES Human rights Principle 1 G4-HR2, G4-HR12 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 G4-HR11 Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principle 3 G4-11, G4-HR4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 G4-HR6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 G4-HR5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 G4-10, G4-EC6, G4-LA1, Businesses should uphold the elimination G4-LA9, G4-LA11, of discrimination in respect of employment G4-LA12, G4-LA13, and occupation G4-HR3 Environment Principle 7 G4-EN1, G4-EN3, Businesses should support a precautionary G4-EN8, G4-EN15, approach to environmental challenges G4-EN16, G4-EN17 Principle 8 G4-EN1, G4-EN3, Businesses should undertake initiatives to G4-EN8, G4-EN15, promote greater environmental responsibility G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN19, G4-EN23, G4-EN33 Principle 9 G4-EN19 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 G4-56, G4-SO5 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 108 109 110 111 CONTACTS We welcome your views about our efforts to be a more sustainable company You can contact us at: sustainability@ynap.com For press inquiries: press@ynap.com Online Discover more about YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP’s Sustainability online at www.ynap.com/sustainability For further information: www.ynap.com LinkedIn: YOOX NET-A-PORTER GROUP Twitter: @YNAP
