UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication of Progress 2017 Covering Period: 15/Dec/2016 – 15/Dec/2017 Grue + Hornstrup A/S • Nupark 51, 7500 Holstebro • Denmark • www.g-h.dk Phone: +45 9610 1330 • email: gh@g-h.dk Contents Executive Letter ........................................................................................................................ 2 Company Profile ...................................................................................................................... 3 Human Rights............................................................................................................................ 4 Labour Rights ............................................................................................................................ 7 Environment .............................................................................................................................. 9 Anti-Corruption ....................................................................................................................... 11 Additional Corporate Responsible Activities ..................................................................... 13 Action Plan for 2018: .............................................................................................................. 14 1 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S Executive Letter Dear Valuable Stakeholders, The ongoing efforts to implement the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals and additional global actions taken in 2017 was a confirmation of our shared faith in the global effort for a sustainable future. The COP23 in Bonn, cohosted by the Fijian Government, additionally highlighted the need and requirement for the private sector to accelerate pathways for implementing the Paris Agreement and the SDGs with a focus on stronger (and more) business engagement. These efforts parallel the vision of our company and employees, and our business principles with the overall aim to contribute to a sustainable future. We end 2017 with a continuous optimism of what the world has been able to collectively achieve, and Grue + Hornstrup (G+H) agrees with the need for a much greater role for businesses like ours in tackling some of the world’s most important challenges both in the developed and developing world. This Communication of Progress is our 4th, and G+H has worked to continue to adhere of the 10 principles of the UNGC within our organization. G+H is extremely pleased with the enthusiasm of our employees over the past year towards management’s efforts to generate recognition and to ensure application of the principles within our company. Our entire organization has put its best foot forward in conducting our business based on the principles of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption, both within Denmark and the worldwide community in which we serve. 2 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S Company Profile Founded in 1981, Grue + Hornstrup A/S (henceforth referred to as “G+H”) is a Denmark based engineering and environment consultancy company (group) with 20 full time staff in addition to several contract part time staff. G+H operates out of its primary office in Holstebro, Denmark. G+H’s focus is on providing innovative solutions to private companies, local and national governments, development institutions worldwide. The core business and areas of expertise of the firm can be broadly categorized into the following: • Systems Automation (incl. Buildings and Industry) • Energy and Environmental (incl. Climate Change and Sustainability) The Systems Automation group provides automation services and turn-key solutions primarily to the building, pharmaceutical, and industrial sectors in Denmark. The Energy & Environment group provides engineering and consultancy services worldwide, primarily in the fields of renewable energy, environmental technologies, climate change, and sustainably. The Energy & Environment group has a strong track record of operating in over 30 countries over the past fifteen years. G+H is “AA – High Creditworthiness” company1, operating within the laws and regulations of the Kingdom of Denmark.2 In addition, G+H is an active member of the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI), associated to the Confederation of Danish Industry (DI), and we adhere to the professional rules for consulting engineering set by the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). G+H is a signatory of the UNGC and its 10 principles since 2013. 1 AA rating from the credit rating agency Bisnode. 2 Offical Certifcation of delcaration from the Danish Business Authority (date 07/04/2016) 3 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals In continuation of its policy stated in our COP from 2015 and 2016, G+H operates within the prescribed laws governing Human Rights in Denmark, following the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to which Denmark is a signatory. In this context, G+H operates in a manner that does not knowingly constitute Human Rights violations on an organization and employee basis. In addition, G+H seeks to impart awareness of Human Rights with our partner organizations, clients and other stakeholders. Implementation G+H supports Human Rights in all its forms and recognizes its importance in an increasingly globalized work environment, and potential risks for the company and employees due to its non-compliance. We continue to encourage an open dialogue between management and employees regarding any Human Rights abuse which may be observed both within the organization, and externally over the course of their professional duties. 2017 Annual Workshop for the UNGC and Principles 4 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S Measurement of Outcomes ✓ The annual workshop on the UNGC was offered to all full time employees and completed in November 2017 to re-emphasize the UNGC’s 2 principles on Human Rights. The workshop was presented in Danish in order to facilitate meaningful interaction, and was conducted in an interactive framework, including work groups for the discussion of the four main pillars of the UNGC. ✓ Work Group Feedback on Human Rights: The group discussed elements related to human rights abuses, through the study of case examples taken from different global sources of media. These global case examples included: • the #MeToo campaign which is dominated global media in late 2017, as an example of human right abuses, where primarily women are being discriminated against due to their sex. • National and global statistics which indicate differentiation in salaries based on sex. • Indications of workplace discrimination based on race or ethnicity. Feedback from employees indicated that none of the above are present at Grue & Hornstrup, and all employees feel there is a high and strong level of freedom of speech, the opportunity to speak freely, and the freedom to not accept certain measures, processes, or recommendations which negatively impact individual rights. ✓ Proposed Action for 2017-18: 1. Employees are encouraged to at any time highlight any specific cases or raise concerns of Human Rights abuse, both internally and for our external partners and contractors. This reporting can be done either directly to their line manager, the managing director or during bi-weekly team meetings. 2. To implement a workshop focusing exclusively on the issues of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption, generally for the whole company, and in line with the workshop implemented in 2017. The above actions will be done specifically in the context of our expanding business and client base both within Denmark and internationally, and helping employees to identify and recognize scenarios which may be deemed as potential risks to our company and clients. This is in line with the company’s objective of continuing the adherence to the UNGC and minimizing possibilities that may be harmful to our business and principles. In order to introduce a 5 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S greater level of perspective, the Energy & Environment (EE) group will discuss international experience gained in 2018. 6 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S Labour Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals In continuation of its policy stated in our COP from 2015 and 2016, G+H operates within the prescribed laws governing Labour Rights in Denmark, following the core conventions of the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of which Denmark is a signatory. At G+H, we constantly strive to protect the rights of our employees, foster positive workplace environment, and maintain a proactive relationship between managers and employees. Implementation G+H does not discourage membership in trade unions or professoinal organzation, a number of our employees are a member of the Danish Society of Engineers (IDA). Though, we note that the company does not have a collective agreement with any such union or organization. At G+H, we have a de-facto work-life balance policy with flexible working hours, paid over time, and tolerance for personal and family issues. G+H does not use any forms of forced or compulsory labour and does not employ child labour. Measurement of Outcomes ✓ The annual workshop on the UNGC was offered to all full time employees and completed in November 2017 to re-emphasize UNGC’s 4 principles on Labour Rights. The workshop was presented in Danish in order to facilitate meaningful interaction, and was conducted in an interactive framework, including work groups for the discussion of the four main pillars of the UNGC. ✓ Work Group Feedback on Labour Rights: The group on Labour Rights did not think there was not much to highlight as an employee at Grue & Hornstrup. Most labour rights are included in framework agreements from the trade associations and through labour laws in Denmark. As with Human Rights current debates such as the #MeToo campaign put some focus on sexual harrashment at work places, but none had been observed or reported at G+H. More generally, the employees at G+H on occasions meet foreign workers, e.g. at construction sites, which are alleged to not receive compensation in accordance to Danish Laws. Unions were identified as having an important role in terms of securing labour rights for all in Denmark 7 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S ✓ Proposed Action for 2017-18: 1. Employees are encouraged to at any time highlight any specific cases or raise concerns of Labour Rights abuse either directly to their line manager, the managing director or during bi-weekly team meetings. 2. Similar to the action on human rights, the proposed action is to hold a workshop in 2018 focusing on the issues of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption generally for the whole company. The above actions will be done specifically in the context of our expanding business and client base both within Denmark and internationally, and helping employees identify and recognize scenarios which may be deemed as potential risks to our company and clients. This is in line with the company’s objective of continuing the adherence to the UNGC and minimizing possibilities that may be harmful to our business and principles. In order to introduce a greater level of perspective, the Energy & Environment (EE) group will discuss international experience gained in 2018. 8 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals G+H through our daily operation is focused on bettering the environment within and outside our company. Our core business is oriented on making systems more energy efficient, or providing green and sustainable solutions to our clients. Implementation Employees have been made aware of the 3 principles of Environment under UNGC. G+H has chosen a premises which allows for the implementation of green practices, such as recycling of waste, waste separation, and use of renewable energy in heating and electricity. Some of our employees maintain a low carbon footprint by bicycling to work, and as a company we use energy efficient technologies in our work premises (e.g. double glazed windows, low energy lighting, building automation etc.). It is noted that the majority of our business activities focus on improving energy or environmental performance of our clients in and outside of Denmark. Measurement of Outcomes ✓ An annual workshop on the UNGC was completed and offered to all full time employees to re-emphasize about UNGC’s 3 principles on Environment. The workshop was presented in Danish in order to facilitate meaningful interaction, and was conducted in an interactive framework, including work groups for the discussion of the four main pillars of the UNGC. ✓ Work Group Feedback on Environment: Through the work and the service G&H is delivering, the group felt that respect for the environment and reducing CO2 emissions, is already an integrated culture in the company. As an example, the development of systems for building automation and industrial automation, and design of energy efficient buildings all lead to lower environmental impacts. It was acknowledges that our employees always try to improve the products of the company, which again reduces the use of energy and electricity. Leading to continued environmental improvement efforts. The group believed more could be done in terms of e.g. saving energy in the office of G+H. For example, computers could be turned off during night time as well as testing equipment (when not needed). It was also suggested to look into how to establish a better system for disposal of batteries and computers, 9 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S remove larger equipment, and transportation of equipment. The ideas shared were based on the moral of doing good but also with the perspective of reducing costs within the company. As one phrased it “when waste becomes business it becomes sustainable….” ✓ Proposed Action for 2017-18: 1. Employees are encouraged to at any time highlight any specific cases or raise concerns of Environmental damage either directly to their line manager, the managing director or during bi-weekly team meetings 2. In line with our core business activities, and employee feedback received, environmental action will play a special role in our proposed actions for 2018. G+H will aim to further encourage a green profile in 2018, via: − Reducing printing (via. duplex, without colour, 2 pages per sheet) − Further encourage use of bicycles instead of cars particularly in summer − Increase share of organic products consumed in the office − Assess how to save energy from computers and test-standers − How to reduce the use of transportation of equipment − How to dispose of batteries and computers − Ensuring environmental compliance within partner organisations 10 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals G+H has a zero-tolerance policy against corruption in all forms including bribery and extortion. Implementation As a consultancy service, it is in our best interests to operate a business that is ethical, un-biased, and aimed at providing the best advisory and services to our clients. This is also an ethical requirement as member of the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers. All employees have been made aware of the personal and cooperate legal risks faced due to non-compliance with the zero-tolerance policy for corruption. Especially for substantial international work, anti-corruption clauses are included in all contracts with clients and sub-contractors, following at a minimum the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business transactions. Internally, G+H encourages an open dialogue between management and any employee that sees or hears anything suspicious that can be linked with corruption; and encourages that such actions be immediately be reported to the top management as applicable. Measurement of Outcomes ✓ An annual workshop on the UNGC was completed and offered to all full time employees to re-emphasize about UNGC’s Anti-Corruption principle. The workshop was presented in Danish in order to facilitate meaningful interaction, and was conducted in an interactive framework, including work groups for the discussion of the four main pillars of the UNGC. ✓ Work Group Feedback on Environment: The work group felt it was difficult to give concrete examples based on current experince. Denmark is a country where monetary corruption is almost none-existent, but the group also acknowledged there could sometimes be a grey-zone of ‘favours’ and ‘presents’ being shared in the business culture in Denmark. ✓ The case example was shared where the company Atea had paid bribe to public civilian servants working for the state and municipalities. This is a very unusual case for Denmark. 11 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S ✓ To avoid suspicion and in-correct use of network and contacts another case example was shared where employees at the company SWECO must pay for their own lunch, even if invited by clients or related sub-contractors. ✓ Proposed Action for 2017-18: 1. Employees are encouraged to at any time highlight any specific cases or raise concerns of Anti-Corruption abuse either directly to their line manager, the managing director or during bi-weekly team meetings. In 2018 the company will endevour to actively maintain our no tolerance policy, extending the reach of the policy to ensure that local partners adhere to it. In addition, the group will consider the closing remark of the workshop as a starting point for the following year “How can you ensure good morals?” 12 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S Additional Corporate Responsible Activities G+H makes an effort to perform our company’s activities in a responsible manner to our employees and stakeholders. Listed below are Corporate Responsible Activities which G+H has performed in the recent past, which are in addition to our normal business activities and UNGC efforts. Supporting Disaster Assistance and Community Development As a silver corporate member to the Danish Red Cross, G+H contributes financially every year and has done so in 2017. G+H donated business supplies to the small business of the Bukuya Mini-Hydro Cooperative in Fiji, to allow for more sustainable operation of the rural community business. Supporting Employee Work-Life Balance G+H holds two types of social get-togethers during the year. The first are employee only get-togethers, and the second is our annual gathering for employees and spouses. These get-togethers constitute showcasing company technology and projects, entertainment/activities, and dinner, with the goal to encourage social interaction and open communication within the company. Supporting Education 13 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S G+H has trained several interns from local technical schools, some of whom have found permanent employment within G+H after graduation. In addition, G+H took on a Masters student as an intern whose thesis focused on sustainability and community development, a key area of our international business, who recently graduated and is working part time at G+H. Furthermore, G+H provided lectures the ballet school in Holstebro on crossing cultures. Action Plan for 2018: The year 2017 saw the company and its employees get an improved understanding of the UNGC, and the positive impact of the 10 principles on its business activities and the relationship of the company with its employees and partners. The workshop held in 2017 gave the employees the opportunity to voice opinions and mitigation actions necessary to adhere to the 10 principles. Previous sessions with the company were conducted in English, and a number of employees complained that the session was not entirely clear. In this regard, it was decided that the workshop would be facilitated in Danish. Future correspondence and idea sessions will take place in Danish to ensure that the concept and message are thoroughly understood. In relation to the UNGC, in the coming year, G+H will undertake the ‘Proposed Actions’ for each of the 4 pillars highlighted previously in this report and further strengthen its implementation within the organization. The company will strive for continuing to improve its current process in the coming year and any additional / new activities undertaken will be documented in the next COP. The company will endeavour to maintain and upkeep its good standard of business by ensuring quality outputs, and maintaining contemporary and environmentally sound practices. 14 Communication of Progress 2017 • Grue + Hornstrup A/S
