Our bottom line is impact. 2016 Impact Report 13 2016 Impact Report Product Bloomberg’s annual Impact Report About Bloomberg’s products and services provides a brief overview of our efforts in Bloomberg 02 provide essential information to and for the areas of Product, People and Planet, the world’s most influential audiences. with a specific focus on 2016 highlights. Message For Bloomberg, sustainable finance Bloomberg is a signatory of the United from Mike is a broad category that covers all Nations Principles for Responsible Bloomberg 03 forms of investment-activity—business, Investment (UN PRI) and the UN Global government and capital markets—which Compact; we believe that sustainability Case Study seek to integrate environmental and social presents a market opportunity. Investing considerations with financial analysis. In Market As in previous years, the report is in Infrastructure 04 Case Study accordance with the Global Reporting The New ESG <GO> 14 Initiative (GRI)—Comprehensive Option Materiality (GRI Standards Content Index and G4 Assessment 08 The Bloomberg Media Sector Supplement) as well as Professional® Service 16 the Sustainability Accounting Standards 2020 Board (SASB) Standards and its industryProgress 10 Industry Verticals 18 specific accounting standards. Media 21 For more information on Bloomberg Sustainability and a full Materiality Assessment, see page 8. 25 35 People Planet BCause is our collaborative effort By looking at our business through an Performance across our employee engagement and environmental lens, we have reduced by the Numbers 48 social impact groups—Philanthropy & costs, minimized risk and engaged our Engagement, Diversity & Inclusion, employees, while generating $95 million External Sustainable Business & Finance and in cost avoidance for the Company. Assurances 50 Wellness—to address social and environmental issues that are relevant Case Study to our business and our partners— Path to 100% customers, vendors, employees, Renewable Energy 36 nonprofits, governments and communities. Energy 38 Case Study Business Travel 35 Years of & Logistics 42 Bloomberg 26 Paper 43 Philanthropy & Engagement 28 Waste & Water 45 Diversity & Inclusion 30 Supply Chain 47 Benefits & Wellness 32 Bloomberg Impact Report 01 About Bloomberg Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and To learn more about Bloomberg bloomberg.com news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people To learn more about BCause and ideas. The Company’s strength—delivering data, news and bloomberg.com/bcause analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately— To learn more about is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional® service (the Terminal). Bloomberg Philanthropies bloomberg.org Bloomberg’s Enterprise Solutions build on the Company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and information across organizations more efficiently and effectively. The Industry Verticals group—Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF), Bloomberg Government (BGOV) and Bloomberg BNA (BBNA)—provides data, news and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance. Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Terminal and Bloomberg Media, including television, radio, mobile, digital and print— Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets—covers the world with more than 2,600 news and multimedia professionals in 120 countries. 02 Message from Mike Bloomberg Climate change is often thought to be an issue that only government can solve. But businesses have been a leading force for progress on climate change, because they have strong incentives to act. Energy efficiency can sharply reduce costs while also reducing carbon emissions. Advances in technology offer companies an opportunity to create new products and services, especially in clean energy. And a company’s commitment to addressing climate change can help it attract a talented workforce. There’s another important reason why the That’s a shared goal of two organizations private sector is helping to lead the way that I chair—the Sustainability Accounting in creating a more sustainable economy: Standards Board (SASB) and the FSB Climate change presents significant risks Task Force on Climate-related Financial to many companies, by threatening their Disclosures (TCFD). Both of these assets and supply chains. The more they organizations are industry-led initiatives know about those risks, the faster they aimed at improving the quality and can act to address them. usefulness of sustainability and climatechange information—and both took Since its founding in 1981, Bloomberg important steps forward last year. In has been guided by the principle March of 2016, SASB released provisional that transparent markets empower standards for 79 U.S. industries, and investors, fuel entrepreneurs, and in December of last year, the Task support economic growth. Better data Force released a set of preliminary leads to better decisions. As the world disclosure recommendations to improve changes, we are committed to making transparency on climate change risks and sure that our clients have the data they opportunities for financial markets. need to understand and navigate those changes and act on them. Sustainability is important to Bloomberg beyond its economic That is why Bloomberg now collects and market implications. Along with Environmental, Social and Governance Bloomberg Philanthropies, we are (ESG) data for over 9,000 companies, committed to protecting public allowing investors to gauge how well health and advancing environmental companies are responding to potential stewardship around the world, challenges and allowing companies including in our own operations. to measure their efforts against their We are now getting more of our energy competitors. We also provide data and from clean sources, with a goal of analysis on the growing green bond 100 percent renewable energy by 2025. market, and Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s independent analysis and No company can solve sustainability insight enables our customers to navigate challenges alone. The more that join the rapidly evolving energy industry. this growing effort to measure and share climate risks, the faster we’ll However, we still have work to do make progress. to ensure that the data investors and companies rely on to make decisions is comparable and standardized. Bloomberg Impact Report GRI: 102-15 03 Case study Product Investing in Market Infrastructure Bloomberg has always believed that bringing transparency to financial markets through access to information can increase capital flows, produce economic growth and create efficiencies for businesses. This idea revolutionized the bond markets in 1981, and, since then, we have expanded our efforts across asset classes to equities, derivatives, commodities and the broader financial markets. Under the chairmanship of Mike Bloomberg, both the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) aim to bring market quality transparency on material environmental, social and governance (ESG) data to financial market participants. Bloomberg supports a number They share the common goal of of different, multi-stakeholder providing market-relevant, quality, sustainability reporting initiatives that consistent, comparable and forward cast a wide light on ESG performance looking sustainability-related data and on an organization's impacts on in mainstream financial filings. the environment and society. SASB The data allows market participants to and the TCFD are market-driven better assess and price sustainabilityinitiatives, targeting investors as the related risks and opportunities. By primary audience by focusing on how leading these two complementary ESG factors impact an organization’s efforts, Bloomberg hopes to accelerate financial performance. The frameworks the adoption of ESG factors into are interconnected; SASB focuses on a mainstream investment decisions. range of sustainability issues, whereas the TCFD concentrates specifically on climate-related risks and opportunities. ESG investing has become increasingly Investors lack the tools they need to integrate important to mainstream investors sustainability into investment decisions Today, 1 out of every 5 dollars under professional Only 29% of investors are confident in the ESG information they management in the U.S. is managed using are receiving. sustainable and responsible investment strategies. $ Billions “How confident are you in the “Are you confident in the quality $8,000 quality of the ESG information of the ESG information you’re you are reporting?” receiving from the companies in which you invest?” $4,000 $0 100% 29% 2005 2007 2010 2012 2014 2016 Corporates Investors Source: US SIF Foundation Source: PwC, ESG Pulse 2016, October 2016. Base: 28 04 Reporting issues Sustainability Broad sustainability issues—climate and energy, gender equality, human rights, employee engagement, health and safety and community spending; primary focus on how a company impacts the environment and society Target audience Climate SASB Target audience Multiple stakeholders Financial market such as government, Sustainability issues How material sustainability participants such as vendors, employees, with a focus on climate issues impact a company’s investors, lenders academics, non-profits and insurance and investors issues — technology financial performance underwriters and policy risk in Reporting structure transitioning to a low Reporting structure Sustainability Mainstream carbon economy and or CSR Reports TCFD financial filings the impacts of extreme temperature changes; How material climateprimary focus on how related issues could a company impacts impact a company‘s the environment financial performance Disclosure frameworks Alignment: from theory to practice Bloomberg operates as a neutral intermediary between issuers and the investors who utilize the data to inform their decision-making. Sustainability Accounting The FSB Task Force From this vantage point, we are uniquely Standards Board on Climate-related positioned to help align the myriad of The Sustainability Accounting Financial Disclosures reporting frameworks and help address Standards Board seeks to create Established in 2015, the TCFD was three core challenges: industry-specific standards to help asked to develop recommendations 1. Issuer perspective: What can be done companies provide high-quality, for more effective, voluntary climateto streamline reporting and relieve comparable and decision-useful related disclosures that could some reporting fatigue? information on ESG performance promote more informed investment, 2. Investor perspective: How can we data so that investors may credit, and insurance underwriting move towards generating information appropriately evaluate companies decisions. The TCFD developed four that is investment-decision useful? on their long-term strategies to widely adoptable recommendations 3. M arket perspective: How can we manage sustainability issues. that are applicable to organizations minimize “market confusion” around across sectors (financial and nondifferent reporting frameworks? Bloomberg has been a steady financial) and jurisdictions. The four Bloomberg Impact Report partner since SASB’s founding in recommendations are focused on a By aligning the TCFD framework and 2011, providing crucial expertise company’s governance, strategy, risk SASB standards on climate specific from Bloomberg specialist and management, and metrics and targets. disclosure, we are developing a roadmap significant grant support through for further alignment on broader ESG Bloomberg Philanthropies. issues and reporting frameworks. 05 05 Disclosure Recommendations 3 Spotlight: TCFD Governance The Financial Stability Board Chair and Bank of England Governor Mark Carney, in response to a request from the G20 to Strategy better understand climate-related financial risks, established the industry-led Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Risk (TCFD) in late 2015 and appointed Michael Bloomberg as Chair. Management The voluntary TCFD recommendations are designed to help companies identify and disclose the potential financial impacts Metrics and of climate-related risks and opportunities and help lenders, Targets insurers, and investors better assess and price them. Over time the integration of this information into the capital markets will promote a smoother transition towards a lower-carbon economy. The Task Force developed four widely-adoptable Key Objectives of TCFD Disclosures 1 recommendations on climaterelated financial disclosures that The primary purpose of the Task Force is to develop climate-related are applicable to organizations financial disclosures that will: across sectors and jurisdictions. • Support more informed investment, credit, and insurance underwriting decisions about (reporting) companies The recommendations are • Enable stakeholders to better understand the concentrations of structured around four thematic carbon-related assets in the financial sector and the financial system’s areas that represent core exposures to climate-related risks elements of how organizations operate: Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, Remit Considerations 2 Metrics and Targets. The FSB asked the TCFD to consider the following as they develop the The four overarching recommendations: recommendations are supported • Incorporate characteristics of effective disclosures—consistency, by eleven specific disclosures comparability, reliability, clarity, efficiency, accessibility, and usefulness that organizations can include • Be voluntary in financial filings to provide • Incorporate the principle of materiality and clarify what may constitute decision-useful information about material climate-related risks their climate-related risks and opportunities. • Be cost-effective • Leverage existing disclosure frameworks and international principles and address identified gaps • Incorporate the experience of the implementation of existing initiatives and of users of disclosures • Conduct a coordinated assessment of what constitutes efficient and effective disclosure for financial markets and for other stakeholders • Reflect a consensus view of leading practices and examples of those practices • Devise a principle-based framework that is responsive to and aligns with the needs of the users of disclosures by tying recommendations to financial impacts • Develop disclosures pertaining to near-, medium-, and long-term physical and non-physical impacts faced by both non-financial companies and the financial sector 1 Financial Stability Board Proposal for a disclosure task force on climate-related risks, November 9 2015 3 Provisional recommendations were released for 2 Sources: Financial Stability Board Proposal TCFD Phase I Report public consultation on December 14, 2016. A final 06 report will be submitted to the FSB in late June 2017. Governance Strategy Risk Management Metrics and Targets Disclose the organization’s Disclose the actual and Disclose how the organization Disclose the metrics and governance around potential impacts of climate-­ identifies, assesses, and targets used to assess and climate-­related risks and related risks and opportunities manages climate-­related risks manage relevant climate-­ opportunities on the organization’s related risks and opportunities businesses, strategy, and financial planning Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures a) Describe the board’s a) Describe the climate-­ a) Describe the a) Disclose the metrics used oversight of climate-­ related risks and organization’s processes by the organization to related risks and opportunities the for identifying and assess climate-­related risks opportunities organization has identified assessing climate-­related and opportunities in line over the short, medium, risks with its strategy and risk and long term management process b) Describe management’s b) Describe the impact of b) Describe the b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, role in assessing and climate-­related risks and organization’s processes and, if appropriate, Scope managing climate-­related opportunities on the for managing climate-­ 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) risks and opportunities organization’s businesses, related risks emissions, and the related strategy, and financial risks planning c) Describe the potential c) Describe how processes c) Describe the targets used impact of different scenarios, for identifying, assessing, by the organization to including a 2°C scenario, on and managing climate-­ manage climate-­related the organization’s businesses, related risks are integrated risks and opportunities and strategy, and financial into the organization’s performance against targets planning overall risk management Climate-related Risks and Opportunities Type Climate-Related Risks Type Climate-Related Opportunities Policy and Legal – Use of more efficient modes of transport – More efficient production and distribution Resource – Increased pricing of GHG emissions – Enhanced emissions-reporting obligations processes Efficiency – Mandates on and regulation of existing products and services – Use of recycling – E xposure to litigation – More efficient buildings – Reduced water usage and consumption Technology – Lower-emission sources of energy – Substitution of existing products and services with lower Transition Risks – Supportive policy incentives emissions options Energy – Unsuccessful investment in new technologies – Emergence of new technologies Source – Participating in carbon market – Upfront costs to transition to lower emissions technology – Energy security and shift toward decentralization Markets – Changing customer behavior – Develop and/or expand low emission goods and services Products and – Uncertainty in market signals – Increased cost of raw materials – Climate adaptation and insurance risk solutions Services Reputation – R&D and innovation – Shift in consumer preferences – Diversify business activities – Stigmatization of sector – Shifting consumer preferences – Increased stakeholder concern or negative stakeholder feedback – New markets Markets Acute – Public-sector incentives – Increased severity of extreme weather events such as cyclones – Community needs and initiatives Bloomberg Impact Report Physical Risks and floods – Development banks Chronic – Participate in renewable energy programs and Resilience adopt energy-efficiency measures – Changes in precipitation patterns and extreme variability in – Resource substitutes/diversification weather patterns – New assets and locations needing insurance – Rising mean temperatures coverage – Rising sea levels 07 07 Bloomberg Materiality Assessment Bloomberg’s sustainability program began in 2007. From the beginning, we recognized the importance of identifying areas of impact relevant to our business. While our initial sustainability materiality assessment was focused primarily on environmental mitigation, our continuing re-evaluation and stakeholder engagement processes led us to expand the scope of our sustainability reporting to reflect a much broader array of potential material issues. Through 2013, Bloomberg’s better understand a company’s potentially relevant issues and metrics sustainability reports were developed broader sustainability strategy, while identified in the GRI Standards. However, using GRI G3 guidelines. Starting with highlighting those related issues more for one specific stakeholder group—the our 2014 report, we moved to the GRI likely to impact financial performance investor community—we turn to SASB’s G4 framework, incorporated the GRI (and therefore distinguish what should standards reflecting the application Media Sector supplement and became be included in financial filings and of a U.S. legal/regulatory definition of the first corporate entity to integrate sustainability reports). materiality derived from the “reasonable sector-specific reporting standards from investor” standard. In utilizing these the Sustainability Accounting Standards At the heart of this exercise lies the frameworks/standards, we rely on an Board (SASB). Under SASB’s industry concept of “materiality,” defined in evidence-based research process to classification system, Bloomberg’s different ways under various reporting surface those topics most likely to be business can be categorized into three frameworks. We do not attempt to relevant for Bloomberg’s sustainability distinct industries: Professional Services, formally reconcile divergent uses of and climate-related financial and Internet Media & Services and Media the term. Rather, we have developed operational performance. Production & Distribution. an implementation methodology to identify information that meets the This report includes a high-level “Topics” SASB standards are designed for use different definitions for disclosure in a table of GRI’s broader array of topics within a public company’s annual Form single report. For example, “Materiality” and SASB’s potentially material general 10-K filing to the SEC. While Bloomberg, understood within the GRI framework topics for our applicable sectors. a private company, is not subject to first leads us to consider a spectrum While we have conducted an exercise these filing requirements, we believe of issues reflecting the company’s to determine what may be material that integrating multiple reporting environmental and social impacts on a to Bloomberg, we acknowledge that frameworks—in this case GRI and SASB— wide array of stakeholders. Accordingly, materiality is a constant assessment that helps companies and their stakeholders we begin with the larger universe of changes over time. Reporting Evolution The rapidly evolving reporting space voluntary TCFD recommendations are Our TCFD report will be a short, means continuous innovation and designed to help companies identify high-level, more targeted evaluation integration. Our 2016 report reflects this and disclose the potential financial of climate-related risks and and includes the standards mentioned impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities over different timeabove. We will issue an additional opportunities and provide better, more horizons. This report will be loosely report based on the recommendations decision-useful information to lenders, modeled after a public company of the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) insurers, and investors. Bloomberg Management Discussion & Analysis Task Force on Climate-related Financial is driving this new complementary (MD&A) section of the Form 10-K, but Disclosures (TCFD) this summer company reporting framework (Michael focused specifically on climate-related following the final report’s release. Bloomberg is Chair); better access to financial disclosure. Next year, our 2017 climate-related information will enhance Sustainability report will integrate all of The FSB, in response to a request how these issues are assessed, priced, these frameworks and demonstrate how from the G20 to better understand the and managed over the short, medium these initiatives support comprehensive connection between climate-related and long-term, and help facilitate sustainability disclosures. risk and financial stability, established more effective allocation of capital the industry-led TCFD in late 2015. The and sustainable economic activity. 08 GRI: 102-29; 102-30; 102-31; 102-33; 102-40; 102-42; 102-46; 102-47; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 Reporting framework Potential materiality issues for Bloomberg GRI SASB TCFD GRI Bloomberg-relevant SASB industries TCFD topics general topics Standard Professional Internet Media All topics + Media Services Media Production Sectors & Services & Distribution High impact issues Issues that likely impact our company and our employees from a business, environmental and/or social perspective. Energy • • • ■ ■ Professional/Ethics/ Competitive Behavior • • ■ ■ ■ ■ Employee Well-being/ Development • • ■ ■ Economic / Financial • • ■ ■ Risk Management/ Compliance • • • ■ ■ Customer Welfare/ Data Privacy • • ■ ■ Medium impact issues Issues that may not impact our company directly but impact our strategic partners. Marketing Communications • • Materials • • • ■ Supply Chain Management • • • ■ Emissions • • • ■ ■ Workplace Safety • • ■ External Human Rights • • ■ Employee Rights • • ■ ■ ■ ■ Low impact issues Issues that may not have a significant, direct impact for our company or strategic partners, but those for which we recognize our organization has a unique opportunity to make a positive impact. Environmental/Social Grievance Mechanisms • • ■ Product & Services (Labeling) • • ■ ■ Waste & Water • • • ■ ■ Biodiversity • • • Bloomberg Impact Report Public Policy • • ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ 09 2020 Progress How we measure progress toward our 2020 goals Measure the impact—accelerate the results Goal Our founder’s ethos of “If you can’t measure it, you can’t manage it” Engagement is at the core of everything we do. In 2013, we announced Expand BCause programs across 2020 Targets; we summarize our progress over the past four years. all major offices Establish BCause Ambassadors to Highlights from 2016 ingrain the programs into our culture We have significant participation across investors with valuable reference Increase engagement of the global our BCause employee engagement data on gender equality in the employee population across all and social impact programs which financial services industry, measuring BCause programs and initiatives includes Philanthropy & Engagement, internal company statistics, employee Diversity & Inclusion, Sustainable policies, gender-conscious product Business & Finance, and Wellness offerings and external community Extend reach of BCause initiatives initiatives. Ninety percent of our engagement. Another example is our to Bloomberg families, engaging employees engaged with at least work with Goldman Sachs’ 10,000 Small spouses & dependents one BCause group and 49% with two Businesses program; our employees or more. In 2016, more than 11,000 shared their expertise to refine Leadership Development employees dedicated over 128,000 strategies and address challenges for hours of volunteer service in 74 cities small growing businesses. Drive Impact Accelerator participation around the world. in all major offices Complete Impact Accelerator projects We continue to embed sustainable Challenges on the way to 2020 finance deeper into our products and services, industry vertical groups and We are making significant progress Incorporate BCause engagement into media outlets. In 2016, Bloomberg toward our goals, but not without some the management evaluations system introduced new transparency into challenges along the way. Some goals green bonds issuers' disclosures and we set back in 2013 aren’t practical in Bloomberg Intelligence launched ESG the current environment, and others industry and topic primers to provide are just more challenging to track and Product Development analyses of key sustainability trends. report on. Integrate “Sustainable Finance” across Bloomberg Impact Accelerator Engagement: When we set out to all financial products and asset classes The Impact Accelerator provides an establish a BCause Ambassador Be the leading voice on sustainability in avenue for our employees to use their program, our Diversity & Inclusion business across news and media platforms skills to work with nonprofits and Communities didn’t have the other partners to address social and membership and global reach that they environmental challenges. have today. Leaders and participants in the eight Communities gain exposure Expand sustainability analysis into all major In 2016, 144 employees dedicated to and help ingrain BCause values and industry vertical products and services more than 1,400 hours to complete programs into our culture. The other five Accelerator projects involving BCause pillars also have champions Operations nine nonprofit partners. Since its that emerged organically over time. launch in 2014, 437 employees from With that, we question whether it makes Reduce emissions vs. 2007 20 Bloomberg offices globally have sense to change or overly formalize a baseline (MT of CO₂e) participated in an Impact Accelerator structure that seems to be working. Return on investment project—completing 30 projects with 21 nonprofit partners and giving nearly Operations: We have not directly 4,500 hours of service. pursued renewable energy projects with Cost savings 2014–2020 our partners to reach the 10MW target The Impact Accelerator taps into that we had set. Rather, we have focused Direct clean energy our employees’ skill sets to work on influencing the renewable market on social and environmental issues through actively working with various Ensure that suppliers abide by Bloomberg that Bloomberg, as a financial data, industry groups—the Renewable Energy sustainability policies & standards technology and media company, Buyers Alliance (REBA), Rocky Mountain Clean energy projects developed by is uniquely positioned to address. Institute (RMI), Business Renewables our partners For example, in 2016, Bloomberg, in Center (BRC) and Corporate Renewable collaboration with several nonprofit Energy Buyers’ Principles—to share Institute an internal price on carbon partners, launched the Bloomberg best practices around the corporate and allocate across business units for Financial Services Gender-Equality renewable landscape. planning purposes Index (BFGEI) in May 2016, providing 10 GRI: 102-26 How we judge the impact of our efforts 2013 Beyond Bloomberg, we recognize the Target Baseline Progress against target % to Target impact that our leadership can have on our industry and society. These are areas where we can meaningfully contribute to broader sustainability goals. 17 offices — BCause rolled out March 2015 100% to all major offices 17 offices — Ambassador program vision $500 billion in new, global clean energy has evolved investment annually 75%, 2 or 20% 49% of employees engaged Global clean energy investment, according 65% more groups with 2 or more BCause groups to BNEF, was at $287.5 billion in 2016, 57.5% of what is needed annually to address 90%, at least 50% 90% of employees engaged 100% the worst effects of climate change and 1 group with 1 BCause Group to meet the minimum objectives of the 50% — 2,124 “friends and family” Paris Agreement. attended at least 1 BCause event 50% of all Global Assets Under Management managed sustainably 17 offices 6 We have completed projects 26% of global assets under management 118% in 20 offices have sustainability considerations, according to the Global Sustainable 50 projects 2 30 total projects completed 60% Investment Alliance (GSIA) report. since 2013 — Incorporated diversity & inclusion metrics into the evaluation 25% Develop the next generation of process for Team Leaders and global service-oriented leaders to Managers in 2016 address complex societal issues using the power of data, innovation & technology 7 asset classes 1 Equities and Fixed Income are The Impact Accelerator is a leadership integrating Sustainable Finance 29% opportunity for Bloomberg employees, while also enabling them to make an impact that Most influential 1 A leading voice in investment far exceeds the boundaries of our day-today source for business, industry on sustainable finance, 50% business efforts. To date, 437 employees policy & finance with continued progress in policy have participated in the program. leaders and business coverage 3 industry vertical 1 BNEF and BBNA have expansive 66% products sustainability analyses 15 partners Contribute committed to to healthier, an absolute cleaner and more emissions diverse inclusive 20% 186,483 2016 emissions are up reduction of 20% communities -13% 2.6% vs. 2007 baseline In 2015, Bloomberg committed to the 20% — 65% ROI on 2014–2016 325% American Business Act on Climate Pledge, Capital Projects furthering our commitment to reducing 100 million — $37.5 million in cost savings emissions 20% by 2020. Ninety-one partners 37.5% in 2014–2016 (vendors, customers) joined the pledge and 24 committed to at least a 20% reduction 35% 1% 1.6% direct clean energy 4.6% by 2020. In 2016, Bloomberg joined the 75% of suppliers — Tracking compliance to these RE100, an initiative of the Climate Group in standards has proven challenging conjunction with CDP, and committed, along with the world's most influential companies, Bloomberg Impact Report 10MW — Plan has evolved to partner with to 100% renewable power. Sixty-one of the NGOs focused on this space 83 companies that have joined the RE100 are $20 target — Currently evaluating the right way Bloomberg partners. to do this within the structure of our company 11 Product Our products and services provide timely and actionable information to the world’s most influential audiences. Our primary purpose is to serve our customers’ current and future analytical needs. Bloomberg integrates sustainability information—about both risks and opportunities—into our products and services. Our service supports the growth of sustainable finance by offering access to comprehensive, actionable sustainable finance information and integrated analytics. The Bloomberg Professional® service Industry Verticals Media The Bloomberg Professional® service Bloomberg’s Industry Verticals cover the Bloomberg Media is the consumer-facing (the Terminal) is the most powerful legal, government and energy industries media organization of Bloomberg—the and flexible platform for financial through Bloomberg New Energy Finance world’s leading multi-platform media professionals who need real-time data, (BNEF), Bloomberg Government (BGOV) company for business and finance. news and analytics to make smarter, and Bloomberg BNA (BBNA). Bloomberg Bloomberg Media draws on 2,600 faster and more informed decisions. offers a suite of in-depth information and journalists and analysts in more than Our product offerings integrate ESG analytic solutions that cover the breadth 120 countries, delivering news across data into financial analysis, making it of these areas with key insights into digital, TV, radio, print magazines and relevant and actionable for the financial cross-cutting ESG issues. live events. These assets create a community. platform for syndicating coverage and analysis of sustainability issues to different constituencies in business, finance, government and others. Bloomberg Impact Report GRI: 102-1 13 Product Case study The New ESG <GO> Bloomberg is committed to increasing the visibility of ESG risks and opportunities for investors. We launched a new ESG company analysis page to increase transparency and provide context around company ESG data. By providing access to smart ESG information, Bloomberg can help investors make more informed decisions. Our ESG dashboard allows customers our customers to make more informed to select the company they want to investment decisions about a company’s analyze and provides a quick snapshot sustainability performance relative to its of that particular company or industry, industry and peers, as well as providing including key metrics, ESG scores and context on otherwise hard-to-quantify peer analysis. This enhancement enables performance or third-party scores. Relative valuation Assess pricing and financial metrics across comparable assets Sector analysis Company/ Evaluate industry security analysis conditions and peers The investment analysis process Top down/ Portfolio analysis macro analysis Understand asset Analyze broad allocation, styles, economy factors and geographic and sector exposures Investment analysis is a multi-pronged process, taking into account numerous factors, of which ESG is one. Our new ESG <GO> dashboard gives investors context related to individual securities. 14 More than 12,000 users are making more informed decisions based on ESG data available in the new ESG dashboard Control area The control area allows you to select the company you want to analyze, and select the timeframe and currency, so you can customize the ESG data that appears. You can also export the ESG data to Microsoft® Excel for further analysis. Scores The scores section provides a snapshot of ESG scores, rankings and ratings from Bloomberg and Summary third-party ratings The summary agencies, so you can section provides gain proprietary and an overview of a outside perspectives company from an on a company’s ESG ESG perspective, risks. both historically and relative to peers. Historical comparison Peer comparison The historical comparison section The peer comparison section allows you to gauge whether a allows you to analyze the ESG Metrics list company’s ESG metrics have performance of a company The metrics list is focused on industryimproved or declined over the compared with a group of its specific, investor-relevant ESG key selected timeframe. One-click peers. The list of peers is entirely performance indicators. The data access to the Graph Fundamentals customizable by the user. for each metric is as reported by the (GF) function displays trends over company and its peers. Data is sourced time in a detailed chart. from public company filings, including annual reports, corporate governance Bloomberg Impact Report reports, CSR or Sustainability reports, and from company websites. 15 15 Product The Bloomberg Professional® Service Bloomberg gives influential decision makers a critical edge by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas. With channels of communication fully integrated throughout the platform, users have immediate access to a community of finance, business and government professionals. The Company’s strength—delivering data, news and analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately—is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional® service. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on that strength, leveraging technology to allow customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and information across organizations more efficiently and effectively. As sustainability issues become an increasingly important component of evaluating a company’s value and performance, Bloomberg has invested in our ESG product offerings to help our clients meet this challenge. Highlights from 2016 Bloomberg Intelligence Industry Sustainable Finance Brief Water Risk Evaluation Tool and ESG Primers Bloomberg’s Sustainable Finance Brief, The Bloomberg Water Risk Evaluation Bloomberg Intelligence launched industry launched in 2015, now provides the latest Tool, created in partnership with and topic ESG primers to provide leadingnews on ESG issues to 21,000 weekly the Natural Capital Declaration and edge, data-driven analysis on the key subscribers. The newsletter has broken the UN Environment Programme sustainability trends impacting companies news this year on topics ranging from Finance Initiative, was recognized by and how they are positioning themselves investor action on the Dakota Access Environmental Leader as Product of to respond to emerging challenges. Pipeline to sustainable agriculture and the Year. The tool demonstrates the The industry primers leverage the new ESG financial products. The Brief feasibility of ESG integration in the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board highlights the latest sustainability news context of water risk using familiar (SASB) analysis of “material” ESG issues and data from Bloomberg, Bloomberg financial valuation approaches. to provide succinct insight into issues like BNA and Bloomberg New Energy Finance. energy efficiency, water-scarcity exposure and worker safety. Bloomberg Financial Services Challenge Gender-Equality Index Sustainability Accounting Standards In May 2016, Bloomberg launched the Standard-setters, including the Board (SASB) Data Snapshot Bloomberg Financial Services GenderSustainability Accounting Standards The Bloomberg SASB data snapshot Equality Index (BFGEI), a first-of-itsBoard (SASB) and the FSB Task Force on template enables investors and kind reference index measuring the Climate-related Financial Disclosures companies to see the full list of performance of global financial service (TCFD) are establishing a consistent sustainability standards set for any companies recognized for supporting framework for reporting on sustainability company as determined by the SASB both data disclosure and best-in-class risks and opportunities, but adoption will Industry classification system. Customers policies and practices in the gendertake years. can see where those standards are equality space. The BFGEI has been matched within a Bloomberg ESG field highlighted by firm participants, We are committed to integrating these to get an immediate sense of how well a investors, thought leaders, exchanges standards into our data acquisition and company’s existing ESG reporting aligns and the media for providing data product development to ensure that our with SASB guidelines. transparency and standardization, a clients can utilize investment decisionforum for companies to collectively useful data as soon as it's available. Green Bond Issuer Disclosure discuss challenges internally and among Bloomberg introduced new transparency their peers, and a method to better into the quality of green bonds issuers' understand the performance imperative disclosure. We aim to bring the for gender-equal policies and practices. market into closer alignment with the Since its launch, the BFGEI has doubled recommendations of the Green Bonds index membership, and the Bloomberg Principles advanced by the investor-, team has released a related bond index issuerand underwriter-led group at the based on the same methodology. International Capital Markets Association. 16 GRI: 102-2; 102-6 Equities: ESG data usage 12,242 customers are using ESG data. Users have more than doubled since 2012 This graph shows the growth in the 15,000 12,242 number of ESG users over the past 11,542 11,894 five years. Please note that this is 10,000 just one proxy for determining the adoption of ESG analysis. As the field 7,500 matures, we are developing more 5,000 granular metrics to explain uptake. 5,172 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fixed Income: green bonds marketplace landscape $95 billion of new green bonds Bank of America Merrill Lynch was the top underwriter of green bonds in 2016, arranging $7.8 billion of corporate, municipal and were issued in 2016 supranational green bond deals in both the U.S. and overseas. $95.1 B Underwriters Deals Value The green bonds issued in 2016 $100 B topped the previous record of Bank of America ML 49 $7.8 B $47.9 billion set in 2015. Credit Agricole 41 $4.6 B 80 B JPMorgan 28 $4.3 B SEB Bank 36 $3.8 B Bank of China 23 $3.7 B 60 B Morgan Stanley 19 $3.6 B Deutsche Bank 15 $3.1 B $37.8 B $47.9 B Guotai Junan Securities Co Ltd 10 $3.1 B 40 B HSBC 24 $2.8 B China Construction Bank 10 $2.5 B Citigroup 20 $2.5 B 20 B Huatai Securities Co Ltd 4 $2.5 B $5.1 B $15.4 B Barclays 16 $2.0 B 0B China International Capital Cor 5 $2.0 B 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Haitong Securities Co Ltd 5 $1.9 B Source: BNEF Bloomberg Intelligence: ESG Bloomberg Intelligence (BI) provides in-depth analysis, commentary and data sets on industries, companies, government policy and economics Dedicated analysts provide insight into the latest ESG issues Women Gaining in Europe Boardrooms as U.S. Progress Lags Behind and outlooks, as well as related Government quotas and threats are Index Median % Women on Board government policy and litigation. driving European companies to narrow The BI ESG dashboard offers a onethe gender gaps in their boardrooms. 30% European Stoxx 600 companies have stop hub for ESG analysis, as well as doubled the proportion of female directors to a median 25% since 2011. access to Bloomberg and third-party In contrast, U.S. S&P 500 companies, 25% Stoxx 600 ESG country and company data, at a median 20%, have made about as much progress in the period as FTSE 350 (Ex. Trusts) scores and news. Europe did in the last year. 20% S&P 500 Government-imposed diversity is not palatable in the U.S. Thus investors For example, BI ESG provided concerned with good governance and 15% analysis on gender leadership gains management are left to prod laggards. in Europe and U.S. 10% Bloomberg Impact Report Source: Company filings, 5% Bloomberg Intelligence 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 17 Product Industry Verticals Our Industry Verticals are all web-based businesses—Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF), Bloomberg Government (BGOV) and Bloomberg BNA (BBNA)—which provide industry-leading news, analysis and data about energy, government, laws and regulation. These groups provide clear and actionable intelligence into sustainability issues to help our customers navigate this ever-evolving and increasingly complex and connected landscape. In addition, Bloomberg’s venture capital firm, Bloomberg Beta, invests as early as possible in companies that make work better, with a particular focus on machine intelligence. BNEF is an industry research firm focused on helping energy professionals generate opportunities. With a team of experts spread across six continents, BNEF provides independent analysis and insight, enabling decision makers to navigate change in an evolving energy economy. BGOV delivers a transparent look at the energy and sustainability agenda of Washington policy makers and shapers. BBNA is a leading source of legal, regulatory and business information for professionals. BBNA is committed to being a leader in the areas of environmental, social and fiscal sustainability through producing relevant news content, conferences and events. Highlights from 2016 Reporting on Clean Energy An Integrated Perspective on the Machine Intelligence Landscape Investment Future of Mobility Report Every year, Bloomberg Beta releases BNEF launched a series of reports BNEF co-produced An Integrated the Machine Intelligence Landscape, around clean energy investment Perspective on the Future of Mobility showcasing industry advances and in emerging markets, including: with McKinsey & Company. This report shifts. In past years, it was mostly start-up Climatescope 2016 (which tracks explores how a number of existing social, founders and academics—people who 58 countries in Africa, Asia and economic and technological trends will pay attention to early, far-reaching trends Latin America & the Caribbean), work together to disrupt urban mobility in technology—who were interested. But the Off-Grid Solar Market Trends at the local level. this year we’ve heard more from Fortune Report 2016 (in partnership with 500 executives with questions about The World Bank) and Financing India’s BGOV Features State Regulations machine intelligence than from start-up Clean Energy Transition (focus on BGOV added state regulations to its founders. growth, challenges and financing portfolio of services. This empowers trends in renewable energy). users to track regulations relating to water, air and other environmental Challenge Corporate Renewable Energy quality issues. Procurement Client demand continues to grow for BNEF is expanding its research in the Bloomberg Sustainable standardized, actionable data sets area of corporate procurement through Business Summit that meet workflow needs across the a new regular feature, the Corporate Bloomberg BNA, in partnership with Terminal and web product offerings. Renewable Energy Procurement Monthly, the Bloomberg Sustainable Business & which highlights global power purchase Finance group, hosted two Sustainable We are consistently re-evaluating and agreement (PPA) deals, market and deal Business Summits, one in Toronto and improving our delivery of content, data updates in the U.S., Europe and India, one in New York City. The Summits and other tools to provide clients with and executive interviews. convened more than 450 senior efficient, actionable information. business leaders, investors and top government officials, among others, to discuss how businesses are embedding sustainability initiatives that are both good for business and society into their corporate strategies. 18 Bloomberg New Energy Finance $287 billion invested in clean energy Global clean energy investment reached $287.5 billion in 2016. This was a reduction from 2015 levels, primarily due to fewer large-scale asset finance investments. $349 B $317 B $315 B 11% 18% 8% 300 15% 8% $276 B $291 B 17% $287 B $269 B 250 33% $205 B $207 B 200 $183 B 12% 41% 150 $130 B 100 48% $88 B $62 B 43% 50 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Bloomberg New Energy Finance BNEF Reports Bloomberg New Energy Finance publishes industry-leading reports that provide insights into clean energy investments, specific market outlooks and long-term forecasts for the global power sector, among others. Research insights are available to BNEF clients. Climatescope 2016— An Integrated Perspective New Energy Outlook 2016— The Clean Energy Country on the Future of Mobility Global Overview Competitiveness Index Bloomberg Government Lobbying Intelligence 2013 2016 1,359 Fewer companies are 1,278 1,151 1,128 hiring government affairs 1,074 1,002 1,032 professionals to lobby on 911 738 environmental issues 738 680 694 498 531 485 The graph shows the number of companies 454 and organizations that hired government affairs professionals to lobby on environmental issues from 2013-2016. The environmental issue with Bloomberg Impact Report the highest number of lobbying registrations was energy/nuclear in 2016. Environment & Clean Air and Natural Energy/Nuclear Super Fund Water Quality Resources 19 Product Bloomberg Government (BGOV) 2,500 coverage on federal regulations Notices Final Rules 2,070 2,100 2,071 BGOV’s ongoing real2,001 time coverage enables 2,000 clients to respond and act on environmental 1,500 regulation when it matters most to them 1,000 BGOV helps government affairs and government sales professionals do 711 677 670 their jobs better. Understanding the 607 586 532 554 nexus of energy, the environment and 459 500 related policy and regulation is critical for executives as these issues continue to grow in importance. 57 60 76 94 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Environmental Protection Agency Department of Energy Bloomberg BNA environmental reporting By Topic 17,255 articles on environmental Energy 4,752 and energy topics were published Legislative & across six publications in 2016 Administrative Activity 2,328 BNA is a leading source of legal, regulatory and business information Chemicals for professionals. Its network of national and international 2,213 correspondents and leading practitioners delivers expert analyses, news, practice tools and guidance–the information that matters most Climate Change to our customers. Bloomberg BNA’s Environment, Health and Safety 2,148 News Desks gives prominent coverage to sustainability and other environmental issues. Water Pollution 1,605 Waste Management & Cleanup Liability 1,099 By Publication Daily Environment Report Air Pollution 7,106 885 Natural Energy and Climate Report Resources 3,825 695 International Water Environment Reporter Resources 2,679 581 Water Law & Policy Monitor Sustainability 1,535 488 Chemical Hazardous Regulation Reporter Materials 1,489 263 Environmental Due Species Diligence Guide Report Protection 621 198 20 Media Bloomberg Media is the consumer-facing media organization of Bloomberg—the world’s leading multi-platform media company for business and finance. It draws on Bloomberg Editorial’s 2,600 journalists and analysts in more than 120 bureaus around the world, delivering news across digital, TV, audio, print magazines and live events. Bloomberg Editorial, and, by extension, Bloomberg Media, covers sustainability news and provides analyses for different constituencies in business, finance and government, offering them critical insights on both the pressing issues of the moment as well as deeper coverage of long-term economic, social and environmental trends. Platforms Bloomberg Professional® service Bloomberg Television Bloomberg Technology The Bloomberg Terminal is at the Bloomberg Television reaches 437+ Launched in 2016, Bloomberg heart of Bloomberg’s news offerings; million homes worldwide in more than Technology focuses on the business our journalists produce 5,000 stories 70 countries and is focused on leading of global technology. With more than and headlines a day that help subscribers business with surprising, sharable 50 dedicated reporters and editors in make investment decisions. Professional intelligence. Bloomberg TV delivers 12 international bureaus, Bloomberg service users also have exclusive access 24 continuous hours of business and Technology, uniquely, has the resources to research and analysis from Bloomberg financial news globally, taking advantage and expertise to provide in-depth Intelligence. Bloomberg Editorial covers of the reporting strengths and assets coverage of not only what’s next, but also environmental, social and governance in the four regional hubs: New York, where’s next. The new sub-brand serves issues. London, Hong Kong and Dubai. BTV also an audience of global business decision does in-depth reporting on the major makers across all of Bloomberg Media’s Bloomberg.com sustainability issues of our time through platforms–digital, mobile, television, Bloomberg.com, the flagship digital a business lens—from climate policy on radio, print and live events. It covers destination, features the best of the Capitol Hill and the emergence of electric issues pertaining to technology and editorial output. In addition to breaking cars in Detroit to carbon markets in sustainability, such as a 2016 feature news, Bloomberg.com showcases key Europe and smart cities in Abu Dhabi. on Tesla’s solar rooftops. trends that prompt companies and governments to hone long-term strategies. Bloomberg Radio For example, the bloomberg.com Bloomberg Radio delivers 24/7 marketChallenge story “Waging America’s Wars Using moving news and analysis to a global Renewable Energy” discussed how, like audience. In addition to local stations One constant challenge is to balance the many companies, the Pentagon views in New York, Washington, D.C., Boston coverage of short-term market-moving going green as a long-term strategy. and San Francisco, Bloomberg Radio is news and long-term trends that may not available nationally on Sirius/XM Channel have an immediate impact on today's Bloomberg View & Bloomberg Gadfly 119; in London on DAB Digital Radio; and business and finance professionals' As one of Bloomberg's two commentary worldwide via the Bloomberg Radio+ decision-making, but may be more platforms, Bloomberg View weighs in on app, Bloomberg.com and Sirius XM. impactful years from now. important and controversial sustainability Anchored by Bob Moon, the Bloomberg challenges, with a primary focus on energy Green Business Report examines the We strive to be the first to report the and the environment. Its sister platform, most important developments affecting news and the fastest to report the details; Bloomberg Gadfly, provides daily analysis our environment across technology, we also make it a priority to generate and opinion on markets and corporations, politics, consumer trends and economics thought-provoking, in-depth features including governance issues. in a daily 60-minute morning report. and special reports, including `Focus on Energy' in Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Live and our weekly `Sustainable Finance' Bloomberg Businessweek offers a global The Company’s global events business, newsletter, both available on the terminal, perspective, timely insights and unique Bloomberg Live, leverages the resources in print and on our digital platforms. stories to a new breed of business leader of the news and media organization to who has an original vision for the future convene events that break news and Bloomberg Impact Report and a willingness to think differently. The generate content in live and digital magazine has integrated sustainability formats. In 2016, we brought mainstage into every aspect of its news coverage. conversation to our customers on topics For example, Businessweek featured an such as leadership and the importance article on sustainable apparel company of incorporating ESG into a company’s Patagonia’s foray into sustainable food. strategy. GRI: 102-16; 203-1; G4-2; G4-56: G4-LA9 SASB: SV0302-04 21 Product News & media Annual number of journalism awards, 2007-2016 Bloomberg earned a record number of awards in 2016, bolstered by the efforts of our Media business. 200 60 170 53 167 51 50 154 154 153 150 40 30 27 111 105 100 20 17 103 16 92 10 81 4 2 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Digital Media Bloomberg Design Honorary Bloomberg Bloomberg Businessweek Pursuits Markets Sustainability-related digital and print covers and stories Our Media properties report on the sustainability issues that matter most to business and financial professionals Power Play DON’T LOOK DOWN, buddy—these things are huge! The five generators at the U.S.’s first offshore wind farm perch 360 feet above the surface of the Atlantic Ocean. (They need to be that high so the 240-foot-long blades they’re attached to have enough room to turn without taking out any passing pleasure craft.) In strong winds, the rotors can make as many as 11.5 revolutions per minute—which means the blade tips will be moving at about 200 miles per hour. Block Island Wind Farm, located 3 miles south of the Rhode Island vacation spot and developed by Providence-based Deepwater Wind, was slated to start pumping out electricity at the end of November. When it does, its 30-megawatt capacity will be enough to power 17,000 homes. Meanwhile, in November, the stock prices of wind and other renewable energy companies fell the most in six months after the election of Donald Trump, who has vowed to lift regulations on fossil fuels. For Bloomberg Intelligence analysis on how the Trump administration may affect wind companies, run {BI WIND <GO>}, and for research from Bloomberg New Energy Finance, go to {BNEF <GO>}. �Jon Asmundsson P H OTO G R A P H BY G EO RG E ST E I N M E TZ Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Markets Bloomberg.com Good Business Issue. Feature on the transport of natural gas. Is Sustainable Investing Becoming a New Normal? Bloomberg TV Bloomberg.com Bank of England Governor Mark Carney and Michael Bloomberg, This 3-minute video, accompanying story and infographics describe the rise of founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News and its parent company electric cars and the implications. Bloomberg L.P., discuss the FSB Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures with Bloomberg’s Francine Lacqua in London. 22 Events The Year Ahead Summit Hosted by Bloomberg editor-in-chief John Micklethwait, Bloomberg’s fourth annual The Year Ahead Summit addressed the most urgent topics for 2017 and beyond. How power shifts in global politics will affect free trade and financial markets; industry-moving innovations in AI, robotics and life sciences; the biggest investment opportunities for 2017; and David Gura, a correspondent for Bloomberg TV, Samantha Power, U.S. Permanent Representative to how organizations are working to increase moderated a panel discussion featuring Anne Finucane, the United Nations and member of President Obama’s Vice Chairman, Bank of America, and Andrea Illy, Cabinet, spoke on the tough international human rights diversity, solve the skills gap and decrease Chairman, illycaffe S.p.A., on why ESG is good for challenges awaiting the next president in 2017. the wage gap. business. BNEF Future of Energy Summit The Future of Energy Summit is the premier invitation-only forum convening thought leaders from energy markets, industry, finance and policy. It is a yearround, global experience powered by BNEF's cutting-edge research team as it explores the shifting forces in the energy system and defines the implications for the energy community. Two thousand John Kerry, former Secretary of State in the Obama Tord Lien, Minister of Petroleum and Energy, Norway attendees gather over the three Summits administration, speaking at the BNEF Future of Energy interviewed by Angus McCrone, BNEF at the Future of Summit in New York. Energy Summit in London. in New York, London and Shanghai. Bloomberg BNA Sustainable Business Summit In October 2016, Bloomberg convened senior business leaders, investors and financial decision makers, top government officials, influential media observers and other key stakeholders in New York to discuss how businesses are embedding sustainability initiatives that are both good for business and good for society. The Summit focused on driving growth and profit opportunities through sustainable social and environmental business practices and what these developments mean for investors. Bloomberg Impact Report Freya Williams, CEO of North America, (Top) Michael R. Bloomberg, (Bottom) Bruno Bertocci, Head of Futerra, presents “How Smart Companies founder of Bloomberg L.P., Sustainable Investors, UBS, Audrey Choi, Turn Sustainability into Billion Dollar philanthropist and threeCEO, Institute for Sustainable Investing, Businesses” at the Bloomberg term Mayor of New York Morgan Stanley, and Clara Miller, Sustainable Business Summit. City, opens the 2nd Annual Director & President, Heron Foundation, Bloomberg Sustainable discuss, The “Financial Outcomes Business Summit. of Sustainable Investments,” with Bloomberg’s Emily Chasan (not shown). 23 People Our employees bring a spirit of innovation and collaboration that has made Bloomberg the premier provider of key information for business, finance and news around the world. We are also dedicated to connecting our business to the larger world. Through our employee engagement and social impact groups, Bloomberg strives to achieve greater impact for our employees, our partners and our communities. Philanthropy & Engagement Diversity & Inclusion Benefits & Wellness Giving back is an integral part of Our culture values difference, fosters Bloomberg offers benefits that go above Bloomberg’s culture. Our philanthropic inclusion and promotes collaboration and beyond to ensure our employees, initiatives bring together employees to drive superior business results. We and their families’ health, well-being and from across the company for service work across regions to ensure that financial security. Employees can take activities in local communities to assist we are addressing local priorities that advantage of comprehensive health, neighbors in need, to foster stewardship are consistent with local cultures. As dental and vision coverage, disability in the cities around the world where Bloomberg’s global client base becomes and life insurance, a retirement savings Bloomberg Impact Report we operate and to inspire the next increasingly diverse, our focus on plan with a generous company match generation of leaders through a diverse diversity & inclusion will help us stay and an array of complementary benefits, range of mentoring and education attuned and open to our clients’ rich wellness programs and services. initiatives. We focus our efforts in five key and varied cultures, norms and business areas where we believe we can achieve practices. the greatest good. 25 Case study 35 years of Bloomberg October 1, 2016, marked the 35th anniversary of Bloomberg L.P. helping to revolutionize the financial industry and bring transparency to the financial markets—making them more fair, efficient and dynamic, a spirit we have carried into our philanthropic work. We believe Bloomberg’s diverse around the world. Our employees workforce and open culture have always have been the catalyst and driving been essential to innovation and the force behind these efforts, which have key to our success. Our philanthropic enriched us as a company and made us efforts since day one have been focused the dynamic, energetic and culturally on strengthening and enriching the rich place we are today. communities in which we live and work. Some of our earliest partners include These pages offer a snapshot of some Publicolor, Room to Read, Tate Modern innovations we have made at the and Doctors Without Borders, a diverse company and the impact we have had on group of organizations whose work has the greater world over the last 35 years. changed lives, touched millions and created a lasting impact for generations Bloomberg News launches. Initially a six-person team. more than 5,000 stories are now published each day. Bloomberg Traveler launches. Bloomberg Television This provides the Bloomberg launches. Professional® service on laptop The only 24-hour business Bloomberg L.P. computers for the first time. is founded. and financial news channel. 1981 1994 1980 1990 1982 1987 1992 1993 1995 Merrill Lynch becomes Bloomberg opens its first Bloomberg Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg.com the first Bloomberg international office in Message goes on the air. goes live. customer, with 22 London, followed by Tokyo launches. The first fully digital Terminals installed. four months later. The original station devoted to social network business, finance and Today we have 325,000 Today, Bloomberg has connecting the economy. Bloomberg Professional® employees in 192 locations decision makers service subscriptions. around the world. to a dynamic network. 32% of employees sit in LEED-certified office space. Startup Scholarship Program. 2016 In celebration of our 35th anniversary, Pan-Asian we launched the Bloomberg Startup Scholarship program. In partnership Military and Women with Bloomberg Philanthropies Veterans College Access and Success program, this initiative will provide scholarships, Today, nearly made possible by employee volunteer 5,000 global service, to enable 35 high-achieving, Working employees are Latino Families lowand moderate-income students active across our from around the world access to 2013 Diversity & Inclusion launches. top universities. Communities This program establishes initiatives, communities (employee resource LGBT Black groups) and partnerships that help and Ally Professional build an inclusive work environment. Abilities 2011 Inaugural Tradebook Charity Day. Every year, Tradebook and the financial community supports those in need by More than donating trading commissions to a variety of Bloomberg-supported charities; it is $5 million now known as Tradebook Charity Day. raised since its inception. 2010 2009 Bloomberg New Energy Bloomberg Businessweek. Finance launches. Bloomberg L.P. acquires BNEF provides unique Businessweek, renames it analyses, tools, and data Bloomberg Businessweek, and Bloomberg Philanthropies to decision makers, driving integrates the magazine’s content into focuses on five key areas change in the energy system. the Bloomberg Professional® service. for creating lasting change: • public health • environment • education • government 2008 Bloomberg iPhone app. Bloomberg San Francisco. The Bloomberg innovation • arts & culture The Bloomberg iPhone app Awarded Leadership in Professional® service. is the first to offer global Energy and Environmental Chosen to conduct the Bloomberg market data coverage; it was Design (LEED) Gold first-ever auction of UK available the day the Apple certification. Carbon Allowances Philanthropies App Store opened. for Phase II of the EU is established. 2006 Since then we have Emissions Trading completed 29 LEEDSystems. certified projects — 2004 Our Global Headquarters 15 Platinum and 14 Gold. is completed. 731 Lexington Avenue, New York Platinum 2003 Bloomberg Anywhere. Gold The service was introduced, providing 2008 2016 subscribers biometrically secure access to the Bloomberg Professional® service 2000 via the Internet any time, anywhere. 1996 Best of Bloomberg launches. Mike Bloomberg and Bloomberg employees join Publicolor for the first Best of Bloomberg (BOB) volunteer project. Volunteers, students and staff painted the walls of Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn. Bloomberg Impact Report In 2016, more than 11,000 employees dedicated over 128,000 hours of volunteer service in 74 cities around the world. 27 People Philanthropy & Engagement Bloomberg’s Philanthropy & Engagement program builds on the long-standing philanthropic and service-focused commitment established at the company by founder Mike Bloomberg. Our philanthropic initiatives engage employees in service activities in local communities, assisting neighbors in need, fostering environmental stewardship in cities where we have offices and inspiring the next generation of leaders through a diverse range of mentoring and education initiatives as part of Bloomberg Startup. Our work advances the company’s core values of diversity and inclusion, sustainability, and wellness. This year, more than 11,000 employees dedicated over 128,000 hours of volunteer service in 74 cities around the world. Highlights from 2016 Supporting arts & culture the new Bloomberg Startup 35 Scholars cities around the world. With the adoption Bloomberg works to advance creativity, program in partnership with Bloomberg of local park areas such as Buckhill innovation, access, and new technologies in Philanthropies to provide 35 highMeadow in Hyde Park with the Royal the arts. We have corporate memberships achieving, low-income students around Parks Foundation, the dedication of a new at more than 250 arts and cultural the world with the opportunity to gain boat christened the Lotus Bloom, with organizations in 44 cities globally giving higher education. the Anacostia Watershed Society, and employees access to unique works of the cleanups of the Sydney Royal Botanic art. In 2016, hundreds of our employees Helping our neighbors in need Garden in honor of its 200th anniversary, volunteered with our arts partners to Bloomberg’s trademark of excellence Bloomberg employees are doing their support key projects, including Bloomberg in service for our customers extends part to preserve and restore our local Summer at the Roundhouse’s Curtain to helping our neighbors in need and green spaces. Call in London, MoMA PS1’s Rockaway! in providing compassion by supporting Queens, the 32nd Annual São Paulo Biennal the homeless, addressing food Bloomberg Media Initiative and the Public Art Fund’s Lost Man Creek insecurity, helping veterans and refugee Africa (BMIA) by Spencer Finch in Brooklyn, as well as communities as well as individuals BMIA brings together media, business the testing and rollout of new Bloomberg impacted by natural disasters. In 2016, and technology leaders, academics and Connects apps at the Tate Modern and Bloomberg expanded our outreach Bloomberg employees in News and SFMoma. By funding innovative apps and to veterans through our partnerships, Global Data to strengthen economic guides at cultural institutions through including Veterans Aid and the Bob and financial reporting in Africa and to Bloomberg Connects, the Bloomberg Woodruff Foundation. We also launched improve access to information on the Philanthropies arts program works to the new Legal Pro Bono program with the continent. This year marked the second increase access to culture and strengthen company’s legal department to support annual convening of business executives arts organizations around the world. underserved communities by providing to explore the role of data and financial free legal expertise. In its pilot year, the journalism in optimizing the success Education program provided more than 1,400 hours of Africa’s media industry. Since its Bloomberg Startup, the company’s of volunteer legal services for a number of inception, 432 journalists, business and global mentoring program, offers a wide organizations such as CUNY Citizenship government professionals have been range of activities designed and led by NOW!, which offers immigration law trained on the fundamentals of business our employees in collaboration with our services to eligible individuals and reporting. nonprofit partners to support academic families on their path toward U.S. achievement and prepare students for citizenship. further education and careers, especially Challenges in STEAM (Science, Technology, Sustainability & the environment Engineering, the Arts, and Mathematics). Bloomberg is committed to global Our employee engagement in volunteer Now in its second year, Startup has grown sustainability and environmental service has grown more than 115% over to more than 3,600 employee mentors— conservation in the communities in which the past 5 years. In order to maintain with workshops held in 33 cities, including we live and work. In 2016, employees and continue this growth, we will seek to Cape Town, Lugano, Pune, San Francisco, dedicated more than 8,000 hours provide employees with greater diversity Singapore and Washington, D.C. As part of hands-on action supporting local of options for engagement in their local of our 35th Anniversary, we launched greening and stewardship efforts in 21 communities. 28 GRI: 413-1; G4-M7 Philanthropy & Engagement: Employee service 2016 volunteering 20,000 18,570 Total Employees by the numbers 17,997 As our workforce continued to grow—nearly 20% over 15,617 16,352 15,653 the past 5 years—so did our employees’ commitment to 11,120 Unique Volunteers giving back in the local communities in which we live and work. 10,000 9,800 7,556 1,700 128,739 5,057 5,163 Organizations Volunteer Hours 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Philanthropy & Engagement: 2016 highlights and milestones 2016 impact by the numbers This is what we are all about at Bloomberg: service excellence. Every day, our local action has a transformative and lasting impact globally. 90,000 1.92 M 3,600 15,993 Individuals and Meals Served/ Mentors KM Run/Biked/ Families Served Prepared Walked for Charity 1,742 28,660 $300K 15,156 Units of Blood Hours Spent Disaster Relief Articles of Clothing Donated Mentoring Funds Raised Collected for Charity 1,400 92 11,932 8,468 Hours of Pro bono Local Parks and Trees Planted Hours Spent on Legal Services Waterways Cleaned Environmental Stewardship Bloomberg Impact Report 432 1,900 2,124 BMIA Journalists Small Business Friends and Family and Mid Career Coaching Hours Participation Professionals 29 People Diversity & Inclusion Bloomberg drives disruptive innovation and breakthrough performance by embracing and leveraging diversity in all its forms. We strive to create a culture that values difference, fosters inclusion and promotes collaboration to drive business results. We work across regions to ensure we are addressing local priorities and are consistent with local cultures. As Bloomberg’s global client base becomes increasingly diverse, our focus on diversity & inclusion will help us stay attuned and open to our clients’ rich and varied cultures, norms and business practices. Highlights from 2016 Increasing awareness and education Promoting an inclusive culture Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality Bloomberg is committed to developing Employees participate in various Bloomberg was named one of the Best inclusive leaders and integrating Diversity & Inclusion initiatives, including Places to Work for LGBT Equality. We diversity & inclusion principles into all leadership conferences and mentoring received a perfect score on the 2017 leadership development curricula. We programs. In 2016, Bloomberg Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national provide tools on how to minimize bias hosted more than 150 events focused benchmarking survey and report in the workplace and host educational on commercial impact, leadership on corporate policies and practices sessions on being an authentic leader, development, recruiting and community related to LGBT workplace equality managing across differences and engagement to facilitate dialogue and administered by the Human Rights executive presence. Our unconscious share research and thought leadership Campaign Foundation. bias training is offered to employees globally. In our efforts to measure and mandatory for all our leaders. inclusive leadership, Bloomberg We leverage memberships to leading incorporated diversity and inclusion Challenges organizations such as the National objectives into performance evaluations Center for Women & Information for people leaders in 2016. The purpose: While Bloomberg benefits from active Technology, Out Leadership and the to demonstrate manager efforts around diversity and inclusion champions Council of Urban Professionals, among inclusive leadership and advancing throughout senior leadership and within others, helping our employees to deliver businesses’ diversity and inclusion plans. our Communities, we are still working their best work. We collaborate and to drive higher levels of engagement learn from our strategic partners to drive Attracting diverse talent and accountability across mid-level innovation in the field and speed our We are focused on building strong management. joint success—and we invest in research diverse teams in which employees that is meaningful and impactful. feel valued and engaged. Bloomberg In 2017, we are focused on educating partners with strategic diversity managers on the business impact of Enhancing organization organizations globally to broaden and diversity and inclusion—and empowering accountability strengthen our talent pipeline at all them to drive diversity and inclusion Each of our businesses implements levels. In an effort to enhance our talent within their own teams—through new a Diversity & Inclusion plan whereby pipeline, Bloomberg has invested in leadership development and training they foster innovation through creative technology and new processes and has opportunities. ideas that support talent progression, hosted and attended multiple events product development and client focused on diversity recruiting. To date, relationships. For example, in media, these efforts have resulted in more than Bloomberg TV launched “Walk the Talk,” 70,000 prospects. branded segments focused on the pressure points of social change and the business imperative behind diversity and inclusion. Editorial launched Moderator Training for women across Asia, an initiative that raises the profile of our women leaders at conferences, events and summits and helps build Bloomberg brand ambassadors. 30 Communities at Bloomberg Nearly 5,000 employees are members of Bloomberg Communities Communities are employee-run forums where 67 84 15 employees serve as culture carriers, role models cities offices executive and brand ambassadors through employee where Communities with Community sponsors engagement activities; in addition, they expand their exist globally participants who collaborate professional network and enhance their leadership on global and management skills. Communities are a platform strategic vision to promote a global dialogue on diversity and inclusion. Key focus areas for Community activities are: commercial impact, leadership development, recruiting, and community engagement. Abilities Community • • Black Professional Community 46 8 Nearly • Latino Community chapters communities at Bloomberg 5,000 • LGBT and Ally Community focused on employees • Military and Veterans Community commercial are members of • Pan-Asian Community impact, leadership Communities • Women’s Community development, • Working Families Community recruiting, brand visibility and community engagement Unconscious bias training Our unconscious bias training is offered to all 99.2% employees and mandatory for all our leaders manager completion As part of our focus on inclusive The objectives of the training are to: leadership and increasing diversity and inclusion awareness, one of our initiatives is to train our people C  reate a safe environment to discuss issues of bias managers globally in Unconscious Bias. and exclusion Through interactive exercises and honest dialogue, leaders walked away with heightened awareness and tools  xplore how biases may impact all segments of the E for reducing the negative impact employee life cycle of their own unconscious biases, (e.g, recruitment, job assignments, career advancement, etc.) ultimately fostering a more inclusive work environment for all employees everywhere.  nhance your ability to engage in discussions about E At year-end, 99.2% of all people bias and inclusion managers globally had completed the unconscious bias training. In 2017, Bloomberg will extend Unconscious Bias training to all employees and will Bloomberg Impact Report expand Unconscious Bias training by Share research on unconscious bias evolving the training offerings. 31 People Benefits & Wellness Bloomberg takes care of its people. We provide our employees comprehensive health, dental and vision coverage, disability and life insurance, a retirement savings plan with a generous company match and an array of complementary benefits, wellness programs and services. All employees globally have access to “core” wellness-related benefits, including an Employee Assistance Program, ergonomics, lifestyle and preventive programs such as fitness discounts and subsidies, health screenings and flu shots. Specific benefits vary from region to region, based on the market, population and employee needs. Highlights from 2016 Implementation of new In the first six months, 36% of eligible filmed a video featuring our Chairman HR system, MYHR employees activated their Thrive accounts and members of the Working Families At Bloomberg, we always look for better, and took steps toward better health. By Community. This campaign was the faster ways to get our work done. As a the end of 2016, 88% of employees were result of months of work to identify result of close collaboration with more on the platform; the jump in enrollment opportunities to improve the parenting than 100 people in four departments largely driven by participation in our new experience in an effort to increase and 18 months of careful planning, health assessment, which is one of the recruitment, retention and engagement we launched MYHR <GO>, a new and components of our wellness incentive of working parents. integrated Human Resources technology program, Health Track. platform, powered by Workday. This was a major foundational step in streamlining— Engaged global employees through Challenges and, in some cases, automating—many wellness challenges HR processes, as well as improving Bloomberg implemented a new global Working with employees dispersed the employee experience, supplying wellness challenge platform to connect across 73 countries poses the unique managers with better information and our employees and get them moving challenge of providing equitable, enhancing our technology. through fun and friendly competition. culturally relevant programs and services Employees can participate in wellness that meet local needs. Additionally, Growth of Bloomberg ESG fund challenges by downloading the app or Bloomberg offers a such a wide variety In June 2015, Bloomberg introduced creating an online account and syncing of rich benefits that it is critical that these the Parnassus Core Equity Fund to the a wearable device or other digital offerings are administered efficiently and U.S. 401(k) plan. Parnassus Core Equity health tools. Challenge winners earn are easily understood and leveraged by Fund investments link ESG factors to global bragging rights, in addition to our employees. fundamental investment principles, with some smaller prizes that are based on the goal of outperforming the market. performance and are also awarded at In 2017, we are focused on delivering With a little less than six months in the random. Bloomberg's high standards of benefit fund lineup, the 2015 plan year ended offerings while keeping them locally with nearly $2.2M. Over the next year, Bloomberg is a fairly competitive relevant. We plan to assess the market the fund gained even more popularity environment, which fuels our to determine if our current partners truly and increased nearly fourfold to end the participation in these challenges—in are best in class or if other solutions 2016 plan year with nearly $8.5M. 2016, we offered two challenges with better meet our needs. We will be doing more than 1,800 employees (11% of all of this while focusing on improving Launched Thrive, a custom eligible) participating in both challenges. the employee experience. well-being mobile app Through Thrive, employees in the Offered our first global working U.S., Latin America and Canada can families campaign & enhanced the earn points for participating in various parenting experience wellness programs and taking healthy During this campaign to showcase our actions to achieve their wellness goals— support and resources for working such as tracking sleep, nutrition and families, we launched a new Parent fitness—which they can redeem for a Transition Coaching service in the number of rewards. And, Thrive gives UK and U.S., created new parent and employees a new way to connect with manager toolkits for parental leave, colleagues through social newsfeeds. offered a number of special events and 32 GRI: 401-2 Thrive app Bloomberg’s new wellbeing app provides employees with access to wellness resources and incentives for taking healthy actions Thrive, a program powered by the Jiff mobile app, provides easy access to a number of wellness benefits, tools and programs. 1,909 Wellness coaching 2016 participation and results Employees coached with 13,817 Approximately 21% of eligible employees accessed interactions their on-site wellness coach in 2016 for guidance, which yielded many positive outcomes 997 835 employees lost 8,239 lbs employees increased exercise Bloomberg provides five full-time on-site wellness coaches in New York and New Jersey to help employees 233 develop personalized health193 employees improvement plans in areas like employees reduced stress nutrition, weight loss, fitness, stress lowered blood management and more. pressure Wellness Challenge app New global wellness challenge app connects our employees and gets them moving 11% of our employees formed teams to participate in our first global wellness challenge, Wander the Wonders, where every step advanced you through a series of exotic locations to the finish line. A total of 431 million steps were taken 308 teams over the course were formed 65% of those that tracked of the three-week Bloomberg Impact Report steps averaged above the challenge daily goal of 8,000 steps; the average steps per active employee were 9,732 33 34 Planet The primary objective of our sustainability strategy is to decouple the Company’s growth from environmental impact, while proving the business case for sustainable operations. To date, we have improved operating margins, minimized risk and collaborated with our partners to implement more than 120 environmental projects, resulting in 685,489 metric tonnes of avoided CO₂ emissions—the equivalent of more than three years of Bloomberg’s carbon emissions—and avoided $95 million in operating costs. Energy Business travel & logistics Paper Bloomberg’s energy strategy is In 2016, Bloomberg emissions from Paper represents 12% of Bloomberg’s comprehensive, focusing on reducing employee business travel and noncarbon emissions—responsible sourcing overall energy consumption, publishing-related logistics were 52,947 of paper and printing services is critical implementing energy-efficiency projects metric tonnes, an 89% increase from to mitigating our environmental impact at our facilities, developing both onand 2007 levels but a 1.3% reduction on a in this area. off-site renewable energy projects and per-headcount basis. building our facilities to environmental standards. Waste & water Supply chain Performance Our waste sent to landfills resulted We take a holistic view of our supply by the numbers in 1,633 metric tonnes of CO₂e. On a chain, giving careful attention to all We've measured our progress across per-headcount basis, this represents aspects of our internal logistics and all areas of our operations and between a 5% increase over 2015, but still a ensuring that our suppliers maintain departments on environmental metrics 67% reduction from 2007, attributable high labor and environmental standards. for the past five years against our 2007 primarily to a move to zero-landfill, baseline. waste-to-energy disposal of all our waste in New York City and London and composting in 19 global locations. Bloomberg Impact Report 35 Case study Path to 100% Renewable Energy In 2016, Bloomberg joined RE100, a global initiative of influential businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity. We have pledged to obtain 100% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2025. Our initial target continues to be 35% electricity from renewables by 2020. To date, our completed solar projects have generated more than 15,000 megawatt hours and saved Bloomberg more than $1 million. Our progress so far On Earth Day, Bloomberg completed in addition to previously completed our third on-site solar photovoltaic projects, demonstrate Bloomberg’s project on the roof of our New Jersey commitment to creatively finding ways maintenance building. The 184KW to meet our renewable energy goals project will produce 195,000 kWh and reduce our emissions. Bloomberg annually and save 1,700 metric tonnes continues to actively support the of CO₂e over the life of the project. Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA). Specifically, we were an original Additionally, in November, Bloomberg signatory of the Renewable Energy signed a 15-year power purchase Buyers’ Principles and actively work with agreement for 5MW of wind energy in the Rocky Mountain Institute’s Business Texas. It is expected to reduce emissions Renewable Center on its mission to help by more than 7,500 metric tonnes streamline and accelerate corporate annually, the equivalent of 1,400 homes’ purchasing of off-site, large-scale wind annual energy usage. It will offset 11% and solar energy. of electricity consumed in Bloomberg’s U.S. operations. These transactions, Completed 1.5MW Queens Solar Project Under Development 20MW Arkwright Summit Wind Project Completed 1.8MW Princeton Solar Project RE100 Completed Commitment 41KW San Francisco Solar Project Announced Began Investigating Renewable Energy Projects 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 RE100 Path to RE100 Plan Commitment Signed and completed projects have an NPV of more than $8 million. 100% Renewable Bloomberg Renewable Energy at Year End Projected energy by 2025 Bloomberg Renewable Energy Projects 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Owned MW 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 Renewables MWh 0.00 0.00 38 64 60 60 221 241 241 241 241 Power Purchase MW 0.00 0.00 1.8 1.8 1.8 3.5 3.5 22.6 57.6 77.6 77.6 Agreements MWh 0.00 0.00 2,425 2,472 2,606 2,929 4,719 30,995 156,175 195,948 203,129 (PPAs) Renewable MWh 145,247 211,060 208,262 211,513 90,747 94,763 88,612 85,000 85,000 6,500 6,500 Energy Credits (RECs) 20MW Arkwright Summit 75% Wind Project 1.5MW Queens Solar Project 184KW New Jersey Maintenance Building Solar Project 1.8MW 41KW Princeton Solar San Francisco Project Solar Project The path forward To hit our target of 100% renewable 5MW electricity by 2025, we will continue 50% Hidalgo Wind Project to diversify the types of technologies, contract terms and locations of our projects, while still seeking projects that meet our environmental and financial objectives. 2020 Vision Goal Completed 184KW New Jersey Maintenance Building Solar Project 35% With the completion Future projects Renewable Completed 5MW Hidalgo of all future pipeline Bloomberg is currently energy Wind Project focusing on projects in projects, Bloomberg will Mid-Atlantic U.S. and in by 2020 the United Kingdom be on track to meet the 2020 Vision goal of 35% renewables by 2020. Bloomberg Impact Report 0% 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 37 Planet Energy In 2016, Bloomberg’s total energy emissions were 107,043 metric tonnes. As a company with more than 18,000 employees in 200 locations globally, including data centers, reducing our energy-related carbon emissions is critical to reducing our total environmental impact. Highlights from 2016 Bloomberg’s energy strategy is Data center efficiency is a clear priority Science-Based Targets comprehensive, focusing on reducing for Bloomberg. Through ongoing As the issue of science-based targets consumption, implementing efficiency implementation of numerous best becomes more prominent, Bloomberg projects, developing onand off-site practices at our data centers over the is in agreement with the need to renewable energy projects and building years, our overall data center Power align ourselves with those goals that facilities to environmental standards. Usage Effectiveness (PUE) has improved have the best opportunity to lead our by 12% vs. 2010 and will get better in environment toward a 2° scenario. While New solar and wind projects 2017 due to the transition. Bloomberg has not set a “stand-alone” On Earth Day 2016, our 184KW roofscience-based target, we have set mount installation in central New Jersey Global LEED certification numerous reduction targets, including began producing energy. By year-end, it Since 2008, Bloomberg has our commitment to RE100 to be 100% had generated more than 160,000 kWh been committed to a portfolio of renewable by 2025. Achieving this and saved more than $18,000 vs. utility environmentally certified office target will result in an approximately 75% pricing. Added to existing solar projects, spaces to ensure that we are limiting reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions Bloomberg generated more than 4.9 the environmental impact of both (market-based) vs. 2010 Scope 1 and million kWh of renewable energy in construction and occupancy. All new 2 market-based baseline, which is in 2016, saving approximately $139,000. In office developments, refurbishments line with science-based targets for November, Bloomberg signed a 15-year and expansions are built to LEED or Bloomberg’s sector (Service Buildings) PPA in Texas: the Hidalgo Wind Project is BREEAM building certifications.* set out in the Sectoral Decarbonization a 5MW installation expected to produce Approach (SDA) formulated by CDP, WRI 19,000 MWh annually. In 2016, we received LEED Platinum for and WWF. our Johannesburg office and LEED Gold We have another renewable energy at our London-Parkhouse and Arlington, project in development. The Arkwright VA, offices. At year-end, Bloomberg had Challenges Summit Wind Project is a 20MW 29 LEED-certified projects, housing 32% installation expected to produce of our employees. Ten more projects Bloomberg continues to face upward approximately 61,000 MWh annually are at various stages of progress toward pressure on energy consumption from starting in 2018. LEED or BREEAM certification. company growth and data center expansion. Opportunities to improve Bloomberg already had an internal Ongoing facilities efficiency infrastructure at our 29 LEED-certified goal to source 35% of its electricity Facility efficiency of Bloomberg facilities offices are limited. from renewables by 2020, but in continues to be a prime focus of our 2016 Bloomberg joined RE100 and environmental efforts, as well as an area We will continue to address inefficiencies committing to using 100% clean energy of success. In 2016, Bloomberg had and invest in LEED facilities, with an by 2025. Once Arkwright is completed, 197 non–data-center locations globally, increased focus on renewable energy Bloomberg should be generating representing 3.6 million square feet and sourcing. A major lighting overhaul approximately 27% of its annual energy consuming 148 million kWh. Current and completed at BBNA’s McArdle printing from renewables. historical reduction efforts for buildings facility in 2016 yielded savings of over and technology resulted in savings/ 1 million kWh annually and a projected Data center efficiency improvements avoidance of approximately 242 million NPV of $1.1 million. In 2016, Bloomberg completed the kWh and project-based cost savings of transition from an existing data center $40.1 million since 2008. Total kWh per to a LEED* v4 data center in Upstate NY. employee has improved 29% vs. 2007 The new data center is projected to be baseline. 25% more efficient than a traditional data center and 15% more efficient than the previous facility. The switch should save more than 10 million kWh over a full year of operation. *Building certifications: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standards and Building Research 38 GRI: 305-5; TC0401-03 Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) standards. Emissions by activity Total kWh and kWh per employee Energy and While total kWh consumed travel continue has increased 33% since 2007, to dominate kWh consumed per employee has Bloomberg’s decreased 29% in the same period emissions profile, accounting for 87% kWh Per Headcount (Thousands) 25 kWh Usage by Headcount kWh Usage by Year of our total 2.8% 23,105 As a technology-heavy service 8.5% organization with a hub-and-spoke 22,477 21,139 20 9.9% 2.9% 1.5% 2.2% sales model, our constant focus is on 16,592 15,991 19,050 16,348 finding opportunities to mitigate the 0.3% 12.5% 2.2% environmental impact of these areas. 17,028 17,083 300M kWh 16,663 15 301.0M 13% 299.3M Paper 31% Consumption 286.6M Travel and and Waste 275M kWh Logistics 10 267.4M 265.9M 250M kWh 254.4M 5 238.4M 241.7M 225M kWh 232.3M 226.8M 56% Energy Use 0 200M kWh 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 LEED offices 32% of Bloomberg 25,000 employees sit in Total Headcount % of Employees in 19,939 Office-certified space LEED-certified offices 20,000 18,310 18,794 Bloomberg received three LEED 17,276 certifications in 2016, bringing 15,264 15,617 15,653 our total to 29. While 32% of all 70.2% 12,689 Bloomberg employees currently sit 15,000 in LEED facilities, by 2018 we expect 10,990 10,317 that percentage to exceed 70%. 10,000 31.6% 29.0% 26.7% 28.2% 26.2% 5,000 8.6% 2.5% 4.6% 1.7% Bloomberg Impact Report 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2018 Anticipated 39 Planet 2020 emissions reductions/targets 2020 Emissions Reductions: 2020 Carbon Reductions/Targets Absolute and from Business as Usual (BAU) Metric Tonnes of CO2e 2014 was a transition year from Phase 1 to Phase 2 of 400,000 our strategy to reduce our carbon emissions. In Phase 1, we focused on demand reduction and infrastructure investments. We also investigated and implemented two renewable energy projects, with a third in progress. 350,000 In Phase 2, we have continued to focus on these Reduction % from BAU opportunities, but have also expanded our use of direct 54.62% renewable energy to enable us to achieve our goals. Facilities/Technology 300,000 6% 0.7% Identified projects, if completed, Infrastructure Solar/Wind will offset and result in a 32.8% reduction in emissions* vs. 2007 baseline emissions 250,000 93.3% Demand Reduction Reductions by type 2008-2013 1.4% Magazine Publishing 200,000 .5% 0.5% Other Travel/Other Renewables 2.1% 150,000 Infrastructure 11.9% Solar/Wind Projected reductions by type 8.1% 5.5% 2014-2020 82.0% Renewable Energy Infrastructure Demand Reduction 100,000 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 * Represents market-based emissions that include renewable energy projects. Carbon footprint Bloomberg carbon emissions by scope and type Metric Tonnes CO₂e, 2007–2016 2007 % Change Scope 1 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 baseline vs. 2007 Direct Combustion Emissions 9,519 9,729 12,160 9,848 12,357 6,085 56.44% 2007 % Change Scope 2 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 baseline vs. 2007 ***T he calculations Indirect Combustion (Electricity, Steam) 103,540 110,729 108,676 104,983 105,151 102,084 1.43% of Location-Based and Market-Based 2007 % Change emissions are based Scope 3 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 baseline vs. 2007 on WRI's GHG Protocol Scope 2 Employee Business Travel 44,292 48,546 36,912 35,670 27,241 20,819 112.74% Reporting Guidance (January 2015)— Magazine Distribution 6,628 7,347 8,115 8,708 10,135 4,345 52.52% these calculations Material Transport 2,639 3,092 2,606 2,328 2,060 3,337 -20.93% roughly correspond to Bloomberg’s Publishing Paper Consumption 22,342 24,978 27,035 29,513 31,332 7,429 200.76% historical reporting Other Paper Consumption 766 844 796 919 890 963 -20.53% of Carbon Emissions and Landfill Waste 1,633 1,533 1,300 1,160 1,249 2,473 -33.96% Carbon Footprint, respectively. 2007 % Change Bloomberg Location-Based Emissions* 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 baseline vs. 2007 ***T his impact includes Total 191,359 206,797 197,599 193,129 190,415 147,536 29.70% projects for which Bloomberg retains Renewable Energy Projects** -1,625 -1,065 -1,022 -969 -951 N/A N/A the RECs (457 MT Unbundled REC Purchases -25,329 -33,799 -33,083 -81,111 -80,464 0 N/A CO2e) and projects for which Bloomberg Other Market-Based Emissions Adjustments -5,522 -2,486 0 0 0 (0) N/A does not retain the RECs, but acquires 2007 % Change RECs equal to the Bloomberg Market-Based Emissions* 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 baseline vs. 2007 environmental impact of the project Total 158,882 169,446 163,494 111,049 109,000 147,536 7.69% (1,168 MT CO2e). 40 Performance summary by department Environmental impact management has resulted in reduced CO₂e and significant operating cost reductions vs. business as usual (BAU) 41% 685,489 MT $95M* CO₂e Intensity Reduction Avoided CO₂e from BAU Cumulative Net Avoided Costs (2008–2016) (2008–2016) Percentage Reduction in CO2e Emissions and/Emissions Intensity Net Savings by Department 2016 vs. 2007 Baseline Intensity Absolute Department Saving -48% Facilities/Offices $19.7 M -10% -49% Information Systems $22.7 M -7% -27% Networks $0 3% -24% Broadcast $509 K -24% -65% Facilities/Data Centers $8.4 M -9% -53% Engineering Systems $0 22% 6% Employee Business Travel $31.2 M 103% -55% Markets Magazine $8.6 M -46% -23% $2.7 M Businessweek -31% -30% BLP Ink $598 K -3% -55% $1.8 M Asset Management -29% -96% Pantry $0 -92% -61% Bloomberg Impact Report Waste, Other $0 -22% 100% 50% 0% -50% -100% *Net avoided costs include additional savings of $14.9M and expenses of $16.2M not represented in individual department savings. 41 Planet Business Travel and Logistics Employee travel and logistics are key components of our operations, accounting for 31% of total emissions. As a service company with multiple publications, employee travel, internal logistics, product shipments and magazine distribution are all crucial to the success of our business. Highlights from 2016 Global logistics Challenges Bloomberg business travel In 2016, we clocked more than 700,000 shipments, both outbound and inbound, which resulted in 2,639 metric tonnes Supporting customers through our sales force is a key component of our Miles traveled and of CO₂e (compared with 3,337 metric business model, limiting opportunities CO₂e emissions tonnes in 2007). Almost 93% of shipping for emissions reductions in travel and activity in 2016 was via ground or sea, non-magazine logistics. These pressures by year a 4.5% improvement over 2007. will only continue to grow in line with MT of CO₂e/ increasing headcount. MT of Full-time Year Miles CO₂e Employees Improved packaging Bloomberg has reduced packaging Working closely with employees, we 2016 169,096,061 50,308 2.71 waste by implementing reusable have successfully reduced the use of car 2015 184,955,625 54,231 3.01 packaging and eliminating Bloombergservice by as much as 76% in the UK and generated Styrofoam from our waste 24% in the US, versus 2007 baselines. 2014 149,763,642 43,941 2.69 stream. We have implemented numerous Employees are also using rail instead 2013 140,274,056 41,649 2.66 packaging-reduction initiatives, of air on feasible routes. In 2016, 95% including a multi-component reusable of travel between London and Paris/ 2012 125,174,301 33,901 2.19 packaging system and a policy that Brussels and 55% of travel between encourages reuse of packaging as often New York City and Washington, D.C., 2011 119,143,024 36,928 2.68 as possible. Despite increased shipping was conducted via rail. 2010 110,402,214 37,395 3.14 activity, we have reduced packaging usage by 20% since 2008 (the year before implementation), achieving Miles traveled by air since 2010 annual savings in excess of $100,000. 200 M 2016 travel Bloomberg employees traveled 100 M 169 million miles in 2016, generating 50,308 metric tonnes of CO₂e, down 8.6% and 7.2%, respectively, vs. 2015. Miles traveled by rail since 2010 As commercial air travel represents 4M 95% of mileage and 84% of travel emissions, an 8.4% reduction in air travel activity vs. 2015 is driving 2.5 M these reductions. Miles traveled by car since 2010 8M 5M 42 GRI: 102-9 Paper Bloomberg’s paper usage goes beyond the publishing of three magazines—Bloomberg Businessweek, Bloomberg Markets and Bloomberg Pursuits—to in-house print facilities in New Jersey, London and Hong Kong and Bloomberg BNA’s publishing company in Maryland. Emissions from our publishing operations now account for 12% of company emissions. Highlights from 2016 Bloomberg Businessweek 2016 Markets paper consumption was per-headcount decrease and 18% Bloomberg Businessweek magazine is down 41% since 2007—despite 2016 reduction in total usage since 2007. a weekly publication with an average total issues being only 15% lower than Globally, Bloomberg offices use an circulation of 996,000, the creation and in 2007. average recycled content in office paper distribution of which contributed 21,824 • Improvements in paper-production of 67%, while 66% of office paper is metric tonnes of CO₂e to Bloomberg’s processes have resulted in lower FSC-certified. emissions. Since we acquired the carbon factors associated with paper magazine in 2009, Bloomberg has been usage since 2007. Follow-me printing focused on increasing its circulation In 2016, we introduced “Follow-Me through improved content and editorial BLP Ink Printing” technology in our New York design while upgrading the quality Bloomberg Ink is the Company’s inCity offices, with a global rollout planned of its paper, including exclusively house print facility (locations in New for 2017. With “Follow Me Printing,” utilizing Forest Stewardship Council Jersey, London and Hong Kong). The our printers are equipped with badge (FSC)-certified paper. FSC paper is the department completed 43,587 print readers and employees scan their gold standard of forest management jobs in 2016, representing 17.4 million badges to access their print jobs from that ensures our paper comes from impressions, including business cards, any printer within our print environment; sustainably managed sources. In 2016, nameplates, notebooks, stationery and any jobs that haven’t been scanned for Bloomberg Businessweek reduced brochures. We are continually working pickup within three hours of printing fall printed copies by 1.2 million (1.1 million to maximize Bloomberg Ink’s output off the print server. Early results show a coming from printed newsstand and minimize our reliance on third-party savings of 10% in print jobs and 20% in copies) and increased digital copies by printing. As of year-end 2016, we have physical printers located on floors. 906,000. reduced our annual spend on third-party print services by 84% and achieved cost Bloomberg Markets & Pursuits* savings of $11.6 million since 2008. Challenges Bloomberg Markets streamlined publishing operations, reducing the Bloomberg Ink’s 2016 environmental Efforts to source and implement recycled number of published issues from 11 in achievements include: content paper into our magazines—which 2015 to 6 in 2016. These issues were • Using 98% FSC-certified paper accounts for the majority of our paper coupled with 5 issues of Pursuits. With (Bloomberg Ink has been FSC-certified usage and associated emissions—has an average circulation of approximately since 2008) and an average of 32% been hindered by supply scarcity, price 325,000, Markets and Pursuits recycled-content paper issues and quality concerns. still represent significant resource • Producing zero hazardous waste consumption, but the combined 2016 • Printing only with lowor no-VOC We are hopeful that shifts in the paper usage of 2.8 million pounds of paper and soyor vegetable-based inks market will allow us to begin printing and generation of 3,864 metric tonnes our magazines on recycled content of carbon emissions was down 23% vs. Office paper paper in 2017. 2015. In addition to the 17% reduction Bloomberg continues to pursue in printed issues, Markets and Pursuits reductions in the environmental Bloomberg Impact Report publishing operations found savings by: impact of our office paper usage by • Streamlining operations to use less reducing demand and increasing the paper (i.e., fewer “free copies”) use of recycled content and sustainably and generate a 60% reduction in sourced paper. Overall, office paper production waste (i.e., “spoilage”). printing activity has seen a 52% *Bloomberg Pursuits has been discontinued as a printed magazine at the end of 2016 and will continue as a digital publication in 2017. 43 Planet Annual employee usage Global paper usage We have had success in reducing Bloomberg Businessweek employee-driven print output by accounts for the optimizing our print environment, overwhelming majority pushing double-sided printing of our paper usage and and installing badge swipe associated emissions printing in our offices Our paper usage includes three magazines, three Pounds of Office Paper Used Per Year, Per All-In Employee in-house print facilities, Bloomberg BNA publishing and office paper for standard business operations. 35 25 76.0% Businessweek 20 52.2% Reduction 17,576,690 15 Total Pounds 10 1.8% 8.8% Office Paper Markets 5 7.0% 2.3% 4.1% Pursuits BLP Ink BBNA Publishing 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Office paper sourcing 2016 global paper usage Forest Paper with Stewardship Post-Consumer Sixty-six percent of our Region Asia Total Lbs. 45,350 Council 21,949 % FSC 48% Waste (PCW) 36,467 PCW % 70% PCW Lbs. 18,508 office paper consumed 100% 17,959 Europe, Middle 44,006 36,648 83% 35,752 100% 35,752 globally is FSC-certified East & Africa Latin America 3,245 0 0 0 and contains on average North America 225,324 152,557 67% 163,870 30% 25,214 67% post-consumer 75% 100% 138,656 1 waste Total 317,925 211,153 66% 236,089 67% average PCW 2016 magazine impact We have reduced the distribution impacts of our publications— Distribution impact per issue Distribution Bloomberg Businessweek Region Paper Usage per Issue (Lbs) % Change vs. 2007 Paper CO2 per Issue (Kg) % Change vs. 2007 CO₂e per Issues (Kg) % Change vs. 2007 & Bloomberg Markets/ Businessweek 0.29 -14.70% 0.39 -25.95% 0.09 -23.64% Markets/ 0.68 -30.69% 0.90 -39.83% 0.63 -30.85% Pursuits—since 2007 Pursuits 44 Waste & Water Aggressive recycling and composting, along with utilization of waste-to-energy, have driven our waste reduction/diversion success. Bloomberg currently diverts 75% of its total waste away from landfills and is targeting 90% diversion by 2020. We continue to educate our employees and build awareness surrounding our waste-reduction efforts globally. In addition, as part of the expansion of our LEED portfolio, water-reduction measures have been implemented in numerous key offices. Highlights from 2016 Challenges Bloomberg landfill waste Returned customer products While 74% of employees have access Bloomberg’s 2016 waste sent to landfills All Bloomberg equipment at customer to composting programs, waste resulted in 1,633 metric tonnes of sites is returned at end-of-use—at which segregation practices require ongoing CO₂e. On a per-headcount basis, this time the equipment is refurbished and education, leaving plenty of room for represents an 5% increase over 2015, used by other customers, re-purposed improvement We also know that a but still a 67% reduction from 2007, within the Company or recovered for portion of our landfill waste is brought attributable primarily to utilization of useful parts before the remaining into our facilities from external sources. waste-to-energy in New York City and materials are sent out to be reused or London and composting programs in recycled in some other form. We recognize that waste-to-energy 19 offices globally. disposal is preferable to landfill, but it is In 2016, customers returned 282,378 still not as good as other waste diversion Recycling, composting and waste products to Bloomberg, including processes. As such, we will continue to diversion PCs, flat panel monitors, keyboards work with our local waste-haulers and Key components of Bloomberg’s waste and biometric devices (B-Units). All the municipalities, where applicable, to diversion efforts since 2008 have been equipment was reused or recycled. increase our recycling and composting aggressive recycling and composting effort and minimize waste-to-energy. efforts wherever possible: Water savings in LEED offices • Bloomberg’s global recycling program Throughout Bloomberg’s 29 LEEDis primarily driven by paper recycling certified offices we have installed (69% from BBNA’s McArdle print low-flow fixtures that provide a facility), cardboard from inbound projected 35% reduction in water shipments and mixed recycling. In usage. This equates to an estimated 2016, Bloomberg recycled 2,908 metric saving of more than 3.3 million gallons tonnes of waste, down 2% from 2015. of water annually. To date, we estimate • Bloomberg now has compost that these projects have saved nearly programs in 19 offices—74% of our 19.2 million gallons of water. employees are located in offices with compost programs. Our two office buildings in New York City are two of very few commercial office buildings in Manhattan with full composting programs. Globally, we composted 695 metric tonnes of waste in 2016, 15.4% more than in 2015. Bloomberg Impact Report GRI: TC0401-03 45 Planet 2016 compost, recycling & landfill waste At Bloomberg we continue to aggressively recycle, compost and utilize waste-to-energy in New York and London to improve our diversion of waste away from landfills Less than 1% Glass 18% Aluminum Paper Recycling Other Metals 25% Batteries Landfill Light Bulbs 2% Plastic 8% Mixed Recycling Diversion Percentage 16% 9% Waste-to-Energy Cardboard 11% 11% E-Waste Compost Recycling Compost Waste 2,908 695 (Metric Tonnes) (Metric Tonnes) (Metric Tonnes) 3,000 700 2,500 2,500 600 2,000 500 1,486 2,000 400 1,500 1,500 300 1,000 1,000 200 500 500 100 0 0 0 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 Recycling is down from 2015 Composting increased in 2016 due Landfill waste increased slightly due to reusable packaging and to global expansion of composting in 2016 due to transition of lower paper consumption. program. personnel from 731 Lexington Ave (waste-to-energy) to 120 Park Ave (waste-to-landfill). 46 Supply Chain While our calculated supply chain emissions include of all of our shipment logistics, we consider our supply chain as a much broader entity. We still focus on our downstream supply chain, but we are now taking a more in-depth look upstream, including strict supplier requirements, on-site audits of Bloomberg manufacturing suppliers, integrating sustainability attributes into our vendor risk management program and conducting life-cycle assessments of our customer-facing equipment. Bloomberg is an e-Stewards enterprise committed to the use of downstream recycling and disposal partners that meet the e-Stewards-certification requirements for electronics waste recycling. Highlights from 2016 Looking downstream Supplier requirements Greener equipment Bloomberg has focused on finding Globalization and sourcing Bloomberg conducts life-cycle efficiencies and enhancing our customer diversification create unique assessments (LCAs) of our customerhardware, including the conversion opportunities and challenges for supply facing equipment to understand the of our flat panels to Energy Star chain management. As part of our impact of our equipment inputs, to qualifications, more energy-efficient overarching Sustainable Purchasing recognize the environmental impact our keyboards and longer-lasting B-Units Guidelines, Bloomberg has established products have on our customers and (the B-Unit is a device that allows for sustainability requirements in supplier to maintain a policy of cradle-to-grave secure access to a user’s Bloomberg requests for proposals (RFPs) and electronic equipment management. Anywhere account). The efficiency in master service contracts. Our Bloomberg conducted LCAs of its improvements we have made to flat suppliers are expected to comply customer hardware in 2011 and 2015 panels and keyboards have resulted in with all applicable health, safety, and plans to do so again in 2017. lower energy consumption at customer labor and environmental regulations, sites while longer-life B-Units have not discriminate against groups of reduced the environmental impact of employees, maintain adequate safety Challenges manufacturing and logistics. standards. The Vendor Risk Management program Looking upstream Vendor risk management helps Bloomberg manage its numerous Bloomberg purchases a wide range of As Bloomberg manages several vendors and identify risks in our supply goods and services, including consulting thousand active suppliers globally, our chain. As the complexity of our supply and IT support, office supplies, paper Vendor Risk Management program chain evolves, the ability to ensure total for our publications and components (VRM)-in place to ensure that we conduct accountability of our suppliers when for our Terminals. Our goal is to source the appropriate level of vendor due signing off on our Supplier Code of from suppliers that maintain high diligence-is a key component of this Conduct remains a challenge. labor and environmental standards; supplier management process. We have our process to achieve that goal, established a risk model that allows us In 2016, we performed a review and which has evolved over time, requires to quickly identify vendor engagements analyzed available data to assist close coordination between multiple with direct and material impact on in monitoring adherence to our departments, including Purchasing, clients, products and services, revenue, requirements. We will continue to Asset Management, Operations, and business operations; and identify explore various options to enable Facilities and our various business units. whether a vendor will have access to Bloomberg to effectively and efficiently Bloomberg facilities or data internally manage our vendor relationships. classified as high-risk. Bloomberg Impact Report GRI: 102-11; 302-2; 302-5 47 Planet Performance by the Numbers Corporate summary 2007 % change Unit of measure 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Baseline vs. 2007 Average Full-Time Employees 18,571 17,997 16,352 15,671 15,510 9,719 91.08% Average All-In Employees 20,267 19,942 18,111 17,496 17,153 10,277 97.20% Revenue ($Million) 9,757 9,450 9,045 8,590 8,255 5,446 79.17% Total facilities 2007 % change Unit of measure 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Baseline vs. 2007 Total Facilities CO₂e Metric Tonnes (MT) 107,043 114,773 113,806 108,852 110,848 104,258 3.12% of CO₂e Facilities CO₂e/ MT/All-In Employees 5.30 5.76 6.28 6.22 6.46 10.14 (47.71%) All-In Employees Electricity Consumed Kilowatt Hrs. (kWh) 300,537,460 299,335,919 286,644,356 267,396,199 265,930,842 226,768,598 32.53% Electricity Consumed/ Kilowatt Hrs./ 14,866 15,011 15,827 15,283 15,504 22,065 (32.62%) All-In Employees All-In Employees Gross CO₂e from Electricity MT of CO₂e 102.863 109,916 107,589 103,753 103,956 100,170 2.69% Electricity CO₂e/ MT/All-In 5.28 5.51 5.94 5.93 6.06 9.75 (47.93%) All-In Employees Employees CO₂e from MT of CO₂e 4,180 4,858 6,218 5,099 6,892 4,088 2.26% Non-Electrical Power Business travel 2007 % change Unit of measure 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Baseline vs. 2007 Total Travel Miles Traveled 169,096,061 184,955,625 149,763,642 140,274,056 125,174,301 79,504,347 112.69% Travel CO₂e MT of CO₂e 50,308 54,231 43,941 41,649 33,901 24,730 103.43% Travel CO₂e/ MT/FT 2.71 3.01 2.69 2.66 2.19 2.54 6.46% Full-Time Employees Employees Inter-City Travel Miles Traveled 163,505,517 178,041,319 143,575,591 133,642,330 118,728,318 73,641,875 122.03% CO₂e from Inter-City Travel MT of CO₂e 48,266 51,705 41,631 39,131 31,471 22,527 114.26% Intra-City Travel Miles Traveled 5,590,543 6,914,306 6,188,051 6,631,726 6,445,983 5,862,472 (4.64%) CO₂e from Intra-City Travel MT of CO₂e 2,041 2,525 2,310 2,518 2,430 2,203 (7.31%) Paper consumption 2007 % change Unit of measure 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Baseline vs. 2007 Global Paper Consumption Lbs. of Paper Used 17,576,690 19,666,169 21,142,901 23,243,854 24,501,458 5,696,800 208.54% Global Paper CO₂e MT of CO₂e 23,108 25,822 27,830 30,432 32,222 8,392 175.36% Bloomberg Markets Lbs. of Paper Used 2,773,107 3,598,694 3,765,000 3,905,966 3,665,253 4,694,031 (40.92%) Consumption Bloomberg Markets CO₂e MT of CO₂e 3,684 4,781 5,006 5,148 4,851 7,183 (48.71%) Businessweek Consumption Lbs. of Paper Used 13,365,950 14,278,398 15,626,425 17,204,732 18,815,850 N/A (23.29%) Businessweek CO₂e MT of CO₂e 17,758 18,970 20,775 22,768 24,992 N/A (33.40%) BBNA Publishing Lbs. of Paper Used 717,267 984,777 1,007,404 1,259,678 1,170,723 N/A (38.73%) Consumption BBNA Publishing CO₂e MT of CO₂e 900 1,226 1,254 1,596 1,488 N/A (39.51%) BLP Ink Consumption Lbs. of Paper Used 402,442 519,221 421,456 542,425 521,594 481,517 (16.42%) BLP Ink CO₂e MT of CO₂e 461 586 485 588 518 694 (33.58%) BLP Press Consumption Lbs. of Paper Used N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 184,000 N/A BLP Press CO₂e MT of CO₂e N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 245 N/A Global Office Paper Lbs. of Paper Used 317,925 285,079 322,617 349,053 328,039 337,252 (5.73%) Consumption Global Office Paper CO₂e MT of CO₂e 304 259 311 332 372 269 13.17% Global Office Paper/ Lbs. Used/All-In 15.69 14.30 17.81 19.95 19.12 32.81 (52.20%) All-In Employees Employees 48 Supply chain 2007 % change Unit of measure 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Baseline vs. 2007 Total Shipments CO₂e MT of CO₂e 9,267 10,438 10,722 11,036 12,195 7,683 20.62% Total Items Shipped # of Line Items 713,895 705,164 598,422 527,375 487,280 411,884 73.32% Total Weight Shipped MT Shipped 10,102 10,490 8,883 7,420 6,841 8,535 18.35% Weight of Ground/ MT Shipped 9,399 9,760 8,265 6,817 6,284 7,892 19.09% Sea Shipments Ground/ MT of CO₂e 1,387 1,625 1,369 1,161 1,075 1,855 (25.24%) Sea Shipments CO₂e Weight of Air MT Shipped 703 730 618 604 556 643 9.30% Shipments Air Shipments CO₂e MT of CO₂e 1,252 1,467 1,237 1,167 985 1,482 (15.53%) Markets Magazine Distribution Annual Print Run 4,091,675 4,949,737 5,398,300 6,161,040 5,712,741 4,800,220 (14.76%) Markets Magazine Distribution MT of CO₂e 2,561 2,786 3,110 3,224 4,076 4,345 (41.06%) CO₂e Businessweek Annual Print Run 45,377,634 46,593,729 49,597,016 52,011,705 54,028,043 N/A (10.06%) Distribution Businessweek MT of CO₂e 4,066 4,560 5,007 5,484 6,059 N/A (31.32%) Distribution CO₂e Waste 2007 % change Unit of measure 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Baseline vs. 2007 Total Global Waste MT of Waste 6,060 5,925 5,159 5,363 5,557 N/A 37.96% % of Total Global Waste Diverted Waste/ 75% 76% 77% 80% 80% N/A 45.74% Diverted Total Global Waste Global Landfill Waste MT of Waste 1,486 1,395 1,183 1,055 1,137 2,250 (33.96%) Global Landfill Waste/ Kg Waste/ 73 70 65 60 66 219 (66.51%) All-In Employees All-In Employees Global Landfill MT of CO₂e 1,633 1,533 1,300 1,160 1,249 2,473 (33.96%) Waste CO₂e Global “Waste-to-Energy” MT of Waste 970 957 1,070 1,211 1,031 N/A n/a Global Recycling MT of Recycling 2,908 2,971 2,403 2,518 2,962 N/A 29.85% Global Recycling/ Kg Recycling/ 144 149 133 144 173 N/A (30.62%) All-In Employees All-In Employees Global Compost MT of Compost 695 602 502 579 427 N/A n/a Global Compost/ Kg Compost/ 47 46 44 50 37 N/A n/a Applicable Employees Applicable Employees Total CO₂e 191,826 206,797 197,599 193,129 190,415 147,536 30.02% Comments • Avg. all-in employees includes • Businessweek consumption: • Landfill waste is any waste that cannot part-time, contractors, etc. Businessweek acquired be recycled or composted or sent to December 2009 waste-to-energy • Electricity consumed includes all components of facilities (Engineering, • BBNA publishing consumption: • Waste-to-energy began in London in IS, networks) BBNA acquired September 2011 2011 and at 731 Lexington in 2012 • CO₂e from non-electric power includes • BLP press paper consumption: • No CO₂e associated with recycling— natural gas, steam, oil, refrigerants BLP press discontinued in-house includes e-waste, metals, plastic, glass, year-end 2009 paper and cardboard • Inter-city travel (between cities) includes commercial air, private • Supply chain includes BLP ink shipping • Composting in NYC (Headcount: 8,203), Bloomberg Impact Report aircraft and rail data; Businessweek distribution began Upstate NY (hc: 48), Washington, in December 2009 D.C., Area (hc: 1,238), SF (hc: 278), • Intra-city travel (within cities) includes London (hc: 2,686), Tokyo (hc: 591), car rental, car service, taxi and field • Diverted waste is waste that is recycled, Johannesburg (hc: 68), Cape Town service car miles composted or sent to waste-to-energy (hc: 52), Milan (hc: 19) 49 CVenture Verification Statements Bloomberg LP Cventure LLC GHG Inventory Verification Summary April 7, 2017 Reporting Entity: Bloomberg LP (Bloomberg) Contact: Jason Shulman Lead Verifier: Kevin L. Johnson, Cventure LLC Emissions Inventory: Global, corporate-wide FY2016 GHG emissions inventory covering: Scope 1 emissions from fuel combustion, company aircraft, and refrigerant losses; Scope 2 emissions from imported electricity (both locationand marketbased) and steam; and Scope 3 emissions from employee business travel, supply chain shipping, paper usage, and waste. Boundaries include owned/leased facilities over which Bloomberg exhibits operational control. CO2, CH4, and N2O combustion, electricity, and mobile source emissions, and HFC emissions, were calculated; CO2 equivalent emissions were calculated for paper consumption & waste disposal; Bloomberg has no SF6, PFC, or NF3 emissions. Greenhouse Gas Management Plan: Bloomberg 2016 Carbon Emissions Calculation Process (CECP) document, Version 10.0 (April 2017) developed internally by Bloomberg, to calculate carbon emissions and support their GHG emissions reduction strategy. Verification Approach: Tier II of the ERT Standard: “Corporate GHG Verification Guideline” by ERT, a CDP-approved verification standard. Tier II-level verification is appropriate for basic reporting, and voluntary efforts for which there are no requirements for GHG emissions reduction compliance, as is the case for Bloomberg. It is intended to support baseline determinations and enable assessments of performance of GHG reduction initiatives by Bloomberg. This verification effort covers Bloomberg’s FY2016 GHG emissions inventory. Cventure was not involved in the preparation of Bloomberg’s 2016 GHG inventory, did not participate in any associated data collection and management activities, and did not provide any services to Bloomberg which could compromise our independence. Cventure disclaims any liability for decisions made by third parties based on this Verification Summary. This verification review is designed to provide a reasonable level of assurance that the GHG emissions assertion is materially correct. All Bloomberg facilities/operations and all GHG emissions Scope types reported within their operational boundaries were subject to the verification process. Reviews of methodologies, calculations, and data management used in Bloomberg’s inventory estimates were conducted. Site survey visits/verification data collection meetings were conducted at Bloomberg’s NY headquarters Jan 18-19 and Feb 28-Mar 1, 2017, with Bloomberg’s GHG inventory manager and data coordinators. Raw data collection and reporting spreadsheets/supporting documentation containing emissions data-related information for each of the reviewed emissions source types, i.e., facilities (electricity, steam, and fuel use), paper, business travel, waste, and supply chain shipping, were provided by Bloomberg. Verification review of reported data, representing >95% of Bloomberg’s total GHG emissions inventory, are subjected to detailed audit reviews and associated root data sampling. These raw data sampled are compared against activity data in Bloomberg’s GHG inventory spreadsheets (e.g., monthly electricity data from the external, NUS energy management database reports are reviewed for a series of Bloomberg facilities). Error checking tests are performed on subsets of the data to assess the information collected, including missing data, limits and reasonableness, units of measure (UOM), and re-computation cross-checks. The GHG emissions sources in this detailed, root audit data review represent over 80% of Bloomberg’s entity-wide GHG emissions. Boundary checks include reviews of the Bloomberg Tririga real estate database reports. Emissions aggregation checks are also made, and compared against inventory reported data. No material misstatements or omissions have been found in those types of checks. We believe our work provides a sound basis for our opinion. Opinion: Based on its review of Bloomberg’s GHG emissions inventory, Cventure verified the information received as being consistent with the Bloomberg CECP methodology and reporting document, Version 10.0 (April 2017). Cventure finds that the FY2016 (January 1, 2016 – December 31, 2016) GHG inventory conforms to generally accepted GHG accounting standards. The CECP document is based upon, and was found to be generally consistent with, the WRI/WBCSD GHG reporting protocol, and the WRI GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (2015). GHG emissions estimates are calculated in a consistent, transparent manner, and found to be a fair and accurate representation of Bloomberg’s actual emissions, and to be free from material misstatements or omissions. Cventure verified a total of 191,359 metric tons of CO2 equivalent emissions (9,519 Scope 1; 103,540 Scope 2 [location-based; 71,064 marketbased]; and 78,299 Scope 3) with a reasonable level of assurance. GHGVS.Bloomberg LP (4-7-2017) 50 Lead Verifiers: Wiley Barbour Kevin Johnson Report Content and Boundaries rd A 3 party verification engagement, conducted by Cventure LLC over the January April 2017 time period, on Bloomberg LP's 6th Sustainability Report covers all FY2016 activities under Bloomberg's operational control. Reporting boundaries are established based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard, with a comprehensive level of reporting scope; the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards for Media Production, Professional Services, and Internet Media & Services industry sectors; and the GRI G4 Sector Supplement for the Media sector. GRI Standards are followed in selection of content and scope, resulting in a report which focuses on energy consumption, paper use, supply chain shipping, and business travel, as material drivers of environmental impact under management control. Verification Approach The verification activities are conducted according to the AA1000 AS (2008) standard, Type 2 engagement: Principles and Sustainability Performance Information, including quantitative and qualitative GRI performance indicators, profile disclosures, and management approach. Adherence to principles (inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness) and the reliability and quality of performance information are assessed, to provide a moderate level of assurance. The scope of verification activities covers all sustainability assertions in the 2016 Impact Report, including the assessment of quantitative and qualitative progress towards goals, the Bloomberg Materiality Assessment, and the People, Product and Planet sections of the report. The verification review also examines the content of the sustainability website, including the online panels, SASB Disclosures, GRI Index, and GRI Media Disclosure. Cventure personnel conducted interviews with the Director of Bloomberg's Sustainability Department and several Managers and data coordinators for key sustainability reporting, as part of site visits conducted at Bloomberg's New York headquarters on Jan 18-19, 2017 and Feb 28-Mar 1, 2017. Cventure was not involved in the preparation of the Bloomberg 2016 Sustainability Report, did not develop disclosures or assertions, and did not provide any services to Bloomberg which could compromise our independence. Cventure disclaims any liability for decisions made by third parties based on this Verification Summary. Major Findings and Conclusions Bloomberg has the sustainability program reporting systems and processes in place, including data gathering practices, degree of disclosure transparency, and accuracy of calculations necessary to demonstrate adherence to sustainability principles, and the reliability of sustainability performance information. Internally, their sustainability program and stakeholder engagement activities are integrated at all levels of the firm, and across operations and business units, to build capacity and identify material issues. Bloomberg's materiality assessment and associated documentation and evidentiary supporting information collection, are led by the Sustainability Department, whose Director reports directly to the Chairman of Bloomberg LP. Integration of stakeholder feedback into Bloomberg's sustainability program direction and management; a robust materiality assessment process; significant resource commitments to sustainability issues and related projects; and comprehensive reporting under SASB and GRI Standards are key characteristics of Bloomberg's sustainability program. In-person interviews were conducted and additional supporting information in the form of internal documents, emails, primary data files, and corroborating evidentiary records were provided to substantiate assertions and statements in the Impact Report and online panels. No material errors or uncorrected misstatements were identified during the course of the verification review; any immaterial discrepancies identified by Cventure during the verification were promptly corrected by Bloomberg. Our review and assessment provides a sound basis for our verification opinion. Opinion Summary Based on its review of Bloomberg’s sustainability disclosures in its 2016 Impact Report and online panels, including the GRI reporting index, Cventure has found no evidence to date that the sustainability data, disclosures, and claims are not materially correct, and no evidence that Bloomberg’s assertion is not a fair and accurate representation of Bloomberg’s sustainability position, with a moderate level of assurance. Bloomberg Impact Report 51
