SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016/17 ABOUT THIS ENGAGING WITH REPORT PURPOSE This is the fourth sustainability report This report has been prepared in In an increasingly interconnected world, At Crescent Enterprises, we understand issued by Crescent Enterprises. It accordance with the Global Reporting engagement is the key to achieving the importance of engagement, and documents our performance and Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting success in everything we do. In 2016, always engage with purpose. Our activities from 1 January, 2016, to 31 Standards: core option. We have been a the world witnessed new challenges partnerships are built around a common December, 2016, and includes select signatory to the United Nations Global that can only be overcome through objective: contributing to the greater business updates up to the issuance Compact (UNGC) since July 2013 and closer collaboration between the public good. This inspires us to infuse our date of the report. recognise the United Nations Sustainable sector, the private sector, and society work practices with a deeper sense Development Goals (SDGs). This report at large. Political uncertainty, economic of meaning. Our multi-stakeholder As a key aspect of our sustainability highlights a range of contributions to instability, and societal demands for approach to engagement also allows us vision, Enabling Sustainable Growth, this achieving the SDGs in areas aligned improved governance and transparency to plan for the long-term with the goal report evaluates our performance against with our sustainability roadmap. Finally, have highlighted the importance of producing a lasting positive impact our established framework. Additionally, this report serves as our third annual of responsible social and economic for our commercial and community it highlights our ambitions and targets Communication on Progress on how practices. Adapting to these emerging stakeholders alike. for the future, which reinforce our we are upholding our commitment to trends requires a strong connection enduring commitment to sustainability. implementing the 10 UNGC principles between people and businesses. and supporting broader UN goals. The reporting boundary covers our activities, in addition to those of our incubation hub division, CE-ventures, and our operating businesses. These include Gulftainer, Uruk Engineering & Contracting, Gama Aviation plc, and Momentum Logistics. Clinical Pathology Services (CPS) has not been included with our operating businesses as we We welcome your feedback on our have concluded the sale of 100 per cent sustainability commitments and of our stake in it in 2016. The reporting progress. Please direct your feedback boundary excludes disclosures on our to cesustainability@crescent.ae. strategic investments and the private equity funds we invest in. Contents A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO 2 ABOUT US 4 SPEARHEADING CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY 8 ENABLING ETHICAL BUSINESS 16 ENABLING A STRONGER SOCIETY 22 ENABLING TALENT 32 This report is printed on 100 per cent recycled paper and has been designed to optimise paper usage. ENABLING STEWARDSHIP OF THE PLANET 40 1 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO US$ 386 million economic value generated 4,585 employees 23% Exceeded pledged budget for corporate citizenship programmes by 23% At Crescent Enterprises, we understand that sustainability is integral to our commercial longevity and the cornerstone of creating a more prosperous and 100% 3 34,476 inclusive future. That’s why we have developed an integrated and proactive paperless new businesses community members procurement incubated reached through our approach to address potential social, governance, and environmental concerns corporate citizenship in real time by embedding sustainability in our mission, corporate culture, and programmes daily business practices. Entitled Engaging with Purpose, our To fight corporate corruption, we have Ultimately, our sustainability Over the years, our family business has sustainability framework has allowed continued to promote transparency achievements reflect the commitment proved capable of capturing, preserving, us to maintain and expand our positive and accountability among enterprises and dedication of our employees. To and creating value in line with the impact at a time of great political and in the Middle East and North Africa provide them with a supportive and prevailing trends due to our dynamism economic uncertainty by consistently region. Our affiliation with the Pearl empowering work environment, we have and perseverance. As we look to the focusing on matters that are of strategic Initiative has supported the publication continued to refine our employment future, we are committed to ensuring importance to our stakeholders. of case studies on good governance in policies and practices. We have also that the goal of Enabling Sustainable Although global events impacted our the region as well as the hosting of a prioritised the health and safety practices Growth remains deeply integrated across revenues in 2016, we have continued to major regional forum on sustainability, of our operating businesses. Despite all aspects of our operations. make meaningful contributions to both attended by over 700 industry leaders intensive health and safety improvements individuals and communities through in 2016. The forum invited regional and training activities, we regret to report our various sustainability initiatives business leaders to make a public that Gulftainer, our ports and logistics during the year. commitment to supporting responsible business, lost a colleague in an accident and inclusive growth, and we were one at the Khorfakkan Container Terminal in Our direct impacts, such as the revenue of 166 companies to sign the pledge. the UAE—the company has spared no we generated and employment effort to support the deceased’s family, opportunities we created, represent We always strive to be considerate of the and is working diligently to intensify our most tangible and visible environment on which we all depend. In Badr Jafar health and safety training in order to contributions. However, our indirect 2016, we took steps to boost the energy CEO, Crescent Enterprises prevent such occurrences in the future. impacts, such as the US$124 million we efficiency awareness of our employees paid to governments in taxes, fees and and experienced a 33 per cent reduction We realise that tackling the world’s other charges, and the infrastructure in energy consumption and a 21 per most pressing challenges requires the developments we supported, have been cent reduction in water consumption collaboration of multiple players. Thus, equally important contributions to the per employee at our head office. we remain proud to support the UN communities in which we operate. We Our operating businesses have also Sustainable Development Goals and are further augmented these contributions continued to monitor their environmental a signatory to the United Nations Global with a range of corporate citizenship performance, leading to a measurable Compact, which we consider to be a activities, which reached 34,476 increase in recycling programmes and unique global platform for harnessing individuals from all walks of life in 2016. a reduction in waste generation. We the capabilities and goodwill of the are conscious of our resource use and private sector in support of sustainable will continue to minimise our ecological development. footprint wherever we can by supporting public conservation agendas. 2 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 3 ABOUT US Our operating businesses Gulftainer is the largest privately owned port management Uruk Engineering & Contracting (Uruk) offers turnkey company in the world, delivering world-class performance solutions in engineering, procurement, and construction for its customers for over 40 years. across projects ranging from oil and gas to petrochemicals, Crescent Enterprises is a multinational company headquartered in the United waste water, and infrastructure. Arab Emirates (UAE). The company boasts diversified global operations in various market sectors through its operating businesses, strategic investments, and business incubation activities. Its operations encompass sectors including ports port terminal of the year by 7.6% decrease in lost time Zero incidents of corruption 45% of staff are local and logistics, power and engineering, business aviation, and healthcare. Crescent Seatrade Maritime Awards injury frequency reported employees Enterprises employs 4,585 people in 20 countries across five continents. • ISO 9001 (quality • ISO 14001 (environmental • Zero fines for non• 70 per cent of purchases management): 2015 management): 2015 compliance with laws and are locally procured compliant compliant regulations • 111 new jobs created • OHSAS 18001 (occupational • 86,604 kg of waste • ISO 9001 (quality health and safety): 2007 recycled management): 2008 Our values compliant • 12 per cent decrease in compliant • Silver Royal Society for the paper consumption Prevention of Accidents Achievement Award Diversity and inclusion Entrepreneurship Respect cultural diversity and work effectively Foster a culture of impact innovation by and inclusively with every individual supporting the exchange of knowledge Gama Aviation plc is a global business aviation services Momentum Logistics is a fully integrated, third party company listed on the London Stock Exchange's AIM logistics provider that offers a complete suite of supply that operates in 44 locations across five continents and chain management solutions. It provides transportation, manages a fleet of over 165 aircraft. freight forwarding, warehousing, logistics cities, and Responsibility Integrity container services. Serve the community and protect the Conduct business ethically and adhere to Zero 165 34.8% environment in which we work the highest governance standards at every Safety & Quality level of our operations Assessment lost time in hours due to aircraft under increase in distance System (SQAS) Our global footprint accidents management travelled per accident qualified • 1 reportable accident per • 7,565 emergency medevac • ISO 9001 (quality • 240 multipurpose trailers Highlighted locations indicate where Crescent Enterprises has operating businesses or strategic investments. 100,000 hours undertaken management): 2015 • 110 commercial vehicles • ISO 9001 (quality • 12.6 per cent revenue growth compliant • ISO 14001 (environmental management): 2008 • ISO 14001 (environmental • OHSAS 18001 management): 2015 compliant* management): (occupational health and compliant • 92 per cent of staff are local 2008 compliant* safety): 2007 compliant employees *Applicable to European operations Our strategic investments Our business incubator Crescent Investments is the private equity and alternative To promote the growth of ingenious social enterprises in investments division of Crescent Enterprises. Its longthe region, Crescent Enterprises Ventures (CE-Ventures) term strategy is geared towards maintaining a balanced conceives and develops early-stage concepts into viable portfolio of alternative asset class investments, including businesses across diverse sectors, with a focus on creating private equity, venture capital, real estate, and other positive social impact. CE-Ventures empowers small and structured investments. medium-sized enterprises by exclusively contracting them for all services and products it requires. 4 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 5 Pioneering business concepts In 2016, CE-Ventures has developed three new business concepts that aim to Kava & Chai (“coffee and tea” in Arabic) is a home-grown, world-class coffee In February 2017, Kava & Chai launched its first kiosk in Crescent House. This create economic, social, and environmental value. and tea brand with global ambitions will be followed by the launch of its The concepts outlined below illustrate the varied impacts of entrepreneurship: Kava & Chai that incorporates Arab culture and traditions in a positive and intimate way. flagship store in the American University of Sharjah and two additional stores in Healthy Living Marsa Al Seef and Habtoor City in Dubai Coffeehouses have historically been before the end of the year. London Environment associated with shared experiences and and New York locations are also being the exchange of ideas. In Constantinople, scouted. Cairo and Mecca, the world’s original coffeehouses hosted preachers and To minimise its environmental impact, poets, politicians, and storytellers. Kava & Chai utilises materials from recycled and renewable sources, “At CE-Ventures, we endeavour to create Kava & Chai was created to bring including bioplastics, bagasse, a multitude of people together to crystallised polylactic acid, and and develop innovative businesses that exchange great ideas. polylastic acid. generate a sustainable social impact and address economic, social, and environmental challenges. We strongly believe that this triple bottom line approach to doing business is the most effective way to generate shared value for all our stakeholders.” SAMER CHOUCAIR VP, CE-Ventures, Crescent Enterprises Shamal is the hot, dry, north-westerly wind blowing across Iraq and the Developing the product required intensive engagement with numerous Joint Venture for The current global demand for energy efficiency and a lower carbon footprint In the UAE, the JV is working with an outdoor container depot in Sharjah to Energy Efficient Arabian Peninsula creating large stakeholders, from research institutes has paved the way for investments in build lighting fixtures that illuminate Shamal sandstorms. In the Middle East, adequate that specialise in the thermal comfort energy-efficient lighting solutions. the facility while consuming up to 60% work attire is necessary to protect field of clothing systems and experts in less energy than mainstream lightings. Health and Safety workers from the challenging climate. textiles and technical fabrics, to CEOs of construction companies, workers, Lighting CE-Ventures, in collaboration with LuminWorld, initiated a joint venture The JV also highlights our belief in Respecting Human Rights Inspired by the lack of workwear options foremen, and safety engineers. Environment (JV) that focuses on retrofitting the potential power of public-private tailored to our regional environment, existing infrastructures with LED partnerships (PPP) to help address CE-Ventures has incubated Shamal, This was followed by the production and lighting technology. some of the region’s greatest economic a venture aimed at providing hightesting of several prototypes both in challenges. technology workwear that keeps workers advanced laboratories and in the field, This technology utilises 80% less safe, cool, and comfortable. This, in including gathering worker feedback energy and has a longer lifetime than turn, increases worker efficiency and over the course of a year. The product non-LED lighting solutions. productivity. is now in the final development stages, where the cooling impact of the final Currently, the JV is undertaking two prototype is being measured and pilot projects in the UAE and Jordan. quantified using the latest controlled In Amman, Jordan, it is supporting the testing technologies. municipality in retrofitting the city’s highway lighting. It is also consulting on introducing the technology to the entire country. 6 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 7 SPEARHEADING Sustainability is central to our overall business strategy. We always strive to create lasting social value through our operating businesses Our sustainability framework and strategic investments in addition This is the second year that we report our progress against our sustainability CORPORATE to our business incubation division. framework, which helps us achieve our sustainability vision, 'Enabling Sustainable Growth'. We carefully consider the implications of our activities on the environment and the communities SUSTAINABILITY in which we operate, and we place our stakeholders at the core of our Goal To establish common Goal business model. systems and policies Enabling related to governance, To create a measurable positive impact in the Enabling transparency and At Crescent Enterprises, we also ethical accountability across communities in which we operate a stronger endeavour to align our sustainability Crescent Enterprises’ priorities with global issues, as the business operating businesses society fight for human rights, climate action, and good governance requires coordinated global action. Pillar Enabling responsible Pillar business operations Driving the We are thus committed to the through strong socioeconomic Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) commitment to development of transparency and our countries of Sustainability Reporting Standards, accountability Our sustainability operations and the United Nations (UN) vision: Global Compact. We advocate the endorsement of UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) among Enabling corporations in the Middle East and Sustainable North Africa region. Pillar Growth Pillar Being an employer Understanding Crescent of choice and Through the realisation of our Enterprises’ impact on supporting young the environment and 'Enabling Sustainable Growth' vision, identifying opportunities people and entrepreneurs we aspire to set an example for other for improvement regional players to follow. Goal Goal Enabling To establish stewardship a baseline for environmental To be recognised as an employer of Enabling performance and choice of the planet manage impact talent Our sustainability journey 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016/17 • Introduced Corporate Social • Identified focus areas for strategic •E  stablished Crescent Enterprises’ • Developed and introduced a 2015• Reviewed the Corporate Citizenship •C  losely monitored progress against the Responsibility concepts and activities social responsibility initiatives: Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 sustainability roadmap centred Committee’s focus areas in roadmap in our annual report community, entrepreneurship, Committee on four pillars, and complemented by alignment with internal sustainability • Increased stakeholder engagement environment, arts and culture, and concrete targets and key performance targets and SDGs •D  eveloped second sustainability activities corporate governance indicators report Redefining Growth in • Became a Women Empowerment •P  iloted a new corporate citizenship model •B  ecame a UN Global Compact accordance with GRI G4core option • Introduced the Corporate Citizenship Principle (WEP) signatory signatory to reinforce engagement with •D  eveloped fourth sustainability report stakeholders • Developed third sustainability Engaging with Purpose in accordance •C  reated a baseline for sustainability report The Business Imperative with the GRI Sustainability Reporting reporting data in accordance with the GRI G4Standardscore option •D  eveloped first sustainability report core option Setting the Foundation 8 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 9 SPEARHEADING CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholder engagement As a regional family business with a In 2016, we engaged our stakeholders in •p  articipating in conferences, “AUS is honoured to have the support of Crescent global footprint, Crescent Enterprises our sustainability activities by: roundtables, and publications. These works with a diverse range of include global platforms like the World Enterprises in preparing our students for the competitive stakeholders to pursue its sustainability •c onducting regular meetings to Economic Forum, regional events such job market. Students need to continually improve and goals. These relationships foster evaluate the targets we have set in as UN Global Compact, and industryrefine their knowledge and skills to thrive in the dynamic greater innovation, collaboration, and our sustainability framework through related conferences; and transparency, which maximises our our Sustainability Committee and marketplace. As an Enterprising Youth Strategic Partner, combined impact. Corporate Citizenship Committee; •c  ollaborating with community partners Crescent Enterprises has mentored our students by to improve social, economic, and facilitating a series of workshops and supporting us •e ngaging with our employees environmental well-being. through multiple channels, from our in our annual event. Through these efforts, Crescent annual team building day to regular Enterprises has demonstrated its commitment to help performance feedback sessions; develop the next generation of leaders.” Björn Kjerfve Chancellor, Who are our stakeholders? American University of Sharjah What are our stakeholders saying? Our operating businesses Government and We have conducted a survey targeting our internal and external stakeholders to receive their feedback on our corporate sustainability Suppliers regulators activities. Their inputs have helped us to refine our sustainability commitments for 2017 and beyond. As we had promised to plant a Ghaf tree for every response we received, we have planted a total of 111 trees in the UAE. Communities around our Employees operations Our stakeholders 90% believe we create positive 87% believe we adhere to 87% believe we take 86% believe we are committed impacts across communities strong governance practices, responsibility for our to employees’ development including transparency and environmental impact and well-being accountability Industry Non-profit counterparts organisations Capital providers Business leaders 83% read our 2015 sustainability 76% believe that our sustainability 69% rate our 2015 sustainability Customers report, The Business activities are appropriately report as “very good” or Imperative communicated to our “excellent” stakeholders 10 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 11 SPEARHEADING CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY continued Materiality and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • ACB Anti-corruption and bribery • Bi Biodiversity EXTREMELY • CE Community engagement • Materiality is the identification of topics We also engaged a panel of Our company considers human rights IMPORTANT E&W Effluent and waste • that are important to our stakeholders sustainability experts to provide an to have a high impact on our business, Em Emissions • and organisation. Materiality is integral independent view of materiality at as we are a signatory to the UN Global OHS Go EW Employee well-being • to our annual sustainability reporting and Crescent Enterprises. Ultimately, we Compact. However, our stakeholders ACB En Energy • sustainability target-setting processes. explored 18 topics. The results are have rated it as low importance. Topics EW FP Financial performance • reflected in order of importance in that are extremely important for both Go Governance Importance to stakeholders At Crescent Enterprises, we are keen • the opposite materiality matrix. our stakeholders and our company are RC to involve our stakeholders in every HR Human rights • placed as high priority in our activities. step of our materiality process. During The 18 topics have been ranked in In Inclusiveness • VERY our annual materiality assessment, order of importance to our external To ensure that our targets are relevant IMPORTANT ID Infrastructure development • TCD we invited our internal and external stakeholders against their impact to global sustainability agendas, we LH Local hiring stakeholders to discuss sustainability on our organisation. cross-referenced the UN SDGs to our • MP Market presence topics and evaluate them against material topics. We also related the latter Em • OHS Occupational health and safety external benchmarks. As indicated on the materiality map, to our sustainability pillars to further FP • RC Regulatory compliance topics such as anti-corruption and help our employees and our operating ID • Ri Risks • En Ri bribery, employee well-being, and businesses to understand materiality TCD Training and career development governance, are extremely important within their respective contexts. to our stakeholders and business, while IMPORTANT LH In E&W local hiring and market presence have a secondary importance. CE HR Bi MP Impact on the business Material topics Enabling ethical business Enabling a stronger society Enabling talent Enabling stewardship of the planet Anti-corruption and bribery Financial performance Employee well-being Energy Human rights Infrastructure development Occupational health and safety Emissions ESG risks Market presence Training and career development Effluents and waste Governance Local hiring Inclusiveness Biodiversity Regulatory compliance Community engagement 12 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 13 SPEARHEADING CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY continued Sustainability roadmap: Achievements and future steps Sustainable Development Goals Our Pillars Material Topics 2016 Targets 2016 Update Plans for 2017 and UNGC Principles Enabling Anti-corruption and bribery Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals • Enhance risk management function and adapt ESG risk management evaluation • Established a committee to monitor and mitigate investment-related risks • Conduct ESG risk assessment for new sectors and markets of operation ethical Human rights Goal 16: Peace, justice, and • Roll out anti-corruption training to employees • Enhanced information security risk • Roll out the AML and ABC policy business strong institutions of Crescent Enterprises and its operating businesses management • Developed Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and trainings to employees of Crescent Enterprises and operating businesses ESG risks Principle 10: Anti-corruption • Educate Crescent Enterprises’ employees Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) manual • Continue to enhance employees’ on sustainability issues to foster creative • Delayed AML and ABC training to 2017 sustainability awareness and advocacy problem-solving through structured programmes and Governance • Hosted sustainability talks and activities communications • Endorse green supply chain practices to engage our employees and raise their by achieving paperless procurement awareness on sustainability-related matters • Conduct site audit for at least ten Regulatory compliance • Structure stakeholder engagement suppliers • Achieved paperless procurement process across Crescent Enterprises and • Continue to engage with key operating businesses, and seek feedback • Enhanced stakeholder engagement across stakeholders and actively seek on sustainability initiatives different functions feedback • Distributed sustainability survey to evaluate our initiatives Enabling a Financial performance Goal 4: Quality education (external) • Expand geographic footprint for further diversification • Identifying target markets for expansion and undertaking deep analysis of these markets • Finalise our business and geographic expansion strategy stronger Infrastructure development Goal 5: Gender equality • Finalise criteria for corporate citizenship • Identified a specific set of selection criteria that • Conduct annual review of the society (external) partner selection • Identify areas to increase potential for local highlights such focus areas of Crescent Enterprises' partners as efficiency and impact, technical selection criteria based on lessons learned and develop an impact Market presence Goal 8: Decent work and procurement across Crescent Enterprises strength, and sustainability assessment model for programmes economic growth and our operating businesses • Achieved local procurement at Crescent that target communities Goal 9: Industry, innovation, and • Support community capacity building initiatives Enterprises • Continue to seek suppliers' feedback Local hiring through supplier engagement surveys infrastructure • Identified  key capacity building themes, such as entrepreneurship skills and artistic skills, and Community engagement launched related initiatives accordingly Enabling Employee well-being Goal 3: Health and Well-being • Conduct employee satisfaction surveys at Crescent Enterprises • Conducted employees’ satisfaction surveys on various business service functions, and • Continue to seek employees’ feedback through surveys and aim to achieve talent Occupational health and safety Goal 4: Quality education • Roll out Crescent Enterprises’ Wellness implemented suggestions received wherever appropriate higher levels of satisfaction programme • Standardise health and safety tracking (internal) • Target zero fatalities across Crescent • Introduced Mother and Wellness policy across Crescent Enterprises and our Training and career development Goal 5: Gender equality Enterprises and operating businesses • Delivered health and wellness talks and operating businesses (internal) programmes • Assess realistic targets for diversity Inclusiveness Principles 1-2: Human rights • Conducted fire warden training in our head office • Target zero fatalities across Crescent • Enhanced Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) Enterprises and our operating function across operating businesses businesses Principles 3-6: Labour • Deeply regretted to report one fatality (please refer to p.39) Enabling Energy Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy • Plan and deliver sessions to educate employees on environmental topics • Initiated workshops, trips, and awareness campaigns to educate employees on • Refine measurements of environmental performance stewardship Emissions Goal 13: Climate action environmental issues • Set targets for resource efficiency of the planet (energy, water, waste) Effluent and waste Goal 14: Life below water Biodiversity Goal 15: Life on land Principles 7-9: Environment Note: Internal refers to Crescent Enterprises’ employees and operating businesses, whereas external refers to our community at large. 14 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 15 ENABLING ETHICAL BUSINESS Advocating for greater transparent and accountable business practices in the Gulf region as one of the the founding partners of the Pearl Initiative Developed Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) manual As a company that operates around the globe, we understand the importance of ethical business practices, and the role they play in supporting integrity throughout our operations. At Crescent Enterprises, we strive to enable ethical business by promoting exemplary governance practices, accountability, and compliance to cement trust, credibility, and legitimacy with our stakeholders. We also aim to inspire ethical business practices throughout the region and be recognised as change leaders. Related United Nations Related Sustainable Global Compact Principle Development Goals 16 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 17 ENABLING ETHICAL BUSINESS Globalisation helps advance ethical business practices by entrusting the private sector with international governance responsibilities, encouraging transparency among multinational companies, and spearheading technological innovations. Our company has consistently sought to foster a work environment that stresses accountability, integrity, and fairness. Board of Directors Investment Committee Human Resources Committee The Crescent Group Board of Directors The Investment Committee assesses The Human Resources Committee oversees the activities of Crescent decisions related to investment, manages all employee-related policy Enterprises. It evaluates its strategic divestment, joint ventures, and other matters, in alignment with our pledge to “In the Middle East, family businesses have direction and risk management system strategic partnerships within Crescent the UN Global Compact to provide safe whilst adhering to sound corporate Enterprises and its operating businesses. and fair working conditions. Ensuring accumulated over US$1 trillion in assets and governance principles. It is also responsible for implementing compliance with our Code of Conduct are vital contributors to wealth and employment our ESG principles within evaluation and is a primary role of this committee. decision-making processes. creation. Strong governance practices are essential to ensuring the smooth transition of assets and business values from one generation to another. Crescent Enterprises is a proponent of corporate governance best practices, which Executive Committee Sustainability Committee Corporate Citizenship Committee are crucial for the sustainability of family Our Executive Committee oversees our Our Sustainability Committee develops Our Corporate Citizenship businesses across the region.” activities and those of our operating and oversees the implementation of our Committee develops and monitors businesses. It performs strategic sustainability roadmap, monitors progress, the implementation of a disciplined Carla Koffel reviews, assesses capital resources, and engages with various stakeholders, and approach to achieve our corporate Executive Director, evaluates investment and operational drives the understanding and uptake citizenship and sustainability objectives. Pearl Initiative opportunities. of sustainability at all levels of the organisation. Our commitment Case study: How we are governed Crescent Group to corporate Pearl Initiative The Pearl Initiative and UN Global We believe that corporate governance Studies indicate that only 30 per cent of governance and UN Global Compact Second Regional Forum served as a successful call to is pivotal for the continuity of family family businesses survive into the second action — encouraging collaborative Compact’s regional As one of the founding partners of the businesses. generation of ownership, and 12 per cent strategy and action plans towards Pearl Initiative, a non-profit organisation into the third*. creating diverse, prosperous, and forum Over US$1 trillion of assets owned by developed in partnership with the Board of Directors United Nations Office of Partnerships, competitive economies. family firms across the Middle East are At Crescent Enterprises, we are currently expected to pass from one generation to in the second generation of ownership. we advocate for greater transparency, In its quest to engage with the The forum invited regional the next in the coming five to ten years. To enable sound succession planning, we accountability, and exemplary business wider regional community, the Pearl businesses to pledge to responsible Most of these transitions will be from have established governance practices practices in the Gulf region. Crescent Enterprises Initiative and UN Global Compact growth. Crescent Enterprises is the second generation to the third one, that help sustain our operations in the held their second joint regional forum proud to be one of the 166 leaders We work alongside the Pearl Initiative’s where a loss of value typically occurs. long-run. under the theme “Sustainability to sign the pledge. management team, playing a vital role in engaging and encouraging the private in Action: Business and the UN sector to adopt the principles upon Sustainable Development Goals”. which the initiative was built. In 2016, Executive Committee the Pearl Initiative hosted 11 roundtables that educated 1,297 attendees on The Business Pledge diversity, corporate governance, and anti-corruption. Setting targets for sustainable A more inclusive Promoting Collaboration Investment Sustainability Human Resources Corporate Citizenship and responsible workplace integrity and partnerships Committee Committee Committee Committee growth * “Family companies: To have and to hold”, The Economist, April 2015. Web. 18 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 19 ENABLING ETHICAL BUSINESS continued 21 75% Case study: Enhancing risk Crescent Enterprises’ ESG principles: •R educing the environmental impact management • Incorporating ESG considerations into our investment evaluation and of our activities by reducing water and energy consumption, waste recycling, SAP implementation and reducing paper use. decision-making processes, active Our Environmental, Social, and ownership practices, and ongoing •E ncouraging our operating businesses Sessions Of employees Governance principles As we advance our sustainability reporting activities. to promote ESG principles among their organisations and communities. conducted attended at Gulftainer agenda, we recognise the importance •T  aking a balanced view of broad ESG considerations and risks—as opposed To promote efficient business of considering Environmental, Social Our IT security practices to adopting specific positive or practices, Gulftainer implemented and Governance (ESG) risks and With the rapid evolution of technology negative screens. a SAP suite of applications that opportunities into our business, and its and the Internet of Things, Information impact on our long-term performance. Technology (IT) is central to our risk Topics covered enable faster and more consistent • Considering our ethical obligations transmission of integrated in all business conduct (anti-money management processes and governance. information to relevant decisionBuilding on our ESG efforts from laundering, anti-corruption, anti-bribery). making authorities, enhance previous years, this year our ESG In 2016, Crescent Group improved its accounting and reporting benefits, consideration process works in active IT security and raised awareness via •E  ncouraging the company and its and increase data security. ownership and management of assessment surveys and 21 educational employees’ commitment to the operating businesses. workshops for its employees at our communities we serve. Gulftainer first introduced the Sharjah headquarters. platform to its UAE operations and We incorporated ESG principles as an •R  egularly developing human resource Password Pause, think, Staff security Social now plans to implement it in its additional layer into our investment The objectives of the surveys were to process to mitigate material impacts on policies and practices that affirm protection and act awareness engineering other locations. employees’ equality, and setting assess the Crescent Group employees’ our investments and complement our current knowledge of the organisation’s objective performance measurement financial risk and return analysis. IT security processes and procedures, criteria. and identify areas for improvement. Compliance We conduct a continuous analysis of compliance risks within our businesses, To promote ethical business practices, and our whistle-blower process aims “At the IT security workshop, I came to we have been a signatory to the UN to identify instances of misconduct as realise the amount of threats that we Global Compact since 2013 and always soon as they arise. strive to go beyond the requirements face online every day. I am now aware of laws and regulations. We cultivate a culture of compliance throughout our business activities, which of effective security measures that includes our supply chain management. Compliance with our Code of Ethics help me protect myself online, whether helps us safeguard human rights, prevent Our supply chain policy promotes ethics and good governance practices across at work or at home. As technology is corruption, and oppose all forms of child and forced labour. the value chain. We encourage our advancing by leaps and bounds, suppliers to adopt ethical principles Our Code of Ethics includes a dedicated and seek to procure goods and services I value the company's constant efforts anti-bribery and corruption programme, that promote responsible behaviour. to educate us on and protect us from which enables us to maintain an ethical and professional work environment. the latest IT threats.“ Sheela Lazarus Zero Zero Administrative Coordinator, Crescent Enterprises Incidents of reported Fines and non-monetary corruption sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 20 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 21 ENABLING A STRONGER US$ 386 mn Economic value generated SOCIETY Employee wages and benefits US$ 94 mn Number of community members reached 34,476 Exceeded pledged budget for corporate citizenship programmes by 23% To raise standards of living in the countries we serve, we endeavour to tackle the widespread challenges of unemployment, social inequality, and economic instability. Through our activities, we seek to build mutually beneficial partnerships with our stakeholders, initiate platforms for collaboration to address socio-economic issues, and promote inclusive growth. Related Sustainable Development Goals 22 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 23 ENABLING A STRONGER SOCIETY Addressing socioeconomic challenges in our society, such as unemployment and lack of infrastructure, requires active Gulftainer The container repair division of In the Middle East, at Sharjah participation from the private sector. As a global business, we recognise our responsibility to help address these issues in a In 2016, Gulftainer handled 6.2 million Momentum has recorded an impressive International Airport, ground operations sustainable manner. TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent units), 315 per cent increase in refrigerated attracted new customers, which a four per cent decrease from 2015 container (reefer) revenue, a 22 per cent increased the company’s line and base Through our activities we seek to build mutually beneficial partnerships with our stakeholders, open platforms for collaboration driven by economic challenges and increase in inspection volumes, and a 28 maintenance coverage. With fleet growth to address socioeconomic issues, and promote inclusive growth. consolidations across the global per cent increase in its sales business. coming late in 2016, revenues declined shipping industry. In the UAE, container by 9.6 per cent over the period but are To further expand its geographical expected to grow in 2017 along with volumes across all ports dropped by and industrial footprint, Momentum is continued improvements in margins. approximately six per cent throughout currently planning to acquire 40 skeletal 2016. The introduction of direct service and reefer trailers. Air operations in Asia continued to “The private sector is a key driver of economic routes to Iran and throughout India has develop albeit from a low base. Although also affected transhipment volumes. growth in the Middle East and plays a crucial Gama Aviation the division is still in its initial phase, In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the it already has a promising pipeline of role in infrastructure development. Thanks to its volume of Gulftainer’s operations Gama Aviation has achieved total managed aircraft contracts. group revenue of US$432.4 million, dynamism and flexibility, it is also a springboard increased by 10 per cent from 2015 representing growth of 12.6 per cent despite austerity measures. The Uruk Engineering & Contracting for social innovation. The region’s infrastructure Northern Container Terminal on the year-on-year and a robust financial performance. The current political climate in Iraq market is expected to see increased activity West Coast handled 28 per cent more remains unstable, and low oil prices transhipments in 2016. Although the low Its two divisions, Air—including aircraft over the coming years. This will enhance the oil prices affected gateway cargo, the management, charter, and special have impacted the national economy and budget. As a result, the government competitiveness of the private sector and spur overall performance in the Saudi market mission—and Ground—comprised of did not award any construction projects exceeded expectations. Fixed Based Operations (FBO), base the much-needed creation of new jobs.” maintenance, line maintenance, and in 2016. In the USA, Gulftainer USA launched design and modifications—have faced Fortunately, as Al Mansuriya power Dimitris Tsitsiragos a weekly cargo service, Blue Stream a mix of opportunities and challenges plant’s surroundings have returned to a Vice President for New Business, Service, to facilitate product delivery across their regions of operation during state of relative security, Uruk did obtain International Finance Corporation across North America, Central America, the year. the contract for repair and replacement and Europe. of damaged items at the plant in 2016. Gulftainer was recognised as the Port Aircraft under management have Terminal Operator of the Year in 2016 by increased by 12.2 per cent to reach 165 the Seatrade Maritime Awards Middle aircraft in 2016. Our direct and indirect economic value East, India, and Africa, based on quality, innovation, improved efficiency, and In the USA, revenue from air operations grew by 30.2 per cent in 2016 as Gama successful investments in port operations. Aviation won a significant number of Through every activity of our operating Economic value generated and distributed (US$ million) Momentum Logistics contracts. Ground operations yielded a businesses, strategic investments, and In early 2016, Momentum Logistics 16.8 per cent revenue growth, driven by new ventures, we aspire to create tangible welcomed a new Managing Director, three new line maintenance bases. social and economic value for the people we serve. Tom Nauwelaerts, who brings with him In Europe, air operations maintained a Revenue Employee wages and benefits a wealth of expertise in supply chain We pride ourselves on providing ample steady recovery against a backdrop of management across the UAE and Europe. employment opportunities to qualified 2016 395 386 2016 95 94 market challenges with revenues down 5 professionals from across the region, Also last year, Momentum Logistics per cent due to exiting underperforming and helping governments to fund the 2015* 409 410 2015 88 88 introduced ‘land-bridge’, a breakthrough contracts. Ground operations revenue revitalisation of public infrastructure service that integrates ports and declined by 20 per cent as a result of through the payment of taxes and royalties. 2014 404 2014 9291 logistics, offering clients a seamless lower levels of discretionary spend *2015 figures restated supply chain mechanism from port-toon modifications, improvements, and In addition, we pledge a minimum of five refurbishment works. door, and vice-versa. per cent of our projected annual net cash flow toward our corporate citizenship budget targeting social development. In 2016, Crescent Enterprises exceeded 23% the budget it pledged for corporate Payments to governments citizenship programmes by 23 per cent. (Royalties and taxes) Our sound diversification strategy, which 2016 124 guides our growth across sectors and geographies, has enabled us to exhibit 2015 137 Exceeded pledged budget for corporate resilience in 2016 despite global economic citizenship programmes by 23% 2014 136 and geopolitical adversity. 24 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 25 ENABLING A STRONGER SOCIETY continued Infrastructure development Corporate citizenship in practice In 2016, we have embarked on a mission to develop infrastructure that raises standards of living across all our countries of In our quest to be regional leaders operation. From expanding ports to developing aircraft fleets, we have enhanced infrastructure across the land, sea, and air. in corporate citizenship, we have enhanced our corporate citizenship approach in 2016 by further studying the influence and impact of our activities on our stakeholders. To address the root causes of enduring community challenges, we have aligned our key corporate citizenship focus Gulftainer Momentum Logistics areas with our sustainability objectives and the UN SDGs. Gulftainer USA took a 40,000-square-foot warehouse on In Iraq, Momentum Logistics moved in early 2017 to Our approach aims to foster a culture lease from Port Canaveral, located near its new container Erbil, a region ripe with opportunities in the retail, of empowerment, excellence, and terminal, to better meet the import and export needs manufacturing, and transportation and logistics sectors. respect throughout our workforce, of its clients. and to go beyond passive charity and Not only does the new location enable Momentum to financial contributions. The warehouse offers cross-docking, storage, inventory better serve its clients, but it also helps streamline its control, and last mile distribution to the Orlando area. operations by bridging the gap between shippers and Our new corporate citizenship consignees. programme is in its testing phase with a variety of initiatives and partners, and we currently intend to roll it out in 2017. Corporate citizenship spending breakdown Gama Aviation Uruk Engineering & Contracting A minimum of five per cent of our projected annual net cash flow is dedicated to our corporate citizenship programmes, In the USA, Gama Aviation expanded its footprint by To expand its operations, Uruk has been pursuing which include: inaugurating a maintenance base in Massachusetts. It also added aircraft, turboprops, and jets to the Wheels opportunities to increase its involvement in the oil and gas sector and extending its services to projects • Implementing projects that provide 12% Up fleet, which accounts for most of its USA operations. commissioned by the government. creative solutions to community challenges. 6% In early 2017, Gama Aviation merged its USA aircraft In 2016, Uruk participated in the third Qualitative Fair management and business with that of BBA Aviation of Electricity in Iraq to showcase its contributions • Advocating for community causes and Entrepreneurship plc, adding over 90 aircraft to its managed fleet and becoming the USA’s largest aircraft management to Iraq’s energy needs. It highlighted its role in the prompt completion of the 724 MW Al Mansuriya power serving as catalyst for initiatives aligned with our goals. 10% Arts and culture Environment Community business. plant project, which is considered the most prominent infrastructure initiative in Iraq. To help raise the leaders of tomorrow, we Governance 55% In the UAE, Gama Aviation received approval to expand also seek to support youth development its fixed base operations in Sharjah International Airport programmes that address social to accommodate its growing clientele and increase its entrepreneurship, employability, good 18% market share by seven per cent by 2024. Moreover, Gama governance, sustainability, and the arts Aviation aims to build a US$8 million maintenance hangar and culture. in Sharjah to enhance the capacity of its local fleet. In 2016, our corporate citizenship programmes focused on developing entrepreneurship—including soft skills that are not usually taught in schools—among Our corporate citizenship programmes are further schoolchildren, university students, young illustrated on pages 28-31. entrepreneurs, and businesswomen. 26 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 27 ENABLING A STRONGER SOCIETY continued Sharing knowledge and experience with Our corporate citizenship programmes Columbia Business School students For the second consecutive year, we welcomed to our offices MBA students Investing in the entrepreneurial from Columbia Business School on capabilities of children and young people an educational trip to the UAE, to For the first time in the Emirate of strengthen ties between nations and Sharjah, an entrepreneurship programme help support the leaders of tomorrow. was introduced for kids as a pilot by Crescent Enterprises in partnership During their visit, we introduced the 32 with the Sharjah Ladies Club. students to our operating businesses and strategic investments across the globe. Over a course of three days, 11 girls aged We then highlighted the best practices 8-13 participated in a series of workshops we seek to follow before concluding with aimed at improving their entrepreneurial a tour of the Sharjah Container Terminal, skills. The young participants learned managed by Gulftainer. how to identify promising business ideas and to create business models, which The event was an occasion for us to they then pitched to a panel of investors. share our own history and demonstrate how our small homegrown family business became the trusted, diversified, and global conglomerate that it is today. 33 Supporting young innovators Empowering female entrepreneurs Empowering Arab women to succeed Women Our Executive Director Neeraj Agrawal entrepreneurs The 30% Club GCC is a regional platform participated as a judging panellist at To further empower female entrepreneurs that gathers leaders from multiple sectors the annual INJAZ Al-Arab Young Arab in the Middle East, we have partnered to enhance the representation of women in 11,000 Entrepreneurs Competition, which with the Sharjah Ladies Club to support organisational boards and senior positions. gathered 20 teams of young Arab their Collage Talent Centre and Ebriez Exhibition. In 2016, our CEO Badr Jafar offered entrepreneurs to compete for the titles his insights on the business prospects of “University Company of the Year”, Community members The aim is to help equip 11,000 women for women in the region, how business “School Company of the Year”, and and children with the appropriate leaders can help catalyse change, and seven other awards. entrepreneurial skills to set up their own the future role of women in business. 20 businesses while providing them with a Teams space to pursue their aspirations. He also highlighted some of our own participated from policies and practices, which we 13 countries Women’s Empowerment In June 2016, 33 female entrepreneurs hope will pave the way for greater promoted their products at the Ebriez Principles participation of women in leadership Exhibition. Together with the Club, We are a signatory to the Women’s positions in the region. we aim to reach 11,000 community Empowerment Principles (WEP), members, providing them with which aim to advance the status entrepreneurial skills through educational of women across all sectors and and talent workshops. economic activities. We support gender equality through our 300 Providing expertise to the American equal opportunities policies and Students University of Sharjah students participated community capacity-building Our management offered their expertise programmes that help women and encouragement at the American break through the glass ceiling. University of Sharjah’s Enterprising Youth event, which explored the UAE entrepreneurship scene through workshops, discussion panels, and a 24 Teams pitched their businesses start-up pitch competition. 28 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 29 ENABLING A STRONGER SOCIETY continued Embracing creativity and empowering talent and art Case study: To nurture creativity, artistic talent, and independent thinking, we supported the Sharjah International Children’s Film Corporate Corporate citizenship spending in 2016 Festival, the first dedicated children’s film festival in the UAE and the Gulf citizenship at Cooperation Council. Gulftainer The festival aspires to encourage creativity and enhance the media literacy of children In 2016, Gulftainer released a corporate 16% citizenship policy to expand the and the youth while showcasing their company’s positive economic, social, filmmaking abilities. and environmental impacts. 30% Gulftainer conducts corporate citizenship Corporate Film submissions governance activities throughout the year, and the Environment 2016 425 new policy provides a more strategic and coordinated framework for these Employability 2015 287 initiatives. Community 2014 144 The policy centers on four pillars: 30% environment, employability, health and safety, and governance. Two of the 24% 121 333 Children participation company’s committees—the operational Films Workshop 2016 23,050 screened attendees committee and the strategic committee— have been mandated to oversee its 2015 23,000 implementation. 2014 15,000 59 Countries reached It was a unique opportunity for me to learn filmmaking skills from industry luminaries. I am thrilled to have won this prize and feel energised by this experience, which has made me more confident about my future in the filmmaking industry. I strongly encourage all aspiring filmmakers to participate in the festival next year. Aisha Alzaabi (pictured right) Winner of Best UAE Short Film, Sharjah International Children’s Film Festival Showcasing art and culture from Arab culture on a global scale, Crescent The festival showcases the works of young the region Enterprises supported the Arabian Sights Arab talent, which are often overlooked in To highlight creative talent from the Film Festival that took place at the mainstream American theatres. region and create greater awareness of Washington, DC International Film Festival. 30 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 31 ENABLING TALENT 4,585 Total number of employees 406 Number of new jobs created 30%Local employees To help generate value for thousands of stakeholders across the world, we seek to build a work environment that not only encourages and rewards achievement and dedication, but also ignites creativity and passion. At Crescent Enterprises, we aspire to be recognised as an employer of choice. Related United Nations Related Sustainable Global Compact Principle Development Goals Note: The above data is calculated for Crescent Enterprises and our operating businesses. 32 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 33 ENABLING TALENT From promoting diversity to supporting learning and development, we invest in our people’s health and well-being, and provide Local hiring and diversity Inclusion and gender equality We constantly seek to provide equal every opportunity for them to reach their full potential. We are particularly focused on developing the advanced competencies Currently, local hires represent an The industries of our operating opportunities and encourage women and specialist knowledge required to help our people grow and excel. average of 30 per cent of employees businesses are labour-intensive and to occupy leadership positions. across Crescent Enterprises and our male-dominated, which is reflected operating businesses. The relatively low in the gender breakdown of our percentage reflects the high number employees. Our people Crescent Enterprises and our operating businesses of expatriates across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), where 79 We acknowledge that the diversity Our workforce size has fluctuated over Number of employees Long service employees per cent of our employees are located. of our workforce necessitates a better 2016. While we had 675 new joiners gender balance across all levels of at the beginning of the year, our total <10 years We plan on maintaining our efforts our operations. workforce volume declined by six per to attract local professionals while 3,823 embracing the diversity of our workforce. Nonetheless, compared to industry cent by the end of the year, mostly due to the sale of Clinical Pathology 83% We currently employ nationals from averages, we boast higher percentages 12 countries while Gulftainer employs of women in senior positions than in Services, industry challenges, and the nationals from 37 countries. junior positions. expiry of some short-term employment 10-20 years contracts. In a region marked by dynamic migration patterns, we pride ourselves on inspiring long-term dedication from 688 15% Workforce at Crescent Enterprises* 4% Africa (Excluding Senior management Middle management Junior staff our staff: 15 per cent of our employees 20+ years and those of our operating businesses North Africa) 14% Female 9% Female 5% Female 4,585 74 have been working with us for over 10% Americas ten years. 2% 17% MENA 52% Asia 17% Europe 91% Male 95% Male 86% Male Employee turnover by region (at the end of 2016) *Excluding our operating businesses 384 104 103 495 181 119 19 1 2 Europe North 385 Asia “The Mother and Wellness policy is a step America *2.17% MENA 18 forward for the women in our company. 557 The unique benefits provided to pregnant 3,620 *0.04% *2.51% women and new mothers like myself *15.64% make it possible to balance between 15 1 11 work and family. I am proud to be South part of an organisation that actively America 3,973 388 741 5 supports women in their personal *0.23% Total and professional development.” Employees at the end of 2016 Employees at the beginning of 2016 New joiners 4,585 Sumaya Sulaiman Receptionist Leavers 4,886 675 976 Turnover 34 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 35 ENABLING TALENT continued In line with our equal opportunities policy, we combat discrimination and reward employees of Healthy living the same grade equally, irrespective of their gender. We aim to make sure that no job applicant We seek to embed healthy living in Case study: or employee receives less favourable treatment on any grounds that are not relevant to good our corporate culture, and recognise employment practices. the relationship between health and productivity. We are committed to Khorfakkan Container Terminal As Crescent Enterprises is a signatory to the UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles, we consider gender issues throughout the spectrum of our activities. This report serves providing health-related programmes that benefit our employees, their accommodation improvements as a communication on progress and documents some of our key contributions in this area. families, and our organisation. Gulftainer seeks to offer a work The first phase of the improvement We continuously evaluate and improve environment that encourages healthy project aimed to enhance employees’ the medical insurance plan that we living, morale, and comfort. In 2016, living arrangements by introducing Crescent Enterprises’ commitment to the UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles provide to all employees and their it completed the second phase of a greater variety of meals to cater to dependents. We also believe in the improvements to the Khorfakkan different nationalities and expanding Principle 2016 Progress importance of raising our employees’ Container Terminal accommodation recreational areas and sports facilities. awareness of important health issues. facilities by enhancing workers’ living 1. E stablish high-level Crescent Enterprises is committed to providing equal employment opportunities quarters, including their bedrooms, In 2016, we organised ‘Wellness Talk’ living rooms, kitchens, and washrooms. corporate leadership for by selecting candidates and treating employees on a merit basis only. We do not sessions on non-communicable diseases gender equality tolerate any form of discrimination. Anyone who engages in such conduct may be such as diabetes and hypertension, and subject to disciplinary action in line with our policy. highlighted how following a balanced lifestyle can help prevent them. We also offered routine tests that evaluate blood 2. T reat all women and Crescent Enterprises supports an inclusive environment free of discrimination pressure, sugar levels, and Body Mass men fairly at work through our policies and procedures that maintain equality across the workplace. Index, in addition to consultations with respect and support We are proactive in identifying areas where we can advance equal and human a dietician. human rights and nonrights practices. discrimination 3. E nsure the health, safety, We adopted a Mother and Wellness policy that supports new mothers in balancing and well-being of all their work and family commitments. Furthermore, all our workers have health women and men workers insurance which is annually reviewed and updated. 4. P romote education, Our female employees are given equal access to the same education and training training, and professional programmes as their male counterparts. We encourage and empower female development for women employees to be productive members of the society and economy and to participate in local business networks that focus on building awareness, educating, promoting professional opportunities, and catalysing positive change in the community. 5. I mplement development, We are currently in the process of assessing how we can more meaningfully advance supply chain and this principle in the future. marketing practices that empower women “The improvements at our 6. P romote equality through Some of our corporate citizenship initiatives (described on pages 28-30) advance accommodation are great. With the community initiatives and advocacy equality and women’s empowerment specifically. new facilities, we have more spaces to interact with each other. This has 7. M easure and publicly report on progress to Our annual sustainability report functions as a tool to report on our progress brought us closer together. I am happy towards our sustainability roadmap and initiatives, of which gender equality achieve gender equality is an essential element. to be part of a company that values our well-being and comfort.” The Mother and Wellness policy we enacted in 2016 surpasses regulatory requirements by supporting female employees Abdul Khader throughout pregnancy, maternity, and early motherhood. The benefits include flexible working arrangements, transportation Lasher, Khorfakkan Container Terminal, support, financial support for newborns, and a relaxation facility in our head office. We also extended our maternity leave policy Gulftainer to 90 days, which is twice the length of the period prescribed by the UAE labour law. 36 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 37 ENABLING TALENT continued Stimulating professional development In 2016, we have developed a holistic approach to help us identify learning and development needs in alignment with our pre-existing performance management systems, succession planning, and competency framework. We complemented our Health and safety at Gulftainer Gulftainer deeply regrets this incident and Lost time injury frequency annual performance cycle by adding a step on the identification of performance and development needs. For Gulftainer, employee safety has conducted a thorough investigation 2016 1.95 We also devised several employee learning tools, including a Training Needs Analysis process, which our training department is a priority as it ensures smooth to determine the root cause of the introduced to line managers through interactive workshops. The initiative led to the concept of the Crescent Learning Week, operations in environments that incident and take remedial actions to 2015 2.11 which is an HR initiative that was rolled out in early 2017 to provide full-day trainings to employees. involve heavy mobile equipment prevent such events in the future. and complex technical systems. 2014 2.53 As nurturing a strong safety culture is The company regularly conducts at the top of its CSR agenda, Gulftainer safety training to prevent work has acquired automated external Case study: accidents and ensure that each defibrillators, which are portable devices that help treat sudden cardiac arrest; Absentee rate Crescent Enterprises’ community day: “Recipes for Success” employee is aware of his or her responsibility to exercise reasonable and plans to install them across its UAE sites throughout 2017. Basic training 2016 0.002% caution and care at work. It regularly To strengthen our employees’ team improves its safety management on life support and first aid has also 2015 0.03% spirit in a relaxed environment, we reporting systems to better monitor improved the emergency preparedness organised a team building activity, and refine its safety performance. of Gulftainer’s employees in the UAE. 2014 0.02% “Recipes for Success”, in 2016. Unfortunately, despite its intensive We invited teams of employees to safety efforts, Gulftainer lost an create delectable dishes under the employee due to an accident at the supervision of trained chefs. Number of lost time injuries Work-related fatalities Khorfakkan Container Terminal. The employee sustained a serious injury 2016 4 2016 1 To find the recipe for success, each while working and although he was team member had to not only 2015 9 2015 1 rushed to the hospital, he passed experiment with ingredients, but away shortly after. also communicate with other team 2014 10 2014 1 members effectively while discovering their respective strengths and weaknesses. Health and safety at Gama Aviation Number of fatalities Lost time in hours due to Gama Aviation complies with the per 100,000 hours accidents per 100,000 hours Case study: safety regulations and policies of 2016 0 2016 0 the national aviation authorities in Gama Aviation launches a new training platform its countries of operation. 2015 0 2015 0.007 As pilot training is a primary interest Earlier in the year, Gama Aviation Gama also established its own Civil In 2016, Gama Aviation contracted 2014 0 2014 0.22 of Gama Aviation, it seeks to uphold signed a partnership agreement Aviation Authority-approved training additional auditors to conduct HSE safety regulations and maintain a with CAE, the world’s second largest organisation, and intends to provide auditing under the OHSAS 18001 and Number of reportable accidents Number of non-conformance with breadth of relevant knowledge and business aviation training organisation, training to pilots on up to 30 aircraft. ISO 14001 criteria. This improvement per 100,000 hours* legal or internal safety inspections skills. Gama Aviation has therefore to meet the part-FCL base training in oversight significantly increased launched a new platform in 2016 to requirements of the European Aviation the number of findings and reduced 2016 1 2016 155* train its roster of 450 pilots on safety Safety Agency, which came into effect closure time for 2016. 2015 404 2015 28 regulations and critical skills. in June 2015. Gama Aviation monitors the 2014 526 2014 N/A outcomes closely through its Safety Review Boards and its accountable managers. * In 2014 and 2015, data reflected the Workplace health and safety Percentage of corrective actions European operations only, whereas 2016 closed within 60 days included data from global operations. To safeguard the health and safety of our employees, we aim for a zero-accident work environment across all our operations. We have implemented management systems and continuously seek to improve our health and safety performance. 2016 4 We provide annual fire safety and emergency preparedness workshops at our head office and have selected office fire wardens 2015 9 to support effective evacuation in case of emergency. Regular fire drills are held annually to ensure the effectiveness of our 2014 10 fire procedures. 38 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 39 ENABLING STEWARDSHIP OF THE PLANET Reduced energy consumption per employee by 33% Reduced water consumption per employee by 21% Achieved paperless board meetings, saving 6,304 papers Planted 111 trees Following the global quest to limit temperature increase this century to two degrees Celsius as per the 2015 Paris Agreement, the Middle East needs to balance economic growth and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. At Crescent Enterprises, we recognise that we have to play our part in mitigating climate change by proactively reducing our GHG emissions through increasing operational efficiencies and collaborating with stakeholders to preserve the environment. Related United Nations Related Sustainable Global Compact Principle Development Goals 40 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 Note: Data for Crescent Enterprises only. 41 ENABLING STEWARDSHIP OF THE PLANET The increased awareness of the need At Crescent Enterprises, we welcome Our direct environmental impact for greater balance between economic the national agenda on climate change derives from our international operating Case study: development and environmental and long-term initiatives such as businesses and our head office in Sharjah. conservation is a global phenomenon. Achieving it requires the collective the UAE Vision 2021, and recognise the importance of environmental At these locations we have emphasised waste reduction and environmental Gama Aviation enhances water access in Tanzania 136% efforts of both the public and private stewardship across all of our activities. education throughout 2016 by introducing sectors. We are taking proactive climate action recycling at our head office, conducting by fostering environmentalism across multiple awareness sessions for our Employees of Gama Aviation took their advocacy to new heights our company and closely monitoring our employees, and achieving paperless by climbing Mount Kilimanjaro, Tanzania, to raise funds for local own ecological footprint. procurement and board meetings. hospital, Komboi. The hospital had previously relied on water from an unclean river Team target Raised so far as it lacked access to a constant supply of sanitary water. 50,000.00 67,760.71 Our water and energy footprint The funds raised will enable the hospital to build new toilets, showers, baths, and sinks, in addition to raising awareness on hygiene. To raise awareness on energy efficiency amongst our employees, we held an event entitled Energy Efficiency in the Private Sector, the first in a series of sustainability talks. Under the theme of Accelerating Energy and Water Efficiency in the Private Sector, we welcomed climate and energy experts from the Emirates Wildlife Society World Wide Fund for Nature (EWS-WWF) at our head office to promote energy conservation and efficiency. These discussions offered valuable insights on how to mitigate and adapt to the challenge of climate change and provided practical ideas on how to improve “Climbing Mount Kilimanjaro was one of the our corporate performance in this critical area. most challenging yet rewarding experiences. These efforts led to tangible improvements in our environmental performance. Specifically, we decreased our energy and water consumption per employee by 33 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively. Having seen the challenges faced by the local hospital, all of us were personally invested in the cause. It was inspiring to see Energy consumption at Crescent Water consumption at Crescent how everyone came together as a team and Enterprises’ head office Enterprises’ head office was determined to make a difference.” Energy consumed per employee (kWh) Water consumption at Crescent Enterprises’ head office Adam Neaves Europe Charter Sales Manager, 2016 4,813 2016 997 Gama Aviation 2015 7,232 2015 1,258 2014 6,527 2014 1,515 Reduction of paper waste Furthermore, the Crescent Group’s Recycling efforts at Crescent Group In a region where per capita waste recycling efforts are estimated to have Crescent Group has partnered with %YoY change %YoY change production averages 2kg per day,* saved 172 trees in 2016 through the Bee’ah, a Sharjah-based waste Crescent Enterprises continuously Shred-it initiative. management company, to devise and -33% 2016 -21% 2016 implement a recycling scheme that strives to adopt the latest wastePaper saved at Crescent Enterprises encourages employees to recycle paper, reduction measures. 2015 10% -17% 2015 plastic, and aluminium. head office Following the successful implementation At the outset of the scheme, Crescent 6,304 of paperless board meetings in the Group placed recycling bins on one floor Preventing previous year, which resulted in saving of its head office to promote the concept approximately 6,304 sheets of paper of recycling to staff. Their excellent 1,700kg Crescent Enterprises reduced its water consumption in 2016, Crescent Group has now also Sheets response enabled the recycling of 250kg of carbon emissions from per employee by launched paperless procurement of waste. During the second phase in late entering the atmosphere 2016, recycling bins were introduced to 21% initiatives. The group achieved a fully digitised process for the reception and Similar initiatives were implemented the entire Crescent Group head office. Reduced energy evaluation of bids and has introduced at Gulftainer, where a paperless policy As the improper disposal of electronic consumption per employee by techno-commercial clarifications that was introduced in 2016 that included waste (e-waste) can contaminate the 33% That's equivalent to equivalent to the water usage of have prevented nearly 200 reams of new mechanisms for monitoring, measuring, and minimising printing. environment with toxic substances, we Thats is paper waste in 2016. initiated a new e-waste collection unit 6,437km 261Gl 2 *Z afar, S. “Waste-to-Energy Outlook for the Middle at our head office in partnership with recycling company EnviroServe. In 2016, driven in a mid-sized car of water households East”. EcoMENA, November 2016. Web. Crescent Group recycled 54kg of e-waste in the UAE per day such as laptops, batteries, keyboards, and printers. 42 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 43 ENABLING STEWARDSHIP OF THE PLANET continued GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions UNGC SDG Case study: General Disclosures Gulftainer recycling programme “Energy and water GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organisation Inside cover resources optimisation General 102-2 Primary brands, products, Pages 5-7 Our operating businesses continuously and services endorse energy efficiency initiatives plays a prominent role in Disclosures and waste reduction strategies. This environmental conservation. 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 4 year, Gulftainer greatly enhanced its We were delighted to visit 102-4 Location of operations Page 4 recycling programme. Crescent Enterprises and 102-5 Ownership and legal form Pages 18-19 Gulftainer That is equivalent share the latest insights and 102-6 Markets served Pages 4-5 recycled to the weight of practices in conservation 86,604kg 57 and efficiency. In the 102-7 Scale of the organisation Pages 4-5 of waste this year. midsized cars region, water scarcity is 102-8 Information on employees Pages 34-35 an issue, and domestic and other workers energy consumption 102-9 Supply chain Page 21 per capita is one of the 102-10 Significant changes to Page 34 highest globally. We are the organisation and its appreciative of Crescent supply chain Waste generated at Gulftainer (kg) Enterprises’ commitment to 102-11 Adoption of the Page 20 7 Hazardous Non-hazardous environmental stewardship, precautionary approach and we were honoured to be 102-12 External initiatives Pages 9, 19, 29 2016 155,328 2016 457,600 given the opportunity to raise 102-13 Membership of association Page 19 2015 111,480 2015 514,283 awareness on climate change 102-14 Statement from senior Pages 2-3 issues and promote action.” decision maker 2014 56,820 2014 9,727 Nadia Rouchdy 102-16 Values, code of conduct, Page 4 Project Manager, code of ethics Waste recycled at Gulftainer (kg) Climate & Energy 102-18 Governance structure Page 18 10 Hazardous Non-hazardous Finance, 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 10 EWS-WWF 2016 77,054 2016 9,550 102-41 Collective bargaining N/A None, collective bargaining agreements agreements are prohibited 2015 16,600 2015 247,242 under UAE labour law 102-42 Identifying and selecting Page 10 2014 19,710 2014 33,712 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Page 11 engagement Supporting environmental efforts in through our partnership with the Emirates Wildlife Society 102-44 Key topics and concerns Pages 11-13 The Emirates Wildlife Society (EWS), EWS-WWF key achievements in 2016 Throughout the year, we also inspired our raised in association with the World Wide include: employees and their families to support 102-45 Entities included in the Page 5 Fund for Nature (WWF), is a non-profit two of EWS-WWF’s environmental consolidation of financial •5  .5 million people across seven organisation that seeks to protect the conservation initiatives: statements emirates celebrated Earth Hour biodiversity of the UAE. •C  aracal Challenge: employees 102-46 Defining report content and Inside cover •4  0 companies participated in a As an annual platinum corporate undertook a 15km full moon trek in topic boundaries workshop titled: ‘Road to Sustainability member of EWS-WWF, we support Al Razeen desert, Abu Dhabi, to —Barriers, Opportunities, and Employee 102-47 List of material topics Page 13 various initiatives that aim to endorse connect with nature and raise funds Engagement’ sustainability, tackle climate change, and for EWS-WWF. reduce the UAE’s ecological footprint. • 1 8 green turtles tagged for the 2016 season under the Marine Conservation •C  oastal sanctuary visit: employees Our support has helped the organisation Programme planted mangroves at a coastal to deliver many important environmental sanctuary and reserve in Dubai, and projects such as Earth Hour, marine and • Catalysed development of a UAE Vehicle attended an interactive presentation terrestrial conservation, and minimising Fuel Economy standard to reduce fuel on pressing environmental issues. the UAE’s role in the illegal wildlife trade. consumption and CO2 emissions 44 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 45 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX continued GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions UNGC SDG GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions UNGC SDG 102-48 Restatement of information Inside cover Occupational health and safety 102-49 Changes in reporting Inside cover GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Pages 12-15, 32 Management topics and its boundaries 102-50 Reporting period Inside cover Approach 102-51 Date of most recent report Inside cover 103-2 The management approach Pages 38-39 102-52 Reporting cycle Inside cover and its components 102-53 Contact point for questions Inside cover 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 38-39 regarding the report management approach 102-54 Claims for reporting with the Inside cover GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates of Page 39 1, 2 3 GRI Standards Occupational injury, occupational diseases, 102-55 GRI content index Can be found Health and lost days, and absenteeism, on Crescent Safety and number of work-related Enterprises' fatalities website Financial performance 102-56 External assurance N/A External assurance was not GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Pages 12-15, 22 sought for this report Management topics and its boundaries Material topics Approach 103-2 The management approach Pages 24-25 Anti-corruption and bribery and its components GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Pages 12-16 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 24-25 Management topics and its boundaries management approach Approach GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value Page 24 9 103-2 The management approach Pages 18-21 10 16, 17 and its components Direct generated and distributed Economic 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 18-21 performance management approach Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Pages 12-15, 40 7, 8, 9 7, 13 GRI 205: Anti205-1 Operations assessed for risks Pages 20-21 10 Management topics and its boundaries corruption related to corruption Approach 103-2 The management approach Page 42 205-2 Communication and training Pages 20-21 10 and its components about anti-corruption policies 103-3 Evaluation of the Page 42 and procedures management approach 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Page 21 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within Page 42 8 corruption and actions taken Energy the organisation Employee wellbeing 302-2 Energy consumption outside Page 42 9 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Pages 12-15, 32 1-6 the organisation Management topics and its boundaries 302-4 Reduction of energy Page 42 Approach 103-2 The management approach Pages 34-39 consumption and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 34-49 management approach GRI 401: 401-3 Parental leave Pages 35-36 6 5 Employment GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance Page 35 5 Diversity bodies and employees and equal opportunities 46 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 47 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX continued GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions UNGC SDG Community Engagement We value your feedback We welcome any questions, comments, GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Pages 12-15, or suggestions on this report and on our Management topics and its boundaries 22, 27-31 sustainability commitments and performance. approach Please send your feedback to: 103-2 The management approach Pages 22, 27-31 and its components Crescent Enterprises 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 22, 27-31 Crescent House management approach Buhairah Corniche PO Box 2222, Sharjah GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local Pages 28-31 1-6 4, 5, 8, 15 United Arab Emirates communities community engagement, Attn: Crescent Enterprises Sustainability impact assessment, and development programmes You can also direct your feedback to: Infrastructure development cesustainability@crescent.ae GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Page 26 Management topics and its boundaries Approach 103-2 The management approach Page 26 and its components UN Global Compact and GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the Page 26 Sustainability Reporting Standards management approach The content index for both the UN Global GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments Page 26 Compact and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Indirect and services supported Standards can be found in our digital version economic on our website: crescententerprises.com impact Employment and market presence GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Pages 12-15, 40 Management topics and its boundaries Approach 103-2 The management approach Pages 34-35 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 34-35 management approach Stay connected GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and Page 34 crescententerprises.com Employment turnover Twitter.com/CrescentEnterp GRI 202: 202-2 Portion of senior Page 35 The data only represents Market management hired from the percentage of presence local community employees hired from local community Effluents and waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Pages 12-15, 40 7, 8, 9 14 Management topics and its boundaries Approach 103-2 The management approach Pages 42-44 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Pages 42-44 management approach GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Page 44 14 Effluents and method waste 48 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2016/17 crescententerprises.com
