Since 1947 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal year 2017 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / About this report About this report How to use this report Our approach and scope Interactivity This Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report When opened in Adobe Reader, this PDF document incorporates several interactive features as consolidates information on our company strategy, corporate indicated below. social responsibility (CSR) activities and fiscal year 2017 performance into one document. It includes all the information previously found in our CSR Report and the editorial pages Functions of our Annual Report. All the financial data is available in our Financial Report. Additional or more detailed information Integrating our reporting in this way enables us to provide stakeholders with a single source of information in key areas. It also signals that CSR is inseparable from our core business Additional content on the web strategy and activities. As you’ll read in this report, our training solutions generate benefits across the three central elements of sustainability: economic, environmental and social. Additional information This report covers our global operations and, unless otherwise stated, presents quantitative and qualitative information for Link to content within this document (internal) fiscal year 2017 (ended March 31, 2017). Reporting standards Hyperlink (to external content) This report is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. An independent institution, Print this report the GRI provides a standard framework for sustainability reporting across companies and industries. You’ll find an index outlining our alignment with the GRI G4 core reporting requirements and references to other relevant information sources here. All figures in this report are in Canadian dollars. Navigation Feedback Access to previous or next page We welcome your views on the topics covered in this report. Please send your comments, suggestions and questions to Access to the table of contents media@cae.com. 02 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Table of contents Table of contents 02 About this report Corporate social responsibility Feature stories 04 CEO message 30 CSR message 16 Using simulators to raise kids’ spirits 06 Overview 32 CSR governance and oversight 22 Growing roots in Western Canada 09 Strategy 33 Business integrity 27 Driving innovation in 3D healthcare simulation 36 Health and safety Business highlights 50 CAE Green Pledge: 39 Our people Making a difference, together 12 Civil Aviation Training Solutions 43 Customer service / 18 Defence & Security Product excellence and innovation Appendix 47 Environmental protection 56 Site certifications 24 Healthcare 52 Local economies and 57 GRI indicators community investment 03 Message to shareholders Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders Leading and growing Since 1947 I am delighted to report that we delivered a strong performance in fiscal 2017—one of the best years in our seven-decade history. We continued to make very good progress in pursuit of our training strategy by expanding our relationships with customers around the globe. We generated $2.7 billion in annual revenue and ended the year with a record $7.5 billion backlog, which enhances visibility and augments the recurring nature of CAE’s business. I want to congratulate and sincerely thank all our employees for their strong performance in advancing our strategic priorities in fiscal 2017. Key achievements In Civil Aviation Training Solutions, we generated strong demand schedule. We delivered in an unprecedented way from our large for CAE’s unique and comprehensive training solutions, which led bid pipeline in fiscal 2017 and expect to continue winning our fair to higher training centre utilization and higher operating margins for share of this market. Civil overall. We continued to lead the market in full-flight simulator sales with a near-record year, and in training services, we signed In Healthcare, we also demonstrated our innovation leadership, long-term contracts with Jet Airways in India, Vietnam Airlines and positioning the business for long-term growth. We doubled the Korea Airports Corporation, among others. amount of business we do with original equipment manufacturers of complex medical devices. We also partnered with Microsoft to We completed two large-scale initiatives to help bolster our bring the power of mixed reality to medical ultrasound simulation, competitive position. One involved a process improvement program delivering an application with great potential to enhance healthcare to significantly improve how we engineer, build, deploy and support education and training and improve clinical skills and patient our simulators. The other program served to enhance our ability safety. This breakthrough innovation is a prime example of what to delight customers by helping us recruit, onboard, develop and CAE brings to bear in this market. retain the best training instructors. We also demonstrated CAE’s innovation leadership in training by successfully validating a new Looking ahead: Protect, grow, innovate ground-breaking data-driven objective assessment training system that will produce a step change in the way the industry trains ‘Protect, grow, innovate’—these mutually reinforcing strategic commercial pilots. We expect this to become a key differentiator imperatives will guide our decisions and actions in fiscal 2018 to grow our share of a large civil aviation training market. and beyond. To continue protecting our business, we will maintain our market leadership, drive operational excellence and asset Our Defence & Security business secured major long-term optimization, increase our process agility and demonstrate greater training systems integrator (TSI) contracts and, in the process, thought leadership. Marc Parent ramped up orders by 40% for a record $1.4 billion. Among other President and comprehensive agreements, our innovative approach enabled Over the last couple of decades, CAE has established itself as Chief Executive Officer us to win the contract to create the U.S. Army’s new fixed-wing a thought leader in aviation training and we are now delivering training centre and program, which we operationalized ahead of some of the most innovative and comprehensive solutions that 04 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders CAE is a global leader in we believe will enable us to unlock a greater portion of Fiscal 2017 also stands out for the cultural evolution the overall $3.5 billion civil aviation training market. We underway at CAE. We are taking concrete steps to harness training in large part because see significant headroom to grow with passenger air traffic the real power of our company—our people. They are the of our commitment to invest expected to double over the next 20 years. We recently ones who will take our organization to new heights. in both technological and issued our first public Airline Pilot Demand Outlook in which we forecast the need for 255,000 new airline pilots Throughout calendar year 2017, we will leverage our operational innovation. by 2027. This spells good news for the world’s leading civil 70th anniversary celebrations to emphasize our values CAE is a 4.0 company, well aviation training company. and leadership attributes while increasing our focus on positioned to leverage employees, their development and wellbeing, and on Geopolitical realities are driving up investments across continuing to inject more fun into the workplace. These the current technological defence forces globally. Governments around the world priorities support our strategy to compete for and attract revolution. are placing a high priority on mission readiness and the key talent to our organization. In fiscal 2017, we recruited intrinsic benefits of simulation-based training. These 500 new employees to support our growth. factors are driving a greater need for training and we believe that CAE is very well positioned to grow its share as a training systems integrator. True success story We have a positive view of CAE Healthcare’s long-term This past year, our strong financial and operational potential as the use of simulation expands for education performance was reflected on the stock market and by and training. We remain confident that Healthcare will investors' resounding approval of our training strategy . Our become a more significant part of CAE’s overall business, compelling value proposition is attracting a growing number and we will continue to broaden our offering in the training of employees, customers, partners and shareholders of nurses, the largest healthcare market. worldwide. As we look to the year ahead, we expect to see continued good growth as we pursue our vision to be the Innovation has been our ‘secret sauce’ since 1947. We recognized global training partner of choice. are a global leader in training in large part because of our commitment to invest in both technological and operational To achieve our vision and aspirations, we must cultivate innovation. CAE is a 4.0 company, well positioned to the right talent, grow strong leaders and recruit critical leverage the current technological revolution. We are resources. We will also continue to make it more satisfying embracing new digital technologies such as big data, to work at CAE. These are just a few of the ways we will artificial intelligence and machine learning at a fast speed. ensure that we remain a leader and grow in the decades Our employees are helping us harness the value of the to come. We are proud to pursue the mission of CAE’s digital world through our Innovation Challenges initiative, founder and all the employees before us who have made for which we received more employee ideas this year than this company a true success story over the past 70 years. ever before. Corporate social responsibility embedded in our strategy Part of our evolution hinges on further embedding corporate social responsibility (CSR)), which is anchored in our mission and our values, in everything we do. In fiscal 2017, we significantly improved our health, safety and environmental data and performance. 05 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview Overview We’re the only pure-play company resolutely committed to the long-term training and simulation needs of our civil aviation, defence & security and healthcare customers. Marc Parent President and CEO, CAE Roots in innovation When Ken Patrick, an ex-Royal Canadian Air Force officer, founded CAE in 1947, his goal was to “…take advantage of a war-trained team that was extremely innovative and very technology intensive.” By the mid-1950s, CAE was already creating its first simulators. One innovation led to another and, Training partner of choice. Since 1947. by 1982, we had developed a flight simulator so realistic that training on real aircraft was no longer necessary. The rest is history. CAE is celebrating its 70th anniversary. For seven decades, we’ve sustained our leadership by offering compelling solutions to customers operating in complex, mission-critical environments. It’s all about safety, efficiency and readiness Our success reflects our ability to evolve and rapidly adapt Today we’re the training partner of choice in end-to-end virtual-to-live solutions for a growing to changing needs and to deliver on our promises of quality, number of airlines, defence forces and healthcare professionals and institutions. Our training reliability and performance. network, the world’s largest, spans more than 65 training centres and flight academies around the globe. Our success is also a testament to our people. Their passion, innovation and focus have allowed us to become the best at We train over 120,000 civil and defence crewmembers annually and work with more than 300 what we do—to build a brand that’s trusted around the world. airlines and major business aircraft operators to increase the safety of air travel. As a leader in training systems integration, we deliver air, land, naval and public safety training to approximately 50 defence forces in over 35 countries. We help ensure these men and women return home safely by preparing them for a range of missions. We’re also a leading provider of innovative healthcare training solutions that enable medical personnel to provide better care. At CAE, our purpose is noble: to make air travel safer, defence forces mission ready and medical personnel better able to save lives. We’re confident that Mr. Patrick would be proud of what we have become. 06 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview Worldwide presence View the interactive map online Head office 160+ 35+ 8,500+ Civil Aviation Training Solutions Defence & Security Healthcare locations countries employees 07 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview FY2017 financial and business highlights $2.7 $7.5 $327.9 $6 billion billion million million donated to local and annual revenue record order backlog free cash flow regional initiatives (up 8% year over year) (up 18% year over year) (up 32% year over year) (cash and in-kind) $1.03 50 76% 18 earnings full-flight civil training centre annual new patents granted per share before specific items simulators sold utilization 21 patents filed ($0.93 earnings per share) • Launched the validation phase of our new objective assessment • Received contract extension to support NATO Flying Training in training system with AirAsia Canada through 2023 • Unveiled the first C Series aircraft full-flight simulator at our joint • Awarded C295W aircrew and maintenance training solution venture in Frankfurt contract to support the Royal Canadian Air Force’s (RCAF) Fixed-Wing Search and Rescue program • Signed business and commercial aviation training contracts with multiple operators, such as Tag Aviation, Vietnam Airlines and • Launched the CAE VimedixAR ultrasound simulator with Scandinavian Airlines Microsoft Hololens, the first ultrasound simulator with real-time interactive holograms of human anatomy • Approval of the CAE-developed Common Database as an international Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) standard • Hosted our 20th Human Patient Simulation Network (HPSN) World conference and hosted our first HPSN conferences in China • Inaugurated the CAE Dothan Training Center in Alabama for the and India U.S. Army Fixed-Wing Flight Training program 08 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Strategy Strategy End-to-end training Protect partner of choice We protect our market leadership and delight customers Our vision is to be the everywhere by driving our operational excellence, asset recognized global training optimization, process agility and thought leadership. partner of choice to enhance customer safety, Grow efficiency and readiness. The considerable headroom in our three expanding Achieving this goal core markets provides us with ample opportunities to depends on the successful grow and win new market share. implementation of three mutually reinforcing Innovate imperatives—protect Our innovation-fuelled DNA enables us to deliver our leadership, grow our next-generation products and services to expand our business, and innovate in addressable market and stay ahead of the competition. everything we do. A trusted and credible training partner Our global leadership stems from our: • Comprehensive training solutions • Commitment to excellence and innovation spanning 70 years • Extensive experience delivering academic, simulator and live flying training • Close collaboration with regulators and policymakers • Industry-leading global training network to help shape the future of training • Ability to reduce customers’ environmental impact through simulation-based training 09 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Strategy Six pillars of strength Our strategy and investment theses are based on six interrelated pillars of strengths. We benefit from a high degree of recurring business, we have a strong competitive moat, and we have significant headroom in large markets that are being driven by secular tailwinds. These factors, combined with CAE’s culture of innovation, give us the potential to generate superior returns. As we look ahead, we take confidence in the strength of our position and the supportive fundamentals of our end markets. High degree of recurring Headroom in Potential for business large markets superior returns We operate in highly regulated Significant untapped market At CAE, we believe we have the industries with mandatory and opportunities exist in our three potential to grow faster than the recurring training requirements growing core businesses. While we’re underlying markets and that our for maintaining professional a market leader in civil aviation, large backlog and recurring revenue certifications. Our long-term we address less than 33% of an profile give us greater visibility. agreements with many airlines approximately $3.5 billion training and business aircraft operators are market. In defence and security, we also an important source of our have a 7% share of the approximately recurring business. $15 billion TSI market. Strong Underlying Culture of competitive moat secular tailwinds innovation Our global training centre network, Both the civil aviation and defence Innovation is part of our DNA and unique end-to-end cadet-to-captain sectors are enjoying strong our people make it happen. In training solutions, TSI expertise, tailwinds. In civil aviation, air collaboration with our customers, unrivalled customer intimacy passenger traffic is expected to we design and deliver the most and strong, recognizable brand grow by 4.2% annually over the sophisticated training solutions. strengthen this moat. next 10 years. 10 Business highlights Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions Civil Aviation Training Solutions Leading the industry Our Civil Aviation Training Solutions business dates back to 1955 when we began designing what would become the first Canadian-built commercial flight simulator for Canadian Pacific Airlines. Today we deliver end-to-end aviation training solutions to address the professional pilot’s total lifecycle needs, from cadet to captain, around the globe. Quality, reliability, innovation Quality, fidelity and reliability are the hallmarks of our offerings. Over the years, we’ve gained a wealth of experience developing full-flight simulators for more than 150 types of aircraft, including 35 first-to market simulators. We’ve also consistently delivered innovative training technologies and solutions to the market. #1 50 + in commercial training centres and flight aviation training academies 12 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions Key FY2017 highlights 9% 15% revenue segment operating Year in review growth income growth1 Our Civil Aviation Training Solutions business performed well in fiscal 2017. It generated a 9% year-over-year increase in revenue and a 15% year-over-year increase in segment operating income. Both network utilization and operating 50 margins improved. We sold 50 full-flight 1.09 simulators (FFSs), our second-best year ever for FFS sales. Our backlog grew by 7% compared to fiscal 2016. full-flight book-to-sales ratio2 simulators sold Among other highlights, we expanded our global training network with eight net FFS additions, inaugurated a new helicopter training and R&D centre in Canada, and announced training programs in the U.S., Germany and Vietnam. We also announced expanded training programs in $3.3 8 the Netherlands, the United Arab Emirates, South Korea, Malaysia, India and Brazil. full-flight simulator billion net additions to our backlog3 global network 1 Segment operating income (SOI) is a non-GAAP measure and our key indicator of 2 The book-to-sales ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated as total orders divided each segment’s financial performance. This measure gives us a good indication by total revenue in a given period. of the profitability of each segment because it does not include the impact of any items not specifically related to the segment’s performance. We calculate it 3 Backlog is a non-GAAP measure that represents the expected value of orders we by taking the operating profit and excluding the impact of restructuring costs. have received but have not yet executed. 13 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions Objective assessment training system We launched the validation and refinement phase of our breakthrough data-driven objective assessment training system with our partner and customer AirAsia in July 2016. Supported by innovative data collection and analysis techniques, this system will provide live objective assessment of pilot competencies and live instructor evaluation of each airline’s standard operating procedures. Addressing global pilot demand Graduating Ryanair’s Lockheed Martin Commercial Flight 2,000th cadet Training integration The commercial aviation industry is expected to double in size over the next 20 years. This growth has significant implications for the professional pilot pipeline worldwide. At CAE, we train 120,000 pilots for more than 300 airlines every year. This unique vantage point of the industry has equipped us with a deep understanding of the outlook for pilots. We’re now sharing our insights and analysis with the broader industry through our first Airline Pilot Demand Outlook. Released in June 2017, our outlook identifies a global requirement for 255,000 new pilots and for developing 180,000 first officers into new airline captains over the next 10 years. Leadership in business aviation Upset Prevention and Recovery Creating new pilots Training (UPRT) 14 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions Improving instructor quality Instructors play a pivotal role in executing our integrated training solutions strategy. In fiscal 2017, we began centralizing our instructor recruitment and onboarding, initial assessment and ongoing performance management functions. We continue to foster a culture of quality through our instructor pillars, which include teaching and communication skills as well as style adaptability. For our global instructor recruitment and onboarding needs, we’re now leveraging the expertise of CAE Parc Aviation. The Dublin-based organization has grown into the world’s leading provider of aviation personnel and support services. Demand for trained aviation professionals is driven by air traffic growth, pilot retirements and the number of aircraft deliveries. The expansion of global economies and airline fleets has resulted in a high demand for qualified airline personnel. Looking Our Airline Pilot Demand Outlook estimates that approximately 25,500 new pilots will be needed, on average, every year for the next 10 years. As the world’s leading provider of cadet-to-captain pilot training, and with our worldwide training network and expertise, we’re well positioned to meet this demand. ahead At CAE, we continue to shape the future of training with the imminent delivery of our data-driven objective assessment training system. We’re partnering with the airline industry to help professional pilots develop faster, learn to master critical situations and adapt effectively to their operators’ culture and standard operating procedures. We’ll also continue working with aerospace regulatory bodies to make the world’s safest mode of transportation even safer. 15 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Using simulators to raise kids’ spirits Feature story Using simulators to raise kids’ spirits It’s a Saturday morning in As Area Operations Leader of CAE Central Europe, Arthur oversees the Hoofddorp January and Arthur Appelo is facility, which provides aviation training services to a long list of clients. Today, however, Arthur and his team of 28 CAE volunteers are playing host to AirSmiles. CAE Amsterdam pacing back and forth at the has been partnering with the Dutch foundation since 2010. Together they give 6to entrance to CAE’s Amsterdam 17-year-olds with disabilities and incurable diseases the thrill of a lifetime: the chance Training Centre in Hoofddorp, to fly a plane all by themselves. Netherlands. He knows what’s about to happen—the same I’m not sure who gets more out of the experience, thing that’s been taking place at the centre for the past the kids and their families or the CAE employees seven years. Finally, a bus and and freelance instructors who help out. Put it this several cars arrive. Out of them way; I never have a problem finding volunteers for emerge numerous disabled and CAE AirSmiles Day! terminally ill children and their families. Arthur greets each Arthur Appelo youth with a warm smile. The Area Operations Leader of CAE Central Europe fun is about to begin. Pilots and more for a day From the moment the kids arrive to the “Once they cross the bridge into the moment they leave, they experience an simulator cockpit and are at the controls,” unforgettable adventure. CAE volunteers explains Arthur, “their eyes grow wide dressed up as quizmasters treat the with excitement. They can fly their youth to an animated lecture on aviation. passengers anywhere—high over the A quiz (how exactly does a 70-tonne Austrian mountains or low under the machine stay airborne, anyway?) follows Golden Gate Bridge. And every time they with teams competing for a prize. turn the throttle, they feel the G-force. In that instant, they’re no longer sick or Then it’s the kids’ turn to quiz the flight disabled kids; they’re no longer isolated crew. One child gets the entire crowd and in pain; they’re pilots!” chuckling when he innocently asks a pilot: “Are you married to the flight attendant?” At the end of the day, after hugs and highEvery year though, the day’s highlight is, fives, the AirSmilers head home with a without a doubt, the hour or so the kids certificate signed by their instructor and Arthur Appelo Area Operations Leader of get to spend in one of the simulators with pictures to post on Facebook. They’ve CAE Central Europe their family and an instructor. earned their bragging rights. 16 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Using simulators to raise kids’ spirits High flyers AirSmiles—Hoogvliegers or ‘high flyers’ in Dutch—is the Thanks to CAE, Frank and Esther are now busy with AirSmiles brainchild of pilot Jeroen Engelkes. In 2007, he decided to use all year round. Some of CAE’s suppliers and partners have his flying skills to bring joy into the lives of sick and disabled even jumped on board. From the training centre’s caterer to children, and the AirSmiles Foundation was born. its building cleaner and a few local hotels, people generously donate their time and money. Ten years later, in addition to CAE’s event, the foundation organizes 15 Big AirSmiles Days annually in airfields all over “In addition to being a great team event for us, we get to give the Netherlands, complete with police cars, fire trucks, sports back as both corporate and private citizens,” beams Arthur. cars, helicopters and jets. Volunteer pilots take youth up in “It’s an extremely rewarding experience with some very their turboprops, piston props and choppers. Individual personal and moving moments.” AirSmiles Days are organized for children too sick or disabled to handle the bigger events. To date, more than 8,000 youth have become AirSmilers. An irresistibly heartwarming cause In addition to being a great team event for us, we get to give Long-time AirSmiles Foundation board member and trucking company owner Frank Bakker and his wife Esther got the back as both corporate and AirSmiles bug back in 2007. A family member introduced them to Jeroen, the foundation’s current chairman, and the private citizens. It’s an extremely rest is history. Today it’s AirSmiles 24/7 at Frank and Esther’s rewarding experience with house. some very personal and moving “The foundation’s mission really tugged at our heartstrings,” moments. remarks Frank. “It’s truly a transformative experience when you see the change in these kids. And it’s emotional for the Arthur Appelo parents too. I remember a 15-year-old boy who was always in his mother’s arms. At the end of the day, his mom approached me and, through her tears, told me it was the first time that she’d seen her son smile in three years. Imagine! Three years!” Arthur had one of his most touching AirSmiles experiences last year. During the quiz, the suspense of not knowing if he CAE signs on had won proved too much for one young competitor with autism. He had to be taken home. In the end, his team did Frank met Arthur’s predecessor, Jan Van Engelen, at an win the prize. At the end of the day, Arthur drove to the boy’s AirSmiles fundraiser in 2009. He explained to Jan that, house and presented the surprised youth with his prize. As because the foundation wasn’t equipped to fly in the winter, he recalls the boy’s pure delight, a smile lights up Arthur’s everything ground to a halt during the cold months. Jan eyes. He quips with a grin: “I guess they don’t call it AirSmiles was quick to put Frank in contact with Arthur, back then the for nothing.” centre’s Head of Training. Arthur just as promptly offered Frank the use of CAE’s simulators for an entire AirSmiles day in January. 17 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Defence & Security Improving mission readiness worldwide Founded by a former Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) officer, our company started with a contract to repair RCAF ground communication equipment. Six years later in 1952, we entered the simulator business with an RCAF contract to design a simulator for the CF-100 interceptor/ fighter. Today our Defence & Security business is a world leader in helping defence forces maintain their mission readiness. As a globally recognized training systems integrator (TSI), we develop and deliver live-virtual-constructive (LVC) training solutions for air, naval, land and public safety. 72 350K + live flying training hours delivered different training platforms by the NFTC program 18 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Key FY2017 highlights 7% 1% revenue segment operating Year in review growth income growth 1 Our TSI capability and robust bid pipeline drove historically high orders of $1.4 billion in new contracts and an additional $939 million in contract options for our Defence & Security business in fiscal 2017. Year-over-year revenue increased by 7%, orders by an impressive 40% and total backlog by 29%. We expanded our market share and won several large defence training contracts, evidence that our TSI offering fulfills a significant need for our customers. Among other highlights, we delivered the Naval $4.2 Warfare Training System to the Swedish Navy and began building the Naval Training Centre for the United Arab Emirates Navy. 1.33 book-to-sales ratio 2 billion backlog 3 1 Segment operating income (SOI) is a non-GAAP measure and our key indicator of 2 The book-to-sales ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated as total orders divided each segment’s financial performance. This measure gives us a good indication by total revenue in a given period. of the profitability of each segment because it does not include the impact of any items not specifically related to the segment’s performance. We calculate it 3 Backlog is a non-GAAP measure that represents the expected value of orders we by taking the operating profit and excluding the impact of restructuring costs. have received but have not yet executed. 19 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Training systems integration progress Last year, we continued to make progress in implementing our training systems integration (TSI) capability for delivering comprehensive training solutions. Here are a few examples of this progress. Royal Canadian Air Force Common Database (RCAF) fixed-wing search approved as industry and rescue (FWSAR) standard program In October 2016, the Open In February 2017, Airbus Defence Geospatial Consortium (OGC) and Space selected us to provide approved CDB, formerly known comprehensive aircrew and as the Common Database, as an maintenance training services to OGC standard. CAE had originally support the Royal Canadian Air designed and developed the U.S. Army fixed-wing NATO Flying Training in Force (RCAF) fixed-wing search CDB for the United States and rescue (FWSAR) program. This Special Operations Command Training Center in Canada (NFTC) (USSOCOM). Adopting the OGC most recent agreement builds on Dothan, Alabama our long partnership with Airbus CDB standard will deliver accurate, In January 2017, the Government of Canada extended the period across many platforms. detailed terrain data to users in In March 2017, we inaugurated our both the geospatial and simulation new state-of-the-art CAE Dothan of performance for our NATO Flying Training in Canada (NFTC) The Government of Canada chose industries. It will also enhance Training Center in Alabama. With data interoperability and reduce program, one of the world’s the Airbus C295W as its new its suite of advanced simulators the time needed to develop, premier military pilot training FWSAR platform in December and training devices, the centre update and configure synthetic programs, to 2023. The NFTC 2016. The first phase of the serves as the new training facility representations of the world. program expands our capability contract calls for us to design for the U.S. Army Fixed-Wing to support live flying training and and build a new training centre Flight Training program. Together to help develop next-generation at Canadian Forces Base (CFB) 19 with the U.S. Army, we built on fighter pilots. It also increases Wing in Comox, British Columbia. our extensive knowledge and experience to develop the facility our opportunities for growth as a and the comprehensive training training systems integrator for air program ahead of schedule in forces globally. less than 11 months. U.S. Army aviators will be training with CAE for years to come. 20 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Naval instructors win Breitling Trophy Virtual flag exercise with Canadian and Bravo Zulu Awards with our support Australian forces The 3rd annual Defence & Security employee recognition Instructors at the Lynx Simulator Facility at Royal In August 2016, we supported both the Royal Canadian awards highlight the special achievements and Naval Air Station (RNAS) Yeovilton received the Air Force (RCAF) and Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) outstanding performance of teams and/or individuals prestigious Breitling Trophy for achieving the best as they participated in Coalition Virtual Flag 16 (CVF16), within the group. This program is intended to promote overall performance during the annual Naval Flying one of the world’s largest virtual air combat exercises. our ‘customer-first’ orientation. In fiscal 2017, 12 teams Standards inspection. The Breitling Trophy recognizes We leveraged our TSI expertise to help both air forces were nominated. Four were selected for a Bravo Zulu the squadron delivering an exceptional level of training prepare, plan and execute their CVF16 missions. The Award, recognizing teams in Montreal, Ottawa, Tampa to Royal Navy frontline crews. two air forces flew our simulators during the exercise. and Sydney. The Royal Navy Lynx helicopter crew train using our simulators and cockpit procedures. We also provide on-site engineering, maintenance and support services to ensure high availability and quality of their training devices. In Defence & Security, we’ll continue to leverage of our strong bid pipeline. Geopolitical realities are fuelling defence spending globally, Looking generating additional opportunities. The next-generation aviation and naval defence systems require significant personnel training, and the training we offer is the safest, most efficient solution to ensure mission readiness. ahead The recent emphasis on the next wave of high technology also bodes well for CAE. We’ll continue to lead the way in integrating technological advances into our solutions to further improve defence forces’ mission readiness. As our reputation for creating integrated, immersive and interoperable training environments that feature best-of-breed solutions grows, so will our TSI contracts. 21 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Growing roots in Western Canada Feature story Growing roots in Western Canada May 1, 2016, was starting out “We knew we had to do something,” says Maryse, Business Development and Community Relations Manager of the NATO like any other day for Maryse Flying Training in Canada (NFTC) program in Western Canada, for which CAE became the prime contractor in 2015. “We put out a call to CAE employees worldwide and their generosity was unbelievable. Together with CAE, employees donated over Carmichael at the Canadian $76,000 to the Red Cross for food banks, clothes and shelter to help the victims.” Forces Base (CFB) 15 Wing in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan. That is, until Maryse heard the news. A major forest fire was tearing through the city of Since 2015, CAE has made being an active Fort McMurray, Alberta, some corporate citizen in Western Canada a top 1,000 kilometres away. The priority. Our support of the wildfire victims is just untameable wildfire—soon to become the costliest disaster in one example of our community engagement. Maryse Carmichael Canadian history—was forcing Business Development and Community Relations Manager, NFTC the evacuation of Fort McMurray residents, among them family members of CAE employees. An eye on the skies Maryse shares CAE’s commitment to In 2000, the same year the government Western Canadian communities, not launched NFTC to train Canadian and only because that’s her job now, but allied military pilots, Maryse became the because this part of the country is near first woman to fly with the Snowbirds. and dear to her. She has spent well over For two years, she flew in formation, a decade here, much of it in the sky. wing tip to wing tip, with eight other She’s a former Royal Canadian Air Force pilots. In 2010, the Snowbirds came (RCAF) pilot. calling again and, for three years, Maryse served as the squadron’s Commanding It all started when, at 16, she followed Officer. Another first for women. her three older brothers into the Air Cadets. By 17, Maryse had her private “Leading a team of 90 highly dedicated pilot’s license. “Then I saw the Snowbirds, individuals was just as exciting as being Canada’s legendary military aerobatics in the air,” reflects Maryse, “especially team, perform at CFB Bagotville and I because lives depended on our flawless was hooked; I knew I wanted to fly jets,” functioning.” she smiles. She joined the military in 1990 and received her RCAF wings at CFB Moose Jaw four years later. 22 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Growing roots in Western Canada Neighbour of choice CAE hired Maryse in March 2015. Since then, Maryse has applied her passion, experience and knowledge of the area to raise CAE’s profile. “Our goal is to ensure that people see CAE as a neighbour of choice,” remarks Maryse, playing on CAE’s ‘Global training partner of choice’ vision. “Over the next five years, 70% of our workforce will be eligible for retirement and we want people to know that we’re a great neighbour, employer and career choice.” “Since taking over the NFTC operations, CAE has had a very positive impact across our city,” states Fraser Tolmie, Mayor of Moose Jaw. “They bring a highly skilled workforce with a very high level of engagement in the community. They support our local events and are engaged in our high schools and Saskatchewan Polytechnic. We look forward to strengthening this mutually beneficial partnership with CAE.” In fiscal 2017 alone, CAE helped sponsor more than a dozen regional and community initiatives, from career days and citizenship awards to sidewalk fairs. It also deepened ties by formalizing partnerships to help facilitate hands-on learning opportunities for students. This includes agreements with the Saskatchewan Indian Institute of Technology, the Art Smith Aviation Academy and the Prairie South School Division, which oversees 40 schools across southern Saskatchewan. Onboarding women pilots One project especially close to Maryse’s heart is opening doors for women in aviation. “I was a complete anomaly when I got my wings,” she says, “and that was 20 years ago. To this day, only Employees are proud 4% to 5% of military and civil pilots are women.” to see CAE’s logo displayed In March 2017, Maryse attended The Sky’s No prominently in the Limit Girls Fly Too!, an event in Abbotsford, British Columbia, that gives women of all ages communities. They’re the opportunity to fly in small aircraft or in helicopters. As a guest speaker, she reassured excited to share their Passion, discipline and teamwork young women that they have a place in the world passion and stories with CAE is also facing a new horizon. In January, the Government of of aviation. residents so people Canada extended CAE’s NFTC contract through to at least 2023. Between now and then, the government will evaluate future In July 2016, CAE sponsored the annual Ninetyunderstand what we do. aircrew training requirements while CAE conducts numerous Nines conference in Ottawa. “Founded in 1929 upgrades to sustain the NFTC program well into the next decade. to support women pilots, the Nine-Nines' first president was Amelia Earhart,” beams Maryse. Maryse Carmichael “We need to keep advancing our systems and technology while “Back then, the group had 99 members and building strong community relations,” sums up Maryse. “Not today consists of thousands of members from unlike being a Snowbird pilot, it will take passion, discipline and over 44 countries.” teamwork—we can do it!”. 23 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare Healthcare Enhancing patient safety Just as passenger safety is the top priority in civil aviation, patient safety and outcomes matter most in healthcare. Medical errors are the third-leading cause of death in the U.S., and simulation-based training provides a low-risk alternative for practising life-saving procedures, rapid response and inter-professional team training, major disaster response and anesthesia administration. Building on our aviation expertise, we launched our Healthcare business to effectively enhance healthcare training and improve patient outcomes in clinical settings. Today we’re a training partner of choice for the medical industry, societies and associations worldwide. We offer the industry’s broadest portfolio of healthcare simulation products and solutions. 12,500 + Industry's broadest training products and services portfolio simulators installed worldwide 24 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare Year in review In fiscal 2017, we doubled the volume of our work with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). While our overall sales in Healthcare were flat, we strengthened our partnerships and launched co-marketing agreements as well as new programs and products. One of these products, CAE VimedixAR, brings the power of augmented reality to the world of healthcare training to further improve patient outcomes. Key FY2017 highlights $110.7 $6.6 million million segment operating in revenue income1 1 Segment operating income (SOI) is a non-GAAP measure and our key indicator of each segment’s financial performance. This measure gives us a good indication of the profitability of each segment because it does not include the impact of any items not specifically related to the segment’s performance. We calculate it by taking the operating profit and excluding the impact of restructuring costs. 25 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare Human Patient Simulation Network In February 2017, we hosted our 20th Human Patient Simulation Network (HPSN) World conference in the U.S. with attendees from 21 countries. The network’s expansion continued in fiscal 2017 with the launch of the first HPSN conferences in China and India. Every year, HPSN World, the largest education, training and networking medical simulation meeting of its kind, is held in the United States. HPSN World 2017 in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, marked the network’s 20th anniversary. During the conference’s eye-opening plenary address, attendees heard about how the Orlando Regional Medical Center’s emergency response team cared for victims of the Pulse nightclub shooting, the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. CAE VimedixAR: Training medical As part of their dedication to preparedness through learning, the team A 3D simulation innovation responders at Rio 2016 uses simulation to train and prepare for medical emergencies. This training helped the team work efficiently together and save the lives In April 2016, our healthcare engineers partnered Our Apollo patient simulator of the 35 shooting victims admitted to the hospital on June 12, 2016. with Microsoft to integrate the Microsoft helped prepare more than 4,800 HoloLens, the world’s first fully self-contained volunteer medical responders The HPSN’s mission is “to bring the international simulation community wearable holographic computer, with our CAE for the Rio 2016 Olympics. Using together, offering collaborative workshops, hands-on learning Vimedix high-fidelity ultrasound simulator. Apollo enabled the medical teams opportunities, resources and technologically advanced simulationto practice responding to a wide based medical education (SBME) solutions that enhance patient safety Ten months later, we launched CAE VimedixAR range of medical emergencies and improve outcomes.” at the International Meeting on Simulation in and potentially save lives. Medical Healthcare (IMSH) 2017 in Florida. CAE VimedixAR volunteers practiced for months R&D partnership extended frees ultrasound, one of medicine’s least invasive with Apollo at the Estacio de Sa with Quebec government and most important bedside tools for detecting University in Rio de Janeiro to be pathology, from the constraints of 2D monitors. ready to treat Olympic athletes In June 2016, the Quebec government announced the extension of its The result is an incomparable learning experience and audience members in the R&D agreement with CAE until 2020. The agreement created an R&D with huge potential for improving patient safety. event of a medical crisis. program focused on developing new simulation technologies, services and training for the healthcare sector. Watch the video Simulation-based training represents the future of healthcare training and patient safety. The globe’s aging population will increase Looking both people’s healthcare needs and nations’ healthcare costs. New regulations are expected to further stimulate the adoption of simulation-based training in medical schools and for certification purposes. Limited access to real patients during training and the medical technology revolution are also fuelling the growth in simulation-based training. ahead At CAE, we’ll continue to actively introduce new product innovations and pursue new partnership agreements. Launching our innovative, purpose-built CAE Juno patient simulator in fiscal 2018 will allow us to make inroads into the nursing profession, the segment’s largest market. Investing in our Healthcare sales force will also enable us to grow our market share. 26 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Driving innovation in 3D healthcare simulation Feature story Driving innovation in 3D healthcare simulation Imagine if a surgeon could The seed of this revolutionary healthcare innovation was planted when the software giant launched Microsoft HoloLens, the world’s first fully self-contained wearable holographic computer. The Microsoft HoloLens headset enables users to interact practice implanting a new with digital content by showing a high-definition 3D hologram in their real world environment. cardiac device by manipulating a hologram of the individual Microsoft, which had already singled out CAE for its breakthroughs in flight simulation, immediately recognized the potential patient’s exact anatomy to of a healthcare application. In April 2016, Erick Fortin, Director of Global Engineering and Project Management for CAE Healthcare, and his team of engineers became among the first in Canada to be granted full access to Microsoft HoloLens get a 3D perspective of the for development purposes. precise pathway. What if a medical student could interact with a rare pathology and the Hitting the ground running surrounding organs as they float before his or her eyes, “CAE’s experience with virtual reality goes back to the 1980s slicing through the anatomy when our engineers developed a virtual reality headset for the military and, while successful and featuring advanced and viewing it from a multitude technology, the project was ultimately abandoned,” recalls of angles? While this may sound Erick. “When, over three decades later, we saw the mixed far-fetched, the recent release reality capabilities of Microsoft HoloLens, our imagination of CAE VimedixAR, CAE’s new was immediately sparked again. We started seeing all kinds of possibilities to provide healthcare students and ultrasound training simulator professionals with a truly groundbreaking learning tool.” with the Microsoft HoloLens, puts this reality just a heartbeat away. Watch the video Ten intense months later, Erick’s team launched CAE VimedixAR at the International Meeting on Simulation in HealthCare 2017. CAE VimedixAR generates a real-time anatomically precise hologram image as the user passes an ultrasound probe over a manikin. CAE’s innovation is set to transform training in the healthcare industry and beyond. 27 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Driving innovation in 3D healthcare simulation It’s all about improving patient safety Teaming up with Microsoft Looking to the future “Erick’s team has taken ultrasound, one of medicine’s “CAE was the first to turn our hypothesis, that Microsoft While even some of the most promising innovations least invasive and most important bedside tools for HoloLens could be used with industry-specific can lack commercial appeal, CAE VimedixAR’s release detecting pathology, to a whole new level,” states equipment to create something unique and valuable, in January was met with an explosion of interest. In Dr. Chad Epps , Immediate Past President of the into a reality,” comments D’Arcy Salzmann, Senior March, CAE made its first sale to Sherbrooke University Society for Simulation in Healthcare. “By marrying CAE Director of Strategy for Microsoft HoloLens. in Quebec, with more following in the months since. Vimedix and Microsoft HoloLens, they’ve freed medical ultrasound simulation from the constraints of its 2D While developing CAE VimedixAR at their lab in “The new generation of learners is digitally native,” environment inside a monitor.” Montreal, Erick’s team built a strong relationship with explains Dr. Epps. “Training institutions know this will Microsoft. capture students’ attention. It also lowers the cost of He continues: “With CAE VimedixAR, you see how the training by eliminating the consumables associated with ultrasound beam cuts through the human anatomy. “We invited representatives from Microsoft’s Montreal traditional training approaches.” It enables true kinesthetic learning. It’s so easy to and Toronto offices to see the progress we were enlarge, turn, rotate or instruct the hologram to go making,” says Erick. “Our ultimate goal was to present D’Arcy tips his hat to CAE: “Thanks to CAE, real-life back into the manikin’s body. And unlike virtual reality a prototype at Microsoft’s headquarters in Redmond, applications of Microsoft HoloLens are no longer which immerses you in a virtual world, augmented or Washington, so my team was thrilled when the invitation theoretical. We appreciate that they immediately mixed reality lets you engage simultaneously with the came in to do just that.” jumped onboard holographic and the real world. That’s both magical and and invested highly practical.” “We were more than impressed,” affirms D’Arcy. “In their resources fact, after CAE’s team left, we kept the CAE VimedixAR in producing A CAE VimedixAR demonstration comes to life with the prototype to show customers a practical application of something of words “CAE Vimedix, start simulation.” The instructor Microsoft HoloLens. When they see CAE VimedixAR in potentially lifecommands a hologram of the heart to appear over the action, they’re truly amazed.” saving value. manikin. Students outfitted with headsets take turns As engineers, using their fingers, as if on a touchpad, to enlarge or D’Arcy continues; “The best part for me was watching that’s why we rotate the heart. They walk around the hologram to gain CAE tackle and execute a challenging technical task so get up every a different perspective and peer inside the heart. beautifully. Our intention was always to pioneer the day—to make a platform and get people to create difference. We exciting things on top of it, but that look forward can be like teaching people to fish. to a growing D’Arcy Salzmann Senior Director of Strategy for We didn’t expect to find such a deep collaboration with Microsoft HoloLens software development bench at CAE.” It’s an incomparable CAE.” While duly proud of his team’s accomplishment, learning experience, Today CAE is the first company Erick has his eyes firmly fixed on the future: “If we to bring a commercial Microsoft with huge potential HoloLens application to the medical accomplished that much in one year, imagine what we can do in two or three! This technology is only going to for improving simulation market and one of only get more sophisticated and we’re thrilled to be at the a few authorized resellers of the patient safety. Microsoft HoloLens worldwide. vanguard.” Dr. Chad Epps Dr. Chad Epps Immediate Past President of the Society for Simulation in Healthcare 28 Corporate social responsibility Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / CSR message Corporate social responsibility CSR message Living our noble purpose At CAE, our purpose is noble and rooted in the principles of corporate social responsibility (CSR). It captures how we make a difference in the world, and drives our decisions and actions. Our purpose makes our employees proud and our customers delighted. It has generated economic, social and environmental benefits for the past 70 years. And it’s how we’ll bring our vision to life in the future. Our progress Over the past two years, we’ve seen a marked increase in the We also made huge strides in terms of our environmental maturity, engagement and energy around CSR initiatives at performance. In fiscal 2017, our voluntary Green Pledge CAE. We delivered on our fiscal 2016 promise to improve our initiative inspired almost 2,000 individual employee visibility on global metrics. environmental initiatives. We held our first Global Environment, Health and Safety meeting. We completed our first carbon In fiscal 2017, we established clear processes, roles and footprint calculation. At sites where we have operational responsibilities globally. This international network enabled control, we reduced our global electricity consumption by sites worldwide to report on their health and safety, 2% and our non-hazardous waste disposal by 3%. We also environmental and donations and sponsorships metrics. As a established our first waste and energy reduction targets. result, the data we now use to assess our CSR performance is more mature and reflective of our global operations. Our culture takes centre stage Our fiscal 2017 data reveals improvements across the board. In health and safety (H&S), we achieved an 18% year-over-year After 70 years, we’re now in a phase of our history where our Hélène V. Gagnon reduction in recordable accidents. We created a global steering culture must evolve if we are to make CAE’s vision a reality. Vice President, Public Affairs and committee to guide and accelerate these improvements. We An achievement that tells me we’re making excellent progress Global Communications and trained more than 6,900 employees on H&S and increased the is our 9% year-over-year increase in employee engagement in Leader of the CSR Committee global implementation of our 10 critical H&S standards from fiscal 2017. That's a significant increase in one year, yet we still 11% in fiscal 2016 to 56% in fiscal 2017. have a lot of room for improvement. 30 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / CSR message In fiscal 2017, we established We started modernizing our workspaces, providing In terms of employee engagement, we remain a programs to recognize and celebrate employees, long way from where we want to be as an employer clear processes, roles and introducing fun activities that bring employees together, of choice. This will be another priority over the next responsibilities globally. This and adopting a more dynamic approach to telling our couple of years. We’ll also focus on better aligning our international network enabled story and recruiting employees. In fact, leveraging social donations and sponsorships with the policy we rolled media helped us hire 500 new employees within 12 out in fiscal 2016. sites worldwide to report, for months to support our growth and showcase ongoing the first time, on their health career opportunities at CAE. All of us at CAE are proud of the effort and improvements and safety, environmental and we’re making and we’re determined to do more. We’re humbled to deliver training solutions that make the donations and sponsorships Our challenges world a safer, better and cleaner place. We're also metrics. proud to contribute to our customers' success and to While we’ve come a long way in only two years, society in such a meaningful way, and to be living a we still have much to do in virtually every aspect noble mission. of our CSR performance. We plan to engage with external stakeholders around our materiality matrix and, following this, develop a new and updated comprehensive roadmap for guiding and measuring progress on our CSR journey. We recorded 10 serious H&S incidents in fiscal 2017. Our goal is zero. We intend to increasingly use leading indicators such as near misses to help us move closer to this goal and improve our overall H&S performance. 5 million $6 million gallons of jet fuel in global donations saved annually by training pilots and sponsorships in a full-flight simulator instead of a (cash and in-kind) real aircraft in fiscal 2017 31 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / CSR governance and oversight Corporate social responsibility CSR governance and oversight Launched in fiscal 2016, our Our CSR Committee: Materiality matrix cross-functional CSR Committee is responsible for rolling out and • Includes members from embedding CSR commitments and our three core businesses best practices across CAE. It’s also (Civil Aviation Training Waste Management Health and Safety in charge of identifying, reviewing Solutions, Defence & Security Energy and Carbon Compliance and assessing our performance and Healthcare) as well as in ethical, environmental, social engineering and corporate Innovative Training Solutions and reputational matters. The services, and three members Local Economic Presence Process and Product Transformation committee includes members of our Executive Management Community engagement and support from our major businesses and Committee Training and Development Customer Engagement key geographic locations. • Interacts with our various Diversity and Inclusion and Satisfaction STAKEHOLDERS’ INTERESTS Responsible Procurement stakeholders (investors, The committee meets quarterly employees, customers, to review progress and, through suppliers, aviation regulators, the CSR Committee Chair, governments, local reports performance quarterly communities and universities) Environmental Management to the Executive Management Talent Retention and Attraction Committee and periodically to • Oversees the six core the Board of Directors or its priorities of our CSR approach Compensation programs committees (Governance, Human Resources and Audit). The Chief Compliance Officer provides monthly compliance reports to the Executive Management Committee and quarterly reports to the Board. LOW MEDIUM HIGH IMPACT ON CAE’S BUSINESS CATEGORIES Customer service, Product excellence Business Ethics and Integrity Health & Safety and Innovation Community Environmental Stewardship Our People 32 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Business integrity Corporate social responsibility Business integrity Our priorities • Ensure compliance and solid ethical standards Future commitments • Continue strengthening our governance, risk management and internal controls • Roll out our new company-wide Human Rights Policy Why it matters Adhering to the highest ethical standards is essential to building stakeholder trust, goodwill and value in today’s world. We expect our employees and business partners to consistently meet these high standards. 33 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Business integrity Improving business integrity and ethics governance Responsible supply chain management Bribery and corruption are risks faced by virtually all organizations operating globally. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we demonstrate our commitment to Over the past five years, we’ve taken several significant steps to address these risks upholding its principles, in part, by taking steps to ensure responsible procurement. and strengthen our compliance program. We integrate human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption considerations into our global strategic sourcing tools and processes. Under the leadership of our General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary, in fiscal 2017 we took two pivotal steps to better manage the risks posed by Procurement documents such as Request for Proposal, Supplier Survey Report and foreign representatives: we updated our Anti-Corruption Policy and we began using Purchasing – General Terms and Conditions include clauses designed to specifically our customer relationship management (CRM) software to support the process. address compliance with laws and ethical business conduct. Employee health and We’re currently updating our online and in-class anti-corruption training material to safety, combatting bribery, prohibiting the use of child or forced labour, hazardous reflect these changes. In fiscal year 2018, live training sessions will continue to be materials and conflict minerals are among the issues addressed. delivered to the sales, business development, marketing, finance, procurement and HR functions across all divisions of CAE. Social and environmental factors are considered alongside financial factors when making procurement decisions, and are detailed among the criteria used for supplier We’ll continue to leverage our ongoing compliance review to reinforce our governance, selection. risk management and internal controls. Periodic risk assessments and audits of our areas of risk help us maintain oversight on our practices and operating guidelines. We conduct spot verifications on suppliers and their supply chain when necessary. Our Compliance Office works closely with the internal audit team to perform these If a verification reveals non-compliant practices, we suspend all activities with the audits. The Compliance Office also conducts risk assessments and monitoring on supplier and demand an immediate action plan and remediation. If the delinquent different programs as the need arises. supplier implements corrective measures and demonstrates compliance with our policy, we then decide whether to resume business with the supplier. Green procurement Reinforcing our Code of Supplier responses regarding environmental responsibility, initiatives, compliance Business Conduct and sustainability are among the aspects integrated into our approach to green In fiscal 2016, we launched a fiveprocurement. As an example, our major office supplies vendor adheres to our year process of enhancing our Code environmental requirements. of Business Conduct to demonstrate our commitment to address major business ethics risks. This included Conflict minerals integrating our CSR core priorities into We established and communicated our Conflict Minerals Policy to our suppliers. Our the Code and training our managers Conflict Minerals program, which includes supply chain surveys, supports this policy. on the Code. In fiscal 2017, all We suspended or discontinued our business relationship with some suppliers who managers and key personnel, including failed to respond to or complete these surveys. We also verify smelters reported in all employees in the HR, finance, supplier surveys to ensure their participation in the Conflict-Free Smelter Program of procurement, sales and business the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). development functions, were trained on and signed our Code. Starting this year, all employees will have to read, acknowledge and agree to comply with our Code on an annual basis. 34 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Business integrity Reporting Reports FY2017 highlights Our Chief Compliance Officer provides monthly compliance reports to the Executive Management FY17 FY16 Committee and quarterly reports to the Board. ISSUES CAE property 0 1 97.8% of managers and key personnel EthicsPoint: Our third-party anonymous reporting system Computer systems, internet, 0 1 trained on our Code of Business intranet and email Conduct EthicsPoint helps us ensure that our local and Confidentiality of company, international business activities meet the highest employee and third-party 0 2 ethical standards. This website and call centre Information service provides employees, customers, partners and 95.6% suppliers with a simple, risk-free way to confidentially Contracts and records 1 1 report activities that may involve criminal conduct or violations of our policies and Code of Business Safety in the workplace 1 0 Conduct. Our Whistleblowing Policy protects good-faith of our employees whistleblowers from retaliation. Equal opportunity and 2 6 trained on harassment-free workplace export control compliance We strongly encourage our employees and any party Interpretation of the we conduct business with to come forward if they 1 1 Code of Business Conduct notice any misconduct. This enables us to deter nonReporting violations of the compliance and reduce our exposure to unethical 1 2 Code of Business Conduct All behaviour. Total 6 14 Most concerns reported in recent years relate to Human Resources issues. We ensure all reports are rapidly foreign representatives and confidentially handled as required by law. Certain trained on our violations such as violations to the Code of Business Conduct require disciplinary action which varies See all our site certifications Anti-Corruption Policy depending on the severity of the breach. We make sure that appropriate incident investigation and corrective actions are taken for all reports. All EthicsPoint inquiries are reported to the Board on a quarterly basis. United Nations Global Compact In fiscal 2017, the number of whistleblowing reports declined by approximately 40% as shown in the table on We became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in fiscal 2016. Since then, this page. The most common type of EthicsPoint report we’ve aligned key documents with the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles and relates to equal opportunity and harassment issues the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act. We now require vendors to confirm (two in FY17 and six in FY16). their commitments to high ethical, environmental and social standards. In fiscal 2017, we developed a company-wide Human Rights Policy, which will be rolled out in fiscal 2018. 35 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Health and safety Corporate social responsibility Health and safety Our priorities • Finish implementing the 10 global health and safety (H&S) standards in our operational excellence model (56% implemented in fiscal 2017; target is 100% for FY18) • Education and development: Complete phase one of our global H&S leadership and employee training (phase one is Montreal only; phase two is worldwide) Future commitments • Reduce our Injury Frequency Rate (IFR) and Days Lost Rate (DLR) by 5% by 2018 (part of the CEO’s performance objectives) • Strengthen our H&S global governance • Integrate leading indicators into our yearly Why it matters objectives to improve our leadership actions Safety First is the central focus that guides everything we do, everywhere we operate. It captures our company-wide commitment to leadership, accountability and excellence in health and safety. 36 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Health and safety In fiscal 2017, we started to measure the number of training sessions provided at our global sites. FY2017 highlights During this period, we trained more than 6,900 employees on H&S—now our annual benchmark—in alignment with our education and development pillar. Over 20 ‘Learning from Incident’ and ‘Learning Congratulations to our employees worldwide for delivering a 20% from Others’ communication campaigns were also deployed globally. reduction in our H&S metrics for the third consecutive year. Creating a solid foundation in H&S 2017 2016 2015 To achieve our vision of world-class H&S performance and zero injuries, we’re guided by our: Incident Frequency Rate 0.55 0.74 1.23 Days Lost Rate 2.79 3.52 4.9 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 0.25 0.28 0.45 Global Health and Four strategic Safety Policy H&S pillars Safety Global Management System H&S team Hear our leaders speak about health and safety To reach another key milestone in our global health and safety commitment, we announced the creation of a new Steering Committee for Global Health & Safety and Aviation Safety in February 2017. At the committee's first meeting, we asked Five-year strategic 10 critical members for their views on health and safety. H&S plan H&S standards Watch what they had to say! 37 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Health and safety On the road to world-class H&S performance We celebrated Global Health and Safety We held our first annual Global Every year, our H&S recognition program strengthens our Safety First culture by Day at Work on April 28, 2016. From more Environment, Health and Safety highlighting and celebrating significant H&S contributions in four categories: business visible propellers to fire evacuation drills meeting with guest speakers and key division, site, project and individual. Congratulations to the following fiscal 2017 and new processes to better manage trainings, workshops and discussions winners: contractors, employees implemented involving more than 50 participants health and safety initiatives at some 20 from 17 countries. At the meeting, we • Business division • Project sites worldwide. created global synergies for exchanging Post-Delivery Services (PDS) Tools for rigging/working at best practices and aligned all H&S for their numerous initiatives heights/handling in Montreal, which representatives with our corporate such as implementing H&S key featured employee-led projects to strategy and vision. performance indicators for projects, create tools for improving health online training for all employees, and safety while working at heights, specific training for field personnel when rigging is required, or for as well as issuing H&S bulletins handling/moving simulator parts Aviation safety culture • Site • Individual As our live flying training programs grow, along with the number of our Our CAE Oxford Aviation Academy Peter Preudhomme, IT Coordinator instructors in the air, the risks are also increasing. We’re rolling out a more in Phoenix, U.S., for its significant at our facility in Steenokkerzeel, open approach across CAE to foster an aviation safety culture focused on improvement in H&S, which Belgium, for going above and leading indicators and greater safety for all. Rather than blaming individuals includes 83% fewer reported beyond the call of duty by for their missteps, we encourage people to speak openly about them so we events and lost days, hiring a new increasing management and can all learn and improve. H&S representative, implementing employee H&S awareness, a complete safety program and establishing local governance, At our CAE Oxford Aviation Academy, the world’s largest ab initio flight training management process as well as its building relationships and network, we’ve been using a disciplined process of root cause analysis to overall emphasis on H&S culture collaborating with external H&S examine our near misses since 2010. This process has resulted in numerous partners, integrating a new corrective actions, better procedures and more effective and frequent training evacuation plan, running periodic to prevent the recurrence of these near misses. assessments, conducting a risk analysis and much more 38 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Our people Corporate social responsibility Our people Our priorities • Attract the best talent • Develop and retain a skilled and engaged workforce • Evolve a corporate culture aligned with our new vision • Provide interesting career opportunities to our employees Future commitments • Continue to improve employee engagement and drive our culture's evolution in line with our vision • Deploy our gender diversity program and plan Why they matter • Improve workspaces Attracting, developing and retaining the best talent will always be key to our success. And as our company shifts from a product to a training service focus, cultivating high employee engagement is more crucial than ever. 39 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Our people Hats off to our employees Improving employee engagement In the late 1940s, CAE consisted of 18 employees repairing and installing Royal Conducted in November 2016, our employee survey resulted in an impressive 9% Canadian Air Force (RCAF) radio equipment from a vacant aircraft hangar in St. increase in employee engagement during a one-year period. Although we’re satisfied Hubert, Canada. Today our 8,500-plus employees work across 160 sites in more than with the improvement, we’re not satisfied with our overall results. We still have much 35 countries delivering sophisticated integrated training solutions. Their expertise work to do. and passion for excellence fuel our global success as the training partner of choice in civil aviation, defence and security, and healthcare. Our team leaders received their individual survey results to help prioritize actions in their departments and make CAE an even better place to work. Thousands of stories. One CAE. Evolving our culture We launched our 70th anniversary celebrations on March 17, 2017. For the next year, ambassadors and site leaders will engage employees worldwide in fun and creative Change is afoot at CAE as we adopt a more accessible, bottom-up style of activities to mark this important milestone. Our 70th anniversary campaign theme communication and take local employee initiatives global to connect our workforce of “Thousands of stories. One CAE.” rallies people around sharing their stories to worldwide. Examples in fiscal 2017 include: showcase both the diversity and unity of the CAE family. 70th anniversary CAE Colour Day launch video CAEchampions recognition program Launched in June 2016, CAEchampions is our new global employee recognition program. It enables us to reward employees for their years of service while building a culture of recognition and strengthening people’s connection to our five Leadership Attributes. CAEchampions includes e-Bravo, an online platform where employees celebrate each other’s contributions in real time, further promoting an engaged and highperformance culture. Our Spotlight on Recognition Week also allowed us to retroactively celebrate employees who had achieved service milestones. Between June 2016 and March 2017: CAE is a trusted brand with a strong sense of family. In fact, we even have families like the Salmon family with three generations of CAE employees. 18,239 5,662 1,956 Watch their story e-Bravos Service pins given sent by Awards for years of employees bestowed for service ≥ five years of service 40 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Our people FY2017 highlights 655 1,614 employees completed employees enrolled in our technical career track 15,475 hours of training and education Professional Women’s Network (PWN) 525 17 leaders completed new engineering hires completed the 2,995 Ken Patrick Program hours of leadership training for new graduates A busy year of onboarding employees CAE and Office québécois In fiscal 2017, new hires worldwide gave our onboarding process a de la langue francaise (OQLF) event satisfaction rating of over 80%. 41 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Our people Initiatives for talent recruitment Over the past five years, our employees have helped develop Canada’s next generation of talent and expertise by working side by side with over 1,200 co-op students. In fiscal 2017 alone, we hired 230 co-op students, 14% more than last year. We also increased our campus activities by 30%, for a total of 27 events in fiscal 2017. The benefits to both CAE and the students are significant. Our employees also actively mentor high school students interested in engineering and science through diverse programs and competitions. To support CAE’s growth, we leveraged several tools and events to tap into our global pool of Creating activity-based work environment external candidates. This included a career day at CAE Montreal attended by more than 300 We consulted employees and applied best-practice thinking to create an activity-based team work environment that engineers. addresses the lack of light, team work areas and flexibility at our 64-year-old Montreal headquarters. The Lumina experimental space pilot project provides employees with different environments tailored to the diverse tasks they perform in a day. These brighter, more functional spaces include private offices, scrum areas for daily meetings, coffee corners, lounges and team work areas. The project is part of the Workspace Master Plan currently being developed to improve employee productivity and satisfaction at our Montreal headquarters. 42 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Customer service / Product excellence and innovation Corporate social responsibility Customer service / Product excellence and innovation Our priorities • Ensure customer engagement and satisfaction • Design and deliver quality and responsible next-generation training products and services • Ensure customer data protection • Embed a strong innovation and collaboration culture Future commitments • Continue to design for safety and environment • Formalize sustainability guidelines for the design, development and delivery of our Why it matters product and services Product and service innovations are key elements of our competitive advantage. Our strong innovation culture and commitment to best-in-class customer service drive these innovations. They also support our vision to be recognized as the global training partner of choice. 43 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Customer service / Product excellence and innovation A busy year in customer service Protecting customer data Customer service In Civil Aviation, acquiring and starting to integrate We understand the importance of ensuring customer Lockheed Martin Commercial Flight Training (LMCFT) data and intellectual property are handled with the Our global customer service team paved the way for a new Customer Service European utmost sensitivity and confidentiality. We have strong supports both our Civil Aviation Hub in Sassenheim, Netherlands. This centre will controls to ensure compliance with all laws and Training Solutions and Defence & significantly improve our ability to effectively serve regulations, including the protection of intellectual Security business units. As these customers in Europe and Africa. property and the exportation and importation of commodities, services and technical data. Employees businesses grow, so does our need to In logistics or spares and repairs, joint governance are trained on handling intellectual property as part of consistently delight an even greater between our operations and global strategic sourcing our annual Code of Business Conduct training. number of customers around the teams enhanced collaboration, improved internal world. Empowering, training and and external repair process efficiency and identified Under the leadership of our Chief Information Officer performance gaps. (CIO), we aligned our IT policies framework with NIST recognizing our customer service 800-053 and 171. To prevent data security breaches, we employees is key to managing this To promote excellence in customer service, we also invested in the deployment of cyber security controls to growth and continuing to deliver created an advisory board with senior members of comply with aerospace and defence industry standards. our team. Members must currently work in customer All our employees must complete annual mandatory excellent service. service and have at least 20 years of experience at CAE. IT security awareness training. We conduct regular audits on our IT security controls. Our CIO reports to the Executive Committee and to the Board's Audit Committee on IT security incidents and presents a status and progress report on our IT security plan. Tracking customer satisfaction In fiscal 2017, executive compensation was tied, in part, to the customer satisfaction scores generated by our annual customer survey. Customers ranked our performance as follows: Civil Aviation Defence & Security Healthcare 3/5 97% 4.8/5 sub-divisions and satisfaction for net satisfaction regions exceeded on-time delivery score their customer satisfaction targets 98% satisfaction for product quality 44 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Customer service / Product excellence and innovation Engaging employees in innovation Product excellence and Our advanced technologies and products emerge out of our deep-rooted R&D and innovation ecosystem and innovation processes. Launched in 2012, our annual Innovation Challenges initiative is part of this ecosystem. It leverages employees’ creativity to spark winning ideas that often evolve into concrete improvements and new products With 70 years of breakthrough such as the CAE VimedixAR. In fiscal 2017, Innovation Challenges incorporated an environmental category to drive innovation in this area. innovations, our R&D has paved the way for leading-edge flight simulators, training systems integration (TSI) Sustainable products and services solutions and high-fidelity patient CAE is the global leader in the sale of full-flight simulators, a climate-friendly product. We sold 50 FFSs in fiscal 2017. simulators. Our partnerships with The full-flight simulators we sell save millions of tonnes of CO2 annually. In our own Civil training network alone, industry organizations, regulatory the simulators we operate save over five million metric tonnes of CO2 per year. We estimate this number using the bodies, suppliers and customers help us number of training hours spent internally on flight simulators and multiply this by the normal burn rate (at cruise) remain at the forefront of new safety, of equivalent real aircraft. operating efficiency and environmental With our full-flight simulator electromechanical motion standards and processes. systems, customers reduce their average annual power DID YOU KNOW? consumption per simulator by up to 70% and eliminate 400 gallons of mineral oil per simulator, compared to A focus on innovation the hydraulic systems previously used. At CAE, our technological leadership is underpinned by our strong innovation culture, Design for safety and environment longstanding commitment to R&D and sustainability mindset. We devote over 7% of our Our Global Engineering department designs our global annual revenue to R&D and consistently simulator technologies and training materials to rank as one of the top 20 Canadian companies in improve resource efficiency, eliminate hazardous R&D investment. materials and increase our customers’ energy efficiency. We follow numerous standards throughout the life-cycle $1.47 billion of our products, from the design and manufacturing stages to the end-of-life phase. As an example, we adhere to the Restriction of Hazardous Substances invested in R&D in the past 10 years (RoHS) directive for the United Nation’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals Tom Hanks experienced a In FY2017: (REACH) regulation. CAE-built flight simulator In fiscal 2016, we considered environmental impacts in Actors Tom Hanks and Aaron Eckhart used a 21 18 the redesign of the industry’s most advanced full-flight CAE-built flight simulator for their roles in the simulator, the CAE 7000XR. film Sully. Hanks described it as one of the most lifelike experiences a person could have. new patent new patents applications filed granted Find out more. 45 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Customer service / Product excellence and innovation A unique aerospace training lab in North America In November 2016, we helped inaugurate the new Laboratoire d’enseignement des systèmes intégrés en aérospatiale du Québec (LESIAQ) at the École des métiers de l'aérospatiale de Montréal (ÉMAM). This unique 10,000-square-foot laboratory features actual aircraft and helicopter test platforms as well as our Advanced Engineering Environment modelling and simulation software. This software allows university engineering students to learn on a simulated platform as well as on actual Iron Birds. As one of LESIAQ’s key industrial partners, our contribution amounted to nearly $650,000. We plan to further equip this unique lab with state-of-the art modelling and simulation capabilities to provide students with comprehensive learning experiences. SA2GE This year, we announced our participation in SimEco 4.0, an R&D project under the SA2GE program. This project aims to develop new products and processes Paying tribute to our inventors to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions related to aircraft. The Quebec government, through the Ministry We operate in an industry where securing of Economy, Science and Innovation, and SA2GE have intellectual property (IP) is vital to protecting committed to contributing up to 50% of eligible costs our innovations in an increasingly competitive incurred by CAE through to fiscal 2020. market. In fiscal 2017, we inaugurated a multimedia Patent Wall at our Montreal head office. This interactive wall showcases our Institute for Data Valorization (IVADO) inventors over the past seven decades and underscores the pivotal role innovation plays at In 2015, the creation of IVADO helped reinforce CAE. Our Patent Wall is a testament to employees’ Montreal’s global reputation as a hub for artificial ingenuity, determination and passion. intelligence. IVADO brings together industry professionals and academic researchers to develop Biometrics internship As of today, we hold 43 patents and 163 patent cutting-edge expertise in data science, operational We financed an internship with DC’s George applications thanks to our creative employees research and artificial intelligence. Washington School of Engineering and Applied and the teams that support them. In fiscal 2017, Science to explore using large data sets collected we were granted 18 new patents derived from As one of IVADO’s first key members, we take pride during defence force flight training events to our R&D activities of previous fiscal years. We also in helping provide its 900 affiliated scientists with a improve effectiveness and efficiency. Students filed 21 new patent applications and rewarded multidisciplinary institute for developing processes to had access to our engineers, test pilots and their inventors through our Eureka Program. extract trends, metrics and concrete information from instructors as well as a full-flight simulator. big data. Experts from IVADO’s talent pool are working alongside our subject matter experts on research projects related to safety, security and efficiency, using data sciences. 46 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Environmental protection Corporate social responsibility Environmental protection Our priorities • Ensure environmental management system excellence and compliance • Set targets for energy and carbon footprint reduction • Improve our material and resource efficiency Future commitments • Further develop our energy and waste reduction initiatives by launching strategic pilot projects to be subsequently deployed on a global scale • Review employees’ personal Green Pledge initiatives, share them and support, when applicable, their implementation at other sites Why it matters • Deploy centralized waste-sorting stations, including compostable material sorting, at Minimizing the environmental impact of our operations helps protect natural resources, improve employee and our Montreal headquarters community quality of life, and preserve our license to operate. It also enables us to reduce costs, strengthen our competitiveness and foster trust. 47 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Environmental protection Shrinking our environmental footprint Calculating our Reporting Our global presence spans 160 sites and training locations in over 35 countries. Approved by our Chief Executive Officer, our Environmental Policy and ISO carbon footprint Environmental performance reports are 14001-aligned Environmental Management System (EMS) guide us in managing presented to the Board of Directors on a For the first time in fiscal our environmental impact across these sites and locations. An increase in quarterly basis. Every site manager is responsible 2017, we calculated our inter-site communication and best-practice sharing is helping accelerate for tracking performance against environmental global GHG emissions. improvements in our environmental performance. targets as well as compliance with local We used an operational control approach and environmental regulations and requirements. Here’s a summary of our top five environmental achievements in fiscal 2017: included all facilities • We completed our first carbon • We launched Green Pledge, over which we have footprint calculation. a company-wide voluntary operational control in Environment as an onboarding tool initiative signed by more our GHG inventory. We • At sites where we have than 20% of employees and limited our inventory to In fiscal 2017, we began showing new employees operational control over noninspiring almost 2,000 individual Scope 1 and 2 emissions. an environmental onboarding presentation hazardous waste and energy, we environmental initiatives. as part of their integration process. The reduced our: In recent years, we were • For the first time, our annual presentation outlines the key elements of our • Global electricity only calculating the Environmental Management System, including consumption by 2% Innovation Challenges initiative GHG emissions for our included an environmental our Environmental Policy, local and global • Non-hazardous waste Montreal headquarters environmental structure, and our company-wide category, which received 72 in Canada. disposal by 3% commitment to the environment. ideas from employees for • We held our first annual Global reducing energy use and waste Environment, Health and Safety production. meeting. Training our leaders on environmental issues Monitoring our environmental performance All environmental officers, group leaders To drive further improvements, we established and met our first waste and energy reduction targets in fiscal 2017. and up must participate in a corporate environmental awareness training program. The program explains the basic elements of good environmental management principles, the environmental responsibilities of all employees and the actions to be taken in the event of an environmental emergency. Environmental training programs are also developed on an adhoc basis and made available to all employees through our intranet. Our simulators play a key role in reducing our customers’ We won the Canadian Industry Program for Energy carbon footprint by avoiding the fuel consumption and Conservation (CIPEC) Leadership Award in the Process Green Procurement CO2 emissions associated with live flying training. and Technology Improvement category for modernizing the heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) See Business integrity section system at our headquarters in Montreal, Canada. This improvement reduced the site’s energy costs by 31%. 48 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Environmental protection Growing employee engagement Across CAE, people are increasingly sharing best practices and initiatives that cover all our environmental aspects, including energy efficiency and waste reduction. Enviro-News, our global internal environmental newsletter, is sent monthly and provides As part of our Earth Day celebrations and Montreal head-office employees are On April 22, 2016 and April 27, 2017, we updates on best practices and our “One planet. Thousands of gestures. proud of their new composting program. combined Earth Day with our monthly initiatives taking place across the One CAE.” campaign, more than 40 sites Launched in fiscal 2017, the pilot project CAE Colour Day, inspiring employees company. This communication shared their dedication and diverse was a huge success and is now being from around the world to wear green to tool enables us to share corrective environmental initiatives. deployed throughout our headquarters. work. actions and stimulate continuous improvement. On January 26, 2017, our Gondia site All 14 of our sites throughout Australia and New Zealand are certified to the AS/NZS Employees are biking to work in marked India's 67 th anniversary by ISO14001:2004 Environmental Management Systems Standard as well as the AS/NZS increasing numbers at CAE sites around integrating the Green Pledge into its 4801:2001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems. the world. In fact, our Montreal head celebrations. office has been recognized as a bikeThe journey began in 2014 with a plan to certify the Sale and Silverwater sites to friendly place to work by Vélo Québec. Over 200 people also participated in the both standards, which was achieved in February 2016. We then began migrating Clean India Day campaign. To support the Environmental Health and Safety Management System (EHSMS) to the other 12 Our President and CEO Marc Parent is the community and the environment, sites. In fiscal 2017, site managers and employees, along with senior management part of a group of employees that bikes staff and students cleaned up a support, succeeded in integrating the EHSMS across all 12 sites. The EHSMS ensures to work. stretch of land from the CAE site to the we meet our obligations under the standards as well as fulfill our commitment to the neighbouring village of Birsiwas. environment and to our employees’ health and wellbeing. 49 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / CAE Green Pledge: Making a difference, together Feature story CAE Green Pledge: Making a difference, together In fiscal 2016, Patrick Didierjean, our Global Environment At CAE, our greatest Manager, and our Environmental contribution to protecting the Officers worldwide created environment is clearly the fuel an ingenious way to support our fiscal 2017 environmental consumption and CO2 emissions objectives. On January 17, clients avoid when they train 2017, they launched the Green on our simulators as opposed Pledge, an online company-wide voluntary initiative that invites to in the air. However, this employees around the globe to doesn’t absolve us from the commit to four simple day-to-day responsibility of taking action to actions. Less than three months reduce our own environmental later, more than 20% of our workforce had signed the pledge impact across our offices and and added nearly 2,000 personal facilities. environmental initiatives—a resounding success for our first Patrick Didierjean Green Pledge. Global Environment Manager Beyond environmental compliance The idea behind the Green Pledge is simple: make every day Earth Day at CAE, no matter where you work. Patrick and his team were thrilled that so many employees jumped on board. “Sharing people’s environmental initiatives across the company—while respecting employee anonymity—inspired others to think about what more they could do,” remarks Patrick. “This pledge is about making a difference by moving beyond environmental compliance and encouraging people to change their behaviours, both at work and at home. We’re one of the first Canadian companies to launch a global environmental challenge like this. That’s something both existing and prospective employees can be proud of.” 50 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / CAE Green Pledge: Making a difference, together A friendly competition To incentivize people, the Green Pledge included a friendly inter-site challenge with prizes going to the global site and the three regional sites with the highest percentage of pledgers. The challenge inspired more than a little friendly competition in the race for a spot on the podium. I was hoping to place first in the Americas region but my colleagues in Halifax nudged me out of that spot. It’s all in good fun and for a good cause. Jamie Walby Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Jamie Walby Specialist for our Defence & Security business unit in Canada Jamie used the Green Pledge as an opportunity to reach out to leaders and employees alike at the NATO Flying Training in Canada (NFTC) program in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan. His goal was to raise awareness and encourage concrete gestures to further improve the site’s environmental performance. “The Moose Jaw Canadian Forces Base is very large with some 30 buildings,” explains Jamie. “The potential to make changes and shrink our environmental footprint are significant. As part of my own personal Green Pledge, I launched a new recycling program across the site. I’m also working with our janitorial services supplier to facilitate a shift to products that are less hazardous and use less packaging.” Growing environmental awareness and action To further reduce energy consumption and related costs, the Moose Jaw site is “The environment is increasingly top of mind for CAE employees,” smiles Patrick. “As a currently replacing all lighting in the base’s hangars with high-efficiency lights. Add to result, a growing number of leaders are integrating environmental considerations into this, the 45% of CAE employees working at the base who signed the pledge and there’s their own initiatives. Our 2017 Innovation Challenges initiative is a great example. For a true groundswell of environmental awareness and commitment to action in Moose the first time this year, it included an environmental protection category, which in the Jaw. This groundswell is also present in CAE locations worldwide. end received the highest number of innovative employee submissions.” Along with the four day-to-day environmental actions, the Green Pledge encouraged Patrick adds: “We can’t take this progress for granted though. People are hardwired people to add a personal initiative. Here are a few examples of the nearly 2,000 to revert to their habitual ways of behaving. That’s why my team will continue to initiatives to which people pledged their commitment. come up with creative and effective ways of keeping environmental protection on everyone’s radar. Just wait and see!” 51 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Local economies and community investment Corporate social responsibility Local economies and community investment Our priorities • Support local economies where we operate in line with our Donations and Sponsorships Policy • Position CAE as a thought leader in training Future commitments • Progressively increase the percentage of donations and sponsorships aligned with our policy and vision: • Support educational facilities, activities and programs developing excellence or interest among young people in science, technology and engineering • Encourage young people to pursue a career as pilots Why it matters • Support organizations that improve aviation and patient safety We know that we can only be successful if the communities and economies in which we operate are thriving and prosperous. Our training solutions contribute to this wellbeing by increasing aviation safety, strengthening public security and improving patient outcomes. 52 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Local economies and community investment A neighbour of choice Investing in communities and local economies is key to building a reputation for being a neighbour of choice everywhere we operate. It also helps strengthen employee engagement across CAE. In fiscal 2017, our employees made a difference in a number of ways around the world. Supporting young Helping Orlando Riding to conquer cancer Canadian and world FIRST Robotics shooting victims champions Our award-winning Centraide campaign Our highly successful 2016 CAE-United Way/Centraide campaign focused on fun and, in the process, became a powerful springboard for bringing employees together. It also earned us Centraide’s Solidaires Employee Campaign Award in the 1,000-plus-employee category for leadership and social involvement. Employee engagement and innovation were at an all-time high as people participated in a Hidden Talent Week, a rowing challenge and the Centraide Cup soccer tournament. Guest speakers, Lunch & Learns, caring activities and video presentations helped raise awareness and funds while great Providing university prizes encouraged employee payroll contributions. In the scholarships end, we donated $744,000 to Centraide for a year-over-year increase of nearly $85,000. 53 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Local economies and community investment Engaging with stakeholders Donations and sponsorships in We proactively engage with a diverse range of stakeholders on a broad number of issues. This engagement takes FY2017 the form of conferences, sectorial and cross-sectorial initiatives, partnerships with government and educational institutions as well as direct dialogue with various community groups. In total, we donated $6 million (cash and in-kind) to local and regional initiatives worldwide in fiscal 2017. Contributing to fundamental and Women in Engineering Chair at FY17 cash donations applied research University of Ottawa Supporting trade, industry associations & events Arts & culture $48,010 $29,600 Defence Over the past seven years, we’ve contributed talent We’ll donate $20,000 annually for a period of three Environmental & Security Initiatives $112,113 $10,100 and more than $8 million to collaborative projects with years, for a total of $60,000 towards establishing a fund Innovation, research and universities and research institutes. Projects range for the promotion and advancement of girls and women development organizations Civil aviation $546,877 from basic research to product, process and service in science and engineering at the University of Ottawa’s $117,458 commercialization. engineering faculty. The fund will finance activities and Education $201,288 initiatives that encourage girls to consider studies and Examples include: careers in engineering and provide them with positive female role models. • Founding member of IVADO (Institute for Data Valorization) Work Integrated Learning (WIL) Health Supporting communities $282,792 $545,181 • Operational Research Chair at the École Polytechnique de Montréal In Canada, we’re working with the rest of the aerospace community to improve current internship models and • Healthcare partnership with Université de identify opportunities to increase the diversity, quality Montréal and number of WIL internships. These improvement Supporting local economies opportunities are being further defined by the partners Through our presence in more than 35 countries and universities via their aerospace institutes that around the world, we’re helping create economic Thought leadership manage WIL. Two working groups have been created growth by delivering goods to our customers, and, in fiscal 2018, a new model is targeted to be jobs for our employees, payments to our As a thought leader, our work with regulatory implemented. suppliers, investments in communities and value bodies and industry worldwide is one of the to our investors. Here’s a snapshot of how we ways we continue to actively shape the future Kids Code Jeunesse (KCJ) supported local economies in fiscal 2017. of training globally. This includes representing our stakeholders in discussions on civil aviation We continue to support KCJ with employee volunteers regulations to ensure the industry’s strategic, who dedicate their time to provide coding workshops in safe and sustainable evolution. elementary schools. FY17 revenues $2,704.5 Total operating costs $2,339.8 We’ve been involved in numerous Federal Salaries and other short-term $838.4 Aviation Administration (FAA), European employment Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) regulatory Corporate income taxes paid $24.8 committees and working groups. Community investment $1.9 Amounts in millions 54 Appendix Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications Site certifications ISO 14001:2004 ISO 14001:2015 ISO 9001:2015 CAE Australia Pty Ltd 292 Squadron AFS CAE Burgess Hill (UK) CAE Headquarters Building 398, 292 Squadron AFS Innovation Drive, Burgess Hill, 8585 Côte de Liesse, CAE Australia / CAE Sydney Edinburgh SA 5111 AUSTRALIA West Sussex, Saint-Laurent, Qc Unit 40 Slough Avenue RH15 9TW, United Kingdom H4T1G6 Silverwater NSW 2128 AUSTRALIA CAE Melbourne Scope: Design, manufacture, service and Suite 6, 260 Auburn Road RNAS Culdrose (UK) CAE Canberra maintenance of simulation products and Hawthorne VIC 3122 AUSTRALIA Building D51, Helston, Cornwall, 15 Tench Street training solutions TR12 7RH, United Kingdom Kingston ACT 2604 AUSTRALIA B350 Training Centre CAE Montreal Lot 17 Wellington Park Way RAF Brize Norton (UK) ACE Training Centre 400 Montée de Liesse, Sale VIC 3850 AUSTRALIA 24 Sqn HQ, Carterton, Oxfordshire, Bankstown Airport 33 Saint-Laurent, Qc OX18 3LX, United Kingdom Nancy Ellis Leebold Drive H4T 1N8 SH2G(I) Seasprite Training Centre Bankstown NSW 2200 AUSTRALIA 6 Squadron, Tainui Street, Base CAE Medium Support Helicopter Scope: Storage, handling and warehousing Whenuapai Aircrew Training Facility (UK) CAE at Seahawk Simulation and Warfare Auckland 0618 NEW ZEALAND RAF Benson CAE Montreal Centre, Swordfish Road HMAS Albatross Wallingford,Oxfordshire 105 Montée de Liesse, Nowra NSW 2541 AUSTRALIA T6 and Pilot Training Support OX10 6AA, United Kingdom Saint-Laurent, Qc Hanger No. 1, Kororareka Ave H4T1S6 Airlift Simulator Facility Ohakea 4816 NEW ZEALAND Building 375 Percival Street RAAF Base Scope: Assembly and testing of simulation Richmond NSW 2755 AUSTRALIA products; storage, handling and warehousing CAE Moose Jaw (NFTC) KC30-A Simulator Facility 5 Wing, Moose Jaw, AS 9100C / ISO 9001:2008 SK S0H 0N0 Canada Building 1123 F-111 Drive Amberley QLD 4306 AUSTRALIA CAE Headquarters 8585 Côte de Liesse, CAE Brisbane Saint-Laurent, Qc Level 15, 120 Edward Street H4T1G6 Brisbane QLD 4000 AUSTRALIA Scope: Design (hardware and software), CH47F Training Centre manufacture, repair and overhaul of the Building 0808 RAAF Base Townsville Magnetic Anomaly Detection (MAD)/AIMS Ingham Road equipment Garbutt QLD 4810 AUSTRALIA Black Hawk Simulator Facility Army Aviation Training Centre Oakey QLD 4401 AUSTRALIA 56 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / GRI indicators GRI indicators FY17 FY16 FY15 INDICATOR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Direct Economic Value Generated Total Revenues ($ Millions) 2,704.5 2,512.6 2,246.3 G4-EC1 Economic Value Distributed Total Operating Costs Including Total Employee Salaries 2,339.8 (1) 2,177.1 1,913.5 G4-EC1 and Other Short-Term Employee Benefits ($ millions) Salaries and Other Short-Term Employee Benefits ($ millions) 838.4 (2) 786.9 706.2 G4-EC1 Payments to Providers of Capital ($ millions) 139.1 (3) 121.8 101.2 G4-EC1 Corporate Income Taxes ($ millions) 24.8 (4) 18.5 34.1 G4-EC1 Community Investment ($ millions) 1.9 (5) 1.8 1.7 G4-EC1 Economic Value Retained ($ millions) 198.9 (6) 193.4 195.8 G4-EC1 Financial Assistance from Government ($ CDN) Government Assistance Payment Received ($ millions) (7) 34.7 29.4 27.9 G4-EC4 Market Presence Proportion of Senior Management Hired from Local Community (8) % of Senior Management Hired from Local Community 91% 89% 92% G4-EC6 % of Senior Management Hired from Local Community in Canada 98% 99% 97% G4-EC6 % of Senior Management Hired from Local Community in U.S. 76% 81% 82% G4-EC6 % of Senior Management Hired from Local Community, 78% 62% 73% G4-EC6 outside Canada and U.S. Procurement Practices % of Procurement Budget Used on Suppliers Local to that Operation Australia 99% 74% 94% G4-EC9 Asia 87% 61% 85% G4-EC9 Europe 55% 71% 70% G4-EC10 Middle East 88% 89% 82% G4-EC11 North America 60% 56% 57% G4-EC12 South America 81% 62% 91% G4-EC13 (1) Operating Cost including: Cost of sales, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, other gains net, after tax-share in profit of equity accounted investees, (6) Total revenues Less: Total operating costs including employee salaries and benefits, Payment to providers of capital, Corporate income taxes, and and employee wages and benefits Community investments (2) Salaries and other short-term employee benefits (7) Total payments received from the government for projects (repayable loan) (3) Payments to providers of capital including: Dividends paid and Interest paid (8) Director and up, citizenship of the country in which they work (4) Income taxes paid (5) Community investment for the following types of causes: Arts & Culture, Disaster and Humanitarian Relief, Education, Employee Engagement in the Community, Environmental Initiatives, Health, Innovation, Research & Development Organizations and Supporting Communities 57 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / GRI indicators FY17 FY16 FY15 INDICATOR ENVIRONMENT Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) (tCO2e) GHG Emissions (scope 1 and 2 location based) 78,383 (2) 710 833 G4-EN15, EN16 GHG Emissions (scope 1 and 2 market based) 86,042 (2) G4-EN15, EN16 Direct GHG Emissions (scope 1) 18,625 (2) 646 761 G4-EN15 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions (scope 2 location based) 59,757 (2) 64 72 G4-EN16 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions (scope 2 market based) 67,417 (2) G4-EN16 GHG Emissions Intensity (location based) (tCO2e/$million revenue) 22.10 (1,3) 0.28 0.37 G4-EN18 GHG Emissions Intensity (market based) (tCO2e/$million revenue) 24.93 (1,3) G4-EN18 Energy Consumption (MWh) Energy Consumed within the Organization 247,876 (4) 31,970 39,705 G4-EN3 Natural Gas 20,358 (4) 3,303 3,877 G4-EN3 Electricity Consumed 175,454 (4) 28,667 35,828 G4-EN3 Diesel, Heating Oil, Propane, Fuel for Aircraft and Cars, Hot and Chilled Water 52,064 (4) G4-EN3 Energy Intensity (MWh/$million revenue) 91.65 (4) 12.7 17.7 G4-EN5 Waste (5) Waste Generated Absolute (tonnes) 1,507 1,153 1,279 G4-EN23 Total Weight of Hazardous Waste 96 76 104 G4-EN23 Total Weight of Non-Hazardous Waste 1,411 1,077 1,175 G4-EN23 Waste Generated Intensity (tonnes/revenue) 0.56 0.46 0.57 Non-Hazardous Waste Recycled (%) 84% 80% 72% Water (5) Water Withdrawn (m3) 89,156 82,989 95,242 G4-EN8 Water Consumption Intensity (m /revenue) 3 32.97 33.03 42.4 Green Building Certifications, Labelling or Rating Green Building Certifications 4 (6) 1 1 CRE8 ISO 14001 19 (7) 12 6 CRE8 (1) The calculations for GHG emissions and GHG emissions intensity cover Scope 1 and 2 emissions only. prior years, we measured carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides using emission factors and global warming potentials from Environment (2) NEW CALCULATION METHOD: In FY17, we started calculating our GHG emission globally instead of for Montreal only. It's our first year of reporting Canada's National Inventory Report, 2010 and the International Panel on Climate Change (second assessment report 100 year Global Warming GHG data on a global scale. Our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are consolidated based on an operational control approach, and calculated by Potentials). The difference between Market and Location for scope 2 was not specified. fiscal year. The numbers for FY16 and prior years applied only to our site in Montreal, Canada, and were calcultated by calendar year ending on (4) In FY17, we started calculating our energy consumption globally instead of for Montreal only. It's our first year of reporting our consumption data December 31. For FY16 and prior years, we measured carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides using emission factors and global warming on a global scale. Our conversions to MWh were based on EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Nov 2015. Energy consumption potentials from Environment Canada's National Inventory Report, 2010 and the International Panel on Climate Change (second assessment report relates to fuel, natural gas and electricity consumed within the organization. For FY16 and prior years, conversions for the Montreal site to MWh 100 year Global Warming Potentials). The difference between Market and Location for scope 2 was not specified. from volumes of natural gas and electricity consumed were based on Environment Canada conversion factors. (3) In FY17, we started calculating our GHG emissions intensity globally instead of for Montreal only. It's our first year of reporting GHG data on a global (5) For Montreal only. Waste disposal methods and associated quantities are provided to us by our third-party waste disposal contractor. scale. Our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are consolidated based on an operational control approach, and calculated by fiscal year. The numbers (6) Brunei (Green Mark), Montreal (Boma Best), Sassenheim (Breeam), Mount Pearl (Leed for Core and Shell Development) for FY16 and prior years applied only to our site in Montreal, Canada, and were calculated by calendar year ending on December 31. For FY16 and (7) See full list in appendix 58 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / GRI indicators FY17 FY16 FY15 INDICATOR SAFETY Occupational Health and Safety Performance Incident Frequency Rate 0.55 (1) 0.74 1.23 G4-LA6 Days Lost 278 319 394 G4-LA6 Days Lost Rate 2.79 3.52 4.9 G4-LA6 Lost Time Injury Frequency 0.25 (1) 0.28 0.45 G4-LA6 Fatalities 0 0 0 G4-LA6 (1) Per 200,000 hours worked FY17 FY16 FY15 INDICATOR EMPLOYER OF CHOICE Total Employees Total Number of CAE Employees 7,584 (2) 7,211 7,168 G4-9 Total Number of Employees from Joint Ventures 1,102 (3) 1,245 1,045 G4-9 Total (4) 8,686 8,456 8,213 Employees by Gender (4) Number of Employees (female) 1,735 1,692 1,633 G4-10 Number of Employees (male) 6,951 6,764 6,580 G4-10 % of Female Employees 20% 20% 20% G4-10 % of Male Employees 80% 80% 80% G4-10 Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (5) Number of Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements 1,025 1,142 978 G4-11 Percentage of Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements 14% 16% 14% G4-11 Number of Non-Unionized Employees 6,559 6,069 6,190 G4-11 Employees by Contract (6) Number of Employees (permanent) 7,363 (7) 6,995 6,940 G4-10 Number of Employees (part time) 221 (8) 216 228 G4-10 Number of Employees (temporary) 1,098 (9) 858 791 G4-10 Number of Employees (contractors) 1,973 (10) 1,060 194 G4-10 (2) All employees accounted for as per CAE's headcount definition (all permanent employees, full time or part time) (7) Permanent full time (3) All employees from joint ventures (8) Permanent part time (4) CAE headcount + joint ventures (9) All other employees (temporary, students, on call) not included in headcount definition (5) All employees accounted for as headcount as per CAE's definition. (10) In 2016, we began integrating all contingent workers in our HR management system. (6) Stats based on headcount only as information is not available for joint-venture employees. 59 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / GRI indicators FY17 FY16 FY15 INDICATOR EMPLOYER OF CHOICE New Employee Hires (1) Total Number of New Employee Hires 1,028 1,003 690 G4-LA1 New Employee Hire Rate (% of total employees) 14% 14% 10% G4-LA1 Age Group New Employee Hires below 30 Years Old 332 268 256 G4-LA1 % New Employee Hires below 30 Years Old 32% 27% 37% G4-LA1 New Employee Hires between 30-50 Years Old 491 426 314 G4-LA1 % New Employee Hires between 30-50 Years Old 48% 42% 46% G4-LA1 New Employee Hires above 50 Years Old 205 309 120 G4-LA1 % New Employee Hires above 50 Years Old 20% 31% 17% G4-LA1 Gender New Employee Hires for Women 207 218 164 G4-LA1 % New Employee Hires for Women 20% 22% 24% G4-LA1 New Employee Hires for Men 821 785 526 G4-LA1 % New Employee Hires for Men 80% 78% 76% G4-LA1 (1) Includes all permanent employees, full time or part time 60 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / GRI indicators FY17 FY16 FY15 INDICATOR EMPLOYER OF CHOICE Employee Turnover (1) Employee Turnover Number 442 576 669 G4-LA1 Employee Turnover Rate (% of total employees) 6% 8% 9% G4-LA1 Age Group (2) Employee Turnover below 30 Years Old 101 126 150 G4-LA1 % Employee Turnover below 30 Years Old 11% 18% 16% G4-LA1 Employee Turnover between 30-50 Years Old 218 329 337 G4-LA1 % Employee Turnover between 30-50 Years Old 6% 9% 9% G4-LA1 Employee Turnover above 50 Years Old 123 121 154 G4-LA1 % Employee Turnover above 50 Years Old 4% 5% 6% G4-LA1 Gender (3) Employee Turnover for Women 92 150 174 G4-LA1 % Employee Turnover for Women 6% 10% 12% G4-LA1 Employee Turnover for Men 350 426 495 G4-LA1 % Employee Turnover for Men 6% 7% 9% G4-LA1 (1) Turnover calculated with CAE definition of headcount voluntary terminations only (and excluding retirement, death) (2) T/O rate calculated based on total # of employees in similar group (3) T/O rate calculated based on # of employees in similar group 61 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / GRI indicators FY17 FY16 FY15 INDICATOR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Type of Cause (Cash only) Arts & Culture $29,600 $53,407 $134,000 G4-EC1 Civil Aviation $117,458 (1) $87,465 G4-EC1 Disaster and Humanitarian Relief (2) $10,000 G4-EC1 Education $201,288 $345,876 $206,347 G4-EC1 Employee Engagement in the Community (2) $1,777 $12,700 G4-EC1 Environmental Initiatives $10,100 $10,000 $10,000 G4-EC1 Health $282,792 $346,581 $284,988 G4-EC1 Innovation, Research and Development Organizations $546,877 $348,040 $677,870 G4-EC1 Supporting Communities $545,181 $498,882 $411,358 G4-EC1 Supporting Trade & Industry Associations and Events $48,010 (3) G4-EC1 Defence & Security $112,113 (1) $136,416 G4-EC1 Type of Invesment (Cash only) Charitable Donations $1,021,633 $1,098,413 $1,020,452 G4-EC1 Community Investment $871,786 $730,031 $726,810 G4-EC1 Breakdown of Investment (Cash and In-Kind) Cash Contribution $1,893,419 $1,828,444 $1,572,862 G4-EC1 In-Kind Giving, Product or Service Donations $4,186,349 (4) $5,956,262 $174,400 G4-EC1 Total in Fiscal Year $6,079,768 $7,784,706 $1,747,262 (1) New as of FY16 (2) Included in Supporting Communities from FY16 (3) New category as of FY17 (4) This category includes software licences donated to universities (the amount may vary from year to year). 62 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal year 2017
