Corporate responsibility 2017 Contents Corporate responsibility 01 at Investec 04 Profit Corporate responsibility 3 Overview of our financial year ending Highlights 4 31 March 2017 51 05 Message from the chief executive officer 6 Communication and stakeholder The way we do business engagement 7 Corporate governance and risk 53 02 People Compliance Information technology 57 59 Supporting our employees 12 Procurement 61 Transformation in South Africa 18 Supporting our community Supporting our clients 20 33 06 Appendix Independent assurance statement 63 03 Planet Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards: core option) 65 Green business 35 Policies and programmes 82 Conserving the environment 42 Contact details 83 Direct operational impact and carbon footprint 44 About this report Using this report For easy reading we have provided cross-referencing tools set out below: Scope and reporting framework This corporate responsibility report highlights Investec’s corporate responsibility performance over Page references Audited information Website the period 1 April 2016 to Refers readers to information Denotes information Indicates that additional 31 March 2017. We incorporate elsewhere in the report that has been externally information is available material information from the main or to Investec’s 2017 verified on our website: integrated annual report www.investec.com geographies in which we operate. This report is intended to serve Oversight the information needs of the The social and ethics committee, a sub-committee of the board, is responsible for monitoring stakeholder groups most affected the non-profit elements of corporate responsibility. The mandate of this committee places by our business – customers, a strong emphasis on the responsibility of the group towards the communities in which we employees, investors, sustainability operate, on social transformation in the workplace, on preserving the well-being and dignity rating agencies, government, of our employees (including human rights), recognising the challenges that climate change regulatory bodies and analysts who presents and support any meaningful activity that either reduces the negative impact on or will use the content for an analysis prolongs life of our planet. The social and ethics committee consists of the following board of our corporate responsibility members: performance. This report also S Koseff – chief executive officer focuses on the most material B Kantor – managing director aspects of our business in relation F Titi – chairman to our strategy. CA Carolus – non-executive director Our approach to reporting has Lord Malloch-Brown KCMP – non-executive director followed guidance from the King PRS Thomas – non-executive director Code of Governance Principles Three meetings were held during the reporting period. We also have corporate responsibility for South Africa (King III) and representatives in each of the major geographies in which we operate who drive our in accordance with the Global corporate responsibility objectives as well as various forums discussing corporate Reporting Initiative’s (GRI Standards: responsibility considerations. Feedback on relevant corporate responsibility issues is core option) sustainability reporting provided to board members at each board meeting. guidelines. An index of the GRI Standards indicators, together with Assurance our response to each of them, can Investec Internal Audit performed a limited assurance review of the quantitative and qualitative be found on pages 65 to 81 of this information contained in this report. KPMG has provided limited assurance over selected report. environmental, human resources and corporate social spend key performance indicators. The assurance statement can be found on pages 63 and 64 of this report. About the Investec group We strive to be a distinctive specialist bank and asset manager, driven by commitment to our core philosophies and values. Who we are –– Leverage resources • Relevant internationalisation of Wealth & –– Break china for the client. Investment Founded as a leasing company in • Cast-iron integrity –– Digitalisation channel and launch of Johannesburg in 1974, we acquired a Click & Invest banking licence in 1980 and were listed on –– Moral strength –– Creating an international operating the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) –– Risk consciousness platform. Limited South Africa in 1986. –– Highest ethical standards. • Other In July 2002, we created a dual listed • Dedicated partnership –– Continue investing in technology companies structure (DLC) listed in –– Respect for others and people to maintain digital client London and Johannesburg. A year later, –– Embrace diversity experience we concluded a significant empowerment –– Open and honest dialogue –– Improving the cost to income ratio by transaction in which our empowerment –– Unselfish contribution to colleagues, focussing on operational efficiencies partners collectively acquired a 25.1% clients and society. stake in the issued share capital of Investec –– Diversity across the group and Limited. Our philosophies transformation in South Africa. Since inception, we have expanded through • Single organisation We have a very deliberate and focused a combination of substantial organic growth client strategy: • Meritocracy and a series of strategic acquisitions. Today, • To leverage our unique client profile • Focused businesses we have an efficient integrated international • To provide the best integrated solution business platform, offering all our core • Differentiated, yet integrated supported by our comprehensive digital activities in the UK and South Africa. • Material employee ownership offering. • Creating an environment that stimulates What we do extraordinary performance. Our corporate We are an international specialist bank Our strategy responsibility and asset manager that provides a diverse range of financial products and services to a At Investec our corporate responsibility is Our strategy for over 20 years has been to select client base in three principal markets, about: build a diversified portfolio of businesses the UK and Europe, South Africa and Asia/ and geographies to support clients through • Building a sustainable business model Australia as well as certain other countries. varying markets and economic cycles. to position the group for the long term Investec focuses on delivering distinctive so that Investec can make a meaningful Our current strategy focuses on: profitable solutions for its clients in three contribution to society and to macrocore areas of activity namely, Asset • Growing Asset Management in all economic stability Management, Wealth & Investment, and regions • Attracting and developing a strong, Specialist Banking. –– Focus on delivery of competitive diverse and capable workforce investment performance –– Grow in Advisory channel and • Unselfishly contributing to society and We value continue to scale Multi-Asset and to the well-being of our communities, • Distinctive performance Global Equities largely through education and –– Outstanding talent – empowered, –– Focus on our larger markets, entrepreneurship especially in North America. enabled and inspired • Understanding and managing our –– Meritocracy • Growing Specialist Banking business environmental footprint so we can make –– Passion, energy, stamina and –– Building and developing our client a positive impact through our operations tenacity franchises across all areas and business activities –– Entrepreneurial spirit. –– Improving the ROE in the business • Growing and preserving clients’ • Client focus –– Implementing the UK Private Banking and stakeholders’ wealth based on –– Distinctive offering strategy. relationships of trust. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 1 01 Corporate responsibility at Investec Corporate responsibility 01 Corporate responsibility at Investec Corporate responsibility business practices Our corporate responsibility philosophy Guided by our purpose to create sustained long-term wealth, we seek to be a positive influence in all our core businesses and in each of the societies in which we operate. We do this by empowering communities through entrepreneurship and education, and leveraging the value in our diversity. We recognise the challenges that climate change presents to the global economy and we support activities that either reduces the negative impact on or prolongs the life of our planet. Investec as a responsible corporate citizen At Investec we recognise that, while our Our culture and values demonstrate our allows us to concentrate, for now, on key shareholders remain at the forefront, belief that as an organisation we can focus areas. Deliberately not driven on a our purpose ultimately is not only about and must have a positive impact on the top-down basis, the executive maintains driving profits. We strive to be a distinctive success and well-being of communities responsibility for oversight, direction, specialist bank and asset manager, local to our offices, the environment, and coordination and integration of our demonstrating cast-iron integrity, moral on overall macro-economic stability. corporate responsibility efforts while the strength and behaviour which promotes individual business units provide the key Our philosophy seeks to align the interests trust. Our core values include unselfishly drivers behind our activities, in a manner of shareholders and stakeholders over contributing to society, valuing diversity that best makes sense to each. time, and provides the individual business and respecting others. Outstanding and units and regions with a basis from which Please refer to the website for empowered talent, entrepreneurial spirit and to determine their own approach. The Investec’s full corporate citizenship regard for the planet are other qualities that group’s philosophy is not intended to statement. align with the culture of our organisation be mutually exclusive or exhaustive, but and our approach to responsible business. Memberships Investec participates and has maintained its inclusion in the following international initiatives: 2016 2015 2014 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) (Investec is a member and Investec Asset AAB Management is a signatory investor) Code for Responsible Investing in Signatory Signatory Signatory South Africa (CRISA) Dow Jones Sustainability Investment 75 74 75 Index (score out of 100) FTSE4Good Index Included Included Included JSE Limited Socially Responsible Constituent Constituent Constituent Investment Index MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series (Investec plc) – Intangible value AAA AAA AAA assessment (IVA) rating STOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices Member Member Member United Nations Global Compact Active Active Active United Nations Principles for Responsible Signatory Signatory Signatory Investment (UNPRI) Other: Investec Asset Management CEO, HJ du Toit, is a member of The Global Commission on Business and Sustainability Development. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 3 01 Highlights Corporate responsibility at Investec Our corporate responsibility performance Contributing For Investec, corporate responsibility is about building our businesses to ensure we have a positive impact on the economic and social progress of communities and on the environment, to society, macrowhile growing and preserving clients’ and stakeholders’ wealth based on strong relationships of trust. This commitment to corporate responsibility means integrating social, ethical and economic stability environmental considerations into our day-to-day operations. A key element of this is solid corporate governance that ensures sustainable management with a long-term vision. and the environment. 31 March 31 March £’000 2017 2016 Net income generated Interest receivable 2 230 765 1 705 640 Other income 1 525 789 1 313 997 Interest payable (1 550 870) (1 131 871) Other operating expenditure and impairments on loans (439 962) (383 059) 1 765 722 1 504 707 Distributed as follows: Employees 757 390 588 759 Salaries, wages and other benefits Government 522 984 507 341 Corporation, deferred payroll and other taxes Shareholders 242 440 206 139 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 216 602 180 009 Dividends paid to preference shareholders 25 838 26 130 Retention for future expansion and growth 242 908 202 468 Depreciation 25 006 22 745 Retained income for the year 217 902 179 723 Total 1 765 722 1 504 707 Investec carries out its commitment to corporate responsibility through three key focus areas of people, planet and profit. People We care about our EMPLOYEES: Recognition • Attracting and developing a strong, diverse and capable workforce • Winner of the Business in the Community’s Responsible • Providing a progressive work environment Business Awards 2016 (Building Stronger Communities) for our flagship programme the Beyond Business social • Respecting and upholding human rights. enterprise incubator we run in partnership with the Bromley Employee learning and development by Bow Centre £22.9mn spend (2016: £14.7mn) • Winner in the National CSR Awards 2017, in the Individual Community (Legacy) category, and a finalist the Business We care about our COMMUNITIES: Charity Awards 2017, in the Community Impact category, Unselfishly contributing to our communities through education and for the Beyond Business Programme entrepreneurship. • Shortlisted in the Business Charity Awards, in the Group Corporate Social Investment Outstanding Employee category £7.1mn (CSI) spend (2016: £5.0mn) • SERAS awards – most socially responsible company in Africa We care about our CLIENTS: • SERAS awards – second runner up in CSR practitioner of the year • At Investec, we pride ourselves on giving our clients an extraordinary experience • Investec has been voted second most attractive employer in South Africa in the 2017 Universum awards. • We strive to build business depth by deepening existing and creating new client relationships • We provide a high level of service by being nimble, flexible and innovative. 4 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Highlights (continued) 01 Corporate responsibility at Investec Planet Direct impact: Recognition Reduce the operational impacts of our physical business. • Investec Limited won the IJ Global African • Scope 1 emissions (tonnes of CO2e) decreased 5.6% Renewables deal 2016 Award for the Kathu Solar Park Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) project in • Scope 2 emissions (tonnes of CO2e) decreased 4.1% South Africa • Scope 3 emissions (tonnes of CO2e) decreased 12.4%. • Investec Limited won the SERAS awards for the 64 506 tCO2 Total emissions decreased 7.9% best company in affordable and clean energy • Investec Limited was awarded an Afor the CDP Indirect impact: 2016 climate scoring • Embed environmental considerations into business activities • The UK’s head office won their 10th Platinum • Responsible financing and investing Award for best practice in waste management • Participating in renewable energy projects and green developments. • The UK’s head office won the inaugural Cleaner City Award run by the Cheapside Business Alliance Participated in the renewable £1.8bn energy sector • The UK’s head office won a Gold prize in the Green Apple Award for Environmental Best Practice Conserving the environment: • The UK’s head office Carbon Trust Waste Standard Given Investec’s African heritage, we are passionate about ensuring the was recertified in 2016 continued existence of a number of African species • The UK’s head office EMS (Energy Management • Over R12 million spent on Rhino Lifeline since inception. Over 66% spent System) was recertified to BSI Energy Reduction on educating communities Verification Kitemark. • R3.5 million spent on BirdLife SA since inception. Profit Financial strength and resilience: Recognition Balanced and resilient business model. • The Financial Times of London has recognised Investec Private Banking and Wealth & Investment • Our capital light activities contributed 56% to group income and capital intensive activities contributed 44% to group income. as the best private bank and wealth manager in South Africa – for the fourth consecutive year – at the Global Private Banking Awards 23.0p Dividends per share increased 9.5% • The Investec Managed Fund was awarded • Liquidity remains strong. the special Raging Bull Award for risk-adjusted performance by a South African multi-asset equity Cash and near cash balances (2016: £11.0bn) fund over 21 years £12.0bn Representing approximately 41.4% of customer deposits • Investec won Best Distributor UK/Ireland at the 2017 European Structured Products & Derivatives Awards • Capital remained in excess of current regulatory requirements. • Investec was named 'Bank of the Year' at the 2016 Private Equity Awards Governance: • Investec digital offering ranked 9th in the world in • Strong culture and values to underpin our processes, functions and the Independent Wealth Service Survey structures. • SERAS awards – Best company in sustainability reporting • Investec Wealth & Investment's Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service was Gold rated by Defaqto in February 2016. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 5 01 Message from the chief executive officer Corporate responsibility at Investec How did the group participate in our various corporate social investment programmes around the world Aligned with this overall transformation commitment, Investec Limited retained perform in terms of and the volunteerism hours increased its level 2 BEE rating from Empowerdex profit in the past year? substantially across the group. in terms of the current Financial Sector Code, improving on our total score from In the past year, we have successfully Our sustainability efforts continue to be the previous year with a continued focus leveraged our ability to provide clients with recognised with Investec Limited now on employment equity and preferential a comprehensive international offering ranked as one of four industry leaders on procurement. the DJSI Emerging Markets index, and with strong client activity levels supporting Investec plc one of 17 industry leaders on underlying performance. Despite the unpredictable macro-economic the DJSI World and DJSI Europe indices. What is your Investec Limited maintained its inclusion environment, group revenue exceeded the in the Climate “A list” with an Ascore in commitment to the £2 billion mark for the first time. The solid growth in all the core earnings drivers for the 2016 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) United Nations (UN) which recognises efforts to mitigate climate our three business areas is attributable change. Investec Limited also received Global Compact? to the investment made in our people, the SERAS award for the most socially At all times, our culture and values guide our infrastructure and our franchises. Our responsible company in Africa. We remain the way we do business, how we select long-term investment strategy and the active participants in the green economy our partners and how we interact with our progress made on our strategic initiatives contributing £1.8 billion to the renewable stakeholders. We are a signatory to the UN give us confidence for the future. energy sector globally in the past year. In Global Compact and remain committed to the US, Investec was recognised as the the 10 principles with respect to business How does Investec go-to funding source for the US roof-top and human rights, labour, environment solar industry and also won the IJ Global contribute to society African Renewables deal 2016 Award for and anti-corruption. We also support other global sustainability codes aimed at and the environment? Kathu Solar Park in South Africa. This is the ensuring beneficial relationships between all most meaningful way we can contribute to stakeholders and our progress is monitored Investec helps to fund a stable and climate change and reduce the impact of by the social and ethics committee of sustainable economy by providing capital our existence on the natural environment. the board. We continue to advance the and liquidity for general economic growth 10 principles within our sphere of influence and development. By building our own sustainable businesses we are able to How are your by entrenching them into our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. contribute to macro-economic stability, transformation plans society and the natural environment. Our responsibility to society starts with going in South Africa? What is the outlook for our own people and we depend on their experience and proficiency to perform In South Africa, we remain committed to transformation as our country of inception the coming year? and deliver superior client service. During enters a critical juncture in its history, with a At the start of the new financial year, the year we invested £22.9 million dire need for job creation and sustainable macro uncertainty persists globally and (2016: £14.7 million) on the learning inclusive economic growth. As part of the the political environment in the UK is still and development of our people and CEO Initiative, Investec group committed not clear which could impact activity levels Investec was recognised as the second R20 million to the small and medium going forward. Nevertheless, we have a most attractive employer in South enterprises (SME) fund with Investec unique and vibrant culture with a strong Africa in the Universum Most Attractive Property Fund contributing a further leadership team who are motivated to build Employer Awards. We continue to create R5 million to the fund which will provide their businesses and improve the quality a progressive and stimulating work high-potential entrepreneurs and enterprises of earnings. Our businesses are focused environment and piloted activity based with access to not only funds but also on coordinating our service offerings and working in the UK head office. This professional advice and mentorship. We integrating IT systems to leverage our facilitates collaboration and knowledge see this as an important investment in the unique client profile. We have spent time sharing amongst colleagues and business future of our country and the future of the proactively engaging with our stakeholders, areas and we expect to replicate this in group. We also partnered with GIBS on investing in the learning and development our new 30 Gresham Street head office. the Investec GIBS Savings Index as well of our people and providing support to our as Junior Achievement South Africa (JASA) communities. Consequently, we believe we An integral part of our corporate to improve consumer’s knowledge of the are well positioned to continue building a responsibility programme is how we care financial sector. With a greater understanding sustainable business that not only provides for our communities. In the UK, we won the of financial products consumers are then appropriate returns to shareholders but Business in the Community’s Responsible empowered to make more informed also contributes to macro-economic Business Awards 2016 (Building Stronger decisions about their finances and lifestyle. stability and social upliftment. Communities) for our flagship programme Our enterprise development programme the Beyond Business social enterprise with Raizcorp continues to experience good incubator which we run in partnership with momentum. In partnership with En-novate, the Bromley by Bow Centre. In South Africa, our Young Treps programme continues to our flagship Promaths programme supports support and develop young entrepreneurs eight centres across the country and in the through global experiences. In the past year, Stephen Koseff past year we established the Promaths the programme included an educational Chief executive officer, Investec group bursary. Our staff continue to show the trip to Finland for young entrepreneurs Investec caring spirit by volunteering to and a Fintech focused trip to Seattle. 30 June 2017 6 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Communication and stakeholder engagement 01 Corporate responsibility at Investec Building trust and credibility among our stakeholders is vital to good business The board recognises that effective communication is integral in building Employees stakeholder value and is committed to • Communication policy providing meaningful, transparent, timely • Quarterly magazine (Impact) and accurate financial and non-financial • Staff updates hosted by executive management information to primary stakeholders as • Group and subsidiary fact sheets defined below. The purpose is to help • Tailored internal investor relations training these stakeholders make meaningful • Induction training for new employees assessments and informed investment Government and regulatory bodies decisions about the group. • Active participation in policy forums We endeavour to present a balanced • Response and engagement on regulatory matters and understandable assessment of our • Industry consultative bodies position by addressing material matters of significant interest and concern. We Suppliers seek to highlight the key risks to which • Centralised negotiation process we consider ourselves exposed and our • Ad hoc procurement questionnaires requesting information on suppliers’ responses to minimise the impact of environmental, social and ethical policies these risks. Another objective is to show a balance between the positive and negative Media aspects of our activities in order to • Regular email and telephonic communication achieve a comprehensive and fair account • Stock exchange announcements of our performance. • Comprehensive investor relations website • Regular meetings with investor relations team and executive management As a requirement of our DLC structure, we comply with the disclosure obligations Investors and shareholders contained in the applicable listing rules • Annual general meeting of the UK Listing Authority (UKLA) and • Four investor presentations Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) and • Stock exchange announcements other exchanges on which our shares • Comprehensive investor relations website are listed, and with any public disclosure • Shareholder roadshows and presentations obligations as required by the UK • Regular meetings with investor relations team and executive management regulators and the South African Reserve • Regular email and telephonic communication Bank (SARB). We also recognise that from • Annual and interim reports time to time we may be required to adhere to public disclosure obligations in other Clients countries where we have operations. • Four investor presentations The Investor Relations division has a • Regular email and telephonic communication day-to-day responsibility for ensuring • Comprehensive investor relations website appropriate communication with • Tailored client presentations stakeholders and, together with the • Annual and interim reports Group Finance and Company Secretarial • Client relationship managers within the business divisions, ensures that we meet our public Rating agencies disclosure obligations. • Four investor presentations We have a board-approved policy • Regular email and telephonic communication statement in place to ensure that we • Comprehensive investor relations website comply with all relevant public disclosure • Regular meetings with investor relations team, group risk management and executive obligations and uphold the board’s management communication and disclosure philosophy. • Tailored presentations • Tailored rating agency booklet • Annual and interim reports Equity and debt analysts • Four investor presentations • Stock exchange announcements • Comprehensive investor relations website • Regular meetings with investor relations team and executive management • Regular email and telephonic communication • Annual and interim reports Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 7 01 Communication and stakeholder engagement (continued) Corporate responsibility at Investec Materiality In identifying material issues, consideration Due to the nature of Investec’s business, • A growing ‘trust deficit’ in the financial is given to those issues we believe have the material aspects identified are services industry the potential to significantly influence considered unlikely to change in the short • Digital technology raising new security our ability to have a positive impact on to medium term. As a result, Investec only and privacy challenges the sustainability of our business and on repeats this comprehensive process every overall macro-economic stability as well as three to four years. • Strong corporate governance practice contributing to the success and well-being is seen as a significant issue for the Material issues: of our communities and the environment. financial sector During our 2016/2017 stakeholder During the financial year ending • Tightening regulatory and ‘soft-law’ engagement process the following material 31 March 2017, we embarked on a robust requirements on economic, social and issues were identified: process of engagement with internal and governance (ESG) issues external stakeholders. This process went • Increasing political volatility at a global • Steadily growing interest in responsible beyond our day-to-day engagement with level investment products and practices stakeholders and involved an independent • Continuing political uncertainty interview process of the Investec board of • A shifting understanding of corporate and social challenges in South directors, executive, heads of business and ‘value’ Africa, particularly in areas such employees and also external stakeholders as unemployment, education and • Broadening expectations regarding the such as industry associations, rating transformation extent of environmental responsibility. agencies, clients, investment analysts and NGOs. This process has allowed • Income and wealth inequality and All these material issues identified by us to confirm that our core corporate growing calls for inclusive economic stakeholders are addressed in the pages responsibility issues did not materially growth (and ‘radical economic that follow. change in the past three years and we transformation’) in South Africa would therefore continue with our core focus areas. Creating value for stakeholders We consider our three key focus areas of people, planet and profit against Investec’s philosophies and values, and input obtained from our stakeholders. Hum l cap an c ia it al a n tal Fincapi al c tu ll e te ta l In c a p i fit Pe P ro Creating sustained op Technological long-term wealth le S o c ia l a while contributing c a p it al nd to society, relationship c macro-economic stability and the environment a pit a l Planet Natural pital ca 8 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Communication and stakeholder engagement (continued) 01 Corporate responsibility at Investec People Capital and our priorities Impact Human We depend on the experience and proficiency of our Learning and development spend capital people to perform and deliver superior client service. Priorities are to: £22.9mn (2016: £14.7mn) Investec South Africa voted second most attractive • Provide a healthy, stimulating and progressive work employer in the 2017 Universum Awards environment Approximately • Invest in employee learning and development • Retain and motivate staff through appropriate 7% employee share ownership remuneration and reward structures Piloted activity based working in the UK head office • Entrench our values-driven culture through the organisation. Intellectual We use our specialist financial skills and expertise to Strengthened our lending and investing policies capital provide structured solutions for clients and have a robust globally risk management process in place. Created and invested in IEP Group Priorities are to: • Encourage a strong culture of entrepreneurship, Launch of Investec Life however, balancing risk versus reward • Ensure solid lending, investing and risk management practises. Social and We leverage key stakeholder relationships to enhance our Customer accounts up 5.5% relationship impact on society and the macro-economy. (on a currency neutral basis )to capital Priorities are to: £29.1bn • Build deep durable relationships with clients Core loans and advances up 8.5% • Invest in our distinctive brand (on a currency neutral basis) to • Unselfishly contribute to society through our corporate social investment (CSI) programmes £22.7bn • Focus on diversity and promoting equality £7.1mn • Transformation of the financial sector in South Africa. spend on CSI across the group (2016: £5.0mn) Winner of the Business in the Community’s Responsible Business Awards 2016 in the UK Winner of most socially responsible company in Africa in 2016 SERAS awards Member of the 30% Club in South Africa and the UK Level 2 rating in the Financial Sector Code in South Africa Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 9 01 Communication and stakeholder engagement (continued) Corporate responsibility at Investec Planet Capital and our priorities Impact Natural Given our niched specialist financial services focus, we Group CO2 emissions reduced by capital depend on very few natural resources and hence our direct impact is very limited. 7.9% Priorities are to: • Limit our direct operational carbon impact £1.8bn participation in the renewable energy sector • Positively impact the environment through responsible financing and investing Winner of 2016 SERAS award for the best company in affordable and clean energy • Fund and/or participate in renewable energy and green developments. Strengthened our lending and investing risk policies globally Profit Capital and our priorities Impact Financial Financial capital is needed to grow the business and to help Capital light activities: capital create sustainable economic value for shareholders. Priorities are to: 56% of group income Group cost to income: • Maintain a balanced and resilient business model • Maintain a sound capital base and strong liquidity 66.3% • Organically grow our businesses ROE has grown to 12.5% overall and 14.2% on an ongoing basis • Focus to improve returns and operational efficiency • Grow capital light activities. 9.5% increase in dividends per share Strong liquidity with cash and near cash balances at £12.0bn TechnoWe have developed a number of IT structures to support Investec was the first financial institution in South Africa logical our business activities. Our digital platforms are critical in to introduce voice biometrics recognition to clients driving engagement with our clients and stakeholders. capital Online Portfolio Manager has a Private banking and Priorities are to: Wealth & Investment client base overlap of 31% (AUM) • Invest in new IT systems and integrate existing IT Since the launch of One Place: systems • Number of investors with Wealth & Investment • Continually develop our comprehensive digital offering. Online up 80% • Assets under Administration with Wealth & Investment Online up 65% • Assets under Management with Wealth & Investment Online up 220%. 10 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 02 People 02 Supporting our employees People Our people Investec positions its culture as a strategic differentiator. We prize our flat structure and meritocratic approach and uphold an environment that encourages self-starters to drive their careers in line with business objectives. We employ passionate and talented people who are empowered and able to perform extraordinarily. In assuming responsibility for our people we seek to promote corporate responsibility through: Competitive remuneration and reward Our internal people activities involve Industry competitive packages and long-term share awards dedicated divisions such as Human Resources (HR) and Organisation  efer to pages 185 to 226 in volume one of Investec’s 2017 R Development (OD), which serve to integrated annual report for more information. enhance the ongoing people focus of our business. The Investec HR and dedicated Careers teams are mandated to enable the attraction, Bespoke (specialised) learning environment: development and retention of talent who can perform in a manner 100% of employees attended learning and development programmes consistent with our culture and values. OD acts to strengthen the culture of the business, ensure its values are lived, build capability Measures to ensure the health and well-being of employees: and contribute to the long-term sustainability of the organisation. 66% of employees in South Africa attended health and wellness interventions The HR division participates in local and international forums to ensure alignment of HR strategy with business strategy. As our operating Performance consulting through regular individual and group jurisdictions have different legal reviews, pathing and development: and regulatory requirements, our various HR functions operate in a 100% of employees engage in performance review processes differentiated yet integrated way every year adhering to the group philosophical approach. Senior responsibility for people matters falls under Marc Leadership development programmes: Kahn who is Global Head of HR and OD. 154 employees attended internal leadership development programmes Investec South Africa has been Resourcing and recruiting that prioritises a diverse workforce: voted second most 49% female workforce attractive employer in the 2017 Universum Most Facilitating an understanding of the Investec culture and people practices: Attractive Employer Awards. 100% of employees that participated in/were invited to one or more culture and values dialogues 12 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Supporting our employees (continued) 02 People Number of employees Headcount 10 000 545 687 Headcount increased 8 000 521 495 576 601 495 5 103 across all businesses in 4 720 6 000 439 3 680 3 661 3 748 3 986 4 199 line with growth 4 000 3 542 aspirations 2 000 3 625 3 827 3 671 3 926 3 036 3 560 3 701 2 142 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Year UK and Other Southern Africa Temporary employees and contractors People strategy Our internal resourcing function forms an integral part of our broader talent management as it enables us to source and redeploy talent internally and, where required, to recruit externally to address any identified skills gaps. To attract, retain, develop and We invest significantly in a number of opportunities for developing and upskilling employees motivate people and in leadership programmes to develop current and future leaders of the group. Our who can perform HR and OD teams play a critical role in assisting the business to achieve their strategic extraordinarily objectives, which are always then matched to learning strategies and market trends. They are also involved in group wide activities such as an induction programme for new employees, providing learning advice to individuals and facilitating the development of both group wide and bespoke learning programmes. Our remuneration practices comply with the principles of local regulations, while continuing to To retain and reward people meaningfully for performance and contribution. drive performance Our remuneration strategy is based on the philosophy that employees are innovative, entrepreneurial through and work in an environment that encourages and fosters extraordinary performance. In line with our appropriate philosophy of employee ownership, all employees across the organisation, are provided with staff aspirational share awards and the opportunity to participate in our long-term growth. Industry competitive remuneration and packages and longreward structures Further information is provided on pages 185 to 226 in volume one of Investec’s term share awards 2017 integrated annual report. Our culture of open and honest dialogue promotes immediate and direct performance-related feedback between the leader and his or her team, to help individuals identify and address their development needs. At Investec, performance is viewed within the context of relationships – the individual’s relationships with others, the team, the business unit and the organisation as a whole. To ensure that Meaningful relationships are functional, engaging, defined by quality conversations and are performance able to be leveraged to meet business objectives. Performance can only be meaningfully management is reviewed against business objectives, thus team and individual performance objectives must 100% motivational and of employees engage constructive always be aligned to business objectives. Team and individual performance management has both appraisal and development components. The process has the following tenets: in performance • It is fair and honest, defined by dialogue that is both respectful and reflective of individual dialogues every year views and team perceptions • Driven by the employee and the leader • Involves ongoing, timeous feedback • Disciplined, responsible conversations. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 13 02 Supporting our employees (continued) People Working at Investec The policies and business practices of Investec are outlined in Becoming Acquainted with Investec (BAWI) and in the compliance handbook (both of which are available on the Investec intranet). These are intended to guide conduct and ensure our actions and attitude reﬂect the group’s values and philosophies at all times. 10 principles of the United Human rights The Investec group remains committed to the 10 principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our Nations (UN) Global culture and values demonstrate our belief that as an organisation we can have a positive Compact impact on the success and well-being of local communities, the environment and on overall macro-economic stability. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights standards and are not complicit in any human rights abuses. We do not have a formal human rights policy for the group because this would fall within the ambit of our Code of Conduct which expresses our strong culture and values including Investec Asset unselfishly contributing to society, valuing diversity and respecting others. Furthermore, we Management CEO, adhere to the relevant laws in all our jurisdictions and strive to advance the UN principles HJ du Toit, is a member of within our sphere of influence. The Global Commission on We support the international agenda to abolish human trafficking, slavery, forced and child Business and Sustainability labour and welcome the legislated UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the ‘Act’). Our philosophy Development as an organisation is to respect the dignity and worth of the individual. We uphold the constitutional rights of our employees at all times, do not practice forced or compulsory labour and do not employ children. We are committed to addressing the requirements of the Act and ensuring that our supply chain is compliant with the regulations prescribed therein. Freedom of association Zero trade unions We fully support employees’ rights to freedom of association. There is no representative trade union for Investec and we are not aware of any employees who are part of a trade union. We do, however, uphold the constitutional rights of the individual to freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining and the right to be a member of a union of choice. Whistle-blowing policy and protected disclosures One of Investec’s values requires employees to conduct all internal and external dealings with Integrity and integrity, consistently and uncompromisingly displaying moral strength and behaviour which promotes trust. Integrity and confidentiality are critical to our reputation and sustainability. confidentiality are critical The purpose of our whistle-blowing policy is to encourage employees to raise concerns to our reputation and or disclose information about possible fraudulent, unethical, criminal or other improper sustainability behaviour or workplace misconduct in total confidentiality and anonymity and without fear of retribution. We seek to protect all employees who disclose unlawful or irregular conduct by the company, its employees or other stakeholders. Discrimination We endeavour to prevent and/or eliminate any form of discrimination based on gender, race, Zero incidents of discrimination religion, age and sexual preference (or any other basis as envisaged by the South Africa Bill of Rights in the Constitution or regional equivalents). Investec has a formal grievance procedure (and a written policy) to deal appropriately with any incident which may occur. Furthermore there are several informal avenues for employees who wish to discuss concerns, e.g. OD, HR, employee relations and our independent external consultants. 14 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Supporting our employees (continued) 02 People Health and safety A group wide formal health and safety programme identiﬁes and manages all health and safety risks, and carries out regular safety audits. Health and safety is overseen by a committee that meets quarterly to review any concerns. 64 occupational injuries This management comprises: • Craig Gunnell – head of facilities South Africa • Tony Grimes – head of facilities UK. Zero fatalities In South Africa, Investec’s HIV/Aids policy and management forum extends to all permanent employees. Employee wellness Investec values the physical, financial and psychological health, welfare and safety of our people. We provide employees with a bespoke employee assistance and wellness programme. The comprehensive and integrated programme, which is an expression of our focus on care and concern for employees, provides personalised interventions offered in face-to-face counselling and coaching sessions. These interventions are provided by a multidisciplinary team of select health and other professionals who are all specialists in their ﬁelds of practice. We also host wellness days for our employees to raise awareness and education 66% around health issues through an interactive approach. In line with our commitment to improving the quality of life of our employees, our leave employees in South Africa participate entitlement and disability procedure have been reviewed and adjusted, taking into in one or more employee wellness consideration the needs and well-being of our employees and current best practice in the interventions marketplace. In South Africa paternity leave has been extended to 10 days, 5 days more than required by regulation. The UK has decreased the length of service required to benefit from enhanced maternity pay and parental leave from 1 year to 26 weeks. Creating an environment that reflects our culture This activity-based working environment will enable cross collaboration across departments Piloted activity-based by providing dedicated facilities for specific activities and creating optimal circumstances to perform each type of activity (e.g. developing ideas, delivering content and sharing working in our Gresham knowledge). This is supported by an effective virtual working environment with instant access Street head office to information and tools to collaborate with colleagues. This working space will further facilitate a culture of trust, empowerment and a shared sense of responsibility. We anticipate replicating activity based working in our new 30 Gresham street office building. Retrenchment policy 0.7% Where it becomes necessary for Investec to terminate employment based on operational requirements, the procedure to be followed will be in accordance with Investec’s employees retrenched retrenchment policy which is more favourable than local regulatory requirements. We conduct in the last fiscal year consultation for a period which exceeds the minimum prescribed period, during which we attempt to ﬁnd a suitable alternative position for the affected employee. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 15 02 Supporting our employees (continued) People Learning and development We invest significantly in a number of opportunities for the development of our employees and in leadership programmes to enable current and future leaders of the group. Investec’s HR learning and development team is mandated to develop and retain people who can perform extraordinarily in support of business objectives in a manner consistent with Investec’s culture and values. To achieve this, we employ talented people and then enable their professional and personal growth and development. We believe that employees should be the driving force behind their own development and should be proactive in identifying and addressing development needs, allowing them to maximise learning opportunities most relevant to their unique requirements. 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Year ended £ R £ R Southern Africa Asset Management 255 847 4 290 402 235 157 4 968 554 Wealth & Investment 678 659 11 380 718 421 580 8 907 423 Specialist Banking 13 777 983 231 048 929 8 434 662 178 213 327 Total 14 712 489 246 720 049 9 091 399 192 089 304 UK and Other Asset Management 751 355 12 599 796 711 840 15 040 244 Wealth & Investment 1 359 141 22 792 021 1 036 727 21 904 679 Specialist Banking 6 110 812 102 474 839 3 834 122 81 009 960 Total 8 221 308 137 866 656 5 582 689 117 954 883 Total group learning and development spend 22 933 797 384 586 705 14 674 088 310 044 187 External learning Employee learning and development spend Investec’s external learning includes public programmes, conferences, seminars and courses and provides employees with development opportunities to enable the acquisition of knowledge and skills necessary for £22.9mn career development within Investec. 90 employees attended external leadership programmes at Harvard, Insead, Singularity or similar (2016: £14.7mn) institutions. 223 Internal learning unemployed Our internal learning programmes include induction, personal and interpersonal skills, technical and black learners participated professional skills, leadership programmes and coaching as well as our learnerships and Chartered in accredited learnerships Accountant (CA) trainee programmes. 217 qualified CA’s have graduated from the CA programme since in South Africa its inception. 470 bursaries granted to full-time Educational bursary scheme Investec’s educational bursary scheme provides employees with focused educational opportunities to enable the acquisition of qualifications. employees in South Africa 16 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Supporting our employees (continued) 02 People Promoting equity and diversity in the workplace 51% 49% A diverse workforce is essential to our ability to be an innovative organisation that is able to adapt and prosper in a fast changing world. We have various processes to encourage debate and dialogue around valuing diversity and difference. Emerging and established leaders are invited to participate in discussions with the executive around all issues male female related to talent management and diversity. Over 3 000 employees have Our Zebra Crossing initiative in South Africa, is aligned to our employment equity plan, aims to raise levels of multi-cultural awareness of staff at Investec and enable them participated in our Zebra Crossing to appreciate and celebrate the richness of our diverse population and to take these and Women in Leadership initiatives in insights back into the business. South Africa since their inception. In South Africa, we have a number of Women in Leadership initiatives where Since September 2015 1 100 women and men at Investec have the opportunity to participate in the conversation around gender. Our clients and external stakeholders are also invited to participate in employees in the UK have attended these events. These rich and informative dialogues help us to create an appropriate events as a part of Investec Inspire. environment for women to thrive as leaders, employees and entrepreneurs and serve as role models for the next generation. 20% women on our board currently Investec Inspire in the UK is the umbrella for Investec’s employee-led diversity and inclusion programme, which is sponsored by senior executives. The first network that was developed under Inspire was our Gender Balance network, recognising that attracting, Investec is a member of the 30% developing and retaining female talent, is very important at all levels of the business, club in both the UK and South Africa and helping to ensure that everyone, regardless of gender, can thrive at Investec. Other and is committing to a goal of 30% diversity initiatives currently in progress include lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender women on the board. (LGBT) focus groups and a minorities focus group. The Female Lead in the UK celebrates great achievements by women from all walks of life. The project is supported by Investec Private Bank, the founding partner, to prolong the impact and influence of the project. It celebrates the achievement of 60 leading R  efer to volume one of our entrepreneurs, business and political leaders and figureheads from culture, science and integrated annual report for more sport. The project continues with an education programme in UK schools and further on diversity of our board. profiling of inspirational women. Employee gender composition – permanent employees Southern Africa UK and Other Total 31 March 2017 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Executive directors on Investec DLC board 2 – 2 2 – 2 4 – 4 Senior managers* Asset Management 124 75 199 62 21 83 186 96 282 Wealth & Investment 99 42 141 72 13 85 171 55 226 Specialist Banking 707 526 1 233 93 32 125 800 558 1 358 Total 930 643 1 573 227 66 293 1 157 709 1 866 Rest of employees Asset Management 327 546 873 222 172 394 549 718 1 267 Wealth & Investment 53 127 180 650 544 1 194 703 671 1 374 Specialist Banking 982 1 493 2 475 1 201 842 2 043 2 183 2 335 4 518 Total 1 362 2 166 3 528 2 073 1 558 3 631 3 435 3 724 7 159 Total 2 294 2 809 5 103 2 302 1 624 3 926 4 596 4 433 9 029 * T  he definition of senior managers is different for Southern Africa and the UK and Other due to the different regulatory guidelines of the respective geographies. These also include executives that are represented on the subsidiary level boards. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 17 02 Transformation in South Africa People 2 The Financial Sector Level 2 rating under the FS Code for the Code (FS Code) has period 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017 been prepared in terms of the BroadTransformation rating Based Black Economic Year Target score: 88 Empowerment (B-BBEE) 79.02* 2017 Act, (Act 53 of 2003). It is based on a 77.63 harmonisation of the 2016 Generic Codes and the 77.55 Financial Sector Charter 2015 gazetted under Section 12 of the Act. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Investec score * Final number re-verified after DLC volume one released The FS Code commits its Ownership Management control participants to ‘actively promoting a transformed, vibrant, and globally 2017: 15.21 Target: 14 2017: 4.58 2016: 15.21 Target: 8 competitive financial sector that 2016: 4.58 reflects the demographics of South Africa, and contributes to the In 2003 we concluded a significant We recognise that executive decisionestablishment of an equitable society empowerment transaction in which making, management responsibility, the by effectively providing accessible our empowerment partners collectively assumption of risk and other factors financial services to black people and acquired a 25.1% stake in the issued relating to those who make major financial by directing investment into targeted share capital of Investec Limited. This decisions are critical to real transformation. sectors of the economy’. structure unwound in May 2011. Some of As part of our employment equity process, the parties to the BEE transaction agreed a key objective involves transforming Investec remains committed to to a refinancing of the arrangement which strategic decision-making bodies at all black economic empowerment. resulted in various transactions in relation levels of Investec. Our approach involves: to both Investec Limited and Investec plc ordinary shares. • Using our entrepreneurial Skill development expertise to foster the creation of new black entrepreneurial Employment equity 2017: 9.39 Target: 10 2016: 9.23 platforms 2017: 10.83 Target: 15 • Serving as a leading source of 2016: 10.19 The expertise and dedication of our staff is empowerment financing fundamental in meeting our clients’ needs We continually strive to achieve greater and delivering distinctive results. It is vital • Investing significantly in learning representation at all levels of the business that we engage, develop and retain a highand development opportunities through the effective implementation of value workforce and we do this by investing for both our employees as well as our employment equity plan. In respect significantly in learning and development other South Africans of our quantitative targets we exceeded opportunities, both formal and informal, the targeted black headcount at the within and outside the workplace, as well as • Encouraging internal senior, middle and semi-skilled levels and leadership programmes to develop current transformation by bringing about marginally missed the targets at the top and future leaders of the group. greater representivity in our and junior management levels. We met workplace.  For more information refer to or exceeded the targets at every level The information that follows depicts for females with the exception of junior page 16. Investec’s consolidated position management. Our disabled headcount is under the FS Code and places it over double what we targeted it to be and at a level 2 rating for the period 84% of these individuals are black. 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. We delivered on our non-numerical goals including a continued focus on diversity awareness, leadership development and retention of black and female talent. 18 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Transformation in South Africa (continued) 02 People Preferential procurement Property Fund contributing a further BEE transaction financing includes all R5 million to the fund which will provide transactions for the acquisition, by black 2017: 14.01 Target: 16 high-potential entrepreneurs and people, of direct ownership in an existing 2016: 14.00 enterprises with access to not only or new entity (other than an SME) in the We have implemented a policy of seeking funds but also professional advice and financial or other sectors of the economy. out suppliers who demonstrate favourable mentorship. We see this as an important It also includes joint ventures, with debt BEE ratings. In instances of requests for investment in the future of our country. financing or other forms of credit extension proposals, where delivery or price are to, and equity investments in BEE Investec is committed to enabling similar, we have opted to utilise the services companies (other than SMEs), which are South African small, medium and micro of BEE vendors. Our shortto medium-term at least 25% black owned. Investec spent enterprises (SMMEs) and business strategy is to identify potential suppliers a total of R10 billion on empowerment professionals to become more globally who are empowered and to support and financing initiatives during the year ended competitive. In pursuit of this goal, and develop them via our various enterprise and 31 March 2017. The majority of this in partnership with En-Novate, we take supplier development initiatives. (R7.7 billion) was on transformational entrepreneurs on trips to innovation hubs infrastructure and black SMME funding.  or more information refer F around the world, exposing them to the to page 61. latest technologies and best business practices. Consumer education Enterprise development Given that the trips are developmental in 2017: 2 Target: 2 nature, we encourage the participation of 2016: 2 2017: 5.00 Target: 5 young entrepreneurs who belong to groups 2016: 4.42 that were previously excluded from the At Investec, one of our core philosophies is economy. to make a contribution to society, macroRecognising that enterprise and supplier economic stability and the environment. development is vital to South Africa’s Our approach includes a strong focus on Socio-economic development transformation, we continue to run several education and entrepreneurship. initiatives to support black entrepreneurs. 2017: 3 Target: 3 One example of this is an enterprise 2016: 3 Investec has partnered with GIBS on the development programme, in partnership with Investec GIBS Savings Index as well Our corporate social investment (CSI) as Junior Achievement South Africa Raizcorp, which incubates entrepreneurs efforts are central to Investec’s philosophy (JASA) to improve consumer’s knowledge who are managing their own business and of making an unselfish contribution to and understanding of the financial sector have potential to grow and create jobs. The society, and underpins perceptions of and its products thereby enabling them to entrepreneurs selected for the programme Investec as a good corporate citizen. Our make more informed decisions about their are assigned a dedicated team of trained approach to CSI focuses on education and finances and lifestyle. Raizcorp guides, who focus on key areas entrepreneurship. We believe this to be the of running a business including strategy, T  he Financial Sector Code report most effective way to create opportunities finance, marketing, sales and personal of our South African business is for employment, wealth creation and development. available on our website. stimulating socio-economic growth. Khulasande Capital, a broad-base black F  or more information on our CSI owned and controlled private equity and initiatives refer to pages 20 to 32. investment vehicle, is a partnership between the IEP Group and the Entrepreneurship Development (ED) Trust. The ED Trust is a black charitable trust focusing on educational and entrepreneurial initiatives. Empowerment financing Khulasande’s aim is to participate in 2017: 15 Target: 15 empowerment opportunities that are of 2016: 15 benefit to the ED Trust and that will create value for its beneficiaries. This partnership The empowerment financing element of the provides Khulasande with access to an FS Code comprises targeted investments experienced team with an extensive track and BEE transaction financing. Targeted record ensuring it can add value to its investments comprise of debt financing, investee companies and help them grow credit extensions or equity investment in and multiply. South African projects, in areas where gaps South Africa is at a critical juncture in the or blockages in economic development history of transformation with a dire need and job creation have not been adequately for job creation and sustained inclusive addressed. This includes transformational economic growth. As part of the CEO infrastructure, agricultural development, Initiative, the Investec group committed affordable housing and black SMEs. R20 million to the small and medium enterprises (SME) fund with the Investec Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 19 02 Supporting our communities People Our communities Our Corporate Social Investment (CSI) endeavours are central to the group’s values of making an unselfish contribution to society, nurturing an entrepreneurial spirit, valuing diversity and respecting others, and underpin Investec’s aim of being a responsible corporate citizen. Our approach to CSI focuses on education, entrepreneurship and the environment. We believe this aligns with our purpose and is the most effective way to create opportunities for employment, wealth creation and stimulating socio-economic growth. In keeping with our business model of Wherever possible, we seek to collaborate have many well-established charitable independent, highly autonomous business with partners, so as to leverage resources partnerships and volunteering initiatives units, supported by a strong centre, there and expertise and help ensure a lasting to support these partners. Further, we is no single overriding approach to social impact as well as long-term sustainability make donations to charities in response to investment within the group, although clear for our projects. requests for assistance across all regions commonalities exist. Each of the regions and business areas within the group. This has pursued social investment as deemed The active involvement of our people, allows us to allocate meaningful grants in appropriate to their circumstances and where through volunteering, remains at the core areas which might not fall within our main they are in the evolution of their business. of our social investment strategy. We focus areas. CSI spend as a % of operating profit* Percentage 2.0 1.5 We target a minimum 1.4 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.9 1.0 0.9 of 1.0% group CSI 1.0 spend as a % of operating 0.5 profit* 0 2015 2016 2017 Investec Limited Investec plc Investec group 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Year ended £ R £ R Southern Africa Asset Management 11 354 190 406 70 074 1 480 565 Wealth & Investment 70 472 1 181 771 44 410 938 315 Specialist Banking 628 016 10 531 476 233 769 4 939 234 Group Corporate Social Investment 4 411 031 73 970 474 2 971 847 62 791 224 Total 5 120 873 85 874 127 3 320 100 70 149 338 UK and Other Asset Management 395 735 6 636 250 110 523 2 335 206 Wealth & Investment 74 877 1 255 645 46 063 973 251 Specialist Banking 372 564 6 247 681 283 458 5 989 095 Group Corporate Social Investment 1 089 898 18 276 968 1 134 501 23 970 515 Total 1 933 074 32 416 544 1 574 545 33 268 067 Total Investec CSI spend 7 053 947 118 290 671 4 984 645 103 417 405 Total Investec CSI spend as a % of operating profit* 1.2% 1.0% * Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after other non-controlling interests. 20 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Supporting our communities (continued) 02 People UK and Other Our approach in the UK includes: We champion CSI by: • Focusing on education, entrepreneurship and the environment • Building dedicated charitable • Facilitating employee volunteering with local community partners partnerships • Granting donations to small local charities • Harnessing our diverse resources and collective talent • Encouraging employee fundraising endeavours through organised events and employee charity funding • Engaging all of our people in making a positive difference. • Providing a Give-As-You-Earn facility to encourage employee payroll giving. CSI spend Investec plc CSI spend by category (%) £’000 Percentage 2 000 £1.9mn 100 8% 10% 22% 1 500 80 27% 27% 25% 60 1 000 21% 33% 40 32% 500 20 44% 30% 21% 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 15 16 17 Year Year Philanthropic and other Education Entrepreneurship Environment Spend on CSI 77 % Increase in CSI spend since 2008 £15.7mn initiatives in the last 10 years Highlights Investec won Business in the Community’s Responsible Business Awards Winner – 2016 (Building Stronger Communities) for our flagship programme the Beyond Business social enterprise incubator we run in partnership with the Business in the Bromley by Bow Centre. Since we partnered in 2008 the programme has launched 44 new social enterprises, with a combined annual turn-over of Community’s £2.3 million and created 250 new jobs. Since 2011 when we became the sole funder of the programme, 90% of enterprises we helped to launch have gone Responsible Business on to trade into their third year. Awards 2016 Investec won the National CSR Awards, in the Best Community (Legacy) Project/Partnership category, and was a finalist in the Business Charity Winner – Awards 2017, in the Community Impact category, for the Beyond Business Programme. Expert guidance from within Investec resulted in the charity National CSR retaining 5% in the launched enterprises, helping to strengthen the sustainability of the programme, as alumni may repurchase the stake for the original seedAwards 2017 funding amount. In 2016, this funded the launch of one additional enterprise. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 21 02 Supporting our communities (continued) People An Investec employee was shortlisted in the Business Charity Awards, in the Shortlisted Outstanding Employee category 2017, for her efforts in building an impactful volunteering programme, working with local social priority schools, benefiting Business Charity the community local to our Guernsey office. Awards 2017 Shortlisted Bromley by Bow is shortlisted for the Lord Mayor’s Dragon Awards, for the Community Partners Award, 2017, for their partnership with Investec. Lord Mayor’s Dragon Awards Over 125 Investec volunteers from across our London offices worked closely with youth talent development social enterprise, Arrival Education, helping to raise aspirations and to develop mind-sets and skills for students from Arrival Education: difficult backgrounds to achieve success. 95% of stage 4 graduates went on to full-time work or higher education. 63% of the group went on to University, of which, 42% obtained a place at a Russell Group university. A further three 95% candidates, introduced to us through these programmes, have joined the of stage 4 graduates went on to Investec workforce (bringing the total in the last two years to five), a victory for full-time work or higher education social mobility, which coincides with increasing internal support of employeeled diversity initiative, Investec Inspire. Marino College Dublin, supported by Investec since 2008 remains a Marino College Dublin: successful partnership with our employees acting as mentors to students, with employees mentoring a record 22 students this year. 22 students mentored this year We hosted the sixth Morpeth Secondary School Young Apprentice skills development and work experience programme for select Year 9 pupils. The Morpeth School group was chosen from diverse backgrounds with the school often targeting Young Apprentice: certain students because they were feared to be at risk of disengaging from education. Following the programme, 93% of pupils reported developing important life skills. 100% are going on to take one or two GCSE exams 46% early and all predictions for the coming year are C or higher, with 46% being being predicted an A or A* predicted an A or A*. in the GCSE exams Volunteering We believe that more can be achieved through successful engagement of our people with our partnerships and we encourage them to participate in volunteering initiatives. >4 000 hrs The number of office hours spent supporting community organisations local to our offices. >£485 000 The amount that the Investec’s payroll giving infrastructure enabled our employees to donate to charity, directly from their salaries. >£158 700 The amount Investec staff fundraised with Investec CSI support for various charities. 22 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Supporting our communities (continued) 02 People Education 01 Arrival Education We are a founding partner in social enterprise Arrival Education’s Despite facing many barriers, with our help developing positive youth talent development programme, Success4Life (S4L). The mind-sets, students go on to achieve remarkable success. By programme includes volunteer-led success talks, workshops focusing on those young people with influence in their peer groups and coaching sessions at our offices in London. It aims to and communities, Arrival has been able to magnify the indirect develop young people from ethnic minorities and/or challenging impact of the programme. backgrounds, and those in danger of disengaging from education, helping them to achieve success in their lives. Success achieved General Certificate • Arrival Education students outperformed the national average by 7%, with 60% achieving of Secondary A*-C in five or more GCSEs Education (GCSE) • 62.5% stage 4 students obtained A*-C in at least three A-levels or equivalent qualification A-level (National average 34.64%) • 16.7% obtained A*-A in at least three A-levels or equivalent qualification (National average 12.9%) • 3 Arrival Education students, from the first Success4Life cohort, obtain full-time positions at Investec (bringing the total in the last 2 years to 5) Post 18 • 95% Stage 4 graduates went on to full-time work or higher education progression • 63% of the group went on to University, of which, 42% obtained a place at a Russell Group University 02 La Mare De Carteret primary school 04 Morpeth Young Apprentice Off the back of our impactful six year partnership with one of the In addition to providing academic support when needed, two social priority schools in Guernsey, we have partnered with volunteers help to deliver the Young Apprentice skills development the other, La Mare, and are supporting the school through funding and work experience programme at Investec for select Year 9 and volunteering. pupils. Pupils completing our Young Apprentice programme report raised aspirations, clarification of their career goals, and increased Maths confidence in achieving these. They also reported an increased appreciation of the importance of school attendance, GCSE of the year 6 students, are on track to results and their relationships with school staff. 95% meet or exceed the progress target for the year (2016: 77%) 40% felt they improved 60% felt they transformed 03 Morpeth School Morpeth is a fully inclusive, mixed comprehensive secondary school situated in east London in one of the most disadvantaged London boroughs. The pupils are from diverse backgrounds and 05 Marino College minority ethnic groups, and a well above average proportion We have supported Marino College in Dublin for over nine years are on the disability spectrum, with needs ranging from visual with our employees acting as mentors to students, in what impairment; behavioural, emotional and social difficulties; Autism has been a hugely successful partnership. The relationship has Spectrum Disorder; speech and language, as well as physical developed over the years, it involves mentor meetings with students disabilities. Barriers to further education, training and employment on a monthly basis over a two year period, arranging mock remain significant for pupils. Morpeth aims to enable academic interviews, work placements and providing general guidance to success but also to ensure high aspirations for all and to build the students. social and cultural capital, our long-standing partnership supports the school and its college in these aims. Our long-term partnership includes: • annual commitments • large group-based activities 22 students mentored this year • one-off events • individual support. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 23 02 Supporting our communities (continued) People Entrepreneurship 01 Bromley by Bow Centre We have partnered with the centre focusing on economic regeneration in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets since 2008. In 2011 we stepped up support and became the sole funder of the centre’s Beyond Business programme, a social enterprise incubator which provides start-up funding and advice to local people looking to start their own social enterprise businesses. In the course of this year’s shortlisting process 107 applicants were given advice 20 entrepreneurs were 39 intensive one-to-one business 8 entrepreneurs supported 90% of launched enterprises interviewed planning sessions were given to pitch their business continue to trade beyond their to budding entrepreneurs over plans to our Investec third year since 2011 (national four months panel average approximately 50%) Enterprises launched, many of them black and ethnic minority or female led, tackle a variety of needs including: youth unemployment; social exclusion; vulnerable families; community cohesion; homelessness; mental health; rehabilitation of ex-offenders and food poverty. Our volunteers sit on the selection panel, offering advice to shortlisted budding entrepreneurs and granting start-up funding to successful applicants. We also run the annual Beyond Business College at Investec providing the successful applicants with specialist support in addition to guidance on an ongoing ad hoc basis. 02 Young Enterprise Our Liverpool office have supported Young Enterprise, one of the UK’s leading enterprise and financial education charities, following an excellent session supported by our volunteers in Skipton in 2014. 84 hrs Our volunteers stepped up to deliver fun, practical ‘Learn to Earn’ sessions at local inner-city schools, which helps to volunteering develop their own skills, for example, public speaking. The sessions inspire even the hardest to reach students targeted by the charity and equip them with insight into career options, budgeting and financial planning. The environment 01 Volunteering Volunteers across the business contributed over 1,904 hours to complete a number of outdoor maintenance projects local to our offices: 48 85 1 450 115 212 Newham City Farm, the Edinburgh and Lothian’s Positive Futures, London Wildlife Trust, the The Hawk Conservancy La Mare De Carteret Primary Greenspace Trust, Trees for Cities Leeds Bromley by Bow Centre, Trust and St. Vincent’s and School and Jersey Trees Groundwork NI, Belfast Hills and St. Joseph’s Hospice Trees for Cities (London) and St. George’s for Life Trees for Cities Reading Scotland and Northern UK Northern Ireland and Midlands London and South East South West Guernsey and Jersey 02 Trees for Cities Trees for Cities is a charity which engages local communities and schools to plant trees, shrubs and to grow food, reconnecting urban areas with nature. Having co-funded projects with Trees for Cities in the past in east London (St. George’s Estate) and Manchester (Baguley Hall) through our donations committee, teams of our people from our London and Reading offices have rolled up their sleeves to volunteer with the charity, improving the community’s experience of their environment with great impacts: • Increased biodiversity value of sites (planting approximately 1 500 trees in one of our volunteer days) • Provision of free, healthy and sustainable food resources for local communities • Creation of high quality natural spaces • Increased tree canopy cover • Through planting a diverse range of species, the sites become more resilient to pests, disease and the effects of climate change 24 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Supporting our communities (continued) 02 People Australia Investec Australia’s CSI focuses on a small number of ongoing philanthropic sponsorship and volunteering initiatives. We partner with local, entrepreneurial organisations that perform important work within the community. These are illustrated primarily through supporting meaningful health, welfare and educational programmes, while remaining focused on preserving the local environment and managing our sustainable footprint. We focus primarily on four main initiatives which meet with our CSI goal as well as gaining more exposure within the community. 01 Australian Business Community Network (ABCN) Investec’s mentoring programme Run by the Australian Business Community Network, which is a not-for-profit organisation that partners education with business through mentoring programmes for high-needs schools. 2 32 ABCN inspires young people to see beyond their community’s programmes students benefited from the expectations of them, and the aim is to widen students’ awareness experience of professional of the range of personal, educational and vocational choices they mentors from Investec have available to them. GOALS is one-on-one mentoring partnership in a group environment that aims to widen the life choices of students considered to be at risk of disengaging from school or with limited aspirations. FOCUS is group mentoring for female year 11 students with female mentors in leadership positions, exploring the challenges of leadership through shared experience and personal reflection. 93% 58% 99% 68% 76% students who participated in students who participated said their involvement in FOCUS students felt they students that want to go to ABCN programmes in ABCN programmes ABCN programmes had gained leadership abilities university or further study as and have accepted completed Year 12 improved their coaching skills after participation a result of GOALS university study offers 02 ICARE Investec is dedicated to creating a positive social impact within local Australian 50 communities championing sustainable social investment by engaging Investec people to make a positive difference through volunteering and giving opportunities. ICARE is an volunteers internal volunteering initiative which allows employees to volunteer one day of their time during work hours with the aim of giving back to the community as well as team building. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 25 02 Supporting our communities (continued) People Southern Africa Our strategy in South Africa focuses Our objectives are twofold: on the support and empowerment of • To facilitate an increase in the number of entrepreneurially-minded matriculants as well talented individuals within a defined as those with a decent pass in English, Mathematics and Science and, who have an continuum of interventions through school aspiration to proceed beyond matric and university to the workplace. • To facilitate access to quality tertiary education, support and celebrate excellent performance thereafter. CSI spend Investec Limited CSI spend by category (%) R’million Percentage 100 R86mn 100 6% 3% 5% 80 80 60 60 84% 89% 84% 40 40 20 20 10% 8% 11% 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 15 16 17 Year Year Philanthropic and other Education Entrepreneurship Spend on CSI 156 % Increase in CSI spend since 2008 R499mn initiatives in the last 10 years Southern Africa pipelines of interventions The illustration below shows how various components of our strategy form a pipeline of interventions starting at high school and progressing to the workplace. High school Tertiary Workplace Mathematics and Science Access to tertiary education Transition to workplace Entrepreneurial thinking Support performance Invite as alumni Exposure to careers 26 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Supporting our communities (continued) 02 People Highlights In line with our strategy, a total of 89% of South Africa’s CSI spend was allocated to education and entrepreneurial initiatives: Our flagship educational programme, Promaths, is aimed at supporting the Funding 8 education system by generating students who are competent in Mathematics and Science. The programme provides extra tuition in Mathematics and Science to learners in grades 10 to 12 at selected schools across the country. Promaths centres Investec currently funds eight centres across the country. across the country In 2016, Promaths 11th year of operation, the Investec funded Promaths 263 centres continued to do well across the country. The eight Investec funded distinctions in Mathematics and centres across the country produced 263 distinctions in Mathematics and 288 in Science. 288 distinctions in Science In early 2017 the Promaths Bursary Fund was launched where Investec R5mn allocated an initial capital of R5 million to establish the fund. initial capital allocated to Promaths Bursary Fund The Investec bursary programme currently has 115 bursary recipients from first year to honours level. Last year saw 16 of our bursary recipients graduating and entering the world of work, bringing the total number of our 115 ex-bursary holders who are now professionals and part of our alumni to 123. bursary recipients Investec Merit Awards allocated 17 new merit awards in the 2016 academic year. 17 new merit awards Volunteering: spent over We believe that more can be achieved through successful partnership with staff hence the effort to encourage our staff members to take a keen interest in and participate in volunteering initiatives. 3 420 hrs supporting our communities Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 27 02 Supporting our communities (continued) People Education 01 Promaths Our flagship educational programme, Promaths, is aimed at supporting the education system by generating students who are competent in Mathematics and Science. The programme provides extra tuition in Mathematics and Science to learners in grades 10 to 12 at selected schools across the country. Investec currently funds eight centres across the country. It is important to note that the programme does not seek to replace the roles of Mathematics and Science educators in schools, but rather to supplement their efforts in order to improve the Mathematics performance of highpotential learners in their schools. 8 3 750 263 288 577 The number of Total number of places Distinctions in Distinctions in Science Total Promaths alumni Promaths Centres in for grade 10 to 12 Mathematics in 2016 in 2016 of 1 042 at university in 2016 South Africa learners in the 2016 of 1 062 students students academic year In 2016 we also ran a campaign to reconnect with working professionals that have come through Promaths. Tertiary qualifications Funding 58% 23% 7% 12% 72% 21% 7% pursued and pursued and pursued and pursued and studied through studied self-funded their obtained tertiary obtained tertiary obtained tertiary obtained tertiary bursaries through loans tertiary studies qualifications in qualifications in qualifications in qualifications in other Science related fields commerce related fields fields such related fields as teaching 02 Bursary, mentorship and alumni programmes High school bursaries: Every year we award deserving high school bursaries and 2016 was no exception, our programme has grown in both numbers and geographical reach. University bursaries: Following our annual bursary recruitment drive, a significant number of applications were received at the end of September 2016. Total number of bursary 115 16 123 students (37 new of our bursary recipients Total number of bursary recipients graduated and entered the graduated exconfirmed for the 2017 world of work bursary students academic year) Following the CSI Bursary Programme 10 year anniversary in 2015 and the ‘fees must fall campaign’ last year, we reviewed our programme and mobilised for more resources to enable us to upgrade all our bursaries from partial to full cost bursaries from 2016. This decision was communicated to students and well received. Investec Merit Awards @ Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU): In partnership with NMMU, Investec CSI offers merit awards to individuals who do extremely well academically and are in need of financial assistance. These merit awards are small once-off bursaries to enable students to register and gain access to university. 17 Total new merit awards allocated in the 2016 academic year 28 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Supporting our communities (continued) 02 People 03 Promaths bursary fund In late 2016, the CSI division started working on the establishment of the Promaths Bursary Fund that was launched in early 2017. The fund aims to: • Provide bursaries to Promaths alumni who are academically and financially R5 000 000 deserving thus improving their chances of completing their tertiary studies • Decrease the number of well deserving Promaths students who matriculate with good results and don’t continue Promaths Bursary Fund initial capital allocation their studies • Increase good role modelling within communities that have Promaths. 04 Career guidance As part of its education focus, Investec social investments would like to increase the number of learners who not only pass matric well, but also have an aspiration to proceed with their studies beyond matric. In response to a broader need around career guidance and an attempt to contribute towards this aspiration, Investec has made career guidance central to its education offerings. The purpose of this initiative is to: A Day @ Investec: This initiative gives grade 11 learners an opportunity to spend a • Introduce learners to the corporate day at Investec. world • Encourage learners to aspire towards an excellent matric pass 410 Total number of learners hosted at the Investec offices • Raise awareness of careers within the financial sector, specifically at Investec This day showcases different careers within the finance sector in a more practical • Raise awareness of funding available to manner and allowed for the opportunity of ‘job shadowing’ where staff members them for their studies volunteered to take learners to their work spaces. • Inspire and excite them towards tertiary Career Xplora studies. Investec in partnership with Brainwave Careers, run an innovative mobile career guidance platform called Career Xplora. This is an application (app) available for all android enabled cellphones which enables real time chats between facilitators and learners about subjects selection, career guidance and opportunities post matric. Number of learners per office: 100 70 100 90 50 Sandton Pretoria Cape Town Durban Port Elizabeth 05 Work Readiness programme University students have limited or no exposure to the world of work and may lack the soft skills needed to get a job, stay employed, and advance while employed. In response to this challenge, Investec hosts an annual Work Readiness programme aimed at assisting transition from tertiary education to the world of work. Selected students attend this programme to experience our dynamic environment and acquire a unique combination of skills aimed at preparing them for the world of work. 58 students in attendance at the Work Readiness programme Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 29 02 Supporting our communities (continued) People 06 Mentorship appreciation day 130 To complete the educational support loop, Investec also addresses the need that many university students have for advice mentees and mentorship. The Mentorship programme pairs Investec staff volunteers with each of the bursary recipients. In this role, staff members become personal mentors, offering students a sounding board for educational and other decisions or difficulties. In many instances, mentors also draw on the skills and expertise of other colleagues to assist bursary students with particularly challenging university courses. 90 Investec mentors 07 Teacher internship programme The ISASA M&E programme provides prospective Senior and Further Education and Training (FET) teachers specialising in the fields of Mathematics, English, and the Sciences with bursaries to study for a four year Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) or a one year postgraduate (PGCE) degree at UNISA. Interns are placed Investec’s partnership with the Independent in ISASA host schools for the duration of their undergraduate or Schools Association of Southern Africa (ISASA) postgraduate education studies. and the Department of Education aims to develop quality teachers in Mathematics, Science Each student is allocated a mentor over the four-year period. This and English. is to ensure positive role modelling, strong support and quality supervision. The students also attend academic camps, which offer ongoing motivation and support to bolster the professional and academic development and ensure that they sustain the momentum which has been established. Some of the UNISA lecturers play a role and attend these academic camps. 34 170 60 100 On completion of the internship, qualified teachers take up posts in public state funded The number of students The number of students The number of ISASA The number of mentors schools to ensure the who completed the that were on the host schools. across the country. transfer of skills. programme in 2016. programme. In 2016, we commissioned Trialogue to do an independent review of the programme and below are some of the highlights: Fundamentally, the programme is good: there is evidence that indicates that the interns are being enriched with quality teaching skills through the programme, that their teaching skills are improving, and that they value the mentorship. 69 Students are graduating from the programme (as at June 2016) 38 Subject distinctions from the 17 students who completed their studies in 2015 80% Of the new 2016 interns have been locally placed. The programme has also made progress with local, in-province placement of interns 30 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Supporting our communities (continued) 02 People Entrepreneurship 01 Junior Achievement South Africa In a quest to create a meaningful legacy for Investec and the communities within which we operate, we have sought to engage in social investment initiatives that facilitate the opportunity for many up and coming youngsters to become active economic participants in society. In 2016, Investec continued its partnership with Junior Achievement South Africa (JASA) in furthering its entrepreneurial quest that seeks to stimulate an entrepreneurial mindset as well as life skills amongst grade 10 and 11 learners. Investec is sponsoring: 23 weeks 10 9 350 Programme duration where students acquire practical Schools Provinces Learners from hands on skills to launch and manage their own small disadvantaged businesses communities 02 Young Entrepreneurs programme (Young Treps) In 2015, Investec CSI facilitated the process of establishing En-Novate which is our key partner in the Young Entrepreneurs (Young Treps) programme, a programme aimed facilitating the growth of young entrepreneurs through global exposure. The itinerary is curated based on the entrepreneurs selected as well as the sector focus, however includes visits to think tanks, universities, start-ups, venture capitalists, angel funders, leading companies, thought leaders as well as formal and informal opportunities to network and showcase their businesses. Key highlights include the hosting of the following trips for entrepreneurs. 70 Number of • Agriculture focused trip to Israel entrepreneurs taken • Fintech focused trips to Silicone Valley and Seattle on a global trip in 2016 • Education focused trip to Finland. 03 Philanthropic initiatives The Investec Soccer League • A vehicle to instil life skills and enhance talent 20 High schools sponsored in Soweto • School use their prize money towards the development of education of sports facilities within the school • This league celebrated its eighth year of existence in 2016. The Field Band Foundation Offers a national music and dance programme to the youth as a vehicle to instil life skills In 2016 Investec continued to support the Soweto and Alexandra Field Bands Enke Make Your Mark A leadership development organisation that generates and incubates youth-led social impact projects. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 31 02 Supporting our communities (continued) People Sounds of Celebration programme Investec CSI and the Enterprise Development Trust (EDT) have entered into a partnership with Education Africa to run its programme called Sounds of Celebration, which they run in partnership with the Sydenham Highlands North Hebrew Congregation. Using the skill of music as a platform for teaching them basic life skills Ad hoc donations R5k – R20k Investec CSI makes available a budget to make donations to charities in response to requests for assistance across all regions within South Africa. This budget allows us to allocate small but meaningful grants in areas which might not fall within our main focus areas. Size of donations Staff volunteerism Our experience is that far more can be achieved by using our knowledge, expertise and influence than by limiting our contribution to cash grants. We believe that more can be achieved through successful partnerships with staff hence the effort to encourage our staff members to take a keen interest in and participate in some of our initiatives. We have seen an increase in not only staff’s interest to get involved but also in the number of staff volunteerism activities across the board. We have signed off our refined staff volunteerism strategy that revolves around giving time, money and goods. Mandela Touch by The Cradle month Giving Project Spent over Staff were also encouraged to go out on their own, do good Offers Investec staff a simple and tax effective way to make a monthly Staff-initiated programme which allows staff the 3 420 hours opportunity to present and share an update on donation, directly from their own charitable supporting their Mandela activities their salaries, to a predonation requests to a for the charity to stand selected list of charities. forum and possibly receive communities in line for a possible Staff continue to give funding for those projects. donation in celebration money through this Investec provides annual of Mandela Day platform capital for this initiative Mauritius £73 128 Investec Bank Mauritius’ CSI strategy focuses on projects and initiatives in education, environment and sports development. R  efer to Investec Bank (Mauritius) Limited’s spend on CSI (2016: £63 818) annual report for more details. 32 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Supporting our clients 02 People Our clients Since the launch of One At Investec, we pride ourselves on giving our clients an extraordinary experience. Up by Place the number of Interaction can be through a dedicated Investec consultant, our world-class 24/7 80% investors with Wealth & Global Client Support Centre or our innovative digital platforms. Investment Online is up by 80% Technology enhancements Investec One Place One Place is a continuation of Investec’s strong client-centred service culture. Through the collaboration of Private Banking and Wealth & Investment we now offer our clients integrated access to banking and investment services, both locally and internationally, all in One Place. Since the launch of One Place: The number of Assets under Assets under Online Portfolio Manager has Providing voice biometric investors with Wealth administration with management with a Private Banking and Wealth & Investment Online Wealth & Investment Wealth & Investment & Investment client base is up by Online is up by Online is up by overlap of (AUM) authentication for 80% 65% 220% 31% our clients Voice recognition We are the first financial institution in South Africa to provide a voice biometric authentication method to our clients. Investec philanthropy services Investec recently launched Investec philanthropy services within our Wealth & Investment business. This initiative offers advisory services to individuals, families, businesses and nonprofit organisations with the aim of maximizing their philanthropy objectives and achieving the most positive social impact with their charitable investments. Largely South African based, Investec philanthropy services currently support a number of private charitable foundations. The focus areas of the foundations vary, and include education, healthcare, welfare, social justice, the environment and conservation and animal welfare. An important service is the provision of due diligence on a non-profit organisation prior to the making of a grant. This is to ensure that the private foundations we look after support sustainable and effective organisations. With regard to non-profit organisations, which are clients of the Wealth & Investment business, we also provide services which include guidance on structuring, legal, tax and corporate governance issues. Wealth & Investment Educational Trust The Wealth & Investment Educational Trust is being created as a vehicle for contributions to support and provide programmes addressing the needs in education in various capacities in South Africa. The Trust is in the process of applying for its Public Benefit Organisation Status and Section 18A. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 33 03 Planet Green business 03 Planet Planet Investec’s environmental policy takes into account the challenges that climate change presents to the global economy and we will consider any meaningful activity that either reduces the negative impact on, or prolongs the life of, our planet. We believe that as a niched specialised financial services organisation, and given our positioning in the developed and emerging worlds, we can make a meaningful impact in addressing climate change. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, the direct environmental and social impacts of Investec’s daily operations are limited. In recognising that we have a responsibility to understand and manage our wider environmental and social footprint, our environmental policy states: • Internally, we focus on creating awareness and encouraging positive sustainability Strengthened our behavioural change • Externally, we are increasingly incorporating environmental considerations into our daily global lending policy operations • We recognise the opportunities for our clients and businesses in cleaner and renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and responsible lending and investing. The below diagram shows a summary of Investec’s direct and indirect impact Indirect Direct Responsible Responsible Responsible Participating financing and asset property in renewable Conserving the Managing our investing management management energy environment carbon footprint • Group ESG • Stewardship • Sustainability • Solar • Investec Rhino • Reducing lending policy policy considerations Lifeline energy • Energy from incorporated consumption • ESG • ESG waste • Protecting into property considerations screening. birdlife • Reducing developments. • Wind. in credit and waste • Supporting investing endangered • Promoting decisions wild dog sustainable • ESG guidelines travel • IAM Tusk for consultants. Conservation • Promoting awards. sustainable procurement. Responsible financing and Investing In particular the following factors Investec has a holistic approach to sustainability which is not limited to our daily are taken into account when a operational activities but rather includes our many impactful corporate social investment transaction might be approved or programmes and is based on a broader corporate responsibility to the environment and declined based on the outcome of society. We believe that the most meaningful contribution Investec can have is through the sustainability considerations: responsible financing, investing and supporting businesses involved in renewable energy. • Environmental considerations Accordingly, social and environmental risk considerations are implicit in our values, (including animal welfare and culture and code of conduct and are applied as part of our environmental and social climate-related impacts) risk framework. There is also oversight by the social and ethics committee (executive committee) on social and environmental issues. • Social considerations • Macro-economic considerations. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 35 03 Green business (continued) Planet Responsible asset management In our role as a global asset manager, our primary goal is to deliver on our clients’ mandates. The essential purpose of our work is to preserve and grow the real purchasing power of the assets entrusted to us by our clients over the long term. In fulfilling this purpose we will assume a stewardship role over the assets, including the effective exercising of their ownership rights. We monitor, evaluate and, if necessary, actively Signatory of the engage or withdraw capital to preserve or add value to our clients’ portfolios. United Nations-supported As a fiduciary of our clients’ money, it is our legal obligation to make sure we consider Principles for all material risks and opportunities to our investments which include those of an Responsible Investment environmental, social and governance (ESG) nature. Our approach and commitment to this priority is outlined in our Stewardship Policy and is overseen by our internal Investment (UNPRI), Governance Committee (IGC) which includes senior leaders from around the business the UK Stewardship Code such as our CEO, CIO’s, Head of Legal and Investment team heads. We are also a and Code for Responsible signatory of the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI), Investing in South Africa the UK Stewardship Code and Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa (CRISA). We are investor signatories of the Carbon Disclosure Project and their Carbon Action (CRISA) initiative, which calls for business to monitor the cost-effective management and reduction of carbon emissions. We are also involved in a few other advocacy organisations which allows us to better engage on issues of active ownership on a global scale with other investors. While all teams follow the fundamental principles of our stewardship policy, the manner in which Investec Asset Management plays an active ownership role will be determined by an assessment of the costs and benefits to our clients as well as the particular nature of the investment strategy. Any strategy of intervention in terms of active ownership will Full details on our be subject to portfolio decisions on whether to remain invested in the company, with the protection and enhancement of the value of client portfolios being the central objective. stewardship Each investment team develops their integration strategies following a framework touching on five key areas: investment universe, fundamental analysis, portfolio construction, policy can be found engagement and reporting. on the Investec Asset The majority of strategies currently integrate ESG analysis at a fundamental analysis Management website stage where they form a qualitative, quantitative or a mix of both account for material ESG issues. Currently, we source company ESG analysis from a number of sources, including external service providers. These sources allow us to build a view of how well the companies are identifying, manage and plan for these long-term issues. Ultimately the ESG view is in-house and not externally sourced from a third-party provider. Once we become a holder of the equity or bond we become active owners and engage with the company or issuers as necessary to make sure the management of the risks are of a high standard and minimise any risks of future events that may destroy value. We believe it is important to not only manage our clients’ assets in a responsible manner but also to proactively engage our clients and stakeholders on the subject of sustainability. We recognise that the sustainability imperative means that we have a responsibility and opportunity to lead the conversation around sustainable development and encourage our clients on their journey towards more sustainable long-term investing. As an example of positive contribution, Investec Asset Management was appointed to manage the approximately $670.0 million Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund (‘EAIF’ or ‘the Fund’), a public-private partnership anchored by the governments of the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, Sweden and Switzerland. EAIF is an initiative of the donorfinanced Private Infrastructure Development Group and was developed to mobilise capital into private sector infrastructure projects across sub-Saharan Africa. Established in 2002, the Fund has committed over $1.2 billion to 63 projects in 19 countries. The Fund aims to achieve three main objectives – to catalyse African infrastructure projects through providing long-term debt and mezzanine finance on commercial terms tailored to local needs; to invest in sustainable businesses with skilled management teams and clear potential to improve economies and help reduce poverty; and to deliver on both investment and specific development goals. 36 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Green business (continued) 03 Planet Responsible property management Investec Property Fund (which is managed by Investec Property and 27.86% owned by Investec Limited), actively explores sustainable business development. Sustainability is a key focus area for the Fund which includes improving the stability of electricity and water supply for clients while attempting to manage the increasing cost of occupation where possible. The Fund tracks and benchmarks consumption across the portfolio in order to identify energy efficiency opportunities and monitors improvements. The Fund introduced a pilot solar project on the rooftop of Fleurdal Mall in Bloemfontein to reduce the cost of electricity. The project went live on 1 November 2016. It also provides grid stability and energy security and will alleviate down-time for clients in the event of load – shedding, producing 20% of the mall’s energy requirements. This project has resulted in the roll-out of a similar project at Musina Mall. The technology will continue • Piloted a solar rooftop project to be rolled out across feasible building and assist in reducing the cost base of the Fund • AMP (enterprise supplier development as well as the cost of occupation for clients. hub) partnering with 10 – 15 black The Fund will continue with the roll-out of sustainability initiatives through a comprehensive owned SME’s two-year programme involving further capital investment. In addition to the direct capital • BEE rating level 3. spend on the properties, the majority of which is expected to be value enhancing through returns on investment for the Fund and improved efficiencies for its clients, the Fund is engaging in the process of obtaining ratings from the Green Buildings Council for certain of its properties. The Fund has initiated a new project known as AMP, as an enterprise supplier development hub, where it initially will be partnering with 10 – 15 black-owned small and medium enterprises in the industries that provide services to the property industry. The initiative seeks to develop small businesses by providing the capital to install offices, subsidising rental levels, up skilling of the entrepreneurs and providing preferential payment terms. The Fund’s current BEE rating is level 3 with the next rating scheduled for October 2017. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 37 03 Green business (continued) Planet Participating in renewable energy We require that all power and infrastructure-related projects comply with applicable environmental, planning, labour and procurement law and do not fund or invest in projects which do not have acceptable environmental impact assessments, do not comply with procurement and labour laws, and either do or could reasonably be expected to breach acceptable behavioural, ethical or moral standards. We target transactions in countries with established laws that comply with World Bank Standards and that have due processes that are applied reasonably and effectively. If not, sponsors Investec was recognised go-to and suppliers are obliged to give undertakings and compliance with such standards. as the The pressure on municipals, businesses, and individuals, to operate more sustainably and be more environmentally friendly, combined with cost reductions, volatile commodity prices funding source and energy security all have contributed to the growth of renewable energy and waste for the US recycling markets. The past year for our business has witnessed growth too, where we have financed 11 projects, that will generate approximately 1 000MW of clean energy. Overall roof-top solar renewable energy makes up two-thirds of our portfolio (which also feature biomass, wind and hydro projects). industry arranging $880mn in debt Two key drivers of growth in Energy from Waste (EfW) are investments by local councils in building facilities, and the continued upward trend of corporations looking to produce financing for rooftop solar energy from their own waste. This has been driven by the ever increasing need to boost developers and financiers efficiencies, reduce carbon footprints, as well as improving sustainability. We closed four in 2016 – more than half of waste project in the year. the $1.5bn bank debt raised With environmental concerns and sustainability becoming ever-more important, individual last year in the US households have also been active to harness their roofs to generate energy and reduce their (Bloomberg New Energy Finance) carbon footprint. Solar power is 80% cheaper now than it was 7 years ago, and rooftop/ residential solar continues to see good growth world wide particularly in the United States which is the most active market. Within the United States residential solar generation market, Investec has established a leadership position and below are some examples. Furthermore Investec was part of the consortium of investors, whilst also providing debt funding for Kathu Solar Park, a 100MW Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) project in South Africa, which won IJ Global African Renewables deal 2016 Award. 154GWh Kemsley EfW Investec co-financed £300.0 million of debt for Wheelabrator Technologies. Kemsley EfW combined heat and power (CHP) plant in Kent will generate 43MW of sustainable electricity. Up to 154GW hours of renewable electricity will feed into the grid annually, enough to power hours of 37 500 homes. It is due to produce 180GW hours of heat. renewable electricity, The project is the first large scale EfW facility to be supported by the UK government’s enough to power contract for difference (CfD) regime. The plant is due to have capacity for 550 000 tonnes of waste derived fuel per year, which will come from various waste management companies. 37 500 homes The waste will be sourced from Kent and the South East of England, which would otherwise have been sent to landfill sites before being sent to other European plants. The plant is Project Date Power currently being constructed and is expected to be completed to produce power in 2019. Country Role type closed capacity UK Lead Waste July 2016 43MW arranger 38 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Green business (continued) 03 Planet UBB Gloucestershire EfW (Urbaser Balfour Beatty) The plant is projected Investec financed the construction and operation of a new municipal EfW plant in Javelin to generate electricity Park in Harefield, Gloucestershire with the capacity to generate 14.6MW of energy. The equivalent to power asset is underpinned by a 25 year PFI Project Agreement between the Gloucestershire County Council and UBB Waste. The plant is projected to generate electricity equivalent to power 25 000 homes, while recovering 3 000 tonnes of metal. The plant is expected to 25 000 homes. Increasing process 190 000 tonnes of waste per year. The plant is currently being constructed and is expected to be completed to produce power in 2019. Gloucesershire’s renewable energy production by over 50% Project Date Power Country Role type closed capacity UK Senior Waste August 14.6MW lender 2016 FCC Edinburgh EfW Up to Investec acted as mandated lead arranger, along with the UK’s Green Investment Bank (GIB), Siemens Bank and Credit Agricole, to fund the construction and operation of a new 155 000 municipal EfW plant in Edinburgh, Scotland. The plant will be developed and owned by FCC tonnes of waste is E&M Limited, and upon completion in May 2020 generate 11.9MW of power. expected to be processed The project will divert non-recyclable waste away from landfill for its feedstock. The plant will each year and sufficient also be combined heat and power-ready, with the potential to supply excess heat from its power to meet the needs of operations to nearby homes and businesses. Up to 155 000 tonnes of waste is expected to 11 000 homes be processed each year and sufficient power to meet the needs of 11 000 homes. Project Date Power The project is underpinned by a 25-year PFI project agreement between the City of Country Role type closed capacity Edinburgh Council and FCC, a waste supply agreement with FCC and a 15 year Power UK Mandated Waste October 11MW of Purchase Agreement (PPA) with EDF Energy plc. The plant is currently being constructed lead 2016 electricity and is expected to be completed to produce power in 2020. arranger and up to and hedge 20MW of broker heat Riverside EfW The plant generates energy Investec acted as mandated lead arranger and hedge provider to refinance the that is adequate to power £440.0 million Riverside Energy from Waste Plant sponsored by Cory Riverside Energy Group. Riverside, initially financed in 2008, has been operational since 2011 and produces 72MW of electricity by treating the municipal waste generated by the London Boroughs 66 000 of Bexley, Wandsworth, Hammersmith & Fulham and Lambeth, using unique river transfer homes, processing 585 000 stations and barges operations along the Thames. The plant generates energy that is tonnes of residual waste adequate to power 66 000 homes, processing 585 000 tonnes of residual waste generated generated in the region. in the region. Project Date Power Country Role type closed capacity UK Mandated Waste March 72MW lead 2017 arranger and swap provider Spruce II Investec arranged $120.0 million in debt financing which is Spruce’s first syndicated facility Helps households to to support the growth of its solar lease and PPA business, in May 2016. reduce their utility bills, Furthermore, in December 2016, Investec reprised its role as lead arranger (joined by Silicon improve their homes and Valley Bank) to arrange $105.4 million debt, to finance additional systems in states around communities the United States. Project Date Power Spruce is a provider of consumer financing for residential solar and home efficiency Country Role type closed capacity improvements in the United States. This helps households to reduce their utility bills, US Joint ResiDecem120MW improve their homes and communities. arranger dential ber and and book solar 2016 86.2MW runner Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 39 03 Green business (continued) Planet Vivint Solar Helping to finance over Investec was lead arranger and book runner to structure, arrange and syndicate $313.0 million in senior secured credit facilities for Vivint Solar Financing in May 2016, 307MW helping to finance over 307MW and 47 000 residential solar energy systems across and 47 000 12 states. Vivint Solar is a leading provider of solar energy systems to residential customers in the United States, who receive significant savings relative to utility generated electricity and residential solar energy benefit from guaranteed energy prices over the length of their contracts. systems across 12 states. Project Date Power Country Role type closed capacity US Lead ResiAugust 307MW arranger dential 2016 and book solar runner Recurrent Energy Joint lead arranger on the Investec acted as joint lead arranger on the $123.2 million financing of a 100MW solar project located in California, USA in August 2016. The Project will sell power to Marin Clean $123.2mn Energy and Sonoma Clean Power Authority under long term PPAs. financing of a 100MW Recurrent Energy, a subsidiary of Canadian Solar Inc., develops utility-scale solar plants to solar project provide competitive clean electricity to large scale energy buyers. Project Date Power Country Role type closed capacity US Joint lead Solar August 100MW arranger 2016 True Green Solar (TGC) Financing solar Investec was mandated lead arranger to arrange senior facilities to finance solar developments developments. TGC specializes in energy infrastructure and targets asset-based investment opportunities with a focus on distributed power generation, including distributed and Project Date Power commercial PV solar. Country Role type closed capacity US Mandated Solar Decem28.6MW lead ber arranger 2016 Kathu Solar Park Investec was part of the consortium of investors and also providing debt funding in May 2016 1 200 for Kathu Solar Park, a 100MW greenfield Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) project in South new jobs and improved Africa. The project won IJ Global’s African Renewable deal of 2016 Award. The project is quality of lives currently in construction phase and is expected to be operational in the second half of 2018. Power will be sold to Eskom under a 20 year PPA (post construction). Approximately 1 200 jobs will be created during the construction phase. It is estimated that 6 million tons of CO2 the Kathu Solar Park will save 6 million tonnes of CO2 over 20 years and will further promote local economic development through various projects such as a local community trust for saved in 20 years the benefit of communities in the John Taolo Gaetsewe District Municipality situated in the Project Date Power Northern Cape and sourcing of other services from local entrepreneurs. Country Role type closed capacity The project with parabolic trough technology, equipped with a molten salt storage system South Investor Solar May 2016 100MW Africa and debt allows 4.5 hours of thermal energy storage and thus limits the intermittent nature of solar provider energy and supports South Africa’s strategy of increasing the contribution of renewable power. 40 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Green business (continued) 03 Planet Mettle Solar Rooftop PV Provide Investec provided R57.0 million of senior debt for the development of Mettle Solar’s Rooftop PV Portfolio. The assets are located in South Africa and Namibia. Mettle Solar develops, R57mn finances, installs, operates and maintains commercial rooftop solar photovoltaic systems. senior debt for commercial rooftop solar Project Date Power Country Role type closed capacity South Sole ComMarch 5MW Africa lender mercial 2017 roof top solar Hornsdale Stage 3 (HWF III) Supply enough power Stage 3 reached financial close in February 2017. This follows on from the successful each year to service over achievement of Stage 1 and Stage 2 of the Hornsdale Wind Farm (together totalling 200MW of capacity 2014 and 2016 respectively). Investec has participated in financing all three stages. 180 000 The third and final stage will add a further 35 wind turbines, totalling 109MW of capacity. average South Once complete, the project will boast 99 wind turbines with a maximum capacity at Australia households the point of interconnection to the National Electricity Market of 309MW. This will make Project Date Power a significant contribution towards the ACT government’s target of having 100% of its Country Role type closed capacity electricity supplied by renewable energy sources by 2020. Australia Junior Wind Feb90MW lender ruary 2017 Energy fund Investec has proven Notwithstanding the commitment made by various governments, development finance institutions and NGO’s investment in the energy sector in Africa over the year remains below track record the requirements to meet the increasing demand. The slowdown in the world economy has of investing and potentially had an effect on the investment in this sector, while in South Africa the impasse funding this sector between the government and the state utility and the issue of the revised draft integrated energy plan for South Africa has seen the roll-out of additional generation capacity delayed. with in excess of Given the uncertainty of the timing of investment in new generation capacity in South Africa under the programmes run by the Department of Energy, many large users energy users $800mn are investing in self generation in particularly environmentally friendly solar and battery arranged to date. technologies. Investec has proven track record of investing and funding in this sector with in excess of $800 million arranged to date. Recognising the opportunity to play a role in funding and transforming the energy sector, Investec is creating an energy fund to invest in and acquire equity instruments in private unlisted companies that are undertaking energy projects in sub-Saharan Africa with an initial focus on operating assets in South Africa. We expect that a significant portion of the fund will be in clean energy as the sub-Saharan Africa projects move away from coal towards more renewable and clean energy sources. The fund manager will have a minimum 51% black shareholding which will see the transfer of skills to black employees, thereby facilitating the creation of a new majority black-owned investment manager and contributing to the transformation of the fund management industry. The nature and scope of the fund allows investors, not all of whom are natural long-term investors in infrastructure, to exit their investments earlier than would traditionally be allowed with these types of investments. Given the uncertainty in the sector the launch of the fund has been delayed however the applications for appropriate regulatory approvals are well advanced. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 41 03 Conserving the environment Planet Conserving the environment The desire to make a meaningful contribution to the world we live in is at the heart of Investec’s values. Given Investec’s African heritage, we are passionate about ensuring the continued existence of a number of African species. We therefore fund a number of biodiversity projects which help to ensure the sustainable existence of South Africa’s rich wildlife. A zebra can save a rhino Investec responded to the rhino crisis in 2012 by establishing Investec Rhino Lifeline (IRL). We continue our strategy to raise awareness and focus specifically on youth education as well as rescue and demand reduction. Our Out of the Ordinary approach is to focus on both the demand and supply side of the rhino crisis, and to partner with specialists – registered charities or NGO’s – who are experts in their fields, and to support their efforts through awareness, fundraising and donations. To date, Investec has invested more than R12 million of its own funds in Investec Rhino Lifeline, with R8.1 million spent on our main focus, education, and R3.5 million spent on rescue and R600 000 on demand reduction. Continued focus on education 2016 was another successful year of growth for our Coaching for Conservation (C4C) education programme for kids living near reserves in the Eastern Cape. 6 400 We also extended our education focus to the critical areas surrounding the Kruger National Park by partnering with Good Work Foundation (GWF). children have participated in the programme since GWF is an adult digital learning centre and has incorporated our Coaching for Conservation Rhino Rap inception in 2013 programme for the kids from the highly impoverished Bushbuckridge area. Rescue: every rhino counts Orphaned rhino calves play a critical role in the ultimate survival of the species. For this reason, we established two new partnerships with Care for Wild Rhino Sanctuary and the Hoedspruit Endangered Species Centre (HESC). We support them in the difficult and very important tasks of caring for rhino injured and orphaned by poaching, and also provide an important awareness platform and fundraising vehicle. The passion of our people The success of Investec Rhino Lifeline is largely attributable to the passion of our staff who give their time, money and expertise to contribute to this project. R200 000 R182 000 R88 600 R70 000 R50 000 funds raised for donated by the CSI sponsored to rhino by contribution made by contribution made orphaned rhino during division in the UK for Investec Marketing division Investec Investor Relations by Investec Wealth & World Rhino Day demand reduction (a R200 donation for every for Care for Wild rhino Investment clients as a education initiatives to goal scored at the Investec orphans result of their Christmas raise awareness in China St Mary’s Hockey festival charity campaign in April 2016) 42 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Conserving the environment (continued) 03 Planet Other initiatives included: • We hosted Major General Johan Jooste of Sanparks at our group leadership conference raising awareness with our leaders from around the world. In lieu of a speaker fee, Investec donated a response vehicle to the Kruger National Park, to be used in the assistance of the communication and coordination of anti-poaching units • Private Bank invited General Jooste to attend the Spirit of Craft event in October 2016 where many of our high net worth clients connected with him on the rhino crisis. Private Bank also donate through their dividends programme and through Travel by Investec • Rhino Lifeline was profiled at Investec’s IMF Breakfast in Washington in September 2016 • The International Banking team hosted Petronel Nieuwoudt from Care for Wild at Sabi Sabi game reserve at the end of November 2016, raising awareness with important international banking clients. Focus for 2017: • Coaching for Conservation will reach 3 800 children living near Eastern Cape reserves • GWF will reach 2 000 kids on the Kruger National Park border Will reach a further • IRL will continue to raise funds and awareness for our partners rescuing injured and orphaned rhino 6 000 kids in rural • IRL is partnering with WildAid, a highly regarded environmental organisation, in a communities in 2014 demand reduction PR campaign in China. Protecting birdlife The power and infrastructure finance team partners with BirdLife South Africa to research the environmental impact of renewable energy on the local birdlife in South Africa. By R3.5mn ensuring that the impact is adequately assessed and mitigated, developers are encouraged spend on BirdLife SA to comply with international best practises. This helps Investec gain a better understanding of the impact and improve environmental performance and decision-making for future since inception developments. Wild dog Investec supports the Endangered Wildlife Trust’s Carnivore Conservation Programme and its research and monitoring of African wild dogs in the Northern Kruger National Park. Wild Most endangered dog is South Africa’s most endangered carnivore with a current population of less than 400 dogs. This research project is on-going and focuses on identifying the threats facing African carnivore wild dogs in the park. The emphasis is on viable methods to improve their conservation status. We recognise the urgent need to safeguard the future of this unique animal. IAM Tusk Conservation Awards Investec Asset Management has been supporting the Tusk Conservation Awards for the past five years. The awards aim to shine a light on the incredible work of individual conservationists; to inspire, encourage and support their work and the efforts of others Supporting Tusk across Africa’s poaching crisis. Its mission is to find a way to combine the interest of both people and wildlife, while preserving the continent’s natural heritage. At the 2016 Conservation Awards awards, the Prince William Award for conservation in Africa was awarded to John for the past five years Kahekwa in recognition of his work in the DRC, and the Tusk Award to Cathy Dreyer for her work in South Africa. Sir David Attenborough was also honoured for his lifetime contribution to conservation. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 43 03 Direct operational impact Planet Direct operational impact Our internal environmental strategy environmental programmes communicated Key focus areas to reduce is focused on creating awareness to staff by our team of environmental Investec’s carbon footprint and encouraging positive sustainable champions, Team Green. The teams are include: behavioural change in recognition of our made up of representatives from across the environmental responsibilities. Investec business areas and aim to raise awareness • Reducing energy consumption, and recognises that effective environmental around our environmental impact and using green tariffs where possible management is an essential part of encourage positive and sustainable embedding this philosophy into the behaviour change amongst our staff • Reducing overall waste and organisation. We are committed to through education and engagement. increasing waste recycling rates operating an effective environmental management system. Group carbon footprint • Encouraging reduction of water Our environmental data collection system Our respective carbon footprints have been usage allows us to track and manage our direct calculated according to the international operational impact. This tool imports data Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol’s Corporate Accounting and Reporting • Promoting sustainable travel from various sources, consolidates the information and calculates our carbon Standard (revised edition). • Promoting sustainable footprint. The implementation of this tool Data has been gathered in line with our procurement. allows us to produce reliable emissions requirements of the CRC Energy Efficiency data, accurately build a history of our scheme. We use the operational control carbon footprint and will assist in setting method to determine what is included in targets for future emissions. This year we our scope of reporting. continued to improve the thoroughness of our data collection processes. Materiality set at a group level was 5% with all facilities estimated to contribute >1% of We continued to drive awareness total emissions included. about our direct operational impacts by influencing internal behaviour through the Investec’s environmental policy takes into account the challenges that climate change presents to the global economy and we will consider any meaningful activity that either reduces the negative impact on or prolongs the life of our planet. We believe that as a bank, and given our positioning in the first and emerging worlds, we can make a meaningful impact in addressing climate change. Emissions per average employee Emissions per m2 office space 9.0 0.44 0.43 8.5 8.44 0.42 8.20 0.41 8.03 8.0 0.40 0.39 0.39 7.5 7.31 0.38 7.05 0.36 7.0 0.36 6.5 0.34 6.0 0.32 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 Year Year We continue to drive awareness about our direct operational impacts. Over the past 5 years we have not seen significant changes in our intensity indicators. In 2015 we enhanced our data collection processes to cover a broader scope of our operations. Since then, in South Africa we maintained our electricity consumption as a result of electricity reduction initiatives, even though our headcount increased. Electricity emissions for UK and Other regions decreased due to emission factors updated in 2017. We have also reduced our travel emissions through continuous collaboration through video conferencing and effective leveraging of international teams. 44 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Direct operational impact (continued) 03 Planet Assessment parameters Consolidation approach: Operational control Emission factor data source: DEFRA (2016) and IEA Intensity ratio: Emissions per full-time employee Emissions per office space m2 Independent assurance: Limited assurance provided by KPMG for the year ending 31 March 2017 Carbon footprint for the group 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Tonnes of Consumption Tonnes of Consumption Variance in CO2 in unit of CO2 in unit of tonnes CO2 Units equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent Notes Scope 1 1 710 1 813 (5.6%) Energy Natural gas kWh 431 2 341 511 445 2 411 761 (3.1%) LPG stationary L 36 23 978 13 8 663 >100% 1 CO2 purchase kg – 452 – – – Diesel L 268 102 395 248 91 686 8.5% Refrigerant Refrigerant kg 766 404 891 231 (14.0%) Employee travel Vehicle fleet km 209 1 092 169 216 1 131 072 (3.2%) Scope 2 35 192 43 407 612 36 683 43 404 040 (4.1%) Energy Electrical energy consumption kWh 35 192 43 407 612 36 683 43 404 040 (4.1%) 2 Scope 3 27 604 31 509 (12.4%) Paper Paper consumption t 499 506 612 266 (18.5%) Waste General waste t 15 47 39 77 (61.5%) 3 Employee travel Rail travel km 128 2 675 459 98 2 215 447 30.6% Road business travel km 248 1 325 898 248* 1 317 622* – Taxi km 32 175 321 51 190 996 (37.3%) 4 Commercial airlines km 26 682 75 891 968 30 461 77 334 920 (12.4%) 4 Total emissions 64 506 70 005* (7.9%) No scope Water Water consumption kl 115 372 123 857 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 793 934 Renewable fuel derived from natural oils L 576 – Intensity Emissions per average employee 7.05 8.20 Emissions per m² office space 0.39 0.41** Water consumption per average employee 12.60 14.53 * Restated. ** m2 office space for 2016 was restated. 1 LPG Stationary gas consumption increased due to a gas leak in our Sandton Office. 2 In South Africa we maintained our electrical consumption as a result of electricity reduction initiatives, even though our headcount increased. Electricity emissions for UK and Other regions decreased due to emission factors updated in 2017. 3 General waste decline due to increased recycling efforts. 4 Travel emissions reduced due to collaboration through video conferencing. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 45 03 Direct operational impact (continued) Planet Carbon footprint for UK and Other 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Tonnes of Consumption Tonnes of Consumption Variance in CO2 in unit of CO2 in unit of tonnes CO2 Units equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent % Notes Scope 1 525 497 5.6% Energy Natural gas kWh 431 2 341 511 445 2 411 761 (3.1%) 1 Diesel L 2 600 – 600 >100% Refrigerant Refrigerant kg 92 52 52 29 76.9% Scope 2 6 250 14 672 879 6 658 14 134 778 (6.1%) Energy Electrical energy consumption kWh 6 250 14 672 879 6 658 14 134 778 (6.1%) 2 Scope 3 13 019 14 911 (12.7%) Paper Paper consumption t 387 387 306 120 26.5% Waste General waste t 6 26 9 11 (33.3%) 3 Employee travel Rail travel km 128 2 675 459 98 2 215 447 30.6% Road business travel km 193 1 034 080 182* 964 022* 6.0% Taxi km 32 175 321 51 190 996 (37.3%) 4 Commercial airlines km 12 273 33 942 801 14 265 34 787 724 (14.0%) 4 Total emissions 19 794 22 066* (10.3%) No scope Water Water consumption kl 30 810 28 666 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 522 780 Intensity Emissions per average employee 4.93 5.81* Emissions per m² office space 0.37 0.39 Water consumption per average employee 7.67 7.55  ata has been gathered in line with requirements of the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme in the UK. We use the operational control method to D determine what is included in our scope of reporting. Materiality set at a group level was 5% with all facilities estimated to contribute >1% of total emissions included. The GHG report is the same as our carbon footprint report. * Restated. 1 Reduction due to reduced boiler runs overnight. 2 Tonnes of CO2 equivalent declined due to changes in emission factors. Consumption increased slightly as we have stopped any further energy efficiency initiatives in our 2 Gresham street office as we prepare to relocate to 30 Gresham street early in 2018. 3 Tonnes of CO2 equivalent declined due to changes in emission factors. Consumption increased slightly and we continue to drive awareness around waste and recycling where possible. 4 Travel emissions reduced due to continued collaboration through video conferencing. UK energy reduction target Percentage Our 2 Gresham street office in 0 the UK, comprising 9.8% of the group floor space set an electricity -5 reduction target of 34% by 2020, -10 with 2008 as a base year. -15 -20 Energy -25 reduction -30 achieved -35 -40 32% 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Year Original % target reduction Revised % target reduction % reduction achieved 46 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Direct operational impact (continued) 03 Planet Highlights for the UK and Other • Our UK’s head office Energy Management System (EMS) remains certified to the international environmental standard ISO14001 • The UK’s head office Energy Management System remains certified to the Energy Reduction Verification Kitemark. We have, to date, saved approximately £2.2 million in this office by switching off unnecessary Our EMS remains IS014001 electricals • In 2016 our environment programme was further embedded in our regional offices. certified • The UK’s head office won their 10th Platinum Award for best practice in waste management Won • The UK’s head office won the inaugural Cleaner City Award run by the Cheapside Business Alliance 10th • The UK’s head office won a Gold prize in the Green Apple Award for platinum award for best practice Environmental Best Practice in waste management • Commended by the City of London’s Environment Group for the disposable free Fridays initiative. • Our air quality campaign reached 2 518 employees and 3 227 air pledges made • The UK’s head office bottled their own pure drinking water refilling Avoiding 17 505 kgs 29,595 litre bottles avoiding 17,505 kgs of glass waste of glass waste • We continue to encourage active travel amongst our staff and run Cycling to Work schemes • Investec staff joined millions of people across the world who switched off their lights for Earth Hour on Saturday, 25 March 2017 at 20:30. UK gas reduction target Percentage Our 2 Gresham street office in 0 the UK, comprising 9.8% of the group floor space set a revised gas -10 reduction target of 72% by 2020, -20 with 2008 as a base year. -30 -40 Gas -50 reduction -60 achieved -70 -80 72% 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Year Original % target reduction Revised % target reduction % reduction achieved Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 47 03 Direct operational impact (continued) Planet Carbon footprint for Southern Africa 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Tonnes of Consumption Tonnes of Consumption Variance in CO2 in unit of CO2 in unit of tonnes CO2 Units equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent Notes Scope 1 1 185 1 315 (9.9%) Energy LPG stationary L 36 23 978 13 8 663* >100% 1 CO2 purchased kg – 452 – – – Diesel L 266 101 795 247 91 086 7.7% Refrigerant Refrigerant kg 674 352 839 505 (19.7%) Employee travel Vehicle fleet km 209 1 092 169 216 1 131 072 (3.2%) Scope 2 28 942 28 734 733 30 025 29 269 262 (3.6%) Energy Electrical energy consumption kWh 28 942 28 734 733 30 025 29 269 262 (3.6%) 2 Scope 3 14 485 16 598 (12.1%) Paper Paper consumption t 112 119 306 146 (63.4%) 3 Waste General waste t 9 21 30 66 (70.0%) 4 Employee travel Road business travel km 55 291 818 66 353 600 (16.7%) 5 Commercial airlines km 14 409 41 949 167 16 196 42 547 196 (11.0%) 5 Total emissions 44 712 47 938 (6.7%) No scope Water Water consumption kl 84 562 95 191 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 241 154 Renewable fuel derived from natural oils L 576 – Intensity Emissions per average employee 8.70 10.15 Emissions per m2 office space 0.40 0.43** Water consumption per average employee 16.46 20.15 ** Restated. 1 LPG stationary gas consumption increased due to a gas leak experienced in the months from November 2016 to February 2017. 2 In South Africa we maintained our electricity consumption as a result of electricity reduction initiatives, even though our headcount increased. Electricity emissions decreased due to emission factors updated in 2017. 3 Paper consumption decreased due to awareness around paper usage. 4 General waste decreased due to active recycling efforts. 5 Travel emissions reduced due to collaboration through video conferencing. 48 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Direct operational impact (continued) 03 Planet South Africa energy reduction target Percentage 0 We have set an energy reduction target of 10% by 2020, with 2014 -2 as base year. -4 -6 Energy -8 reduction -10 achieved -12 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 6.9% Year Target % reduction % forecast reduction % reduction achieved Highlights for Southern Africa 6.9% • 6.9% reduction since 2014. In spite of significant growth in occupied space (two additional floors in Sandton) and growth in staff headcount (8% for South Africa) there is good progress towards achieving a 10% reduction in energy by 2020 on the 2014 baseline. reduction in energy • Our biggest energy consumers are heating, ventilation and airconditioning systems, lighting and information technology. During 2016/2017 we spent approximately R5 million on consolidation and modernisation of electrical infrastructure. In addition to the efficiencies gained through infrastructure improvements, consolidation and R5mn decommissioning activities in the data centre have resulted in further spend on consolidating and energy consumption reductions. These initiatives have effectively offmodernisation of electrical set the additional energy requirements associated with the additional floor space and staff head count. As a result, the consumption infrastructure figures for 2017 are very similar to 2016. Further consolidation and modernisation activities are planned for the 2018 financial year. • Investec Team Green manages Investec’s internal environmental initiatives. Team Green hosted an Out of the Ordinary e-waste campaign using art as communication to raise awareness of responsible disposing Raised awareness around of electronic waste. Word of mouth, information boards and a quirky robot were the only forms of messaging to staff. Five South African electronic waste sculptors were invited to work across Investec offices and use their art as a medium of communication about e-waste. • Investec offices and Investec staff joined millions of people across the Participated in world who switched off their lights for Earth Hour on Saturday, 25 March 2017 at 20:30. Earth Hour • Investec staff partnered with Interwaste in an initiative called Tops and Tops and Tags donated 37 Tags. We donated additional four wheelchairs to worthy recipients this year, bringing the total of wheelchairs donated to 37. As a result we prevented 1.8 million tops and 200 000 tags polluting landfills. wheelchairs since inception Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 49 04 Profit Overview of our 2017 financial year 04 Profit Strong client activity levels supporting underlying performance • Strong performance against a backdrop • The Specialist Banking business • The group has successfully leveraged of continued macro uncertainty and reported results ahead of the prior year its ability to provide clients an volatility in the group’s key operating supported by sound levels of corporate international offering, increasing its geographies and client activity client base and deepening its core franchise. • The Asset Management and Wealth & • Growth in costs primarily reflects Investment businesses have benefited planned investment in growing the from higher funds under management client franchise businesses supported by rising market levels • We aim to maintain an appropriate balance between revenue earned from operational risk activities and revenue earned from financial risk activities. • This ensures that we are not over reliant on any one part of our businesses to sustain our activities and that we have a large recurring revenue base that enables us to navigate through varying cycles and supports our long-term strategy. • Our capital light activities contributed 56% to group income and capital intensive activities contributed 44% to group income. Progress made on our financial targets... Ongoing Statutory Target March 2017 March 2016 March 2017 March 2016 12% – 16% over a rolling five-year ROE (post-tax) period 14.2% 13.9% 12.5% 11.5% Adjusted^ EPS growth Target: 10% > UKPRI 11.3% 2.3% 16.9% 4.8% Cost to income Target: < 65% 65.8% 65.8% 66.3% 66.4% Dividend cover (times) Target: 1.7x – 3.5x n/a n/a 2.1x 2.0x Total tier 1 ratio Investec plc Target: > 11.0% n/a n/a 11.5% 10.7% Total tier 1 ratio Investec Limited Target: > 11.0% n/a n/a 10.7% 10.7% * Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after other non-controlling interests. ^ Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items and after non-controlling interests and deduction of preference dividends. Sound capital and liquidity principles maintained • The intimate involvement of senior management ensures stringent management of risk and liquidity. • A well-established liquidity management philosophy remains in place. • Liquidity remains strong with cash and near cash balances amounting to £12.0 billion (2016: £11.0 billion). • Capital remained in excess of current regulatory requirements. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 51 05 The way we do business Corporate governance and risk 05 The way we do business Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational Values and structure. Structures are designed to ensure that code of conduct our values remain embedded in all businesses and We have a strong processes. We continually refine these structures, and a organisational written statement of values serves as our code of ethics culture of We operate under a dual-listed company Code (the Code) which was issued by entrenched values, (DLC) structure, and consider the corporate the UK’s Financial Reporting Council in governance principles and regulations 2010 and revised in September 2012, and which form the of both the UK and South Africa before the King Code of Governance Principles cornerstone of our adopting the appropriate rule for the group. for South Africa (King III). Therefore, all All international business units operate in stakeholders are assured that we are being behaviour towards accordance with the above determined managed ethically and in compliance all stakeholders. corporate governance requirements, in with the latest legislation, regulations and addition to those of their jurisdiction, but best practices. These values are with clear adherence at all times to group Underpinning these legislative, regulatory embodied in a values and culture. and best practice requirements are written statement The board, management and employees Investec’s values and philosophies, which of Investec are committed to complying provide the framework against which of values, which with the disclosure and transparency rules we measure behaviour and practices so serves as our and listing rules of the United Kingdom as to assess the characteristics of good Listing Authority (UKLA), the JSE Limited governance. Our values require that code of ethics, (JSE) Listings Requirements, regulatory directors and employees act with integrity and is continually requirements in the countries in which we and conduct themselves to promote and operate, the UK Corporate Governance maintain trust. reinforced. We view all employees as the Environmental and social risk management custodians of ethical • Environmental (including animal welfare behaviour, which is T  his section should be read together with the full risk report and climate-related impacts) reinforced through in volume two of Investec’s 2017 integrated annual report. • Social considerations (including Human internal processes, Rights) • Macroeconomic considerations. policies and Overview procedures. As such Environmental and social Investec has a holistic approach to considerations all new employees sustainability which is not limited to our daily operational activities but rather includes The group supports the precautionary are invited and our many impactful corporate social approach to environmental management are strongly investment programmes and our funding and strives to minimise and prevent investing and investment activities. This is based on in projects or dealing with counterparties encouraged to a broader corporate responsibility to the where potential and unmitigated attend an induction environment and society. We believe that environmental degradation might result. the most meaningful contribution Investec The group recognises that identifying and process at which can have is through responsible financing, quantifying environmental risk should be part our philosophies, investing and supporting businesses of the normal process of risk assessment involved in renewable energy. Accordingly, and management within businesses. For values, culture, social and environmental risk considerations example: are implicit in our values, culture and code risk management • As part of our client on boarding process, of conduct and are applied as part of our and compliance we would assess where appropriate environmental and social risk framework. potential clients for various types of risks procedures In particular, the following factors are including whether they are behaving taken into account when a transaction is responsibly in their business activities are explained evaluated and approved or declined based and discussed. • Environmental and social risks are on sustainability considerations: identified and assessed as part of transaction due diligence processes Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 53 05 Corporate governance and risk (continued) The way we do business • Our operational activities are The process for enterprise-wide risk frameworks of the countries in which the assessed for compliance with relevant (including environmental and social risks) projects are undertaken environmental, health and safety, and and its measurement, monitoring and • In the case of a number of large labour rights regulations mitigation is the responsibility of the infrastructure and energy projects, there Executive risk review forum (ERRF). It is • We regularly review sensitive sectors is potential conflict between larger, chaired by the group’s chief executive and activities prone to bearing nationwide development imperatives officer and determines the overall risk environmental and social risks (e.g. additional power generation or road appetite for the group including matters transportation) to enhance the socioThe group will avoid exposures to any relating to environmental and social risks economic welfare of the region, and transactions that involve: and their associated reputation risks. locally affected parties whose quality of ERRF is mandated by the board risk and • Undue damage to high conservation life stands to be adversely affected by capital committee (BRCC) which is the and / or protected environmental areas relocation or job loss appointed board committee to determine • Forced labour or child labour the categories of risk, specific risk and the • These trade-offs are a matter for local extent of such risks which the group on a parties and their representatives. While • The production and trade of consolidated bases should undertake. Any we should remain aware of them, it is controversial or military weapons or transactions with a corporate involved in not our responsibility to pass judgement ammunitions activities that may be deemed controversial on such trade-offs. Key to this, requires stringent escalation to the senior however, is that we target transactions • The production or trade in any product in countries with established laws that or activity deemed illegal under the group policy forum (Policy ERRF). comply with World Bank standards country of operation’s laws and All corporate responsibility developments and that have due processes that are regulations. at Investec are monitored and reviewed by applied reasonably and effectively. If not, the DLC social and ethics committee (SEC). sponsors and suppliers are obliged to Any transactions with a corporate involved The SEC supports the board in its duties to give undertakings and compliance with in transactions in the following activities protect and endorse Investec’s reputation such standards. requires stringent escalation to the senior for responsible corporate conduct. In addition, we have now designed the group policy forum (Policy ERRF): following internal framework to provide • The production and trade in radioactive Equator Principles enhanced procedures to evaluate and materials The Equator Principles (EP) were actively avoid, manage and mitigate the established to address and manage potential social and environmental impacts • The production of harmful or addictive environmental and social risks in project of the projects proposed. Going forward we substances finance transactions. They essentially will require our clients to include, specifically • Activities that involve early drug testing provide a risk management framework and explicitly, environmental and social on humans for determining, assessing and managing reporting in the loan documentation. environmental and social risk in projects Power and Infrastructure Finance • Activities that involve any form of testing and are primarily intended to provide a (PIF) framework on animals. minimum standard for due diligence to We follow the guidelines supplied by the IFC PIF categorises projects based on type support responsible risk decision-making. of projects and geography. For example, to categorise our general finance and lending We fully support the following key provisions coal and diesel power generation projects activities into high, medium and low risk. of EP: would potentially have higher social or R  efer to page 14 considerations environmental impacts than renewable • Requiring that all projects comply with power projects due to the higher CO2 regarding human trafficking and applicable environmental, planning, and other environmental emissions modern slavery. labour and procurement law associated with the fossil fuels. In terms of geographies, projects in Organisation for Economic considerations • Not funding or investing in projects Economic Cooperation and Development which do not have acceptable The group considers granting funds to (OECD) countries have to comply with a environmental impact assessments, do stimulate sustainable development in the high level of environment, planning, labour not comply with procurement and labour and procurement law and as such they following ways: laws, and either do or could reasonably would have less potential adverse social • Investment in projects to achieve be expected to breach acceptable or environmental impacts as a result of sustainable development behavioural, ethical or moral standards. careful assessment and mitigation applied to the projects. • Developing new financial products to Notwithstanding our support for the stimulate sustainability. intentions of EP, we are not currently a Categorisations are defined as below: signatory to EP for the following reasons: Governance • High risk: projects with potential • While the principles are adhered to, significant adverse social or In view of the increasing challenges globally, our current assessment and reporting environmental impacts that are diverse, financial risks along with environmental structure is robust and, on a projectirreversible or unprecedented: and social risks require regular and critical by-project basis, in accordance with review to ensure our policies and practices World Bank standards as well as the remain relevant to Investec. standards of the legal and environmental 54 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Corporate governance and risk (continued) 05 The way we do business –– T  his is likely to be projects like most Mozambique, Ghana and South waste to energy plants, wind farms, coal-fired power plants, certain Africa. Investec Limited operates biomass plants, hydro plants, landfill gas-fired power plants or projects within the South African legislative gas projects, biogas plants, roads, in non-OECD countries. For coal/ environment and subscribes to the ports, etc. gas-fired power plants in OECD efficacy of local regulation. Investec –– Projects in certain non-OECD countries, these may be classified Limited is also included in the JSE countries will also be classified as high or medium depending Socially Responsible Investment Index as medium risk. For example, on a number of factors such as which recognises companies for their renewables, base load (non-coal/ the country of operation and the environmental, social and governance gas) and cogeneration programmes sophistication of the applicable laws standards. in South Africa as these are all quite in the host country, the size and the strictly governed and monitored • Medium risk: projects with potential experience of the sponsors, and the so policy implementation risk is technology involved limited adverse social or environmental minimised. –– We currently have projects in the impacts that are few in number, following OECD countries: Australia, generally site specific, largely reversible • Low risk: projects with minimal or no Canada, United States, Germany, and readily addressed through mitigation social or environmental impacts: Poland, Italy, Spain and Ireland measures: –– This is likely to be projects like –– We currently have projects in the –– This is likely to be projects like hospitals, prisons, car parks, roof top following non-OECD countries: ground-mounted solar parks, solar projects, telecoms projects, etc. We require that projects comply with the applicable environmental, planning, labour and procurement laws. Where there is a potential significant/limited adverse social or environmental impact, we will expect the projects to undergo the suitable risk and impact assessment and to comply with a mitigation/action plan similar to those in the table below. Risk Mitigation • Potential environmental issues • Loan documentation/due diligence review and approval processes and ensure borrower complies with applicable environment laws in host country* • Protection and conservation of biodiversity • Environmental and social reporting to be included in loan covenants • Management of dangerous substance • Periodic site visits • Pollution/emission/waste management • Contaminated land • Potential social issues • Loan documentation/due diligence to ensure borrower complies with applicable planning/social/procurement laws in host country* • Health and safety issues • Environmental and social reporting to be included in loan covenants • Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement issues • Human rights issues • Loan documentation/due diligence to ensure borrower complies with applicable social laws in host country* • Labour issues • Ensure source of equipment (e.g. solar panels from China) comes from PIF-approved suppliers which tend to be large corporates • Environmental and social reporting to be included in loan agreements • Major hazards assessment and management • Due diligence to ensure borrowers have in place effective major hazards assessment and management (e.g. ISO 14001) * Laws in host country to comply with World Bank standards or, if not, sponsors and suppliers to give undertakings and compliance with such standards. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 55 05 Corporate governance and risk (continued) The way we do business Resource Finance framework types of projects are to be specifically For resource projects, we would expect Our relationships are with large listed avoided and may have the following that the project would comply with the corporates who would be subject characteristics: applicable environmental, planning, to rigorous environmental and social labour and procurement law. Where –– Large-scale projects involving requirements and obligations. The there is a potential significant/limited the permanent impact on evaluation and management of adverse social or environmental impact, environmentally-sensitive areas environmental and social risks is based we will expect the projects to undergo on the following approach: –– Projects that require large-scale the suitable risk and impact assessment relocation of communities and to comply with a mitigation plan. • We employ qualified technical To this end, we follow stringent internal professionals to assess all material –– Any project where environmental processes in assessing and mitigating risks of proposed transactions to and social impacts are material such risk, including but not limited to the resources sector, which includes and permanently extend beyond the the following: the professional assessment of site boundaries environmental and social risks relating to –– As a core strategy, we target low these developments –– Projects located in jurisdictions to medium risk projects and avoid (typically developing countries) where projects that have a high risk in terms • Prior to any new transaction, and annually environmental and social laws and of social and environmental impacts thereafter, Investec completes site visits standards are either non-existent or as part of its due diligence process –– Our internal due diligence not only not enforced. includes technical mining aspects • Internal business guidelines stipulate but also a full diligence on the • Medium risk: projects with potential that resource project developments environmental and social impacts limited adverse social or environmental with environmental and/or social risks and, if necessary, will include impacts that are generally site specific, in excess of industry norms should additional independent expert review. largely reversible and readily addressed be avoided as a matter of responsible These internal reviews are further through mitigation measures. business practice ratified by the executive through a Resource Finance is more likely to • Independent experts are engaged where have exposure to projects that have robust credit process an internal review has identified concerns the following characteristics: –– All compliance with local and around environmental and/or social risks applicable international legislation –– Medium-scale projects where of a new or existing development is covered through the loan impacts are largely limited to site and • Legal documentation specifically prevalent only while in operation documentation as a minimum requires clients to comply with requirement. Further, loan covenants environmental laws and standards –– Project environmental and social monitor ongoing compliance impacts that can be reversed and/ and reporting of adherence to • Our target clients are generally (but not or acceptably mitigated through required standards always) listed companies with stated environmental remediation and environmental and social policies community investment –– In addition to the above, ongoing compliance and internal review is • Regular reporting from our clients is –– Projects located in jurisdictions conducted by our teams by way of required to comment on environmental where environmental and social annual site visits to the operations. health and safety, environmental and laws and standards are legislated community-related incidents. and monitored. Categorisations of risks are summarised • Low risk: projects that have minimal as follows: environmental and/or social impact. • High risk: projects with potential Resource Finance transactions are significant adverse social or unlikely to fall into this category environmental impacts that are diverse, as mining by nature will have land irreversible or unprecedented. These disturbance. 56 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Compliance 05 The way we do business Compliance components of the Senior Managers Regime which came into force on firms, trading venues, data reporting service providers and third-country firms Regulatory change continues to be a key 7 March 2016. From 7 March 2017 the providing investment services or activities challenge in the financial sector with global Conduct Rules will be applied to banking in the EU. These reforms will drive change political events adding to uncertainty as to sector staff who are not within the Senior across Investec Bank plc, Investec Asset the shape of financial services regulation Managers or Certification Regime. This Management and Investec Wealth & going forward. regime establishes a new regulatory Investment. Investec remains on course for framework for individuals working in the implementation by January 2018. Global regulators remain focused on countering market abuse with heightened UK banking sector. The incoming regime consists of three key components: Material reforms also continue to take effect scrutiny and regulatory attention in this area. in the OTC markets as a result of the EU’s Accordingly, the Market Abuse Regulation • A  new Senior Managers Regime which Market Infrastructure Regulations (EMIR). (MAR) took effect across the EU on 3 July will clarify lines of responsibility, and 2016 in connection with this topic. enhance the regulators’ ability to hold Financial crime This year, global regulators have continued senior individuals in banks accountable Financial crime continues to be a regulatory to focus on promoting stability and resilience and require banks to regularly vet their focus with regulators globally encouraging in financial markets, with sustained emphasis senior managers for fitness and propriety; firms to adopt a dynamic approach to the on recovery and resolution plans and • A  Certification Regime requiring firms to management of risk and to increase efforts structural reforms to the banking sector assess fitness and propriety of staff in around systems and controls to combat as well as customer and market conduct positions where the decisions they make both money laundering and bribery and related reforms. could pose significant harm to the bank corruption. In 2016 the FCA published or any of its customers; and ‘Our future mission’ in which it states ‘we Investec remains focused on complying with see financial crime as a risk to the wider the highest levels of compliance in relation • A  new set of Conduct Rules, which take to regulatory requirements and integrity economy and market integrity’. The FCA the form of brief statements of high level Business Plan 2016/17 also highlights in each of our jurisdictions. Our culture is principles setting out the standards of central to our compliance framework and is financial crime and anti-money laundering as behaviour for bank employees. one of the seven priorities for the regulator. supported by robust policies, processes and talented professionals who ensure that the Investec Bank plc has successfully interests of our customers and shareholders implemented the core components of Tax reporting (fatca/crs) remain at the forefront of everything we do. the regime which came into force on The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act 7 March 2016. (FATCA) aims to promote cross-border tax compliance by implementing an international Investec plc – year in Consumer protection standard for the automatic exchange of tax review The FCA has continued to pursue its information relating to US investors. The consumer protection objective. Over the provisions call on tax authorities all over the Conduct risk period this has included issuing of significant world to obtain detailed account information The FCA has continued to focus on fines and performing continued strategic from financial institutions relating to US advancing its three operational objectives: reviews into areas such as: product design investors and exchange that information securing an appropriate degree of protection and sales practises, provision of advice, automatically with the United States Internal for consumers; protecting and enhancing treatment of customers who suffered Revenue Service on an annual basis. the integrity of the UK financial system; unauthorised transactions and product The OECD has recently taken further steps to and promoting effective competition in the and service suitability. improve global cross-border tax compliance interest of consumers. The FCA’s aim is by releasing the Common Reporting to ensure that clients’ interests are at the Wholesale markets Standard (CRS). The CRS is a set of global forefront of firms’ agendas and that their The FCA continues a proactive and standards for the annual exchange of needs are placed at the heart of the firms’ assertive approach in identifying and financial information by financial institutions strategy. Firms are also expected to behave addressing risks arising from firm’s conduct pertaining to customers, to the tax appropriately in the wholesale markets in in the wholesale markets. authorities of the jurisdictions in which those which they operate with a view to conduct customers are resident for tax purposes. risk considerations. This has included an increasingly intensive CRS took effect on 1 January 2016 in the approach to supervisory activities and UK, with reporting commencing from 2017. The Investec board, along with senior thematic reviews as well as several high management are ultimately responsible for profile referrals to enforcement. Investec plc is currently compliant with its Investec’s conduct risk strategy. Investec obligations. has continued to focus over the period on Wholesale markets have also been the delivering good customer outcomes and focus of significant regulatory reform over effectively managing conduct risk throughout the past 12 months. The most significant Investec Limited – year our business. This has included continued and ongoing investment in and enhancement proposed reforms have included the in review finalisation of the incoming Markets in of the conduct risk and compliance Financial Instruments Directive (MIFID II) Changes to regulatory frameworks in place throughout the group. which is due to be implemented by landscape in South Africa Senior managers and certified January 2018 and MAR. The South African financial sector regulatory persons regime The MIFID II reform package will form a landscape has been under review for the During the period Investec Bank plc revised framework governing the last few years. A new regulatory structure is successfully implemented the core requirements applicable to investment developing, and existing legislation is also Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 57 05 Compliance (continued) The way we do business being amended. The conduct of financial Bloomberg Vault as a comprehensive tool necessitated two industry initiatives namely institutions is currently regulated under for the monitoring of traders’ chat rooms or the Modernisation of Credits and SADC various pieces of legislation, and by various communications. EFT Projects to align payment platforms regulators, these will change under the new on an industry-wide basis. Investec is The members of the Information Regulator regulatory structure set out below. participating as a member bank to ensure have been appointed by the President on that compliance requirements can be met in recommendation of the National Assembly Conduct risk and consumer with effect from 1 December 2016 for the shortest possible timeframe. protection a period of five years. The Information In response to the 2015 SARB Anti-Money The draft Financial Sector Regulation Bill Regulator held its inaugural meeting on Laundering review and sanction, Investec (Twin Peaks) is at an advanced stage of 1 December 2016 to commence with its has subsequently focused on further the Parliamentary process. The National duties and functions including to monitor strengthening the control environment, Assembly voted in favour of the Bill at and enforce compliance with the Protection in order to enhance the current systems, the end of March 2017, before referring of Personal Information Act (PoPI) as well processes and resources, to ensure the the Bill back to the National Assembly. as the Promotion of Access to Information complete capturing of customer and related The Bill is expected to be promulgated Act (PAIA). The Regulator has confirmed party information and to meet the regulatory before the end of the second quarter of that a number of committees have been reporting obligations. 2017, and will result in affected business established for the proper performance of its functions and it is in the process Regulatory scrutiny continues and Investec areas being regulated by the Prudential of drafting the Regulations. While only is applying ongoing focus to ensure that Authority and the Financial Sector Conduct sections relating to the establishment of adequate systems processes and human Authority. The next phase of the regulatory the Information Regulator and drafting of capital is available to continually strengthen reform will encompass the drafting of the the regulations are effective, the remaining its control environment in order to meet its Conduct of Financial Institutions Act (CoFI) and the related conduct standards, which sections of the Act will be effective once regulatory obligations. will eventually replace existing consumer the Regulator is fully operational. Work protection legislation within the jurisdiction continues internally in order to meet our Tax reporting (fatca/crs) of the Financial Services Board (FSB). obligations in terms of data protection and South Africa and Mauritius have information management. intergovernmental agreements in place The Financial Advisory and Intermediary with the USA and each have enacted local Services Act (FAIS) continues to be Financial crime law/regulation to implement FATCA locally. enforced, with added emphasis on Financial crime continues to be a regulatory This allows South Africa and Mauritius to Treating Customers Fairly. This includes focus with amendments to governing be treated as participating countries. This the Retail Distribution Review and legislation proposed for promulgation in means that financial institutions in these proposed amendments to FAIS Fit and early 2017. The South African Treasury countries report information annually on Proper requirements and Compliance Department is under pressure to correct US clients (or non-compliant clients) to the reporting. The customer and market and implement deficiencies in the countries South African Revenue Services and the conduct committee (CMCC) established AML CFT regime, identified by the Financial local Mauritian authority respectively. These for Investec Limited as part of the conduct Action Task Force (FATF) during their mutual authorities in turn exchange information risk framework and chaired by the group evaluation review in 2014. with the US which reciprocates with similar CEO, continues to ensure that Investec information (on South African and Mauritian Limited maintains a client-focused and fair These amendments will change the Antitax residents respectively who hold financial outcomes-based culture. Conduct risk Money Laundering and Combatting of accounts in the US). Both South Africa and forums across affected legal entities ensure Financing of Terrorism (AML CFT) regulatory Mauritius are in the process of preparing that identified gaps are addressed and framework from a rules-based to a risktheir 3rd annual FATCA reports. business readiness for implementation of based approach, allowing accountable new regulatory requirements is assured. institutions to determine their own risk With South Africa being an ‘early adopter’ of Substantial progress has been made in this appetite in relation to client identification the OECD’s Common Reporting Standard regard, and the work is ongoing and will and verification. Further changes include (CRS), (the global version of FATCA), these remain a focus area. the identification and verification of Ultimate requirements became effective in South Beneficial Ownership structures (UBO), Africa on 1 March 2016. South Africa has The SARB conducted an industry-wide widening the current Political Exposed also opted for the wider approach’ which review of Foreign Exchange Trading Person’s definition and extending the means all South African reporting financial Operations in 2015. The review focused reporting obligations to all cross border institutions are required to collect tax-related predominantly on market conduct and transactions in or out of the Republic of information on all clients, rather than only related governance and controls in respect South Africa. Additionally the Financial in respect of the 55 countries which have of Foreign Exchange Trading activity. Action Task Force Recommendation 16 currently opted into CRS. Consistent with Post the review and the interrogation of requires all banks to screen full originator the FATCA reporting regime, CRS reportable electronic communications of traders for and beneficiary details effective June 2017. information is submitted to SARS annually. a specific period in 2012, there were no These changes are aimed at aligning both SARS then exchanges this information with adverse findings reported to the business FATF global standards to country specific relevant countries in return for reciprocal by the SARB. The FX review conducted by requirements which are a key focus area for information on South Africans with financial the SARB was an industry initiative which South Africa in 2017. accounts in those countries. South Africa culminated into the SARB Code of Conduct is in the process of preparing its 1st annual for the South African OTC Markets. The South African Electronic Funds Transfer CRS report. Investec Corporate and Institutional (EFT) Clearing system currently does Banking has subsequently implemented not make provision for capturing of full Mauritius has indicated that it will opt into a Financial Markets Code of Conduct and originator and beneficiary information which CRS reporting from 2018. 58 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Information technology 05 The way we do business Information technology (IT) Our vision is to continuously deliver efficient and effective information technology that meets The key principles underpinning the needs of the business facilitating excellent client service, within acceptable risk tolerance. our strategy are: • Align architecture across the group • Reduce our application and data footprint • Commoditise common functions and processes • Leverage our digital offering • Continue to improve our security. Key infrastructure-related developments reducing our environmental footprint during the period include the following: • Continuous collaboration through Video Conferencing (VC), Audio Video (AV) and our Telepresence implementation across geographies, ensures effective leveraging of international teams and reduces business travel costs • Virtualisation has continued to realise significant benefits relating to data centre footprint Continuous collaboration through Video Conferencing (VC) reduction; with 90% of all servers now virtualised. Storage technologies have been refreshed in South Africa, which has reduced the data centre storage footprint by 80%, 90% of all servers now virtualised allowing for further reclamation of data centre floor space. These initiatives have resulted in reducing the number of machine rooms in the Grayston Drive building from three to one, Continue with the automation of reducing the cooling and electricity requirement. The new platform requires only about a hibernation tenth of the power • Efficient power consumption at the Midrand Alternative Processing Site (MAPS), in South Use of cloud-based services Africa, continues with the automation of hibernation of desktop equipment during periods of low usage • Wherever feasible, the use of cloud-based services continues to be a major consideration across all geographies and businesses in an effort to reduce physical infrastructure and energy requirements. This has been achieved in five different geographies. Key infrastructure-related developments improving our IT efficiency during the period include: • The implementation of a Software Asset Management (SAM) toolset continues to yield results in optimal licensing levels and effective commercial negotiations across the group • Database infrastructure clustering resulting in a reduced hardware footprint and the subsequent reduction in power and cooling requirements (we reduced our physical Reduced physical database database servers from 78 to 40) servers from 78 to 40 • The design of our new premises in London seeks to optimise energy requirements and be New premises in London seeks to as environmentally friendly as possible optimise energy requirements • In preparation for the 2 Gresham Street move in London, an ‘activity based working’ pilot is underway to prepare us for a new working environment. This together with new technologies, will enable staff to be more mobile and productive • As part of the 2 Gresham Street move, the data centre will be moved to a purpose built, energy efficient centre outside of London. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 59 05 Information technology (continued) The way we do business Key business application-related developments: • Our strategy to become an internationally focused client-centric organisation continues • Continued consolidation and merging of technology and support teams across divisions, and in some cases geographies, is gaining momentum • Reduction in physical media (paper/printing/physical filing) as a consequence of business process automation and content management technologies • Coding, data and processing optimisation continues as well as enhancing the client service offerings thereby reducing the immediate need for additional people and infrastructure to scale the business • The One Place initiative continues to focus on the elimination of duplicate and redundant business processes across divisions and geographies to deliver an appropriate costeffective, global, client-friendly service through our client support centre in South Africa • Our One Place digital offering now includes full transactional capability for Wealth & Investment South Africa and UK, Private Banking South Africa and UK, Private Bank Channel Islands and view only capability for Wealth & Investment Switzerland and Channel Islands Continued consolidation and • Our digital platforms have been introduced into the UK Banking and UK Wealth & merging of technology and Investment client base, leveraging infrastructure, software and people support teams • The digital platform in South Africa has been enhanced to allow clients to incorporate The One Place initiative continues externally held transactional accounts, investments and loyalty programmes to complete to focus on the elimination of a One Place solution. This functionality has recently been rolled out for use in the UK duplicate and redundant business • Online Apply (eliminating paper) for a suite of banking and savings products in both processes South Africa and the UK is available to clients. Major initiatives in both South Africa and UK include a robo-advisor (automated online financial advisor) and Digital Briefcase to Online Apply (eliminating paper) further enhance processes for a suite of banking and savings products in both SA and the UK is • Wealth & Investment South Africa has leveraged its existing Share Plan platform already available to clients developed for the South Africa market. The Share Plan platform for the UK market has been developed, and will be maintained, by Wealth & Investment South Africa In the UK, the drive to digitise our Private Banking and Mortgage • Corporate and Institutional banking in South Africa and UK are rolling out an business remains a high focus e-commerce platform, which will cater for transaction, investment and dealing area capabilities and reduce the current point to point footprint globally. The payments architecture in the UK will be consolidated on the unified target architecture • In the UK, the drive to digitise our private banking and mortgage business remains a high focus area. We are developing our digital and CSC channel capabilities to increase our client engagement, through optimal technology investments that increase our operational efficiencies as we grow • In South Africa, property valuations below a specific value are automated, drastically reducing turnaround times and eliminating the need to physically visit property sites. Private bank credit processes are being automated to improve and simplify downstream processes • The Mann Island finance business in Liverpool continues to modernise their technology capabilities, the most recent being the adoption of online and mobile capabilities. • In the UK, CRM in the cloud was achieved, further enabling the business to put the client in the centre using both a high tech and high touch approach, ensuring a robust and scalable platform • Investec Australia and Ireland are leveraging off the use of the UK trading and lending platforms. Security and risk management We continue to enhance security and risk management capabilities supported by We continue to enhance security specialised central and embedded teams and systems across the group. Emphasis is and risk management capabilities placed on dealing with the ever-changing threats in a proactive manner through focused mitigation strategies. Coordination is supported by a defined group target architecture. 60 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Information technology (continued) 05 The way we do business Cybercrime Our cyber resilience strategy is based upon a threat-driven approach to cyber security, rather than the contemporary compliance-driven approach. Regular targeted attack simulations by specialist companies, against the group as a whole, is used to measure Cyber resilience strategy and improve our cyber defenses. We attract and employ world class We endeavour to stay current with the ever-evolving threat landscape by placing an security professionals emphasis on actionable threat intelligence and continuous research. We attract and employ world class security professionals. We believe people, operating within a risk conscious culture, and not just technology, is the ‘key to success’ in being resilient against security threats. Procurement Our supply chain statement incorporates standards on human We recognise the potential for our procurement and supply chain practices to be agents for rights, labour rights and environmental change in respect of the different aspects of sustainability. We continue to engineer, within and anticorruption principles as set out select industries, changed outcomes across economic, social and environmental fronts. in the UN Global Compact. In the UK, we are committed to ensuring that 100% of our beverage offering has the We will not knowingly engage with Fairtrade label. A product that carries the Fairtrade certification mark has met the rigorous any supplier who: Fairtrade standards, which focus on improving labour and living conditions for farming communities and on promoting a way of farming that doesn’t harm either people or the • Is not operating in compliance environment. with all applicable environmental, labour and anti-corruption laws In South Africa, our procurement practices seek to accord with the BEE requirements and regulations of the countries in of the Department of Trade and Industry’s Codes of Good Practice and we have an which they operate, manufacture or established process for monitoring and measuring our broad-based BEE procurement conduct business efforts. Environmentally responsible partners are key to the procurement process and we focus on sustainability criteria when contracting with potential and existing vendors. Our • Has a significant impact on the largest suppliers of personal computers and server equipment subscribe to an electronic environment and not maintaining code of conduct, which assists in monitoring compliance across several areas such as an effective environmental policy environmental impact, labour, health and safety. We always consider the Energy Star and/or environmental management endorsement before purchasing equipment. Our banqueting team sources products bearing system that support environmental the Rainforest Alliance Certification seal which assures rigorous environmental, social and protection, prevention of pollution economic criteria are considered in order to achieve long-term sustainability. Approximately • Is using any form of forced or 90% our third party spend is from local suppliers. involuntary labour • Is employing children • Is not providing equal opportunity for all employees regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation or religion • Is not respecting the right of their employees to freely associate and collectively bargain within the boundaries of the applicable law • Is not treating their employees with respect and dignity and not providing a work environment free of harassment, intimidation and bullying • Is not providing a safe and healthy working environment in order to prevent workplace accidents and injuries • Is engaging in bribery, collusive practices or any other form of corruption to obtain or retain business. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 61 06 Appendix Independent assurance statement 06 Appendix Independent assurance provider’s limited assurance report on selected non-financial information to be presented in the 2017 annual corporate responsibility report for the year ending 31 March 2017. We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement on selected sustainability information, as described below, and presented in the 2017 annual corporate responsibility report for the year ending 31 March 2017 (the Report). This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including social, environmental, carbon and assurance specialists with relevant experience in corporate responsibility reporting. Subject matter We are required to provide limited assurance on the following selected corporate responsibility information prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (‘GRI Standards’) and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard, supported by Investec’s internally developed guidelines, and collectively referred to as ‘Investec’s reporting criteria’. Table 1: Scope of the 2017 limited assurance engagement Selected corporate responsibility Coverage/reporting Category information boundary Environmental Total gas consumption (kilojoules) Investec Limited and Investec plc (refer to pages 45, 46 Total water consumption (kilolitres) and 48) Total weight by paper usage (tonnes) Total emissions (tonnes CO2 eq ) relating to: • Direct emissions (scope 1) – gas, refrigerants, generators and firm-owned vehicles • Indirect emissions (scope 2) – purchased electricity • Other emissions (scope 3) – business travel (including cars, taxis, buses, rail, air and waste) Office space per m2 Human resources Spend per region, per service line (Specialist Banking, Asset Investec Limited and Investec plc (refer to pages 13,16 and 17) Management, Wealth & Investment) on employee learning and development (Rands and Pounds Sterling) Employee headcount per region, per service line (number) Permanent and temporary employee headcount per region (number) Incidents of discrimination recorded (number) Corporate social Group Corporate Social Investment (CSI) spend per region, per Investec Limited and Investec plc investment service line (Rands and Pounds Sterling) (refer to page 20) UK and Other CSI spend per focus area of spend (Pounds Sterling) UK and Other operations Southern Africa CSI spend per focus area of spend (Rands) Southern African operations Directors’ responsibilities commitments with respect to corporate for Registered Auditors issued by the responsibility performance and design, Independent Regulatory Board for The directors are responsible for the implementation and maintenance of internal Auditors (IRBA) that is consistent with the selection, preparation and presentation of the selected corporate responsibility control relevant to the preparation of the International Ethics Standards Board for information as noted in the table above Report and supplementary appendices Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional in accordance with Investec’s reporting that are free from material misstatement, Accountants (Part A and B), which is criteria and for ensuring that the reporting whether due to fraud or error. founded on the fundamental principles criteria in support of the selected corporate of integrity, objectivity, professional Our independence and quality competence and due care, confidentiality responsibility information subject to assurance is made available to the users control and professional behaviour. of the Report. This responsibility includes We have complied with the independence KPMG applies the International Standard on the identification of stakeholders and and all other ethical requirements of Quality Control 1, and accordingly maintains stakeholder requirements, material issues, the Code of Professional Conduct a comprehensive system of quality control Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 63 06 Independent assurance statement (continued) Appendix including documented policies and Summary of work performed Other matters procedures regarding compliance with Given the circumstances of the The maintenance and integrity of the ethical requirements, professional standards engagement, the procedures performed Investec’s Website is the responsibility of and applicable legal and regulatory included the following, but were not Investec management. Our procedures requirements. necessarily limited to: did not involve consideration of these Our responsibility • Conducted a series of planning matters and, accordingly we accept no meetings with various parties involved responsibility for any changes to either Our responsibility is to perform our limited in Investec’s reporting and management the information in the Report or our assurance engagement so that we are processes in order to gain a general independent limited assurance report that able to express our limited assurance understanding of the processes may have occurred since the initial date of conclusions on whether anything has its presentation on the Investec Website. come to our attention that causes us • Tested the processes and systems at to believe that the selected corporate group level which generate, collate, Restriction of liability responsibility information is not prepared, aggregate, monitor and report selected Our work has been undertaken to enable us in all material respects, in accordance with key performance indicators and to express a limited assurance conclusion Investec’s reporting criteria. We conducted inspected related documentation on the selected corporate responsibility our engagement in accordance with the information to the Directors of Investec International Standard on Assurance • Inspected supporting documentation in accordance with the terms of our Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), and performed analytical procedures engagement, and for no other purpose. Assurance Engagements other than the on a sample basis to evaluate the data We do not accept or assume liability to Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial generation and reporting processes any party other than Investec, for our work, Information and ISAE 3410, Assurance against the reporting criteria for this report, or for the conclusion we Engagements on Greenhouse Gas • Reviewed the draft copy and the final have reached. Statements. These standards require us version of the Report to confirm that to plan and perform our engagement to all values and information reported for obtain limited assurance about whether the selected corporate responsibility the selected corporate responsibility information is consistent with the information is free from material misstatement. evidence obtained as part of the A limited assurance engagement assurance process undertaken in accordance with • Evaluated whether the selected ISAE 3000 (revised) and ISAE 3410 information presented in the Report is involves assessing the suitability in the consistent with our overall knowledge circumstances of Investec’s use of its and experience of the performance at KPMG Services Proprietary Limited reporting criteria as the basis of preparation Investec. Director: Per NG Morris for the selected corporate responsibility Chartered Accountant (SA) information, assessing the risks of material The procedures performed in a limited Registered Auditor misstatement of the selected corporate assurance engagement vary in nature responsibility information whether due to from, and are less in extent than for a 30 June 2017 fraud or error, responding to the assessed reasonable assurance engagement. As 1 Albany Road risks as necessary in the circumstances, a result the level of assurance obtained Parktown and evaluating the overall presentation in a limited assurance engagement is South Africa of the selected corporate responsibility substantially lower than the assurance 2193 information. A limited assurance that would have been obtained had engagement is substantially less in scope we performed a reasonable assurance than a reasonable assurance engagement engagement. Accordingly, we do not in relation to both risk assessment express a reasonable assurance opinion procedures, including an understanding about whether Investec’s KPIs have of internal control, and the procedures been prepared, in all material respects, that will be performed in response to the in accordance with the accompanying assessed risks. Investec reporting criteria. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and Limited assurance conclusions included inquiries, observation of processes Based on the procedures we have followed, inspection of documents, performed and the evidence we have analytical procedures, evaluating the obtained, nothing has come to our attention appropriateness of quantification methods that causes us to believe that the selected and reporting policies, and agreeing and corporate responsibility information set out reconciling information with underlying in the subject matter paragraph for the year records. ended 31 March 2017 are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Investec reporting criteria. 64 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 06 Appendix GRI 101: Foundation This report, inside cover: Scope and reporting framework GRI 102: General disclosures Alignment with the Business Organisational profile SDG’s theme 102-1 Core Name of the organisation Investec. 102-2 Core Activities, brands, products, Integrated annual report: Volume one, and services pages 12 to 15. Corporate responsibility report: Page 1. About the Investec group, 102-3 Core Location of headquarters Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 228. Our headquarters are in Johannesburg for our Southern African operations and in London for our UK and Other operations. 102-4 Core Location of operations Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 18 and 19. Operational footprint. 102-5 Core Ownership and legal form Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 17. Operational structure. Volume one, pages 150 to 154. Shareholder analysis. 102-6 Core Markets served (including Integrated annual report: Volume one, geographical breakdown, pages 18 and 19. Operational footprint. sectors and type of customers) 102-7 Core Scale of the organisation Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 18 and 19. Operational footprint. 102-8 Core Information on employees Corporate responsibility report: Pages 13 and and other workers 17. Number of employees is shown by division Employment and by geography. Permanent, temporary and contractors are split. 102-9 Core Supply chain Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 18 to 21. Corporate responsibility report: Page 1. 102-10 Core Significant changes to the Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 5 organisation and its supply to 11. Highlights. Pages 22 to 25. Operational chain and strategic report. 102-11 Core Precautionary principle or Integrated annual report: Volume two, approach pages 16 to 20. Risk management, credit and counterparty risk management. 102-12 Core External initiatives Corporate responsibility report: Page 3. Corporate responsibility memberships. 102-13 Core Membership of associations Corporate responsibility report: Page 3. Corporate responsibility memberships. Strategy 102-14 Core Statement by the CEO Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 22 to 25. Corporate responsibility report: Page 6. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 38 opportunities to 48. Financial review. Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 92, 98,109 and 110. Divisional questions and answers. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 3 to 10. Corporate responsibility at Investec. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 65 06 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) Alignment with the Business Ethics and integrity SDG’s theme 102-16 Core Values, principles, standards, Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 12 and norms of behaviour to 14. About Investec group. Page 1. Corporate Ethical and governance report, who we are. lawful behaviour Corporate responsibility report: Page 114. About the Investec group. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 162. concerns about ethics Corporate responsibility report: Page 14. Ethical and Whistle-blowing policy and protective disclosure. lawful behaviour Governance 102-18 Core Governance structure Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 112 to 154. Corporate governance. 102-19 Delegating authority Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 132 to 135. Corporate governance report, DLC social and ethics committee. 102-20 Executive level responsibility for Integrated annual report: Volume one, economic, environmental, and pages 132 to 135. Corporate governance social topics report, DLC social and ethics committee. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Integrated annual report: Volume one, economic, environmental, and pages 155 and 157. Inclusive social topics Corporate responsibility report: Pages 7 to 10. decision making Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-22 Composition of the highest Integrated annual report: Volume one, governance body and its pages 112 to 154. Corporate governance. Inclusive committees decision making Women in leadership 102-23 Chair of the highest Integrated annual report: Volume one, Effective, governance body pages 147 to 149. Statement of compliance. accountable and transparent governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the Integrated annual report: Volume one, highest governance body pages 127 to 311. Corporate governance Inclusive report, DLC nominations and directors’ affairs decision making committee (nomdac). Women in leadership 102-25 Conflicts of interest Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 148. Effective, Conflict of interest. accountable and transparent governance 102-26 Role of highest governance Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 123 body in setting purpose, to 126. values, and strategy 66 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) 06 Appendix Alignment with the Business GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) SDG’s theme 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 129. Education for governance body Skills, knowledge and experience. sustainable development 102-28 Evaluating the highest Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 123. governance body’s Corporate governance report. What we did. performance 102-29 Identifying and managing Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 132 economic, environmental, and to 135. Corporate governance report, DLC Inclusive social impacts social and ethics committee. decision making 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 132 management processes to 135. Social and ethical responsibility. Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 17. Corporate responsibility considerations. 102-31 Review of economic, Integrated annual report: Volume one, environmental, and social pages 132 to 135. Corporate governance topics report, DLC social and ethics committee. 102-32 Highest governance body’s role Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 132 in sustainability reporting to 135. Social and ethical responsibility. 102-33 Communicating critical Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 155. concerns Communication and stakeholder engagement. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 7 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-34 Nature and total number of No critical concerns were raised during the critical concerns reporting year ending 31 March 2017. Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 132 to 135. Social and ethical responsibility. 102-35 Remuneration policies Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 185 to 226. Remuneration report. 102-36 Process for determining Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 185 remuneration to 226. Remuneration report. 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 155. remuneration Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 187. Inclusive Remuneration outcomes for 2017. decision making Corporate responsibility report: Pages 7 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-38 Annual total compensation Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 185 ratio to 226. Remuneration report 102-39 Percentage increase in annual Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 185 total compensation ratio to 226. Remuneration report. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 Core List of stakeholder groups Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 155. Corporate responsibility report: Page 7. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-41 Core Collective bargaining Corporate responsibility report: Page 14. Freedom of agreements Freedom of association. association and collective bargaining 102-42 Core Identifying and selecting Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 155. stakeholders Corporate responsibility report: Page 7. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-43 Core Approach to stakeholder Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 155. engagement Corporate responsibility report: Pages 7 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-44 Core Key topics and concerns Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 155 raised and 157. Integrated annual report: Volume one page 125. Feedback from board on stakeholder engagement. Corporate responsibility report: Page 8. Communication and stakeholder engagement and materiality. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 67 06 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) Alignment with the Business Reporting practice SDG’s theme 102-45 Core Entities included in the Integrated annual report: Volume one, consolidated financial page 17. Operational structure. Investec statements Import Solutions (Pty) Ltd is excluded from the sustainability report. This will be included in the next financial year. 102-46 Core Defining report content and Integrated annual report: Volume one, topic boundaries pages 157 to 159. Corporate Responsibility. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 7 to 10. Corporate responsibility in an Investec context. 102-47 Core List of material topics Integrated annual report. Volume one page 157 Corporate responsibility report: Page 8. 102-48 Core Restatements of information We have restated business travel for our UK and Other operations. We have restated our m2 office space for our Sandton building in South Africa. 102-49 Core Changes in reporting Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 2. Ongoing and statutory information. 102-50 Core Reporting period 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. 102-51 Core Date of most recent previous 31 March 2016. report 102-52 Core Reporting cycle Annually. 102-53 Core Contact point for questions See contact details. Corporate responsibility regarding the report report: Page 83. 102-54 Core Claims of reporting in Corporate responsibility report: Inside cover: accordance with the GRI About this report Standards 102-55 Core GRI content index This table. 102-56 Core External assurance Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 157. Corporate responsibility report: Inside front cover. Assurance and pages 63 and 64 of the corporate responsibility report. GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material Integrated annual report. Volume one page 157. topic and its boundary Corporate responsibility report: Inside front cover. Scope of reporting section. Corporate responsibility report: Inside front cover. Scope of reporting. Corporate responsibility report relates to all operations and geographies section. Corporate responsibility report: Materiality pages 7 to 10. 103-2 The management approach There were no grievances filed with regards and its components to environmental impacts for the reporting Grievance year ending 31 March 2017. There were no mechanisms grievances filed regarding labour practices for the reporting year ending 31 March 2017. There were no grievances filed regarding human rights impacts for the reporting year ending 31 March 2017. There were no grievances filed Economic regarding impacts on society for the reporting inclusion year ending 31 March 2017. 103-3 Evaluation of the management Corporate responsibility report: Pages 9 to 10. approach 68 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) 06 Appendix GRI 200: Economic standards Alignment with the Business GRI 201: Economic performance SDG’s theme 201-1 Direct economic value Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 10 generated and distributed and pages 158 to 159. Infrastructure Corporate responsibility report: Page 4. Value investments added statement. Infrastructure Investments Infrastructure investments Economic performance – Infrastructure investment – Research and development 201-2 Financial implications and other Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 17. Risk and risks and opportunities due to Corporate responsibility report: Pages 35 to 41. opportunities climate change due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations Investec follows the defined contribution pension and other retirement plans schemes. We have two small defined benefit plans which were inherited as part of legacy acquisitions and which have been closed to new contributions. 201-4 Financial assistance received No financial assistance was received from from government the government. Investec has never received financial assistance from the government, even during financial crisis. GRI 202: Market presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level Standard entry level wage exceeds the local wage by gender compared to minimum wage in all geographies. These ratios Earnings, wages local minimum wage are not publicly reported. and benefits Equal remuneration for women and men Earnings, wages and benefits 202-2 Proportion of senior We do not disclose this level of information. management hired from the local community GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and Corporate responsibility report: Pages 54 and services supported 55. Power and infrastructure finance. Infrastructure investments Infrastructure investments Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 69 06 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix Alignment with the Business GRI 200: Economic standards (continued) SDG’s theme Infrastructure investments Infrastructure investments Infrastructure investments 203-2 Significant indirect economic Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 10 – Availability of impacts and 11 and pages 158 and 159. Highlights. products and Corporate responsibility report: Pages 8 to 10. services for Creating value for our stakeholders. those on low incomes – Economic development in areas of high poverty Changing the productivity of organisations, sectors of the whole economy – Changing the productivity of organisations, sectors of the whole economy – Indirect impact on job creation – Jobs supported in the supply chain – Economic development in areas of high poverty – Foreign direct investments Foreign direct investments GRI 204: Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local In South Africa approximately 90% of our third suppliers party procurement spend is from local suppliers. Procurement practices 70 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) 06 Appendix GRI 200: Economic standards (continued) Alignment with the Business GRI 205: Anti-corruption SDG’s theme 205-1 Operations assessed for risks Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 75 related to corruption to 78. Operational risk. Corporate responsibility report: pages 57 and 58. Group Operational Risk and Compliance Anti-corruption operates a group-wide process across 100% of our business units which includes assessment and reporting on the potential for incidents of corruption. 205-2 Communication and training Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 75 about anti-corruption policies to 78. Operational risk. All Investec employees and procedures are responsible for compliance and risk management and therefore each employee has a responsibility to stay updated with good practice, expected standards of conduct in relevant business lines and changes in law and Anti-corruption regulation. All staff are also expected to attend the relevant compliance training courses and complete an online assessment. Towards the end of 2016 all employees were required to do the online AML training and obtain a minimum score of 85% in the knowledge assessment test. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 75 corruption and actions taken to 78. Operational risk. Investec has an antimoney laundering policy as well as a compliance manual and handbook that explains the procedures to follow should there be incidents of corruption. Investec has established and maintains policies, procedures and controls Anti-corruption to ensure that, in accordance with regulatory requirements, all staff report information or other matters which come to their attention in the course of their employment and which give reasonable grounds for knowledge or suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing activity. GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for antiNo legal actions have been taken against Investec competitive behaviour, for anti-competitive behaviour, however, anti‑trust, and monopoly Investec Limited continues to cooperate with the practices Competition Commission Authorities in South Compliance Africa with respect to their investigation into with laws and alleged collusion to fix Rand-Dollar trades. The regulations bank has requested further information from the Authorities. Integrated annual report. Volume one page 198 and volume two page 8. GRI 300: Environmental standards GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or Corporate responsibility report: Pages 44 to 49. volume Planet section: Direct operational impacts. Materials efficiency Materials efficiency/ recycling Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 71 06 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix Alignment with the Business GRI 300: Environmental standards (continued) SDG’s theme 301-2 Recycled input materials used Corporate responsibility report: Pages 44 to 49. Planet section: Direct operational impacts Materials efficiency Materials efficiency/ recycling 301-3 Reclaimed products and their Not relevant. As a niche specialist financial packaging materials service organisation with a small physical presence this indicator is not relevant for Investec. GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the Corporate responsibility report: Pages 44 to 49. organisation Planet section: Direct operational impacts. Energy efficiency Renewable energy Energy efficiency Energy efficiency Energy efficiency 302-2 Energy consumption outside of Not applicable. As a niched specialist financial the organisation services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 302-3 Energy intensity Corporate responsibility report: Pages 44 to 49. Planet section: Direct operational impacts. Energy efficiency Energy efficiency Energy efficiency Energy efficiency 72 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) 06 Appendix Alignment with the Business GRI 300: Environmental standards (continued) SDG’s theme 302-4 Reduction of energy Corporate responsibility report: Pages 44 to 49. consumption Planet section: Direct operational impacts. Energy efficiency Energy efficiency Energy efficiency Energy efficiency 302-5 Reductions in energy Corporate responsibility report: Pages 44 to 49. requirements of products and Planet section: Direct operational impacts. Energy services efficiency Energy efficiency Energy efficiency Energy efficiency GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Corporate responsibility report: Pages 44 to 49. Sustainable Planet section: Direct operational impacts. water withdrawals 303-2 Water sources significantly Not applicable. As a niched specialist financial affected by withdrawal of water services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 303-3 Water recycled and reused Corporate responsibility report: Pages 44 to Water efficiency 49. Planet section: Direct operational impacts Water recycling for details on initiatives to reduce water usage. and reuse Investec does not recycle water. GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, Not applicable for Investec which operates leased, managed in, or within urban locations where biodiversity adjacent to, protected areas impacts are minimal. and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, As a financial services provider we do not have products, and services on a direct impact. However, though our project Water-related biodiversity finance and property business we ensure that ecosystems and environment impact assessments are completed biodiversity for transactions. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 54 to 56. 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Corporate responsibility report: Pages 42 and 43. Water-related Conserving the environment. ecosystems and biodiversity Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 73 06 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix Alignment with the Business GRI 300: Environmental standards (continued) SDG’s theme 304-4 IUCN Red List species and There are no material impacts on biodiversity, national conservation list therefore this is not relevant. species with habitats in areas affected by operations GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 174. emissions Corporate responsibility report: Page 45. Carbon Air quality footprint for the group. Air quality Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 174. emissions Corporate responsibility report: Page 45. Air quality Carbon footprint for the group. Air quality GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 174. emissions Corporate responsibility report: Page 45. Air quality Carbon footprint for the group. Air quality 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 174. Corporate responsibility report: Page 45. GHG emissions Carbon footprint for the group. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 174. Corporate responsibility report: Page 45. GHG emissions Carbon footprint for the group. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial substances (ODS) services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial oxides (SOX), and other services organisation with a small physical significant air emissions presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 74 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) 06 Appendix GRI 300: Environmental standards (continued) Alignment with the Business GRI 306: Effluents and waste SDG’s theme 306-1 Water discharge by quality and Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial destination services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial method services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-3 Significant spills Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-5 Water bodies affected by water Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial discharges and/or runoff services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial environmental laws and services organisation with a small physical regulations presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were Corporate responsibility report: Page 61. screened using environmental Procurement. Only screened in our South criteria African operations and we will look to extend this screening to the UK in the next financial year. 308-2 Negative environmental Corporate responsibility report: Page 61. impacts in the supply chain Procurement. Only screened in our South and actions taken African operations and we will look to extend this screening to the UK in the next financial year. GRI 400: Social standards GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 67. employee turnover Corporate responsibility report: Pages 13 and 17. Gender equality Corporate responsibility. Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to fullIntegrated annual report: Volume one, pages 185 time employees that are not to 226. Remuneration report. Benefits are Earnings, wages provided to temporary or partbroken down by gross remuneration, variable and benefits time employees short-term incentives by division and variable long-term incentive plans. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 75 06 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix Alignment with the Business GRI 400: Social standards (continued) SDG’s theme 401-3 Parental leave Investec is committed to principles of equality and has relevant employment policies and Parental leave practices in place. Corporate responsibility page 15. In South Africa paternity leave has been extended to 10 days, 5 days more than required by regulation. The UK has decreased the length of service Parental leave required to benefit to from enhanced maternity pay and parental leave from 1 year to 26 weeks. GRI 402: Labour/management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods Not applicable as there is no representative trade regarding operational changes union for Investec and all operational changes will be in accordance to the Labour Relations Act. GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workers representation in Health and safety policy: Members of the senior formal joint managementexecutive, are responsible for ensuring that worker health and safety subordinate heads of business units are held committees accountable for their performance in managing Occupational the occupational health and safety in areas health and under their control. Integrated annual report: safety Volume one, page 163. Corporate responsibility report: Page 15. Health and safety. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of As a bank, work-related diseases and fatalities injury, occupational diseases, are not a common occurrence. Integrated Occupational lost days, and absenteeism, annual report: Volume one page 163. While we health and and number of work-related recorded 64 occupational injuries in the past safety fatalities year these would be minor and unlikely to result in a significant loss of work days. Corporate responsibility report: Page 15. Health Occupational and safety. health and safety 403-3 Workers with high incidence or As a bank, work-related diseases and fatalities high risk of diseases related to are not a common occurrence. Integrated annual Occupational their occupation report: Volume one, page 163. health and Corporate responsibility report: Page 15. Health safety and safety. Occupational health and safety 403-4 Health and safety topics There is no representative trade union for Occupational covered in formal agreements Investec. This indicator is therefore not applicable. health and with trade unions safety GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per We do not show average hours of training per year per employee year per employee and by employee category. Employee Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 164. training and Corporate responsibility report: Page 16. Group education training spend split by geography and division. Employee training and education 404-2 Programmes for upgrading Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 164. Employee employee skills and transition Corporate responsibility report: Pages 16 and training and assistance programmes 17. Employee strategy section. education 76 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) 06 Appendix Alignment with the Business GRI 400: Social standards (continued) SDG’s theme 404-3 Percentage of employees Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 160. receiving regular performance Corporate responsibility report: Page 12. and career development Performance review process. 100% – this is part Gender equality reviews of the remuneration and performance evaluation procedure for annual increases and bonuses. Employee training and education GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 165 and employees Integrated annual report: Volume one page 129. Gender equality Board diversity. Women in Corporate responsibility report: Page 17. leadership Employee gender composition. Diversity and equal opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and We do not disclose this information. Investec remuneration of women to men is committed to principles of equality and has relevant employment policies and practices in place. GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and There has been no recorded incidence of corrective actions taken discrimination in any of our businesses. NonCorporate responsibility report: Page 14. discrimination Nondiscrimination Nondiscrimination GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in Corporate responsibility report: Page 14. Freedom of which the right to freedom Working at Investec. Investec is not aware of association of association and collective any operations or suppliers in which the right to and collective bargaining may be at risk exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining bargaining may have been violated. GRI 408: Child labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Corporate responsibility report: Page 61. significant risk for incidents of Procurement. Investec has a group procurement Abolition of child child labour statement. labour Abolition of child labour GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Corporate responsibility report: Page 61. Elimination significant risk for incidents of Procurement. Investec has a group procurement of forced or forced or compulsory labour statement. compulsory labour Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 77 06 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 400: Social standards (continued) Alignment with the Business GRI 410: Security practices SDG’s theme 410-1 Security personnel trained Security personnel are trained on risk and in human rights policies or interpersonal and communication skills as well procedures as how to approach a situation when an incident Security takes place. Specific human rights training does not take place. GRI 411: Rights of indigenous people 411-1 Incidents of violations involving No incidents relating to indigenous rights rights of indigenous peoples occurred during the reporting year. Indigenous rights GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been Corporate responsibility report: Page 14. Human subject to human rights reviews rights which covers 100% of our operations. or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human Corporate responsibility report: Page 14. rights policies or procedures Working at Investec. Every employee undergoes group induction training, which includes training on employee rights within Investec. 412-3 Significant investment Corporate responsibility report: Page 36. agreements and contracts that Responsible asset management. include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local communities 413-1 Operations with local Integrated annual report: Volume one, community engagement, pages 167 to 171. impact assessments, and Corporate responsibility report: Pages 20 to 32. development programmes Corporate responsibility, corporate social investment. 413-2 Operations with significant Not relevant. As a financial services company actual and potential negative with a limited physical presence, our operations impacts on local communities have a very limited direct impact on local Access to land communities. However, we may indirectly have an impact through, for example, our property developments or project finance type transactions. In these instances, all required community impact assessments are done and Access to land community engagements are performed. GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were Corporate responsibility report: Page 61. screened using social criteria Procurement. Investec has a group procurement Workplace statement. violence and harassment Labour practices in the supply chain Workplace violence and harassment 78 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) 06 Appendix Alignment with the Business GRI 400: Social standards (continued) SDG’s theme 414-2 Negative social impacts in the Corporate responsibility report: Page 61. Workplace supply chain and actions taken Procurement. Investec has a group procurement violence and statement. harassment Labour practices in the supply chain Workplace violence and harassment GRI 415: Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Investec plc did not make any donations for political purposes in the UK or the rest of the EU, nor did it make any political donations to political parties or other political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur any Anti-corruption political expenditure during the year. Investec Limited made political donations totalling R3.5 million in 2017 (2016: R1.5 million). Investec Limited annual report: Page 147. GRI 416: Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and Not relevant given the services based nature of safety impacts of product and Investec’s offerings. service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Not relevant given the services based nature of concerning the health and Investec’s offerings. safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and labelling 417-1 Requirements for product Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 100 Product and service information and 101. and service and labelling Corporate responsibility report: Pages 57 and 58. information and Compliance. labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages Compliance concerning product and service 100 and 101. with laws and information and labelling Corporate responsibility report: Pages 57 and 58. regulations Compliance. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance There were no incidents of non-compliance Compliance concerning marketing with regulations or voluntary codes concerning with laws and communications marketing communications. regulations GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints No complaints were received from regulatory Compliance concerning breaches of bodies concerning breaches of customer privacy. with laws and customer privacy and losses of regulations customer data Protection of privacy GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 100 regulations in the social and and 101. There have been no incidents of noneconomic area compliance with laws and regulations concerning Compliance the provision and use of products and services. with laws and Corporate responsibility report: Pages 57 and 58. regulations Compliance. No significant fines. Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 79 06 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix Financial services sector specific disclosures Alignment with the Business Specific disclosure on management approach SDG’s theme FS1 Policies with specific Corporate responsibility report: Profit, People environmental and social and Planet sections. Refer to our environmental Responsible components applied to policy on our website www.investec.co.za finance business lines FS2 Procedures for assessing and Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 17. screening environmental and Corporate responsibility considerations. Responsible social risks in business lines Corporate responsibility report: Pages 53 to 56. finance Corporate governance and risk. FS3 Processes for monitoring Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 17. clients’ implementation of and Corporate responsibility considerations. compliance with environmental Corporate responsibility report: Pages 53 to 56. Responsible and social requirements Corporate governance and risk. finance included in agreements and transactions FS4 Process(es) for improving In South Africa, the local banking industry has employee competency to developed training material to train staff on implement the environmental environmental and social risks relating to the and social policies and different business areas. Staff are encouraged Responsible procedures as applied to to attend any training or development that is finance business lines relevant for their area of business. We have also developed ESG guidelines for consultants to use to identify potential ESG issues. FS5 Interactions with clients/ Interactions with clients, investees or other investees/business partners, business partners or interested parties takes regarding environmental and place across the organisation, depending on the Responsible social risks and opportunities type of business and type of deal. For example, finance Property group would engage with their client and local community when doing a property development. Sector specific performance indicators FS6 Percentage of the portfolio Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 18 Access to for business lines by specific to 21. Our operational footprint. financial region, size and by sector services Access to financial services FS7 Monetary value of products Not calculated. and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products Not calculated. and services designed to deliver specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS9 Coverage and frequency Internal Audit would monitor this in the ordinary of audits to assess course of business. implementation of Responsible environmental and social finance policies and risk assessment procedures 80 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) 06 Appendix Alignment with the Business Financial services sector specific disclosures (continued) SDG’s theme FS10 Percentage and number Investec Asset Management of companies held in the webpage on stewardship http://www. institution’s portfolio with which investecassetmanagement.com/southafrica/ Responsible the reporting organisation has individual-investor/en/investment-expertise/ finance interacted on environmental or stewardship/ social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject Not calculated. However, we have an ESG to positive and negative system in place in our asset management Responsible environmental or social business. Corporate responsibility report: finance screening Page 36. Responsible asset management. FS12 Voting policies applied to Corporate responsibility report: Page 36. environmental or social issues Responsible asset management. Investec for shares over which the Asset Management webpage on stewardship reporting organisation holds the http://www.investecassetmanagement.com/ right to vote shares or advises southafrica/ individual-investor/en/investmenton voting expertise/stewardship. Product responsibility society performance indicators. Product responsibility society performance indicators FS13 Access points in low-populated Investec is not a retail bank and does not bank or economically disadvantaged to the mass market. Our target market is very areas by type niched: high income, high net worth, corporate, government and institutions. This indicator is therefore not relevant. FS14 Initiatives to improve access Investec is not a retail bank and does not to financial services for bank to the mass market. Our target market disadvantaged people is very niched: high income, high net worth, corporate, government and Institutions. This indicator is therefore not relevant. However, as a result of our commitment to transformation in South Africa we partnered with GIBS on the Investec GIBS Savings Index as well as Junior Achievement South Africa (JASA) to improve consumer’s knowledge and understanding of the financial sector and its products thereby enabling them to make more informed decisions about their finances and lifestyle. Disclosure on management approach FS15 Policies for the fair design and All products and policies undergo significant sale of financial products and reviews and authorisation by the Liability Responsible services Product and Pricing forum which incorporates finance ethical requirements. Product responsibility performance indicators FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial Corporate responsibility report: Pages 20 to 32. Access to literacy by type of beneficiary Supporting our communities. financial services Investec has partnered with GIBS on the Investec GIBS Savings Index as well as Junior Achievement South Africa (JASA) to improve Access to consumer’s knowledge and understanding of the financial financial sector and its products thereby enabling services them to make more informed decisions about their finances and lifestyle. Access to financial services Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 81 06 Policies and programmes Appendix At Investec we believe in cast iron integrity Compliance Planet in all internal and external dealings, consistently and uncompromisingly • Anti-money laundering and combating Investec recognises that effective displaying moral strength and behaviour of terrorist ﬁnancing policy including environmental management is an essential which promotes trust. part of embedding this philosophy into the • Anti-bribery and corruption policy organisation and is therefore committed The policies and business practices of to operating an effective environmental • Breaches policy Investec are outlined in BAWI (‘Becoming management system compliant with King Acquainted with Investec’) and in the • CASS breaches and error policy III in South Africa and ISO 14001 in the UK Compliance Handbook. They are intended head office. • Chinese walls and wall crossing policy to guide employee conduct and ensure that at all times employees actions and attitudes • Competitive law policy The management system is initially reflect the group’s values and philosophies. focused on the activities and operations of • Complaints policy supporting functions which have a direct environmental impact. People – Human • Compliance manual • Policy on environmental and social resource practice and • Conduct risk policy risk practices in lending and financing policies • Conflicts of interest policy activities • AIDS policy • Employee participation (EP) policy. • Policy on environmental and social risk • Financial promotions – policy standards practices in investment activities. • Basic conditions of employment and approval • IT acceptable usage policy • Fraud policy • Disability procedure • Gifts and entertainment (hospitality) • Equal opportunities policy • Employee assistance programme • Investment recommendation policy • Employee integrity policy • Market abuse policy • FAIS – Rendering financial advisory and • Market rumours policy intermediary services to clients • Market sounding policy • Grievance resolution policy • Media queries policy • Leave policy • Order and best execution policy • Learning and development policy • Outside business interests (OBI) policy • Policy on flexible work practice • Personal account (PA) dealing policy • Policy on substance abuse • Records management policy • Retirement policy • Sanctions policy • Retrenchment policy • Senior managers handover policy • Sexual harassment policy • Vulnerable clients policy • Whistle blowing and protected disclosures policy. • IT and Information security policies • Business casual attire policy • Data protection and information management policies. • Cell phone scheme • Motor vehicle scheme • Security and access control • Local travel and transfer practice • International travel scheme. 82 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Contact details 06 Appendix Tanya Dos Santos South Africa Telephone +27 (11) 286 7059 tdsantos@investec.co.za Melanie Janse van Vuuren South Africa Telephone +27 (11) 286 7035 melanie.JanseVanVuuren@investec.co.za Setlogane Manchidi South Africa (CSI) Telephone +27 (11) 286 7189 setlogane.manchidi@investec.co.za Deborah Ward South Africa (Environment) Telephone +27 (11) 286 7658 deborah.ward@investec.co.za Nicola Mckenzie Mauritius Telephone +(44) 230 207 4010 nicola.mckenzie@investec.co.mu Susie Steyn UK (CSI) Telephone +(44) 20 7597 4665 susie.steyn@investec.co.uk Teresa O’Brien UK (Environment) Telephone +(44) 20 7597 4620 teresa.o’brien@investec.co.uk Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 83 06 Notes 84 Investec corporate responsibility report 2017 Specialist Banking Asset Management Wealth & Investment
