PAE 2016 Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact 2016 Dear Colleague, Table of Contents In 2016, PAE reached a significant milestone in the company’s history and long-term growth strategy with our acquisition by Platinum Equity. Our partnership with Platinum Equity has presented new opportunities to expand our business organically and through acquisitions, A Message from PAE continuing the enduring support we provide to our customers’ essential missions around the world. With Platinum Equity’s support of our management team, PAE has also invested in CEO John Heller key areas of the company that enhanced our service delivery to our customers and facilitated Page 1 future growth through optimizing critical internal processes. PAE welcomed several new leaders throughout the year who helped to shape and implement our commitment to continuous improvement. Among them, a Director for Quality, Ten Principles of the Environmental, Safety and Health (QESH) was appointed to oversee and coordinate the company-wide QESH program. Under his leadership in 2016, PAE introduced a new UN Global Compact initiative titled Project Excellence, which has leveraged company and industry best practices Page 2 to standardize PAE’s operational approach to project and program management. We also welcomed a Vice President of Transformation to lead a significant number of process improvement initiatives that will enhance the quality and consistency of our internal Human Rights operations, and enable us to scale our operations in the future. Page 3 As a trusted partner to our government customers, PAE prides itself on providing reliable and high quality services to fulfill their missions, with the highest commitment to ethics and Labor Standards integrity in our business operations. Our commitment to continual improvement also applies Page 4 to the way in which we nurture our company culture and train employees to perform in accordance with our Code of Conduct. Every year, we examine the initial training delivered to our employees and seek additional ways to incorporate our corporate values into additional discussions throughout the year and our normal course of business. The Environment Page 5 Those values remain as such: Perform with Excellence and Integrity – Deliver 100% of customer commitments, on Anti-Corruption time, within budget and with the highest standards of ethics and compliance. Page 6 Enable the Business – Ensure safe and secure operating environments for all employees. Appendix Grow the Business – Create a culture of growth and entrepreneurial behavior that drives Page 7 value and opportunity for ownership, customers and employees. Under new ownership, with increased investment towards improving every aspect of our operations and service to the U.S. government, I am pleased to also renew our commitment to the Global Compact principles. We are proud to recommit ourselves for the year ahead and pledge to maintain and continually increase our support of responsible, ethical and business operations. John Heller Chief Executive Officer 1 Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Human Rights Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PAE Values Our zero tolerance policy is in place to protect One of PAE’s core corporate values is to “perform with excellence and integrity.” We expect that all employees from discrimination and harassment, employees integrate this commitment into their and employees are encouraged to report any daily work whether they support our customers’ violation of this policy or any other concern. In missions directly or indirectly. In a direct sense, addition to reaching out to our Chief Ethics & PAE’s Global Logistics & Stability Operations Compliance Officer personally, PAE employees business unit includes programs that provide have various channels to report violations, critical support to the civil infrastructure of including our 24-hour Ethics Hotline, which conflict and post-conflict countries; assist foreign is reachable by international and domestic governments that are challenged to provide for employees via phone or email. While these and the needs of their citizens; and provide logistics other regulatory measures are effective, it is and training to support basic human needs within truly the management team that sets the tone the context of peacekeeping and humanitarian and expectations for the rest of the workforce. missions. Through their example and the corporate policies in place, PAE uses every resource at its disposal PAE Initiatives to support and protect human rights. PAE’s mandatory annual ethics and compliance trainings includes an explanation of the company’s expectations of behavior as stated in the Code of PAE Spotlight: Conduct entitled “Leading the Way.” Among the PAE’s Justice Sector Support Program (JSSP) topics covered in the training, special attention is was recognized for providing technical support paid to ethics awareness, diversity and inclusion, and encouragement to reactivate the dormant human trafficking, creating a harassment-free Attorney General’s Office (AGO) website, which workplace and Equal Employment Opportunities. went live on February 22. PAE JSSP works PAE educates its employees on the U.S. Federal diligently with AGO to use the website to improve Acquisition Regulation and provides additional communication and reporting systems to increase training to mitigate even the slightest perception accountability and transparency. This achievement of inappropriate behavior. ties into the larger PAE JSSP mission of assisting the Afghanistan government with building its PAE is committed to ethical performance of our organizational capacity by providing training and work, and we support the industry-wide efforts of mentoring to Afghan civil servants in, among the International Stability Operations Association other things, budgeting, communications, ethics, to promote universal standards of conduct. human resources, policy and planning, legislative PAE’s comprehensive compliance plan trains drafting and procurement management. our employees to recognize and report violations they may observe in their work or travels, such as instances of human trafficking, which is one of the fastest growing criminal activities in the world. PAE Code of Conduct PAE’s Code of Conduct stipulates that all employees are required to comply with our own corporate policies, the laws of the United States and the laws that govern their country of operation. 3 Labor Standards Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAE Values PAE’s commitment to fair labor standards Ethics & Compliance Officer works closely with provides employees with the right to collective PAE’s Legal department, Human Resources and bargaining; fair compensation for the work Program Managers to thoroughly investigate any they do; and protection from every form of reported allegations, and take action if necessary. discrimination. We believe that our employees are our most valuable assets, and we prioritize PAE Code of Conduct their individual and collective needs accordingly. PAE’s support of our employees’ fair labor PAE’s workforce includes a number of union rights around the world is vital to maintaining labor groups, and we are proud of the effective a productive workforce. In turn, we expect our collaborations between PAE Labor Relations employees to create a culture of fairness and and these teams to most effectively support the equality amongst themselves by treating each missions of our customers. other as they wish to be treated. This is a recurring theme throughout our policies and Code of PAE Initiatives Conduct; where our employees must lead with PAE has continued its partnerships with integrity and excellence. organizations such as the International Stability Operations Association and the United Nations PAE Spotlight: Global Compact to expand awareness of globally PAE employees have access to the PAE Library, recognized fair labor standards. which stores all of the company’s policies and related documents. Weekly company Operating in over 60 countries on all seven communications direct employees to the Library continents, PAE’s diverse workforce is comprised for various policy updates and procedures that of individuals who represent a wide spectrum of enforce our values of working with integrity age, ethnicities, religions and races. To protect and excellence. Our employees are educated and our employees from abuse or harassment, and to trained on our labor policies on the first day of ensure that our working environment is inclusive their employment, and the entire workforce is reand respectful of all employees, PAE implements trained on key elements of our business conduct a zero tolerance policy against any sort of on an annual basis. We prohibit discrimination in discrimination. any form and take an active approach to recruiting and developing a diverse workforce, which we Every PAE employee is trained on our policies believe is one of our greatest organizational on non-discrimination, Equal Employment strengths. Opportunity, our culture of leading with integrity and excellence, and our commitment to maintaining a safe and healthy work environment, among many others. At the conclusion of our new-hire orientation and every annual ethics and compliance training, every employee is required to sign and return an acknowledgement page, confirming that they comprehend and voluntarily agree to follow the policies by which PAE is governed. Forced labor and child labor are strictly prohibited in every area where we work. We promote the use of our Ethics Hotline, and PAE’s Chief 4 The Environment Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PAE Values PAE recognizes that the safety of our employees Our ESH standards apply to our procurement and the protection of the environment are process as well. PAE upholds U.S. standards for imperative to ensuring our operational success. purchasing materials that do not contain lead or PAE’s newly appointed Director for Quality, asbestos from international vendors. In the absence Environmental, Safety and Health (QESH) of nation-specific environmental laws, we adhere reporting to the Chief Operating Officer to the Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance centralizes PAE’s approach to applying QESH document, and our subcontractors make every best practices across our diverse business units. effort to incorporate LEED standards into our Our Environmental Safety and Health (ESH) construction projects. We choose to use products initiatives are then implemented by local ESH that are safe for our client, the environment and representatives on sites where PAE is the majority our employees. Our goal is to reduce waste; owner of contract operations. We have continued maximize the utility of any unavoidable waste; the efforts from previous years to reduce and conserve energy, water and any other natural hazardous environmental releases and other ESH resources in the construction and/or maintenance incidents on contract sites around the world. Our phase of our programs. ESH organization continues its active request for input from our diverse workforce, in an effort PAE Code of Conduct to combine the knowledge from our different Our Code of Conduct addresses our company’s backgrounds and experiences. PAE is also commitment to a safe and healthy work proud to have our headquarters in a Leadership environment, and we ask that all members of our in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) organization consider themselves ambassadors designated building. Throughout the year, our of public safety. Not only are all employees employees participate in LEED initiatives such responsible for complying with ESH regulations as an E-waste recycling project. and laws, they are also required by policy to report any injury sustained or accident observed PAE Initiatives on a job site to their management immediately. PAE emphasizes to its employees that prevention is the first line of defense against hazardous PAE Spotlight: environmental impacts. Our Target Zero goal In 2016, PAE employees at Sheppard Air Force an initiative aimed at eliminating injuries Base in Texas surpassed the one year mark and negative environmental impacts applies (equivalent to 490,560 working hours) without throughout the company. We have continued a single OSHA reportable injury. The team pollution prevention initiatives and recurring demonstrates a collective approach to health, training for all on-site employees on proper safety and wellness and believe that changes in disposal of hazardous waste. We have also their attitude and culture emphasizing safety has continued our recycling and reusable materials helped them achieve the safety milestone. plan at international project sites. Our ESH representatives record, log and report all safety incidents and environmental releases. These incidents are tracked on a system modeled after a blend of the ISO-9000, ISO-14000 and OHSAS-18000 certification requirements. 5 Anti-Corruption Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PAE Values & Compliance Officer in fulfilling oversight responsibility for the Company’s compliance and Given the different cultures in each of the countries where PAE operates, our employees have and ethics programs; and perform any other duties will continue to encounter varying interpretations deemed as necessary. of business protocol. Because a gesture could be considered typical etiquette in one country and PAE’s quarterly employee magazine, Inside PAE, bribery in another, PAE and other contractors regularly includes perspectives from the Ethics must be proactive in training employees to avoid & Compliance Office and offers examples of the most conservative definitions of extortion and unethical behavior in our industry, to emphasize bribery. the importance of following our anti-corruption policies. In the event of a corruption claim, the PAE provides employees with ample training Ethics & Compliance Office works closely with to prepare them for any instance of corruption our General Counsel to investigate thoroughly. they might confront, and implements precautions to ensure that the laws of the United States PAE’s position against corruption is not only the and foreign governments are strictly followed. concern of our Ethics and Legal departments. Our Through diligent instruction and annual Procurement team is required to compare vendors’ reinforcement of policies and procedures through costs to ensure fair competition. Procurement our annual ethics and compliance training, PAE personnel are also specially trained to not accept employees receive a comprehensive education on gifts of any value from potential vendors, to avoid how to operate ethically and professionally. even the perception of bribery. Additionally, our International Trade Compliance Office procures the appropriate authorizations for international PAE Initiatives shipments to fulfill all regulatory requirements. PAE’s Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer serves as one of the four founders of the Compliance Leadership Roundtable (CLR), which was PAE Spotlight established in 2013 to promote excellence in In July, PAE’s Vice President of Governance compliance and reality in regulations. The and Institutional Development participated as a invitation-only group of key leaders in the panelist at the American Conference Institute’s Washington, DC metropolitan area collaborates (ACI) 7th Global Forum on Anti-Corruption with other relevant professional organizations, Compliance in High Risk Markets. The forum and educational institutions to promote focused on practical strategies to detect, development and continued learning for leaders investigate and mitigate bribery and other forms in the compliance profession. of corruption and enforcement risks. PAE’s Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer leverages the CLR to shape quarterly compliance discussions on high risk areas; such as False Claims Act, respect and workplace safety, and conflicts of interest. The Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer also chairs a Monthly Compliance Council comprised of functional executive leaders to: oversee the Company’s implementation of compliance programs, policies and procedures that are designed to be responsive to the various compliance and regulatory risks facing the company; assist the Chief Ethics 6 Appendix Leading the Way: Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available online at: http://www.pae.com/about-pae/ethics-and-business-conduct 7 Appendix Leading the Way: Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 8 2017 PAE Marketing & Communications
