Oslo, April 5, 2017. UN Global Compact 2017 Presentations Data AS in Norway is proud to be a member of the Global Compact community and will continue to support the 10 principles as a part of our daily strategy and work. Presentations Data AS CEO Global Compact's 10 principles – Presentations Data’s statement! Human Rights. Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection and internationally proclaimed rights. Commitment. Presentations Data states in our vision and in our mission that we believe in high ethical standards in everything we do and believe that starting with ourselves, our employees, our customers, suppliers and partners will eventually see it as the truth. Our vision of business is: “We shall all succeed” We use this vision as guidance for all business decision’s we make, every day! Systems. Policies are described in our Employee handbook, in our HSE policies and monitored by our HR manager and the HMS responsible. It is mandatory for all our managers to attend HSE training. Activities.  Regular information meetings and seminars to ensure the understanding of our ethical way of treating each other.  Ensuring that the working tools are as a good as possible to avoid damage to our employees.  Ensuring that safety gears are up to date.  Ensuring that working environment including work place are made to avoid damage to health  Promoting physical activities and sports.  Sponsoring breakfast, lunch and after work dinner at the employees service.  Company doctor at the employee’s service when needed.  Weekly meetings for all departments  An organization designed for better quality in our productions process.  Several large companies acknowledge the fact that we together work according to the ethical standards in Global Compact.  Healthy environment internally with stable working force and no accidents.  Health insurance for all employees extremely successful. Presentations Data AS Oslo Karenslyst Allé 5, 0278 Oslo Tlf: 22 77 19 00 Org.nr.: 976 228 073 MVA Bergen Janaflaten 24, 5179 Godvik Tlf: 55 94 29 00 pdata.no | post@pdata.no Stavanger Luramyrveien 23, 4313 Sandnes Tlf: 901 20 934  New 2016: Establishing an internal school/academy for training: Pdata Academy.  New 2016: Evaluations of a new ERP system including reporting and routines for the whole company.  New 2016: Weekly information’s meetings with all employees. Performance. Principle 2. Business should make that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment. Nothing in our business should be in contradictory with human rights, on the contrary; the solutions that we supply will help enlighten and spread information and is a great tool in the work for better environment and education. Systems. We use products from all over the world in our solutions and a part of our contracts with our suppliers is the commitment to Global Compact principles and requirement for traceability. Activities. Limiting the number of suppliers to increase safety and traceability. Reminding our customers of the fact that we are a member of Global Compact and recommend the same for them. New 2017: Increase management resources to ensure strong follow-up and regulations toward our suppliers. New top Supply chain manager hired. Performance. 80% of supplier’s volume through traceability and human rights documentations Continue to update the forms with the demands that we need the suppliers to sign. Principle 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Commitment All our employees are free to bargain through any union, group or by themselves. We encourage all employees to engage in our business as being our major asset. This must also apply to all our suppliers and their subcontractors which we state in all ours contracts. They must also show documentations that this is a fact. Systems. Yearly meetings with management to ensure that each employee is satisfied with salary and other working related issues. Yearly salary raise will follow the union or the government in addition to individual salary updates. Activities. All employees are free to spend time as they pleases on union work, however very few of our employees find it worthwhile since they feel they are better off bargaining on their own. Performance. Less than 3% are quitting per year and none due to working conditions or salary. New 2017: Several; i e 15, of the now 24 employees are on the owner side and have their own representative on the board. Presentations Data AS Oslo Karenslyst Allé 5, 0278 Oslo Tlf: 22 77 19 00 Org.nr.: 976 228 073 MVA Bergen Janaflaten 24, 5179 Godvik Tlf: 55 94 29 00 pdata.no | post@pdata.no Stavanger Luramyrveien 23, 4313 Sandnes Tlf: 901 20 934 Presentations Data AS Oslo Karenslyst Allé 5, 0278 Oslo Tlf: 22 77 19 00 Org.nr.: 976 228 073 MVA Bergen Janaflaten 24, 5179 Godvik Tlf: 55 94 29 00 pdata.no | post@pdata.no Stavanger Luramyrveien 23, 4313 Sandnes Tlf: 901 20 934 Labour. Principle 4. Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Commitment We accept no form of compulsory or forced labour; not from our suppliers or their subcontractors, nor from our customers. Systems. Yearly meeting with our suppliers to ensure that they have control over their production and sub suppliers. New suppliers will go through the same control procedures and they must show documentation that commits them to Norwegian law. Activities. Going through all our suppliers to get the paperwork and the control systems in place. Performance. We are in an ongoing process of going through all suppliers. New 2017: 15 employees are owners and on the board with their own representative. Principle 5. Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Commitment We do not accept child labour in any form. We also think it is important to raise the issue with business colleagues in general to state our commitment and raise the problem with our relations. Systems. Apart from informing and building opinions and awareness among our fellow men, we again make sure in all our contracts with suppliers and also with customers that is in not acceptable. There are to be no exceptions. Activities. Background checking on suppliers and customers and claiming documentation that state that the same controls are being done by our suppliers and customers. Performance. This is at an acceptable level with our suppliers; however we do not have had the time to check on all random customers. We will try to build a checklist for Global Compacts principles a long with credit check of new customers. New 2017: New hiring of Supply chain manager that will be a part of the management team. Principle 6. Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Presentations Data AS Oslo Karenslyst Allé 5, 0278 Oslo Tlf: 22 77 19 00 Org.nr.: 976 228 073 MVA Bergen Janaflaten 24, 5179 Godvik Tlf: 55 94 29 00 pdata.no | post@pdata.no Stavanger Luramyrveien 23, 4313 Sandnes Tlf: 901 20 934 Commitment We hire for skills only and we take responsibility for our fellow men when given the opportunity to do so. Systems. The management controls all hiring processes and also includes discrimination in every yearly indepth conversation with employees. Activities. We hire for skills and we have today among our 55 employees a sound mix of men and women, young and older and we have 6 different nationalities represented. Performance. We always strive to employ more women however we find it very difficult to engage women in our line of business even though one of the owners and founders of the company is a woman. New 2017: New CEO hired; being a woman. Environment. Principle 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Commitment Audiovisuals as a business is an effective driver for environmental friendly way of working. You save paper, save travelling and you save a lot of time by making decisions based on a common understanding of the same document real-time. The working process is extremely fast in the new way of working. We have an internal commitment to environmentally friendly way of running our business, taking care of re-circulated products and train our employees accordingly. Systems. This is built in in all our proposals and we work like this ourselves at our offices. We train our employees on a regular basis and we reevaluate our systems every second year by the help of an organization named Miljøfyrtårn that certify our systems. Last certificate from 2013. Activities. We work on two levels: our line of business is environmentally friendly, thus every sale is a step in the right direction. Secondly we work hard to remind our people of the way we handle our environment and it is very obvious to all visitors that this is a part of our business by showing our re-cycling systems etc. openly. New 2017: Intensified sales of digital solutions concerning information. Performance. The technical solutions are improving by the day and we promote them as much as we can. We are also working restlessly to improve on our environmental precautions. We are very satisfied with our accomplishments so far. Priciple 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Commitment Presentations Data AS Oslo Karenslyst Allé 5, 0278 Oslo Tlf: 22 77 19 00 Org.nr.: 976 228 073 MVA Bergen Janaflaten 24, 5179 Godvik Tlf: 55 94 29 00 pdata.no | post@pdata.no Stavanger Luramyrveien 23, 4313 Sandnes Tlf: 901 20 934 We are committed to do our outmost for a better environment and showing all our suppliers and customers that even a small company can take responsibility for the environment. Systems. We have a set of control rules that we check on regularly and once a year to evaluate the results and how we are doing. Activities. We show our environmentally standing in every document and marketing tool including website, etc. We educate our staff and we promote it in our dealings with other companies. We promote our main efforts openly in our offices to remind visitors and ourselves of why and what we are contributing to. We collect all old products from our solutions to re-cycling. We are enrolled in a through system with gathering and collecting of paper, plastic, batteries and electrical re-cycling. New 2017: Again approved as an environmentally friendly company by Miljøfyrtårnet. Performance. We are constantly evaluating new ways of treating the environment better in everyday life and we feel that we are relatively successful; however the real benefit is in selling and implementing our environmentally friendly solutions at our customer’s sites. Priciple 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment To encourage and develop environmentally friendly technologies is our business! Systems. Our solutions will save the environment due to dramatically less travelling, taking away the need for printing and increasing the efficient of the way people are working. To make sure our products aren’t polluting we have an extensive recycling system. Activities. Every day business; every sale is a step towards the goal of better environment. New 2107: Introducing Pdata Academy also to customers. Performance. We encourage our customers to make investments in better technology, but we still think they are moving to slow. We will continue our work and our success is the success of the environment. Principle 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment We are an honest company with high ethical standards and are chosen by our suppliers because of our long term commitment to quality and our quality of business. Our customers choose us for the same reason; we are doing a good job, thus no bribery is needed! Presentations Data AS Oslo Karenslyst Allé 5, 0278 Oslo Tlf: 22 77 19 00 Org.nr.: 976 228 073 MVA Bergen Janaflaten 24, 5179 Godvik Tlf: 55 94 29 00 pdata.no | post@pdata.no Stavanger Luramyrveien 23, 4313 Sandnes Tlf: 901 20 934 Systems. We have a very foolproof system of controlling our products and the management is deeply involved in this issue and “preach” about the need for being the best supplier and let that speak for itself. We do not make compromises on this subject. Activities. The management supports our people when they meet challenges in this area, standing by them in cases of lost sales and stating that we don’t need them all! Performance. We are very satisfied with both our long term customers, suppliers and employees in this field and we feel we are known for honesty and being a trustworthy supplier. COP – Communications on Progress 1. Executive statement of continued support for the Global Compact 2. Description of practical actions taken to implement the Global Compact principles We have made commitments for our organization that includes 1. Our vision; “We all shall succeed” 2. Our environment commitment through Miljøfyrtårnet. 3. Our membership in Global compact 4. Our marketing of our statements 5. Through our daily work and training reminding people of why we are in the business and what we are set out to accomplish 3. Measurement of current or expected to be the main driver of our success 1. Building knowledge and offer better access to advanced and new technology to help our customers choose solutions that are better in preserving the environment and thereby giving our customs advanced solutions 2. Environment being a part of our solution. 3. Global compact principles are stated and trained for internally 4. Always remind our business partner of the importance of being a part of Global Compact and their standings. 4. Most important improvements during 2017. Reorganizing our business to become more efficient and thereby a better supplier. Focus on new knowledge to enhance our solutions for better efficiency at our customers. Presentations Data AS Oslo Karenslyst Allé 5, 0278 Oslo Tlf: 22 77 19 00 Org.nr.: 976 228 073 MVA Bergen Janaflaten 24, 5179 Godvik Tlf: 55 94 29 00 pdata.no | post@pdata.no Stavanger Luramyrveien 23, 4313 Sandnes Tlf: 901 20 934
