Framework LLC Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact August 1, 2017 Framework LLC is a respected advisory firm that helps leading companies unlock the full value of sustainable business practices—those that protect and grow their social, environmental, and financial forms of capital. In a time of rapidly changing economic, sociopolitical, and environmental landscapes across the globe, this emerging discipline is indispensable for companies seeking new competitive advantages. 2 Contents CEO message 4 Who we are and what we do 6 Promoting the ten principles of the UNGC 7 Our roles as strategic counsel to the UNGC Network USA 12 Framework’s support for the SDGs 15 Our material issues 19 Our priorities 21 About this report and contact information 33 3 Dear stakeholders: We are pleased to present this, our second Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP). In the current business climate, this is our greatest challenge We are in our fifteenth year assisting companies in their efforts and our greatest opportunity. to improve governance, align more closely with their stated We continuously evaluate our business; build on what works for values, and be more forward thinking and responsive to both clients and the firm; develop systems that enable us stakeholder expectations. to work efficiently and effectively while complying with laws It is clear to us that our work has never been more important and increasingly stringent client requirements; focus on than it is right now. systematic improvement while retaining the best aspects of our culture. The capriciousness of the current U.S. administration and its utter disregard for international cooperation on trade and In fact, our strong focus on maintaining a positive culture in climate issues, and the increasing polarization of views and which our people can bring their best selves to work and their xenophobic extremism in this country and around the world all best thinking to solving clients’ problems led us to the number present existential threats to business and society. It's become two spot on Fortune’s 50 Best Small Workplaces list in 2016. We clear that the private sector has a critical role to play in are mindful of the elements of a strong workplace culture and advancing progress on society’s most pressing issues: climate will continue to focus on building on the positive aspects of our change, inequality, and the health and well-being of all culture while the business necessarily changes to adapt to the humanity. All are intricately interconnected and needs of our people and our clients. interdependent. Our role at Framework is to help our clients For example, we recently expanded our Seattle office, in part understand how they can best use their talents and core because we see that as a growth market for Framework, and in businesses to make progress on these and other material issues part because some of our people wanted to call the Pacific in ways that reduce risk, build trust among key stakeholders, Northwest home. This move presents both challenges and and position the companies themselves to thrive over the long opportunities. We have built Framework as an on-the-move term. This also happens to be our mission and where our culture that allows for remote working. As people move to greatest potential for positive impact lies. different locations, however, we recognize the challenges to To advance our mission, we must expand our work with current professional development, oversight, and consistency, as well clients and continually reach new companies. We must also be as increased costs to the firm in terms of travel, systems, and profitable so that we can continue to invest in the development office space. We balance these considerations and are willing to of our people and our products and services and evolve our undertake new working arrangements because we believe that thinking in ways that bring value to our clients and society. both clients and the firm will benefit from the retention of key talent. 4 As promised in last year’s COP, we have set goals that relate to Our focus in the coming year and beyond will be on honing our the material issues we identified in 2016—promoting ability to help solve some of our clients’ thorniest issues; sustainability, client satisfaction, growth and profitability, driving profitable growth through efficiency and systematic talent management, and effective marketing. We have improvements in performance; and expanding our network and articulated goals and targets related to each of these influence among our key markets. We will advocate for action throughout this report and have indicated how they are aligned on society’s greatest challenges and progress on the Global with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In the coming Goals. And through our own operations and advisory work with year, we will build a system for tracking and reporting progress clients we continue to support the Ten Principles of the Global on them. Compact. Promoting sustainability is not only a material issue for As always, we welcome your feedback and look forward to Framework; it's the primary tenet of our mission. And while it's fulfilling our promises to you. easy for us to point to our client work as the principal means of advancing our mission to promote sustainability, we know that's not enough. We must be advocates for change both in conversations with clients and in the public sphere. We increasingly use our voices as individuals and our collective voice as Framework representatives to advocate for publicand private-sector action that serves humanity, firm in our belief Kate Rebernak that good for humanity is good for business. Founder and CEO One example is our advocacy in favor of the United States’ continued commitment to the Paris Accord. In January 2017 we signed the Business Backs Low-Carbon USA statement, committing to do not only what we can to reduce carbon emissions in our own operations and personally, but also to advocate for our clients and for governments to do so as well. Once the Trump administration indicated that it might back out of the Paris Accord, we advocated on social media for remaining in and signed the We Are Still In pledge reiterating that commitment. We have backed up that pledge with our goal to offset the carbon emissions from our business travel. As of the publication of this COP we have offset emissions from all business travel in 2016. 5 Who we are and what we do Framework LLC is a unique firm, and a Quick Facts about Framework Corporate sustainability is an approach special place to work. to business that creates long-term value • Founded 2003; Offices in Stamford, We are a mission-driven business: a Connecticut and Seattle, Washington for a broad range of stakeholders by specialty advisory and analytics firm that • Clients represented in the Fortune 500, • responding to the changing has been helping leading companies create S&P 500, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, environmental, social, governance and protect value through strategies for and FTSE4Good (ESG), and economic contexts in sustainably managing their financial, social, and environmental capital since • Recognized as pioneers and leaders in which a company operates; 2003. materiality analysis • efficiently and responsibly deploying • Research cited by Harvard Business and protecting capital in its social, We are also a small business that thinks School faculty, Bloomberg News, and much bigger than our size: an environmental, and financial forms; American Institute of CPAs entrepreneurial laboratory where we and challenge ourselves daily to innovate and • GRI Organizational Stakeholder since 2005 • uncovering and proactively managing model the employee-centered management practices we encourage our clients to • Experts in GRI reporting, SASB, IIRC, DJSI, a company’s key risks and implement. CDP and other standards and frameworks opportunities—what we refer to as material issues. At Framework, we believe organizations that • Innovators in analysis and application of protect the environment, uphold human Bloomberg ESG data as well as financial rights, engage in fair labor practices, value correlation analysis For more information, visit develop sustainable products, and behave • Strategic Counsel to the Global Compact ethically reap significant financial and www.framework-llc.com. Network USA intangible benefits. In fact, our analyses • Woman-owned business certified by have demonstrated that companies are WBENC most likely to outperform financially when such practices are embedded into • Certified as a “Great Workplace” by Great operations and undertaken in the normal Place to Work®; named #2 on Fortune’s 50 course of business. Best Small Workplaces ranking for 2016 • Winner of 2014 National Psychologically Healthy Workplace Award 6 Promoting the ten principles of the UNGC Human Rights Commitment, Policy, and Systems Actions and Outcomes 1. Businesses should support and Framework respects and supports the As a professional services firm, we do not respect the protection of Universal Declaration of Human Rights and have material human rights issues in our the Guiding Principles on Business and operations. Our clients, however, especially internationally proclaimed human Human Rights: Implementing the United those with complex, global value chains, rights; and Nation’s Protect, Respect, and Remedy face various human rights challenges and 2. make sure they are not complicit in Framework. risks. human rights abuses. We affirm the dignity, worth, and equality of We provide advisory services to help our every person. In Framework’s employee clients assess risks and opportunities across handbook, we explicitly state that we treat a broad spectrum of human rights issues every person with respect, and in return, such as human trafficking, freedom of expect a high level of personal integrity. speech and movement, due process, and others. Over time we expect to build our capacity to review our own suppliers to ensure we are not unknowingly complicit in any abuses conducted by others. 7 Promoting the ten principles of the UNGC Labor Standards Commitment, Policy, and Systems Actions and Outcomes 3. Business should uphold the Framework upholds the Global Compact We engage in robust discussions with our freedom of association and the principles related to freedom of association, clients about labor standards in the elimination of compulsory and child labor, workplace and supply chain. Key effective recognition of the right to and nondiscrimination. We have explicitly conversations and analytical work have collective bargaining; committed to nondiscrimination in our centered on diversity and inclusion across 4. the elimination of all forms of hiring practices, and our employee manual management and employee ranks. contains provisions related to equal compulsory labor; We have held some of those same opportunity employment and spells out discussion with regard to our own 5. the effective abolition of child actions both employees and management operations and are seeking ways to improve labor; can take when concerns or disputes arise. A the diversity of our firm membership. Our nonretaliation clause reiterates that 6. and the elimination of recruiting process explicitly targets the employees will not be penalized for proper discrimination in respect of inclusion of diverse candidates who can use of the dispute-resolution procedure. bring a varied set of perspectives to our employment and occupation. work—whether ethnic, cultural, philosophical/religious, generational, or with regard to sexual identity or orientation. Goal Ensure inclusion of diverse candidates in recruiting for open positions, including via direct outreach through personal networks and social media. 8 Promoting the ten principles of the UNGC Environment Commitment, Policy, and Systems Actions and Outcomes 7. Businesses should support a As an office-based professional services Beyond our own footprint, we have a precautionary approach to firm, Framework’s environmental footprint significant impact in facilitating the is relatively small; our greatest contribution enhanced environmental performance of environmental challenges; to the reduction of environmental impacts our clients. We are involved on multiple 8. undertake initiatives to promote comes through our advisory services and fronts related to their efforts to improve greater environmental thought leadership. Nonetheless, we have environmental performance, including, undertaken to reduce the environmental among others: responsibility; and footprint of our own operations. • Initial identification of material 9. encourage the development and We established our headquarters in environmental issues as well as diffusion of environmentally Stamford, Connecticut, to facilitate a variety stakeholder expectations around friendly technologies. of employee lifestyle choices (urban, environmental performance suburban, rural), all connected by major • Analysis of environmental megatrends transit corridors and access to public and their impacts on companies’ risk and transportation. Most of our employees do opportunity profiles not drive to work but rather take trains or buses or walk. In addition, many employees • Collection of environmental data, including for purposes of developing Goal are offered the opportunity to work from greenhouse gas inventories home one or two days per week. Offset all carbon emissions The primary equipment we use includes • Development of environmental goals and targets, including linkages to the Global associated with desks, chairs, computers, printers, and Compact Principles and the Global Goals smartphones. When purchasing new Framework’s business travel inventory or office furniture, we consider the • Disclosure of environmental impacts and (on an annual basis). environmental impacts of potential performance in sustainability reports and purchases. We recycle materials as possible, communications print as little as we can, and fly sparingly. • Submission of environmental data through mechanisms such as the CDP and Dow Jones Sustainability Index questionnaires to help identify gaps in environmental performance and transparency 9 Committing to the Low-Carbon USA Pledge In May 2017, Framework LLC joined one thousand companies and investors in signing We pledge to do our part, in our own operations the Business Backs Low-Carbon USA statement, reaffirming our commitment to the and beyond, to support a global economy that Paris Climate Agreement. limits global temperature rise to well below two degrees Celsius. In 2017, we offset 28 mt of carbon emissions by purchasing carbon credits generated by COTAP.org’s portfolio of carbon offset projects. As signatories, we call on our elected U.S. leaders to support: • low-carbon policies; • investment in the low-carbon economy; and • continued U.S. participation in the Paris Agreement. “The value of Paris to businesses is the clear market signal that the future is in lower carbon, rather than a chaotic and unsustainable future of business disruptions from rising seas and changing weather patterns.” American Sustainable Business Council 10 Promoting the ten principles of the UNGC Anti-Corruption Commitment, Policy, and Systems Actions and Outcomes 10. Businesses should work against We attribute much of Framework’s success Employees receive a copy of the Framework corruption in all of its forms, and reputation to our commitment to fair employee handbook upon hire and are dealing and ethical conduct. Our internal required to certify that they have read and including extortion and bribery. policies make clear that unethical practices understood provisions outlined therein. will not be tolerated and will result in Employees must report any actual or prompt disciplinary action, up to and suspected illegal or unethical behavior to including termination of employment. We their supervisor or a firm partner. specifically prohibit, for example: In addition to explicit prohibitions of • Paying or accepting bribes, kickbacks and unethical behavior, our culture strongly other illegal payments in any form from reinforces ethical practices. We never take anyone for any purpose for granted the trust that our clients place in • Failure to disclose conflicts of interest us and have put in place systems, processes, and a culture of discretion to protect the • Falsifying or altering any company confidentiality of client information. records or reports In our advisory work, we encourage clients • Disclosing confidential information to report publicly on the key provisions of Goal • Violating any provision of the Foreign their ethics, compliance, and anticorruption Corrupt Practices Act policies and systems, and to disclose both Update the Framework the reported and substantiated instances of Employee Handbook on an ethics violations they have recorded as well as corrective actions taken. annual basis and ensure each employee reads and understands handbook provisions, especially as related to ethical behavior. 11 Our role as strategic counsel to UNGC Network USA Global Compact Network USA Framework’s mission is to: Global Compact Network USA is the local network of UNGC signatories in the • Promote sustainability United States. Launched in 2007, the Network is a forum designed to bring • Consciously evolve for the benefit of U.S.-based signatory companies (and U.S.-based units of foreign companies) our clients, our peers and ourselves together with stakeholders from the public sector, civil society, labor, academia, and other spheres in order to advance the values and the ten • Build strong, lasting relationships and principles of the United Nations Global Compact. • Be bold, thoughtful and responsive in all we do Since 2012, Framework has contributed to the development and execution of Network USA’s strategic plan and programming. We have also refined and One way in which we live our mission strengthened Network communications, from web and social media presence while directly supporting greater to relationships with Global Compact personnel, prospective signatories, awareness of and adoption of United signatories, and other local networks. Nations Global Compact principles is through our role as strategic counsel to For more information, please visit the Network’s website: the Global Compact Network USA. http://www.globalcompactusa.org/. The United Nations announced the Global Goals for Sustainable Development in September of 2015. These global priorities set aspirations and targets to be achieved by 2030 and consist of 17 goals and associated sub-goals and targets. Learn more about the Global Goals at: http://www.globalgoals.org/. 12 Global Compact Network USA Programming Webinar: Understanding the COP and the Value of Disclosure Held in July 2016, this webinar covered the latest trends in corporate sustainability reporting and provided an overview of the UN Global Compact’s Communication on Progress. Webinar: Mobilizing Private Sector Engagement in Humanitarian Action Held in October 2016, this webinar featured panelists sharing various perspectives on the role of business in supporting humanitarian action, especially as related to the refugee crisis. Workshop at NYU: Business-University Collaboration on the SDGs In November 2016, the Center for Responsible Business at NYU’s business school hosted a Network USA workshop to explore methods of collaboration between businesses and universities to help achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. Annual Governance Meeting In December 2016, Network USA’s Board of Directors invited all of the network’s participants to its annual governance meeting to reflect on the Network’s activities in 2016 and plans for the year ahead. 13 Network USA Programming (cont.) Webinar: Zero Hunger: How U.S. companies can help achieve SDG 2 In December 2016, this webinar covered how U.S. companies large and small can contribute to making food systems more resilient, distribute food effectively at a global scale, and build an effective agricultural supply chain in a resource-constrained world. Regional Meetups: San Francisco, New York, Washington DC Network USA held three regional meetups between February and April 2017 to allow signatories to meet each other, discuss the new business model of the UNGC, and offer feedback on their expectations of the UNGC and Network USA. 2017 Symposium: Making Global Goals Local Business In July 2017, Network USA held its flagship event: the annual symposium. Individuals from many sectors and types of organizations gathered in New York to discuss actions the private sector can take to advance progress on the Sustainable Development Goals. 14 Framework’s support for the SDGs Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Targets 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature Framework has built a workplace culture that promotes mortality from non-communicable diseases psychological and physical health, healthy work/life through prevention and treatment and integration, a positive and respectful work environment, and promote mental health and well-being healthy habits. 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, Even though we are a small business, Framework offers including financial risk protection, access to employees who work >30 hours/week the opportunity to quality essential health-care services and participate in the company group health plan. Framework pays access to safe, effective, quality and 75 percent of health premium costs for employees and 37.5 affordable essential medicines and vaccines percent of health premium costs for employee dependents. for all Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Targets 4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the Framework regularly publishes thought-leadership pieces that knowledge and skills needed to promote highlight the business value of sustainability concepts and sustainable development, including, among serve as tools and useful reference for making the business others, through education for sustainable case for performance on key ESG issues. development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of For example, our Sustainability Disclosure and Rankings a culture of peace and non-violence, global Almanac provides summaries of many of the leading citizenship and appreciation of cultural sustainability frameworks and rankings and their associated diversity and of culture’s contribution to deadlines. sustainable development 15 Framework’s support for the SDGs Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Targets 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective Framework is a woman-owned business that models a participation and equal opportunities for successful and diverse approach to leadership. We promote the leadership at all levels of decision-making in participation of all team members in societal discourse and political, economic and public life decision-making. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Targets 8.3 Promote development-oriented policies As a small business, Framework is part of the significant that support productive activities, decent majority of companies falling into the micro, small, and job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity medium-sized category. We are focused on growing our firm to and innovation, and encourage the not only serve more companies and expand our influence, but formalization and growth of micro-, smallalso to create employment, contractor, and partnership and medium-sized enterprises, including opportunities. through access to financial services 16 Framework’s support for the SDGs Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Targets 12.6 Encourage companies, especially As a trusted advisor, we counsel large, multinational companies as to large and transnational companies, to how to identify, address, and integrate sustainability priorities into adopt sustainable practices and to their business operations. We produce and develop sustainability integrate sustainability information reports, communications, and disclosures that present quantitative into their reporting cycle and qualitative information as to progress achieved. 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people We promote the use of digital media with our clients to broadly everywhere have the relevant disseminate sustainability information and disclosures. We also information and awareness for encourage clients to consider other communications channels and sustainable development and mechanisms so as to reach key stakeholders and expand access to lifestyles in harmony with nature information. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Targets 13.2 Integrate climate change measures In 2017, Framework signed the Business Backs Low-Carbon USA into national policies, strategies and statement, re-affirming our deep commitment to addressing climate planning change through the implementation of the Paris Agreement. We continue to support local, state, national, and international policies to accelerate climate action, awareness, and mitigation. We also purchase carbon credits to offset our unavoidable carbon 17 Framework’s support for the SDGs Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Targets Multi-stakeholder partnerships 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for Framework serves as the strategic counsel for the UN Global sustainable development, complemented Compact Network USA. In this capacity, we promote multiby multi-stakeholder partnerships that stakeholder partnerships in support of the UNGC and SDGs. mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the achievement of the sustainable development goals in all countries, in particular developing countries 17.17 Encourage and promote effective public, Through our work with the UNGC Network USA, we facilitate public-private and civil society engagement, learning, and best-practice sharing with regard partnerships, building on the experience to enhancing the effectiveness of the network and ability to and resourcing strategies of partnerships take collective action. Framework is also a UNGC signatory. Data, monitoring and accountability 17.19 By 2030, build on existing initiatives to We are an organizational stakeholder of the Global Reporting develop measurements of progress on Initiative (GRI) and participate in reviewing, commenting on, sustainable development that complement and applying disclosure principles and measurements gross domestic product, and support promoted by the GRI, the Sustainability Accounting statistical capacity-building in developing Standards Board (SASB), the International Integrated countries Reporting Council (IIRC), and other disclosure initiatives. In our own thought-leadership efforts and on behalf of our clients, we continue to explore linkages between ESG performance and financial results. 18 Our material issues Framework’s material issues Framework’s material issues In 2016, as part of the process of Framework’s material issues reflect • PROMOTING SUSTAINABILITY developing our first COP, we conducted the nature of our business and the a comprehensive materiality analysis. expectations of our stakeholders. • CLIENT SATISFACTION Through internal evaluation and They also demonstrate that the highest • GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY external stakeholder engagement, we contribution to progress on the ten • EFFECTIVE MARKETING identified five issues of highest Global Compact principles lies external relevance to our business objectives to our operations. Namely, the delivery • TALENT MANAGEMENT and impacts, and of highest importance of insightful client advisory services to our stakeholders. enables us to substantively contribute to progress on human rights, labor A full description of our materiality analysis process is available in our 2016 issues, environmental protection, and anticorruption. COP. 19 Progress on our material issues Material issue Description of Progress Promoting Sustainability • Clarified and refined our core services • Expanded the reach of the Global Compact Network USA by 25 percent in 2016, from 373 to 465 members • Signed the Business Backs Low-Carbon USA statement, re-affirming our commitment to the implementation of the Paris Agreement Client Satisfaction Over the past year: • Achieved 100 percent client retention • Conducted post-project debriefs with all clients • Developed a client contract compliance database to track and ensure continued compliance with all client requirements Growth and Profitability • Established a Seattle office • FY16 revenue was flat relative for FY15 • Strengthened operations, communications, engagement, and analytics teams Effective Marketing • Completed build out of new CRM system • Refined strategy to reach new entrants (smaller companies just starting to embed sustainability) • Developed comprehensive sales materials and evolved positioning • Developed new quarterly campaigns system Talent Management • Achieved #2 rank on Fortune Best Places to Work (small and medium-sized businesses) • Integrated direct outreach to diverse candidates into recruiting process for open positions 20 Our priorities: Promoting Sustainability The quest for a more sustainable global society, economy, and planet is what drives us PROMOTING SUSTAINABILITY to excel on behalf of our clients and the firm itself. Each of us has chosen Framework in order to promote sustainability: we believe in this work, and we believe we are making • Impact and influence with clients and a difference with every engagement we undertake. society The primary way in which we promote sustainability—and facilitate progress on the • Leading change to transform Global Compact’s Ten Principles—is through client service. We most frequently advise organizations large, publicly held, U.S.-based corporations in various sectors, including chemicals, • Implementing our Mission, Vision, and consumer packaged goods, energy, financial services, healthcare, heavy industries, Values information technology and hardware, media, and transportation, among others. Our direct client work is supported by the considerable time and effort we dedicate to internally generated and funded research on cutting-edge topics. We engage in thought-leadership activities such as publishing research papers, articles, and infographics; presenting webinars; and speaking at conferences and events. 1. Assessment 2. Optimization 3. Transparency • Materiality Analysis • Strategic Planning • 360° Disclosure • ESG Research and Analytics o Sustainability Vision and Management Roadmap Development o Sustainability Reporting o Benchmarking o Decision-making Criteria and Scorecards o Trend and Risk Forecasting • Implementation Support o Ratings and Rankings o Custom Research Enhancement and Assessments o Governance Structures o Questionnaire Support • ESG Management o Policy Development • Sustainability Branding and Assessment o Goals Development and Metrics Prioritization Messaging Strategy • Stakeholder Engagement o Program Design and Assessment o ESG Data Management 21 Our priorities: Promoting Sustainability Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) Starting down the right path PROMOTING SUSTAINABILITY While the majority of Framework’s clients Framework services with the greatest utility • Impact and influence with clients and are large, publicly traded corporations in the for our smaller clients include: society S&P 500 and 100 indices, we also serve • Level-set workshops: bringing together smaller-cap publicly traded and privately • Leading change to transform cross-functional leaders to foster shared held firms, nonprofit organizations, and organizations interpretations of “sustainability” and industry associations. devise coordinated approaches to • Implementing our Mission, Vision, and In fact, some of our most interesting and relevant sustainability issues Values influential work is through our partnerships • Benchmarking: assessing peer with smalland medium-sized clients. By organizations’ sustainability issues, helping these firms embrace more Framework’s KT practices, disclosures, and performance sustainable business practices at an early Michaelson and Alec as a basis of self-evaluation Lager journey to the stage, we can greatly amplify the impacts and benefits of our work as our clients grow. • Stakeholder engagement: Frameworkends of the earth to promote sustainability facilitated interactions with key external We have found that what smaller and facilitate a client’s stakeholders to understand their stakeholderorganizations might lack in financial or concerns, solicit their feedback, and earn engagement efforts human resources, they make up for in their their trust and partnership (Alaska) agility and capacity for substantive change. As such, we strive to meet our smaller • Board and executive memoranda: Aleksandra Dobkowskiclients where they are—delivering tools, communications to leadership that shed Joy experiences a insights, and recommendations that are light on organizations’ sustainability much-different climate both valuable and realistic within their risks, opportunities, and proposed while learning about operating contexts. courses of action biomimicry’s application to • “Outsourced CSO”: in some cases sustainable business at Framework will manage all aspects of an GreenBiz17 (Arizona) SME’s sustainability efforts, serving as an outsourced Chief Sustainability Officer 22 Our priorities: Client Satisfaction Building relationships Measuring success CLIENT SATISFACTION Building trusted, long-term client We continually work to measure, in both • Client engagement relationships is essential to our success and quantitative and qualitative terms, how ability to further our mission. So we enter successful we are in helping our clients. We • Relationship strengthening each new client engagement invested in the do this to ensure that we continue to • Adhering to the Framework promise. client’s success and focused on delivering efficiently provide outstanding service so as value aligned with their long-term to build strong, lasting partnerships with our objectives. clients—another element of our mission. The Framework Promise In initial conversations with prospects, we We track progress using a custom-built We will openly share our approach, culture, and project-management platform and a • Listen. Carefully. expectations and ask probing questions to customer-relationship-management system. • Call it as we see it. elicit similar information, to ensure good We use a number of indicators to measure • Keep our eye on the big picture while cultural fit. Most importantly, we explore client satisfaction, including the average paying meticulous attention to the whether a potential client is authentically tenure of client relationships: Nearly half of details. committed to pursuing substantive actions our clients have worked with us for at least and disclosures to improve their five years. • Ask you to examine your opportunities, performance. risks, responsibilities, challenges, In addition to quantitative measures of achievements, and shortcomings with an Once we enter an engagement, our role is client satisfaction, we seek qualitative honest eye. multifaceted. Along with expertise on a wide feedback through a structured debrief • Bear in mind the difference between range of ESG issues and their business and process following the completion of every “ideal” and “possible.” financial impacts, we deliver project. We use this feedback to • Hold ourselves and our work to encouragement and support; strategies for continuously improve our technical exceedingly high standards. addressing challenges; and tools, resources, performance and enhance our services. and connections to people that can facilitate • Be enjoyable to work with and help you progress. through the tough days. We also offer constructive critique, providing objective advice on proposed strategies, activities, or communications. Our aim is always to ensure credibility with internal and external stakeholders. 23 Our priorities: Growth and Profitability We are staunch believers in the power of Framework’s growth model GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY capitalism as an engine for positive We seek to grow our business to advance economic and societal development. We • Pricing, profitability, and our mission to promote sustainability. Our also know that financial sustainability is competitiveness growth model consists of intentional essential to the viability of any business • Ability to continue to serve clients and relationship management, thoughtful model. These beliefs guide both our work engage partners business development, and conscious with clients and how we set our own growth capabilities evolution. • New and enhanced services and and profitability goals. Intentional relationship management. We capabilities Profitability, in particular, is critical to our place high priority on our client’s interests • Cost control and efficiency ability to create the conditions necessary for and the long-term good of our relationship • Protection of intellectual property our team members to deliver exceptional with them. By going above and beyond in service to clients. We need to maintain supporting our clients—both in their healthy profit margins to be able to attract individual career development and their and retain the best people with competitive corporate practices—we foster mutual, longcompensation and benefits. Profitability term growth. enables us to invest in productivity tools such as data services and projectThoughtful business development. We aim management platforms, in IT and datato grow, but not for the sake of growth only. security infrastructure, and in services to Our business development is strategic and advance our professional development such undertaken so that we can grow as research publications and conference responsibly, invest sensibly, and retain the participation. Profitability also allows us to very best aspects of our firm culture. We also invest in research to advance our own seek out clients whose values and objectives thinking and that of our peers and clients. align with our own. These investments inform our perspectives; Conscious capabilities evolution. We pursue enable us to provide exceptional service to innovation as a core value. Our insights not clients, improve efficiency and productivity, only contribute to thought leadership but and manage risk; and further our mission to also keep us on the cutting-edge of advisory promote sustainability, consciously evolve, and analytics that promote more and build strong lasting partnerships. sustainable business practices. 24 Our priorities: Growth and Profitability Challenges to growth GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY Our ability to achieve meaningful organic We address these issues by ensuring that we • Pricing, profitability, and growth faces several challenges, including: are in compliance with all customer competitiveness • consolidation and increasing requirements; investing in the development competition, in particular from larger and of our employees’ professional capacities • Ability to continue to serve clients and better-resourced firms that have and expertise; continuing to deliver engage partners established relationships with companies exceptional service while improving • New and enhanced services and in other areas of operation; efficiency and productivity, and developing capabilities • relatively small client/company budgets tools and services that add value to key • Cost control and efficiency for action on what often continues to be client services. By the same token, we are challenged to keep our fees low, especially • Protection of intellectual property considered a cost center as opposed to a value generator; by legacy clients, even in the face of rising costs of operation. • commoditization of some services that were once considered bespoke; • increasingly stringent operational and insurance requirements such as the requirement to subscribe to suppliermanagement platforms and high levels of insurance coverage and conduct cybersecurity risk assessments; and • our own tendency to go “above and beyond” to serve a client’s needs in the service of continuing and strengthening relationships. The team kicking off a brainstorming session at our Seattle office. 25 Launching our Seattle office In July, Framework brought together accomplished members of Seattle’s sustainability, business, and civic community to celebrate the opening of our office there. Guests mingled on a rooftop deck sampling sustainable foods and wines while enjoying lively conversation backed by a vibrant salsa band and surrounded by expansive Puget Sound views. While Framework has long had ties to the Seattle community, 2017 was our first year to establish an office in the area, an epicenter of sustainability leadership. The launch opens many new strategic opportunities for the firm in the country’s fastest-growing city. 26 Our priorities: Effective Marketing In today’s din of digital messages A new strategy EFFECTIVE MARKETING continually clamoring for our attention, In 2016 and 2017, we updated and carving out a space and platform where we • Earning visibility through cutting-edge sharpened our service offerings and evolved can introduce ourselves to prospective content and thought leadership both our prospecting targets and methods. clients, partners, and employees takes Our work included: • Effective sales techniques and considerable effort and attention. Most of all, we look for ways to share our capabilities • Developing new research on materiality systems in ways that provide value rather than more analysis uptake among the S&P 500 • Sharing new ideas and unique clutter. • Fully implementing a new CRM system perspectives in ways that cut through Our marketing approach harkens back to and populating it with data on thousands clutter our mission in being bold, thoughtful, and of companies responsive in all we do. We develop • Developing and testing a new service materials to share with clients and area/positioning with significant prospects that demonstrate our ability to potential for the firm locate and interpret complex data and help • Defining the most comprehensive and solve challenging problems. Even when prioritized structure for undertaking and recruiting, we customize our job coordinating marketing activities we’ve descriptions to offer a taste of Framework’s ever had character, whether it be highlighting our culture of full engagement or pointing out • Developing a Disclosure Almanac to help our penchant for “freakishly high” quality corporate sustainability professional standards. In short, we seek to put out keep track of questionnaire release dates useful and actionable information so that and deadlines our stakeholders derive value from every interaction they have with us. Our thought leadership work has been cited by Bloomberg, Harvard Business the American Bar Association and published by American Institute of CPAs, Compliance Week and Food Dive. 27 Our priorities: Talent Management Our talented, passionate employees make Our recruiting process is firmly rooted in TALENT MANAGEMENT our success possible. Through the identifying individuals who will bring their application of our collective talents, skills, best selves to work every day in a spirit of • Attracting, recruiting, and retaining and expertise, we devote ourselves to full engagement. We ask applicants and new talent intrinsically meaningful work and seek to hires to take both the StrengthsFinder and • Includes: benefits, office location, and create a sustainable future for ourselves and Neethling Brain Instruments (NBI™) our clients. assessments. We use these tools to better work space; flexible work understand each individual’s ideal working arrangements; competitive As a values-driven organization whose compensation style and preferences. We then refer to our mission is to promote sustainability, we strengths and right-brain/left-brain profiles attract dedicated and passionate individuals in customizing roles and planning team from all disciplines and backgrounds. We are Framework’s values speak to who we are structures, staffing for specific projects, and scientists, analysts, anthropologists, and how we work: interacting with each other on a daily basis. economists, researchers, lawyers, and communicators, all sharing a similar vision Our recruiting efforts also incorporate direct • Committed to a better world and purpose. We enjoy an energetic, outreach to diverse applicants in order to • Reliable and accountable intellectually stimulating work culture strengthen our pool of candidates for open • Positive and energetic punctuated by moments of irreverence. We positions. Creating a diverse workplace is • Collaborative and supportive also really like dogs. part of Framework’s long-term strategic vision as we seek to develop creative • Pragmatic and value-focused solutions to addressing ESG issues for our • Leaders and innovators clients and ourselves. By embracing • Always learning and sharing different perspectives, skills, and talents, we can enhance the quality and tenor of our ongoing conversations—thereby increasing Framework updated its employee handbook the quality of our ideas and service to over the past year to provide transparency clients. and clarity with regard to expectations for “how we work”. The handbook clearly communicates expectations and ensures that all employees are treated fairly. Barley accompanies Alec on a watery adventure! 28 Our priorities: Talent Management Building Trust TALENT MANAGEMENT Framework is proud to have been certified • Attracting, recruiting, and retaining as a Great Place to Work and to be named to talent the #2 spot on Fortune’s Best Places to Work list. These achievements reflect how hard • Includes: benefits, office location, and we work at building a high-trust culture. We work space; flexible work use the Great Place to Work survey as an arrangements; competitive opportunity to measure employee compensation engagement and to understand how we can improve. We believe that having a healthy culture is better for business and gives us a competitive advantage in the marketplace. 29 Our priorities: Talent Management Creating a culture of full engagement Benefits of working at Framework TALENT MANAGEMENT We pay close attention to creating an • Competitive compensation packages, • Attracting, recruiting, and retaining atmosphere of collegiality and including the opportunity to participate talent collaboration, and take care to avoid “office in Framework’s group health plan and politics” or other drama. Every employee 401(k) with employer match and profit• Includes: benefits, office location, and has access to other employees and the sharing contributions work space; flexible work firm’s management and is fully empowered arrangements; competitive • Generous time off, not based on to bring any issue to the attention of their compensation seniority: 15 days of personal time, all manager or the partners. federal holidays, and paid week off Frequent conversations and engagement between Christmas and New Year’s Day Framework’s commitment to work-life opportunities in the form of casual, formal, • Flexible hours and work schedules with balance means that I have the ability to and social events keep us connected, arrange my work schedule around personal opportunities to work from home actively engaged, and candid with each appointments and life events without having other. In the first week of each January we • Paid and unpaid family leave to take personal leave. This past year, I was hold a day-long annual meeting during corresponding to seniority at the firm fortunate to be able to move to our Seattle which we evaluate the year past and ensure (including maternity/paternity leave or to office and join our growing team in the Pacific alignment on focus areas for the coming care for an ill family member) Northwest. –KT Michaelson, Director of quarters. During that week we hold our • Annual performance reviews for all Analytics annual post-holiday party, complete with employees; regular check-ins throughout Framework takes a very modern and White Elephant gift exchange. the year thoughtful approach to its employee’s We also deploy anonymous surveys working arrangements. Our firm partners • Employee development and training recognize the attractiveness and lifestyle periodically with the support of an opportunities to help individuals attain organizational psychologist to gauge value of telecommuting and try to balance expertise in specialized areas that with the cultural value of congregating in employee satisfaction, engagement, and energy levels. • Summer “Flex Fridays”: employees can our offices. Personally, I’ve spent the past few take Friday afternoons off during the years following the movement of my wife’s summer as long as all work obligations medical training across three different states, are met. and Framework has done an incredible job accommodating that complexity. Life is fluid, and they get that. –Alec Lager, Director of Strategic Services 30 Our priorities: Talent Management Promoting wellness Supporting employee development TALENT MANAGEMENT Framework believes all employees should During annual reviews, all Framework • Attracting, recruiting, and retaining work in a safe and comfortable space where employees identify opportunities and set talent they can perform at their best. Our Stamford goals for improving their professional skills. • Includes: benefits, office location, and office is equipped with ergonomic tools at Over time, individual roles are fine-tuned to work space; flexible work every work station such as standing desks, maximize employees’ contributions. We also arrangements; competitive dual monitors, and noise-cancelling provide personalized support and peer headphones. encouragement to ensure well-rounded compensation Employees are encouraged to take walking growth. breaks or hold meetings outdoors for At the same time, we allocate high levels of Promoting our values via NoteWorths purposes of renewing energy and focus. The responsibility and independence to every We recognize and appreciate talent. office layout provides everyone with access employee. The entrepreneurial nature of our “NoteWorth” cards give every employee an to natural light. We also have a “quiet work and the spirit of the firm are an opportunity to recognize another employee room,” a space designed for taking private enormous factor in employee motivation for exemplifying Framework’s values. Each calls, meditating, or napping. Raisins, and growth. At Framework, people excel card represents a value, which is listed on the almonds, apples, clementines, and other because they love what they do. reverse side. Employees handwrite a brief healthy snacks—along with the occasional message on the blank side of the card and indulgence—are on offer for morning We have established a paid summer internship program to provide opportunities hand it to the person who they feel has snacking or afternoon pick-me-ups. demonstrated true Framework value. The for undergraduate and graduate students to Framework strives to promote a healthy Noteworth is accompanied by a “taco token” gain experience in working for a different relationship between work and home redeemable at a local restaurant. kind of consulting firm. These highly responsibilities. We encourage employees to competitive positions infuse our office with take all of their personal time each year to new energy and ideas while providing a reenergize and gain new experiences. Millennial Matters pipeline for potential future hires. Framework’s 2017 summer internship program attracted more than 50 candidates eager to pursue corporate sustainable career paths and drive positive global change through their work. 31 Our priorities: Talent Management Fostering a culture of learning TALENT MANAGEMENT Over the past twelve months, we have We encourage employees to be bold • Attracting, recruiting, and retaining specifically focused on our value of “always thinkers and take action to promote talent learning and teaching.” As a trusted advisor progress on ESG issues, whether that be • Includes: benefits, office location, and to large corporations, we are relied on to participating in climate marches, writing work space; flexible work provide cutting edge thinking and analysis, letters to legislators on public policies, or arrangements; competitive generated from an idea-sharing and volunteering their time with issue-specific problem-solving culture. Our emphasis on organizations. compensation constant learning also translates into Framework offers employees, from recent developing employees by building hires to more seasoned staff, specific Attending the Net Impact conference last fall confidence, increasing engagement, and learning opportunities such as the ability to provided me with new ways to sharpen my motivating growth. own skills, which gave me even more attend events, seminars, conferences, and Every week, Framework’s offices (both East webinars. confidence in my job. This opportunity helped and West coasts) convene for a Monday me to not only be competent in my job but Morning Meeting. Our first agenda item is: excel in it! I appreciate the thoughtful support “What’s happening in our world?” By from Framework that give me the opportunity allowing time for reflection on events and to shape the direction of my career. –Cristina activities outside of our immediate project Tyler, Senior Analyst work, employees can more clearly evaluate On my first day, Framework set the tone for trends, anticipate and plan for change, and I was able to take part in a three-day training the educational support they would provide by develop a more future-oriented mindset in on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate ensuring access to an event hosted by the serving our clients. United Nations and the New York University Standard. I had worked on greenhouse gas reporting in the past, but had never been Stern School of Business, on Climate Action: formally trained. I’ve already used the Mobilizing the World. The conversation with knowledge I received from the training in Secretary-General António Guterres allowed projects and I feel much more confident now in me to stay abreast on the most relevant UN projects and conversations pertaining to the initiatives to my work. –Adam Gordon, subject. –Faith Nicholas, Analyst Engagement Manager 32 About this report In 2015, Framework became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. In this, our second Communication on Progress, we evaluate how our business and values align with the ten UNGC Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals. We discuss how we help our clients enhance their performance and disclosure on human rights, labor, environmental, and anti-corruption issues. This report also describes the progress we’ve made—and continue to make—in delivering on our material issues. With this report, we reinforce our commitment to the Global Compact, to our clients, and to the right way to do business: sustainably. Sun McElderry Chief Engagement Officer smcelderry@framework-llc.com www.framework-llc.com | 203.563.0644 © 2017 Framework LLC 33
