Communication On Progress Implementing UN global compact principles in Zinc Deli & Grill 2017 Introduction: I am pleased to confirm that Zinc Deli & Grill reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Waleed Mohamed Sid Ahmed General Manager About Zinc Deli & Grill:Zinc Restaurant has opened its doors in 2009 with a new concept in the fast & fresh food business in Sudan. The idea of Zinc is to provide customers with healthy and fresh foods, using the best ingredients available in the market, for those who care about what they eat when eating out. Zinc Deli help people to live enjoyable and happy life by eating healthy. And be number one in promoting high quality food and service. Our main aim is to provide happiness and joy through food, music, and art. To ensure that each guest receives prompt, professional, friendly and courteous service. To maintain a clean, comfortable and well maintained premises for our guests and staff. To provide at a fair price nutritional, well-prepared meals using only top quality ingredients. Description:Zinc’s restaurant is best known for its delicious sandwiches and burgers, and also known for the use of olive oil for all of the grilled food, salads, and sauces and that is for keeping more healthy food. Staffing:The numbers of people working at Zinc are a total of 50 workers, the kind of jobs at the restaurant include:  Shift Managers, to oversee the staff and make sure everything is right.  Cashiers, responsible for the process of sales of the products.  Chefs, responsible for the preparation of the meals.  Sandwich makers responsible for serving customers.  Cleaners, responsible for the hygiene and cleanness of the place.  Delivery Men, for the comfort of our customers, delivery men are to deliver your food where ever you are. Description of Actions: Human Rights and Labor:Our main concern is to have a good working environment by looking after the well-being and health of employees and keep them motivated and satisfied, and for that we let the doors open for any opinions/suggestions and discontentment that will be dealt with prompt. Some of the initiatives we have implemented aim at encouraging gender equality as we hired a female employee at a high level position. Another initiative is insuring the sustainability of providing employees with safe, suitable, and sanitary work facilities by regularly filling a Check List by the supervisor and dealing with any issues stand against that sustainability. Goals It is our goal to have a high rate of employee satisfaction and motivation.  Environment:Zinc Deli supports the 3 R’s of environmental protection; Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. Reducing the waste as possible by minimizing the use of paper and using e-mails instead, also edit on screen rather than on paper, purchasing only energy efficient products, parking cars in the shade whereby reducing fuel evaporation due to the sun, and reducing our general consumption in areas where possible. We also use pizza boxes which can be recycled. Goals We wish to continue to find areas where we can continue implementing the 3 R’s of environmental protection.
