Annual Report 2016 Overview of Key Figures Sales Revenues Employees in Million Euro Employees at year end 2,294 23,849 2,086 1,978 20,188 18,293 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Cash flows worldwide 2015 in Million EUR 37.2 Payments to Tax payments investors 427.9 547.0 Salaries & Gesamtsumme Material & 358.6 wages 2,084 paid services Payments to suppliers 712.9 Cash flows Austria 2015 in Million EUR Payments to investors Tax payments 35.5 85.2 150.3 172.8 Salaries & Gesamtsumme Material & wages 667 paid services Payments to suppliers1 223.5 1 This item also includes other non-income-related taxes, fees and other duties (e.g. property taxes, vehicle taxes, rental contract fees, etc.). Consolidated Profit & Loss Statement in Million Euro 2016 2015 2014 Revenues 2,294.1 2,086.3 1,977.6 EBITDA 588.5 616.7 647.4 EBITDA margin (EBITDA/sales) in percent 25.7 % 29.6 % 32.7 % Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 264.1 315.4 363.3 EBIT margin (EBIT/sales) in percent 11.5 % 15.1 % 18.4 % Earnings before taxes 229.4 308.5 368.4 Consolidated annual profit after taxes 154.4 212.7 276.9 Consolidated Balance Sheet in Million Euro 2016 2015 2014 Balance Sheet Total 3,668.2 2,983.2 2,634.40 Equity 1,371.6 1,215.3 1,174.30 Equity ratio (equity capital/total assets) in percent 37.4 % 40.7 % 44.6 % Source: Consolidated Financial Statement as of 12/31/2015 and 12/31/2016 as per IFRS Organizational Chart NOVOMATIC Group ACE Casino Holding AG Novo Invest GmbH Gryphon Invest AG (Switzerland, 100 %) (Austria, 100 %) (Switzerland, 100 %) Casino Mendrisio (100 %) NOVOMATIC AG Group European Data Project s.r.o. (EDP) Casino Locarno (91 %) (Czech Republic, 100 %) Casino Bad Ragaz (33.3 %) NOVOMATIC AG production, casino and gaming (Austria, 89.96 % Novo Invest GmbH facility operator and 10.04 % Gryphon Invest AG) holding NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH ATSI S.A. Advanced Technology (Austria, 100 %) R&D, production, sales Systems International ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment AG (Poland, 80.78 %) technology center (Austria, 100 %) gaming facility operator ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH (Austria, 100 %) sports betting provider Casinos Austria AG (Austria, 17.19 %) casino operator Österreichische Lotterien GmbH (Austria, 23.25 %) lottery operator NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions GmbH (Austria, 100 %) developer of gaming platforms, electronic lottery solutions and lottery terminals, production, sales Greentube Internet Entertainment Solutions GmbH (Austria, 100 %) production, operation and distribution of online and mobile casino solutions as well as server-based terminal solutions LÖWEN Entertainment GmbH (Germany, 100 %) R&D, production, sales Crown Technologies GmbH (Germany, 100 %) R&D, production, sales Extra Games Entertainment GmbH (Germany,100 %) gaming facility operator Spielbank Berlin Gustav Jaenecke GmbH & Co. KG (Germany, 59.5 %) casino operator NOVOMATIC Italia S.p.A. (Italy, 100 %) sales Allstar S.r.I. (Italy, 100 %) gaming facility operator Astra Games Ltd. (United Kingdom, 100 %) R&D, production, sales Bell-Fruit Group Ltd. (United Kingdom, 100 %) production Gamestec Leisure Ltd. (United Kingdom, 100 %) sales Luxury Leisure Ultd. (United Kingdom, 100 %) gaming facility operator Playnation Ltd. (United Kingdom,100 %) gaming facility operator Talarius Ltd. (United Kingdom, 100 %) gaming facility operator Alfor SIA (Latvia, 60 %) gaming facility operator NOVOMATIC Netherlands B.V. (Netherlands, 100 %) R&D, production, sales NOVOMATIC AG Group NOVOMATIC Gaming Spain S.A. The NOVOMATIC AG Group is NOVOMATIC Group (Spain, 100 %) production, sales a part of the NOVOMATIC Group The NOVOMATIC Group and includes the main subsidiaries Admiral Operations Spain S.L. includes Novo Invest GmbH, the listed here. In addition to this, the (Spain, 100 %) gaming facility operator NOVOMATIC AG Group, as well NOVOMATIC AG Group is active in as the two Swiss sister holding GiGames S.L. England, Germany, Italy, Spain, companies ACE Casino Holding AG (Spain, 80 %) production, sales Latin America and Africa, as well and Gryphon Invest AG, which are NOVOMATIC Americas Holdings Inc. as other CEE and SEE countries owned by Prof. Johann F. Graf. (USA, 100 %) sales through subsidiaries. Content COMPANY OVERVIEW 4 NOVOMATIC AT A GLANCE 6 Facts and Figures 2016 8 Highlights 2016 10 Worldwide Activities 12 Growth of the NOVOMATIC Group 14 Foreword by the Founder and Majority Shareholder 16 Foreword by the Board of Directors 18 NOVOMATIC IN DETAIL 20 The World of NOVOMATIC 22 Research & Development 24 Gaming Machines 26 Omni-Channel Gaming Entertainment 28 Operations 30 Sports Betting 32 Lottery 34 Regulatory Environment 36 NOVOMATIC SHOWS RESPONSIBILITY 38 Corporate Responsibility in our Core Business 43 Corporate Responsibility Management 50 Responsible Entertainment 60 Corporate Governance 68 Enjoy working with us 80 Going Green 86 Active in the Community Appendix: UN Global Compact COP/GRI Index ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 94 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 96 Management Report on the Individual and Consolidated Financial Statements 128 Consolidated Financial Statements 132 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 209 Statement by the Board of Directors 210 Auditor’s Report 216 INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT 218 Balance Sheet 220 Profit and Loss Statement 222 Notes to the Individual Financial Statement 237 Auditor’s Report 242 Report of the Supervisory Board 245 Imprint N OVO MATI C AT A GLANCE AT A GLANCE 6 Facts and Figures 2016 8 Highlights 2016 10 Worldwide Activities 12 Growth of the NOVOMATIC Group 14 Foreword by the Founder and Majority Shareholder 16 Foreword by the Board of Directors NOVOMATIC Group Facts and Figures 2016 In its relatively short 36-year history, the NOVOMATIC Group with its 29,000 employees worldwide has become one of the top players in the gaming industry and the clear number one in Europe. 120,000 m2 9,000 km Surface area of Cables produced Gumpoldskirchen HQ 67 Nationalities > 3,300 Employees in Austria 6.5 h Assembly time per gaming terminal > 300,000 Programming hours per year > € 4.4 billion Revenues > 4,000 Registered ~ 29,000 IP trademark rights Employees worldwide 49 % Women in workforce AT A GLANCE 260,000 13 Gaming terminals in operation Production facilities in 10 countries 20 250 Individual parts Technology centers per gaming device in 13 countries 98 % Export rate > 3,500 55 m Conducted Cables per training days gaming terminal NOVOMATIC Group Highlights 2016 NOVOMATIC looks back at the best financial year in its 36-year history. As a globally operating full-service provider with operations in all important gaming markets, the Group covers all segments of the gaming industry. 2 to 4 February 27 June New record appearance at ICE Totally Gaming Minority shareholders approve NOVOMATIC was represented at ICE (International Casino NOVOMATIC’s investment in Ainsworth Exhibition) Totally Gaming 2016 by a record number of The starting gun went off for the acquisition of approximately 22 exhibiting Group companies. With a surface area of over 53 percent of the shares in Ainsworth Game Technology from 4,500 m², NOVOMATIC once again had the largest exhibition Len Ainsworth by NOVOMATIC in February 2016, with the appearance in the history of gaming trade shows. signing of a purchase agreement. This was followed in June by the agreement of the minority shareholders, required under company law. The regulatory approval required for the completion of the acquisition is expected to be granted in 2017. 8 March NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions signs long-term partnership agreement with PROMOSPORT NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions, on behalf of the Tunisian 1 April Ministry of Youth and Sports, signed a 6-year contract with New, joint headquarters for Greentube the Tunisian Toto betting operator PROMOSPORT. The suband NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions ject of the agreement is the provision of a complete solution Greentube and NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions move into for the operation of Toto betting as well as continued maintheir new headquarters in Vienna. The newly renovated tenance and support services. building offers more than 10,000 m² for 500 employees from Greentube, Funstage and NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions. 28 June NOVOMATIC takes over the British gaming operator Talarius 14 December The completion of this transaction represents the continuGreen light for NOVOMATIC ation of NOVOMATIC’s expansion strategy. NOVOMATIC is investment in Casinos Austria AG now the largest gaming facility operator in the Adult Gaming NOVOMATIC announces the takeover of the shares of MTB Center segment in the UK. Privatstiftung in Casinos Austria AG amounting to 17.2 percent. 28 November Award for the NESTORGOLD certificate 22 August NOVOMATIC and ADMIRAL were each awarded the 3rd NOVO Safety Day ­NESTORGOLD certificate by Federal Minister Alois Stöger in The focus of this day is an evacuation drill with more than 500 a ceremony held at the Austrian Ministry of Social Affairs. people, first aid training, environmental and fire protection, NESTORGOLD is a strict externally audited certification process as well as self-defense. dealing with everything surrounding age(ing)-appropriate workplaces. AT A GLANCE 15 September Second health day for the first time in two locations 14 October More than 250 participants of NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries Casino FlaminGO celebrates expansion GmbH in Gumpoldskirchen and ADMIRAL Casinos & EnterThe expansion of Casino FlaminGO in Macedonia was cele­ tainment AG in Wiener Neudorf took advantage of more brated with a dazzling festival, with NOVOMATIC brand than 30 health-related activities. ambassador Niki Lauda as the guest of honor. The expansion crowned Casino FlaminGO the largest casino in South-Eastern Europe. 23 September Casino Admiral San Roque opens After a year-long planning and renovation phase, the open10 October ing of Casino Admiral San Roque was celebrated together 7th NOVOMATIC Responsible Gaming Symposium with NOVOMATIC brand ambassador Niki Lauda. The casino The subject was “Responsible Entertainment is not a contraoffers modern gaming fun over 4,650 m2. diction” and was discussed with experts and numerous stakeholders at the Novomatic Forum. NOVOMATIC Worldwide Activities NOVOMATIC Activities NOVOMATIC Competence centers NOVOMATIC Headquarters Growth of the NOVOMATIC Group During the past ten years, the NOVOMATIC Group has increased the number of its employees across all continents more than seven times to 29,000. ESTABLISHMENT Founded by Professor Johann F. Graf, Austria 1980 INTERACTIVE REVOLUTION 1985 First NOVOMATIC dual screen terminals revolutionize the market 1989 MARKET ENTRY Central, Eastern and Southern Europe ESTABLISHMENT of the sports betting company 1991 ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH, Austria DEVELOPMENT Revolutionising the AWP sector: beginning of the development of multiplayer devices and launching interactive multi-games 1995 INNOVATION Development of the Coolfire™ casino 1997 hardware platform, presentation of the first multiplayer cabinets and development of Establishment TouchBet® Roulette of ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment AG in Switzerland and Advanced Technology Systems International S.A. in Poland 2000 ACQUISITION LÖWEN Entertainment GmbH, Germany 2003 gaming terminal manufacturer ACQUISITION of the majority share in Astra Games Ltd., United Kingdom 2004 INAUGURATION 2005 CASINO ADMIRAL PRATER, Austria REVOLUTION LÖWEN Entertainment GmbH revolutionizes the German gaming market with its new multi-game concept NOVOLINE 2006 ACQUISITION Crown Technologies GmbH, Germany premium gaming terminal manufacturer 2007 ACQUISITION Crown Gaming S.A.C., Peru 2009 INAUGURATION New NOVOMATIC HQ in Gumpoldskirchen, Austria ACQUISITION Electro System S.p.A., Italy MG Gaming S.r.l., Italy Casinos Austria AG, Austria Lotaria Kombëtare, Albania OTIUMGI S.L., Spain Talarius Ltd., United Kingdom MARKET ENTRY 2016 Tunisia (lottery), France INAUGURATION Casino Admiral San Roque, Spain New Headquarters of Greentube and NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions in Vienna, Austria BENCHMARK BOND ACQUISITIONS Eurobond with a total volume BlueBat Games Inc., Canada of EUR 500 million, Austria AbZorba LLC, USA Casino Tornado, Lithuania, 5th casino BRAND REINFORCEMENT Österreichische Lotterien GmbH, Austria Renaming of Austrian Gaming Industries GmbH Playnation Ltd., United Kingdom into NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH MARKET ENTRY Madrid (operations), Catalonia (lottery) 2015 NIKI LAUDA CORPORATE CREDIT RATING becomes NOVOMATIC brand ambassador S&P assigns NOVOMATIC AG an investment grade rating of BBB and a stable outlook ANLEIHE Corporate bond with PROMISSORY NOTE BONDS a volume of EUR 200 million, Austria with a volume of EUR 275 million, Austria INAUGURATION Hotel Casino FlaminGO, Macedonia AT A GLANCE ESTABLISHMENT of NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions GmbH, Austria, Iceland 2014 ACQUISITIONS BONDS Luxury Leisure Ultd., United Kingdom, Scotland Corporate bond with a GiGames S.L., Spain volume of EUR 250 million, Austria MARKET ENTRY Netherlands, Romania (with VLTs) Elam Group Electronic Amusement B.V., Eurocoin Gaming B.V., JVH exploitatie, Netherlands 2013 Netherlands MARKET ENTRY Betware Holding hf., Iceland Israel, Illinois, Costa Rica, Honduras, Guatemala Development and sale of state-of-the-art online and mobile lottery solutions as well as gaming platforms ACQUISITION Substantial assets of the Danoptra 2012 Gaming Group (Bell-Fruit Group and Gamestec Leisure Ltd.), United Kingdom ACQUISITION Spielbank Berlin, Germany 2011 BONDS Two corporate bonds with a total ACQUISITION volume of EUR 350 million, Austria G. Matica, Italy MARKET ENTRY 2010 Italy ONLINE MARKET ENTRY via acquisition of the Greentube Group, Austria NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Foreword by the Founder and Majority Shareholder Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, In the 36th year since its establishment, NOVOMATIC again success story, even against monopolies, with the acquisition looks back at an extremely successful financial year. The of shares in Casinos Austria AG and Österreichische Lotterien NOVOMATIC AG Group recorded revenue growth of ten perGmbH. I firmly believe that everyone involved will benefit cent, thus achieving almost EUR 2.3 billion. Together with the from this new partnership. two Swiss sister holding companies, ACE Casino Holding AG and Gryphon Invest AG, the NOVOMATIC Group was able to Today, NOVOMATIC is Europe’s leading gaming technolachieve record joint cumulative revenues of EUR 4.4 billion. ogy group and one of the top players worldwide, covering all segments of our industry as a technologically pioneerA particularly pleasing fact for me is that not only have ing full-service provider. The products and services on offer we been able to generate excellent business results in all include gaming technology permanently driven by innovasegments of the gaming industry, but the number of our tion – in addition to the successful online subsidiary Greenemployees has again risen significantly. At the end of the tube, this now also includes our young but very successful year, the NOVOMATIC AG Group had 23,849 employees – an lottery technology subsidiary NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions increase of 18.1 percent. The number of employees in the GmbH, as well as attractive gaming and sports betting serentire NOVOMATIC Group increased to 29,000 during the vices, where we also put particular emphasis on first-rate seryear under review. vice. The dynamism of NOVOMATIC is further evidenced by the fact that the number of fully consolidated companies in NOVOMATIC, therefore, continued its expansion in a very this annual report rose from 188 at the start of the year to impressive way throughout the year. Our activities now 217 by the end of 2016. stretch beyond our core markets across the whole of Europe – where we were again able to significantly expand our market Our corporate philosophy is in no small part responsible for position in large gaming markets such as Spain, Italy and the this success – we never focus on short-term profit maximizaUnited Kingdom – and range from the USA, where we have tion but rather on a strategy that is both long-term and susalready been granted licenses in 18 states, to South America, tainable. I am convinced that we will continue to justify the Africa, Asia and will, in future, also include Australia thanks confidence placed in us by our customers and partners in the to the pending closure of the acquisition of the majority future and continue our success story. The most important stake in the gaming technology group Ainsworth. decisions in a company always relate to people, which means that the crucial foundation of our success is our employees – At our global headquarters, in our home market of Austria, each and every individual of the now 29,000 members of the we added an important chapter to our continued and ­ongoing NOVOMATIC family. Prof. Johann F. GRAF Founder and majority shareholder 14 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 AT A GLANCE 15 Dr. Christian Widhalm Thomas Graf Peter Stein Harald Neumann Ryszard Presch NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Foreword by the Board of Directors Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2016, the NOVOMATIC AG Group again recorded a signifIn Austria, the acquisition of shares in Casinos Austria AG and icant increase in revenues, reaching the highest level in the Österreichische Lotterien GmbH was the focus of attention, company’s history at EUR 2,294.1 million. This corresponds along with the associated antitrust decisions. to growth of ten percent against the previous year, with a particularly pleasing development in the area of gaming Clear signals were also sent at the financing level so as to be machine proceeds during the year under review. able to take advantage of growth opportunities. In September 2016, a benchmark bond was issued with a volume of EUR Aside from the robust financial figures, a clear strategic 500 million. NOVOMATIC’s first benchmark bond is also the direction was taken in 2016 which is relevant to the further first benchmark bond of an Austrian company in 2016. development of the Group of companies. This includes the approval of the minority shareholders to acquire approxAll of these activities are only possible, however, because imately 53 percent of the shares in Ainsworth Game Techwe invest in our staff. We endeavor to create the best posnology Ltd. Thanks to the strong presence of Ainsworth in sible environment for our employees. By way of example, AT A GLANCE Australia, Asia, North and South America, NOVOMATIC will, we launched a high-quality training program for potential in future, also intensify its work in these markets. casino managers and area managers for arcades. Long-term success is what is important to us, which is why we are taking The NOVOMATIC Group also focused on Europe. The stratthe necessary action today to be able to further develop the egy here is to cement and build on the company’s strong company in the future together with motivated, high-permarket position with forward-looking decisions. To this forming and, above all, healthy teams. end, we sent a strong signal in the important British market with the acquisition of Talarius Ltd. by NOVOMATIC UK. We After all, NOVOMATIC is committed to sustainable corporate expanded our market position in Germany, Italy and Spain by development which, in addition to the economic aspects of acquiring numerous smaller companies. The increasing level our business activity, also considers employee and environof regulation being introduced by European governments mental protection issues, as well as the interests of our stakeis fostering a process of concentration in the market as the holders. We are committed to the sustainability principles of high player protection standards – and thus the associated the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the global technical investments – can only be met by experienced and standard for sustainability reporting of the Global Reporting ­responsibly-minded companies. Initiative (GRI). Harald Neumann Ryszard Presch Thomas Graf Peter Stein Dr. Christian Widhalm Chairman Deputy Chairman Chief Technology Chief Financial Chief Investment Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Officer Officer Officer 17 N OVO MATI C CLOSER IN DETAIL VIEW 20 The World of NOVOMATIC 22 Research & Development IN DETAIL 24 Gaming Machines 26 Omni-Channel Gaming Entertainment 28 Operations 30 Sports Betting 32 Lottery 34 Regulatory Environment NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The World of NOVOMATIC As a full-service provider, NOVOMATIC is active in all segments of the gaming industry ­through its numerous international subsidiaries. Apart from continuous product innova­ tion and diversification of its business areas, the future focus of the company also lies in expanding its global market position, particularly in the USA, Australia, Asia and South America. Winning Technology – something our brand ambassador Through its numerous international subsidiaries, the and three-time Formula 1 champion Niki Lauda is passionate NOVOMATIC Group operates as a full-service provider in all about. After all, the core of our success as one of the leadsegments of the gaming industry. The spectrum ranges from ing global gaming technology companies is our innovative casino equipment, systems and cash management solutions, strength. Founded in 1980 by industrialist Prof. Johann F. to arcade and pub products, sports betting, lotteries, and Graf in Gumpoldskirchen, the NOVOMATIC Group, consistonline, mobile and social gaming offerings. Our dual strating of NOVOMATIC AG as well as its two Swiss sister holding egy as a producer of high-tech gaming equipment and opercompanies ACE Casino Holding AG and Gryphon Invest AG, ator of more than 1,800 electronic casinos, regular casinos can look back upon an unparalleled success story. and sports betting facilities, is the foundation of our success. 36 years after its establishment, NOVOMATIC is not just a The NOVOMATIC Group’s unique competitive advantage globally active Group of companies with around 29,000 comes from an extraordinary level of vertical integration of employees and locations in 50 countries, but it is also Europe‘s more than 90 percent. This integration is consistently leverlargest gaming technology group. The Group exports innoaged via the Group’s interlinked research and development vative gaming equipment, system solutions, lottery system technology centers around the globe. It also allows the solutions and services to around 80 countries. entire Group of companies to realize considerable synergy potentials. 20 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 ing terminals run on the rental model, as well as the more than 1,800 gaming facilities belonging to the Group, which includes casinos, sports betting facilities and electronic casinos. NOVOMATIC is the market leader in Europe in terms of electronic casino operations. Moreover, NOVOMATIC commands a comprehensive international casino know-how and operates casinos, among others, in Germany, Czech Republic, Spain, Gibraltar, Macedonia, Lithuania and Switzerland. The casinos rank among the most lucrative casinos within their respective region. Once again, NOVOMATIC was able to improve its position in the ranking of companies with the most valuable brands in Austria in the financial year 2016. Within the framework of a brand value study, “eurobrand Austria 2016”, NOVOMATIC came in third, with a brand value of EUR 2.9 billion (+3 percent compared to the previous year). We are particularly excited to report that NOVOMATIC is the only company that High levels of innovation continue to remain a central has registered yearly increases in this ranking for more than component of the Group’s future prospects. Shortly after ten years. its founding, NOVOMATIC quickly established itself as a trendsetter in the world of gaming equipment, in particular As a globally operating full-service provider, NOVOMATIC IN DETAIL through investments in research and development that go pursues a strategy of covering all segments of the gaming above and beyond the industry average. The 20 technology industry. Apart from continuous product innovation, the centers in 13 countries and 13 production locations in ten future focus of the company lies on an even stronger divercountries play a crucial role in the development of innovasification of its business areas. Nevertheless, the gaming tive technologies, system solutions and promising products technology group will continue to focus on continuous, confor the online, mobile and social gaming segments. trolled and sustainable growth. NOVOMATIC’s fundamental policy remains as the Group only offers its products and gamNOVOMATIC’s dual strategy provides the perfect opportuniing facilities in regulated markets and market segments with ty to test new developments in Group casinos. Innovations clear regulatory and legal frameworks. are only brought to market once the technical nuances are refined and confirmed by player enthusiasm. Customers The Group’s core markets are, in addition to Central, Eastern and business partners benefit from the unreserved commitand South-Eastern Europe, in which NOVOMATIC maintains ment to top quality, perfect handling of the highest grade a fantastic position due to an early market entry, the counmaterials, and the precision work in the interest of the custries of Germany, Spain, Italy, the United Kingdom as well tomer, which are the hallmarks of NOVOMATIC machines. as the Netherlands. NOVOMATIC will continue to evaluate growth potential in order to maintain and increase market The manufacturing NOVOMATIC subsidiary NOVOMATIC leadership in these countries. Gaming Industries GmbH (NGI) also acts as a holding ­ company for numerous national and international comIn the future, the technology group will focus on expandpanies, as well as for investments in the gaming industry. ing its market position, particularly in the US, Australia, Asia NGI is also Europe’s leading producer of gaming terminals, and South America. The planned acquisition of a majority supplying one of the most comprehensive product ranges in stake in the Australian company Ainsworth Game Technolthe industry. Its international sales have elevated the comogy Ltd. offers an important lever for the development of pany to one of the largest producers of gaming ­equipment these markets. NOVOMATIC and Ainsworth have been workin the world. ing together to complete this merger since receiving the approval of the minority shareholders in June 2016. Both In the operational business segment, the NOVOMATIC Group companies are currently in the process of obtaining the raised the number of operated gaming terminals in the approval from various gaming authorities required for the financial year 2016 to 260,000 units. This includes both gamcompletion of the acquisition. 21 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 22 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Research & Development NOVOMATIC uses its innovative power to set industry trends and develop high-tech ­gaming equipment. Industrial design is one of the most important aspects of the process. Thanks to 20 technology centers in 13 countries, the The industry trend of merging well-known pop-culture subNOVOMATIC Group is a pioneer in the development of innojects such as TV shows and blockbusters with gaming convative products and systems solutions in the area of gaming. tinued throughout 2016. NOVOMATIC also has a stake in The Group’s development activities focus both on “Distribthe field of branded games and has licenses for Christopher uted Gaming Solutions” as well as gaming content and appliNolan’s Batman trilogy and the Sherlock Holmes films by Guy cation software. The developed software system solutions Ritchie. More branded games will be published in 2017, a include management information systems, ticketing and license for the cult TV series MacGyver could be acquired as smartcard systems, access systems, video lottery systems, the most recent brand. ­biometric player recognition, links to government regulators, player protection programs, “gaming as a service”, online Development is supported by hardware and software develIN DETAIL and mobile gaming system solutions, jackpot systems, multiopment teams in Austria, Germany, United Kingdom, Iceplayer and community gaming systems, as well as the newly land, the Netherlands, Spain, Russia, Argentina, Canada and developed tournament ‚World Championship of Slots‘. Both Poland, working either in-house or related to the Group, as modular software architecture and interoperability of the well as by exclusive partnerships with developers in Slovenia, various developments are crucially important. Greece, the USA and Australia. Open platform architecture and development teams speProtecting intellectual property in the area of research and cializing in individual market segments guarantee that our development is extremely important. At the end of 2016, development activities are suitable for both homogeneous NOVOMATIC had more than 4,000 registered IP trademark markets and market niches with a high degree of specializarights. More than 100 registrations are added each year. The tion. The open platform infrastructure allows for an integraGroup is constantly developing new products and product tion of third-party providers and their gaming applications in variations, resulting in the creation of over 300 new gaming order to satisfy market needs in a better and faster manner. variants per year. With the help of a software development kit (SDK), it is possible to add games developed by thirdNOVOMATIC sets industry trends when developing the latest parties to the portfolio immediately. 20 companies around generation of cabinets and models. Industrial design is one the globe are now working with this SDK, providing addiof the most important aspects of the process. Innovations tional enrichment to NOVOMATIC‘s gaming portfolio. in terms of hardware include new and ergonomic cabinet designs for casino, video lottery and Amusement with Prizes (AWP) gaming markets with control possible via up to five monitors, skill-based roulette facilities with state-of-the-art ball release mechanisms, the new GAMINATOR® Scorpion cabinet and V.I.P. terminals with giant screen technology and dynamic lighting effects via LED technology. In terms of data security, increasing emphasis is being placed on physical random number generators that use quantum mechanics. 23 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Gaming Machines From ‘Very Important Player’ experiences to space saving design – our new ­developments in the areas of cabinet variations and models are even better adapted to ­individual ­c­ustomer needs. NOVOMATIC’s wholly owned subsidiary, NOVOMATIC company-owned gaming facilities, in a variety of markets Gaming Industries GmbH (NGI), is the central Group unit and market segments. The continual exchange of know-how active in the research and development, manufacture and and experience from different business segments, feedback international distribution of gaming technologies. NGI and from the operative areas put directly into practice during its subsidiaries offer one of the most comprehensive product product development, as well as ongoing evaluations within portfolios in the industry, covering all segments. The dualthe development process itself, guarantee that all our ity of the business activities, as an operator and producer products are of the highest quality and ready for market of gaming technologies, provides the Group with a unique before they are offered to international customers. opportunity to test and optimize new developments in 24 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 50 Full HD LED monitor with FLIPSCREEN® function, as well as a comfortable Crown V.I.P. chair – the result was the NOVOSTAR® V.I.P. II. After the fantastic success of the initial devices in this cabinet series, we introduced three additional V.I.P. cabinets at the trade fair in London – NOVOSTAR® V.I.P. III, NOVOSTAR® V.I.P. Royal and V.I.P. Lounge™ – all with innovative features that guarantee guests an amazing gaming experience. We also introduced the GAMINATOR® Scorpion cabinet. A successor to the legendary best-seller, the GAMINATOR®, this machine builds on tried and tested features and provides a first-class cabinet design for the modern casino floor. Two 23.8 Full HD LED monitors as well as an independent 23.8 Full HD LED topper, combined with elegant LED effects synchronized to the games, create an amazing framework for top entertainment with leading NOVOMATIC games. NOVOMATIC also presented a new cabinet for the electronic live-games segment at ICE 2016, the EXECUTIVE SL™. This new multiplayer machine has a particularly space saving design while providing maximum executive comfort, and IN DETAIL allows the operator to make optimal use of their available space, not the least because it can also create a new electronic live gaming area with linked groups of machines and digital display solutions. In September, NOVOMATIC announced the acquisition of a majority stake in the Spanish video bingo provider NOVOMATIC always presents its most important innovaOTIUMGI S.L. The company has its headquarters in Bartions for the new financial year in February at the largest celona and is already well established in the Mexican and and most important international specialty trade show, the Filipino bingo markets. As a new member of the Austrian International Casino Exhibition (ICE) in London. In 2016, gaming technology Group, the company is now looking at the Group had the largest stand at the trade show with an the further development of its international portfolio and area of 4,500 m² and once again presented an exciting and conquering new markets. The new video bingo devices also comprehensive product portfolio to the industry audience. represent an additional diversification of the NOVOMATIC The portfolio showcased technologies and solutions in the product portfolio. At the G2E gaming trade show in Las segments of casino, AWP/LPM (amusement with prizes/ Vegas, the OTIUM Bingo machines were presented to the limited payout machines), management systems and cash world for the first time at the NOVOMATIC stand and were management, online, mobile and social gaming offered by the subject of excellent feedback. Greentube and its subsidiaries of NOVOMATIC Interactive, as well as B2B solutions for sports betting, and the latest We also presented the “World Championship of Slots™” lottery products introduced by NOVOMATIC AG‘s subsidiary (WCOS) at G2E in Las Vegas. This exciting new concept for NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions GmbH (NLS). the American market is the result of cooperation between NOVOMATIC Americas and the Emmy award winning proA series of new V.I.P. cabinets were introduced at ICE 2016, ducer and director Gary Hunt. The live-slot tournament was a highlight of the gaming machines segment. This cabipresented at the G2E with a selection of compatible games. net series was developed specifically for discerning casino Presenters at the trade fair generated much enthusiasm with operators, to allow for a V.I.P. experience on their gaming daily live competitions and prizes. floors – a special ambiance with a hint of luxury. The success began when we expanded the NOVOSTAR® SL to include a 25 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Omni-Channel Gaming Entertainment The trend-setting Omni-channel strategy enables a seamless gaming experience ­comprising online, mobile and land-based gaming. The digital interactive segment is one of the fastest growfor all platforms and devices. In this context, Greentube ing sectors in the gaming industry. Technological innovaoffers a continually growing portfolio of HTML5 games for tions and developments are constantly presented, using desktop and mobile devices. ever more powerful mobile devices to offer the consumer new possibilities. But this also presents providers with new As a globally operating company, Greentube provides soludevelopment challenges. As the interactive unit of the tions in the business area of “real-money gaming” in the NOVOMATIC Group, Greentube Internet Entertainment B2B and B2C markets. Real-money operators in the B2B area ­Solutions GmbH takes on all these challenges and works include, for example, Bet365, Unibet, Betsson, Sky Vegas and ­tirelessly to further develop successful solutions. the Rank Group. Greentube is the leading provider in the area of interactive In addition, the company owns some of the real-money gaming solutions and the leading provider of social casino providers in the B2C market including StarVegas, which is gaming in Europe. Its broad product portfolio includes casino focused on the Italian and Spanish markets, and Bell Fruit slots, table games, bingo, live dealer gaming, AWP slots, ­Casino, which is focused on the British market. server-based gaming and social casino solutions. Foxwoods Resort, among others, is one of the most sucGreentube is continuously expanding and strengthening its cessfully operating B2B partners in the area of social casino portfolio with new developments from its numerous gaming. The solutions from Greentube Pro, currently largely subsidiaries. These subsidiaries include Funstage, Cervo operating in the US market, give terrestrial casinos the option Media, Platogo, BlueBat Games, StakeLogic, Greentube to offer customers a digital gaming experience. Use as a marMalta, Greentube Slovakia, Greentube Alderney, Green­­ keting platform allows, at the same time, for testing of new tube Gibraltar and AbZorba Games. These manifold games and analysis of customer preferences. This type of resources keep Greentube anchored in its position as market player interaction represents the essential feature that sets leader. Greentube Pro apart from a multitude of solutions offered by the competition. The online player is fully immersed in the Mazooma Interactive Games, Eurocoin Interactive, Slot Stucasino’s brand and interacts with “his” or “her” casino on a dios, DWG, Extreme Live Gaming, Octavian, and many other virtual basis. Casinos that have decided to work with Greenpartner companies in the development area, guarantee tube Pro can also access the entirety of Greentube’s game high-quality gaming experiences on all devices. portfolio, as well as that from all NOVOMATIC subsidiaries. A series of unique cross-promotion tools, such as the use of Greentube always has its finger on the pulse of regulatory special voucher logic, which allows for customer activation requirements, holding licenses in Malta, Alderney and Gibralboth in digital and terrestrial areas, is part of the exclusive tar, as well as local licenses in the United Kingdom, Spain, competitive advantage provided by the service. Italy, Belgium and Latvia. In addition, the company is working on the market entry in a variety of European countries that The best-known brands in B2C social gaming are “GameTwist“, will be regulated in the future. “Slotpark“, as well as apps from the subsidiary company AbZorba such as “Live Blackjack21“ and “Live Roulette“. In keeping with the latest advances, HTML5 is the technologAdditional successful independent brands in this business ical framework within which gaming solutions are prepared area are “Pharaoh’s Way“ and “Pharaoh’s Fire“. 26 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 IN DETAIL Greentube’s Omni-channel solution combines online, “single wallet” solution across all possible channels; casino mobile and land-based gaming across all business areas, and and VLT markets can be served by the server-based P ­ lurius™ provides customers with a comprehensive and continuous system. Thus, the innovative Plurius™ system completes gaming portfolio. To do so, all games are provided using a Greentube’s Omni-channel strategy. 27 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Operations With the acquisition of Talarius, NOVOMATIC is now the largest gaming facility operator in the segment of so-called “adult gaming centers” (AGCs) in the UK. The NOVOMATIC Group operates more than 1,800 gaming end of the financial year 2015, the company received a license facilities around the world: electronic casinos, casinos with under the Austrian Gaming Act in Styria. The facility roll-out live gaming operations and sports betting facilities. They all completed in April 2016. ACE is represented in Styria at 24 stand not only for the finest entertainment and service at locations with 337 gaming machines and in total operates the highest level but also for innovative products and system more than 2,000 gaming machines throughout Austria. All of solutions. these terminals have been successfully connected to the Federal Data Processing Center via a permanent, real-time link. In Europe, NOVOMATIC operates the latest in electronic casinos via various subsidiaries. In Austria, ADMIRAL Casinos At the end of 2016, NOVOMATIC was able to register another & Entertainment AG (ACE) is responsible for operating 152 success in the domestic market. With the resolution of the electronic casinos (as of February 2017) in Lower Austria, Annual General Meeting of Casinos Austria AG (CASAG), Upper Austria, Carinthia, Burgenland and Styria. Towards the according to which the conditions precedent for the acquisition 28 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Kassel also received a legally valid notice to obtain a casino permit to operate a casino in Kassel with a gaming branch in Bad Wildungen for the duration of 10 years with the option of a 5-year extension. With the acquisition of the British gaming operator Talarius Ltd., NOVOMATIC is now the largest gaming facility operator in the segment of so-called “adult gaming centers” (AGC) in the UK. Talarius operates 162 gaming facilities across the UK with a total of 7,500 gaming machines and employs just under 1,000 employees. Due to the acquisition, NOVOMATIC UK now employs a total of approximately 3,800 employees in the UK, where gaming is a well-loved traditional recreational activity. These employees work for Playnation, Luxury Leisure, Gamestec Leisure, Bell-Fruit Group, Mazooma Interactive and Extreme Live Gaming. In Italy, Europe’s largest gaming market, the number of electronic casino locations once again increased during the past financial year through the strategic acquisition of smaller gaming facility operators. This led to a rise in the number of electronic casinos operated by NOVOMATIC from 138 IN DETAIL (1/31/2015) to 168 (1/31/2016) locations in 2016. Not only that, in 2016 we were once again able to increase casino competence within the NOVOMATIC Group. Casino Admiral San Roque opened in July in the south of Spain. With a total surface area of 5,600 m2, the casino offers 125 innovative gaming machines, eight live gaming tables, a modern Bingo hall for 315 guests, the ADMIRAL Arena, of the shares of MTB private foundation in CASAG to the which is a multi-purpose event hall for up to 300 people, amount of 17.2 percent have been met, the way has been and several restaurants. In addition, the NOVOMATIC Group paved for an effective takeover of the shares. The entry of acquired Gran Casino Aljarafe in Seville, which will open NOVOMATIC as a new Austrian shareholder in CASAG is an in 2017 after extensive renovation work, and offer guests important step for the stable and sustainable core share­ a holistic experience including gastronomy, entertainment holder structure of the Casinos Austria Group. and gaming. In Germany, which is a core market for NOVOMATIC, gaming We also expanded Casino FlaminGO in Macedonia, which was operators were able to expand their already strong market acquired in 2013 and opened in 2014. The expansion raised position. The three companies active in commercial gaming, the number of gaming machines from the original 470 to a Extra Games Entertainment GmbH, BPA Freizeitand Untertotal of 1,001. The casino area includes 26 gaming tables for haltungsbetriebe GmbH, and Admiral Play GmbH registered live games. In addition, the casino offers gastronomy as well a positive profit development despite a difficult market as a hotel with spa area. Casino FlaminGO is now the largest environment caused by legal regulations. NOVOMATIC also casino in South East Europe, with 570 employees. operates a total of seven casinos in Germany, including Spielbank Berlin. At the end of 2016, Spielbank Berlin, NOVOMATIC‘s flagship properties in the casino segment trafounded in 1975 and Germany‘s most profitable casino, once ditionally also include the Swiss casinos in Mendrisio, Locarno again received a casino concession for an additional 15 years, and Bad Ragaz, as well as numerous casinos in the Czech commencing January 1, 2018. The casino, steeped in tradiRepublic such as Casino ADMIRAL Colosseum in Hatê. All of tion, welcomes more than 600,000 guests a year both at Potsthese establishments enjoy some of the strongest revenues damer Platz as well as four additional branches. Spielbank within their respective regions. 29 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 30 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Sports Betting NOVOMATIC operates its own betting facilities internationally across a variety of markets using sports betting offers tailored to the relevant market, as well as sports betting areas in casinos. The company also provides innovative Omni-channel sports betting solutions to B2B customers. NOVOMATIC Sports Betting Solutions (NSBS) has been coorADMIRAL Sportwetten is the market leader in Austria and dinating all international sports betting activities for the offers comprehensive betting services. In addition to around NOVOMATIC Group since 2015. The company, NOVOMATIC 1,400 Self-Service Betting Terminals, as well as 270 tills in SPORTS BETTING SOLUTIONS GmbH, will be founded in the over 250 facilities in Austria and Germany, they also, of 1st quarter of 2017. Omni-channel solutions for sports bet­ course, are accessible via online and mobile portals. ting providers will be offered to the international market from a single source. The solutions include management of True to its corporate philosophy of “building trust through IN DETAIL an ­unlimited number of Self-Service Betting Terminals and bookmaking competency, payment security and respectacheckouts in the terrestrial segment, as well as secure o ­ nline bility”, ADMIRAL has been a competent provider of sports and mobile sports betting solutions via responsive web­ betting services for 25 years. Soon after opening, ADMIRAL design and platform independent applications. Sportwetten managed to rapidly conquer a share of more than 50 percent in its domestic market, thereby becoming the Operators profit from scalable solutions, which make their clear number one within the Austrian sports betting facilities mark through excellent ease of use, and are adjusted to spebusiness. The betting specialist has a unique quality concept: cific markets and individual customer requirements. In addiinnovative betting services, the latest in technology, and an tion, NSBS delivers a powerful module for comprehensive inviting café-style atmosphere. sports betting offered in various currencies and languages with an excellent reporting system, which can be easily and Since 2014, ADMIRAL Sportwetten has also offered betting quickly integrated into all common payment systems. services in Germany. In 2016, the facility network was expanded to include ten locations, and expansion of the NSBS supports providers with product-specific expertise and sports betting services in the German market will remain a first-class consultations for a variety of sports betting requirefocus in 2017. ments. From market observation and analysis to selection and configuration of suitable hardware and software systems, NSBS has also outlined an international expansion strategy and including operational training and professional 24/7 cusfor 2017. In keeping with this strategy, the innovative betting tomer service as well as support for all marketing activities: systems are constantly being updated, so as to adapt them NSBS is a strong partner for operators. flexibly to the individual regional requirements and make the betting experience as attractive as possible for customers. NOVOMATIC is active in several markets with a variety of brands and sports betting offers matched to the market in question, both as an operator of independent betting facilities and, where allowed, sports betting areas in casinos. These markets include, among others, Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic, Italy, Gibraltar, Romania and Serbia. 31 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Lottery NOVOMATIC continues the progressive expansion of its presence in the classic lottery segment. In 2016, NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions again signed significant partnership agreements with important strategic partners. As a gaming technology group, NOVOMATIC has always Also in 2016, NLS signed significant partnership agreestriven to continuously expand its competencies in all areas ments with important strategic partners. These strategic of modern gaming. With the acquisition of Betware Holding partnerships round out the NLS “Best of Breed” offerings. hf., an Icelandic pioneer in the field of lottery technology, For example, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was NOVOMATIC took the ultimate step toward full integration finalized with Gamevy Ltd. to offer new instant-win games in November 2013. by connecting the market-leading NLS lottery platform with Gamevy’s unique content. A logical consequence of this development is continued expansion in the classic lottery segment. With the establishIn addition, in mid-2016, NLS signed a Memorandum of ment of the subsidiary NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions GmbH Understanding with the Kambi Group plc. to offer a pow(NLS) in mid-2014, the NOVOMATIC Group has grouped its erful full-service gaming solution for government-regulated lottery competences in one place. Thanks to the combined lotteries. Co-branded and marketed as “NLS Sports Betting – resources, experience and know-how of NOVOMATIC and Powered by Kambi”, this clever sports betting application is Betware, NLS can offer any lottery operator an innovative a direct response to the increased demand for a superior and 360-degree solution across all sales channels, including consistent user experience across all sales channels – online, online and mobile solutions. With its innovative “bring your mobile and retail. own terminal” solution, NLS clearly stands apart from its competition. The objective of this strategy is to minimize NLS regularly receives excellent feedback from all areas of the investment expense for lotteries, in particular regarding the lottery community. The company has embodied sophishardware. tication, excellence, transparency and innovation at every turn. Right from the very beginning, NLS challenged the In the last two years, NLS has become a member and Preindustry to act according to the motto “Expect Better”. Ultimium Partner in all of the world’s most important lottery mately, this has resulted in continuous success with the signassociations: the World Lottery Association (WLA), the ing of long-term contracts with renowned partners. European Lotteries (EL), the North American Association of State and Provincial Lotteries (NASPL), the Corporación Iberoamericana De Loterías Y Apuestas De Estado (CIBELAE), the African Lottery Association (ALA), and the Asia Pacific Lottery Association (APLA). In 2016, NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions (NLS) made a standout impression at three of the most important specialty trade shows around the world: from G2E in Las Vegas and the National Association of State and Provincial Lotteries (NASPL) Conference in Atlanta, in the US, to the World Lottery Summit (WLS) in Singapore. During the same period, several important product innovations were introduced to the market: the NLS Instant Ticket Vending Machine (ITVM), the in-lane solution POS Embedded, and a new scented scratch ticket (Scratch‘n’Sniff) developed for the lottery in Catalonia and introduced to the market in 2016. 32 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 IN DETAIL 33 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Regulatory Environment NOVOMATIC advocates social responsibility and strict statutory regulations with regards to gaming at both the domestic and the international level. NOVOMATIC, therefore, provides its products and services only in regulated markets with clear legal frameworks. After all, legal certainty is a core fundamental principle of commercial activity for the entire NOVOMATIC Group. Gaming is marked by a very dynamic regulatory environment. genland, were revoked by the Federal Administrative Court. Continual changes to the law, in particular in the areas of ACE then received again a state license with the same scope in money laundering prevention and the protection of players Lower Austria. However, the competitors concerned took furand minors, are challenges that regularly have to be faced ther legal action, which may result in an inappropriately long by gaming providers. Within the single European market, lawsuit that lasts several years and thus provides legal uncergaming remains the only market segment for which the regtainty. It is therefore necessary, for legal certainty as well as for ulations have still not been harmonized among the member the protection of players and minors, that a quick, legally bindstates. NOVOMATIC, therefore, works towards the harmoniing conclusion for the licensing process is reached. Moreover, zation of gaming in Europe, to create improved and unified there is still no decision from the Austrian Federal Ministry of framework conditions for market participants. Finance as to whether and what extent the three revoked and legally available casino concessions will be tendered. Basic requirements for NOVOMATIC business activities include clear legal framework conditions, a transparent concession In Germany, the highly criticized First State Treaty amendprocess, the implementation of player protection measures ing the State Treaty regarding Gaming in Germany (Glücks­ in accordance with scientific and adequate market standspieländerungsstaatsvertrag, GlüÄndStV) came into effect on ards, and measures aimed at combating crime and preventing July 1, 2012. The law deals primarily with the establishment money laundering. This has always been the highest priority of distance regulations between gaming facilities and youth for NOVOMATIC and has proven to be of great value in ensurfacilities. It also contains a ban on multiple concessions and ing continued and stable growth. Excessive regulation that therefore limits one location to a maximum of twelve gaming does not conform to the market, or unsuitable taxation, as devices. A (basic) transition period of five years was granted can currently be found partly in Austria in the area of sports to implement the new, restrictive regulations, and thus the betting (betting terminals and live betting) as well as gradual conditions must be met as of July 1, 2017. It can be expected increases in taxation, such as in Italy, can have unintentional that the current legal environment will further influence the negative effects. Experience shows that excessive regulation, cautious and subdued attitude towards investment in the inappropriate taxation or bans simply encourage illegal operGerman gaming industry in the future. Moreover, there is ations, which do not protect players or minors. a risk that players will move into unregulated markets and/ or take advantage of illegal offers. Therefore, NOVOMATIC New international and national tenders in different gaming believes there will be a significant market reduction in the segments continuously offer new market opportunities to segment for gaming arcades in Germany from July 1, 2017. NOVOMATIC. It is important for regulated gaming operators While higher machine utilization may have a certain comthat the responsible authorities carry out legally valid and swift pensatory effect, if gaming arcades need to be downsized or tenders for gaming services, to ensure legal certainty for appliclosed, this will have a negative impact on revenues from the cants. For example, in Austria concessions granted to ADMIRAL rental of gaming devices. The European Commission is curCasinos & Entertainment AG (ACE), allowing the operation of rently reviewing a further amendment focusing on clarifying casinos and state-licensed gaming in Lower Austria and Burregulation for the sports betting segment. 34 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC is continuing to expand in the USA and is, thereDue to its market leadership in various countries, antitrust fore, dealing with the strictest regulatory framework condilaw is another relevant regulatory area for NOVOMATIC. In tions and highest standards of the local gaming authorities. Austria, the decision of the Supreme Court prevented the NOVOMATIC has been licensed in numerous US States for majority takeover of Casinos Austria AG and Österreichische many years, such as Illinois and Iowa, and is currently workLotterien GmbH. In the UK, however, reservations regarding ing on additional licenses. NOVOMATIC has been successcompetition law in connection with the acquisition of Talarius fully licensed in Australia and Canada, in particular through Ltd. were solved by mutual agreement with the competition the Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd. transaction, which is authorities. NOVOMATIC is thus the largest gaming facility not yet complete. In 2016, NOVOMATIC received two addioperator in the “Adult Gaming Centers” (AGCs) segment in tional licenses for the manufacture and operation of gaming the UK. equipment and shares in casinos in Queensland (Australia) and Ontario (Canada). In doing so, NOVOMATIC carried out important steps for the consistent expansion of its international growth strategy. 35 N OVO MATI C SHOWS RESPONSIBILITY V ERA RESPONSIBILITY N TWORTU N G 38 Corporate Responsibility in our Core Business 43 Corporate Responsibility Management 50 Responsible Entertainment 60 Corporate Governance 68 Enjoy working with us 80 Going Green 86 Active in the Community Appendix: UN Global Compact COP/GRI Index NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Corporate Responsibility in our Core Business Player protection, a safe and healthy working environment, ecological efficiency in production and long-term partnerships with our stakeholders, are the driving forces behind our value creation and market positioning, and therefore an essential part of who we are. How we Understand and Embody The more the company views its activities from a long-term ­Corporate Responsibility and holistic perspective, the clearer it is that over time, a negative balance in regards to the environment and occupational At NOVOMATIC, we think that corporate responsibility and safety, product responsibility, human rights, or corruption presustainable development are more than just buzz words. Our vention will also have a negative effect on economic success. goal is to meet the expectations and requirements of our Obeying the law merely mitigates the most obvious negative stakeholders as best we can. To do so, in addition to our ecoaspects, and the requirements in this respect differ from counnomic performance, we want to develop our ecological and try to country. Real added value, for example by lowering costs social footprint in a sustainable and positive manner. and strengthening our market position, can only be achieved if the law is understood as a minimum standard. G4.56 The expression “two sides of the same coin” is a good description of this strategic approach. Wherever there are company The Measurable Value of Corporate Responsibility activities, such as production and services, it is inevitable that they will have an effect on the environment, our employees The added value of Corporate Responsibility (CR) is not fundaand society. This influence may have a postive, or a negative mentally a moral issue, but in fact, can be measured directly. effect on economic value creation and profits. This can take place, for example, by gaining and securing licenses, attaining legal certainty, lowering costs through efficient use of resources or prevention of accidents and illness, as Confusing Terms explained well as recruiting the best talents on the market and creating long-term relationships with our customers and partners. The Corporate Responsibility (CR) means taking on responsibility for the expectations and requirements of both our fact that environment, social and governance (ESG) criteria are direct stakeholders and the company. This includes, for quickly spreading as criteria for investors and customers, is a example, player protection, environment and resource reflection of these shared values. conservation, and healthy and safe working conditions. The focus is on tangible added-value for the company and stakeholders. Sustainability is a term used to describe the holistic and long-term creation of economic, ecological and social Aspects of Sustainability in Investments values. These are often described as the three pillars of are becoming Mainstream sustainable development. Creating shared value forms the Examples for the relevance of ESG criteria to investors are: core of this strategy. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is already a slightly • C arbon Disclosure Project (CDP): 827 investors outdated approach to corporate responsibility and sustaina­invested around EUR 90 trillion in companies with bility. “Social” can be misunderstood as not meaning society low CO2 emissions. as a whole, but rather “good deeds”. Thus responsibility is often incorrectly related only to donations and sponsoring • P  rinciples for Responsible Investment (PRI): 1,500 activities. signatories invested EUR 55 trillion based on ESG criteria. • G  lobal Reporting Initiative (GRI): More than 80 percent of the largest publicly traded companies published sustainability reports in 2016, the large majority were written in accordance with international GRI standards. 38 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Corporate Responsibility a Value Driver at NOVOMATIC Lower Costs Secure Market Position Energy efficiency Securing licenses Resource efficiency Legal certainty Prevent waste water and waste Attractiveness as an employer Accident prevention Attractive investment Fewer sick leave days Long-term relationship to customers and partners The three pillar sustainability model has already been acceptCR Fields of Action ed by investors as an additional assessment criterion. Attention to environment, social and governance (ESG) risks and opporNOVOMATIC has had strategic Corporate Responsibility (CR) tunities has sharpened due to numerous corporate scandals, Management in place for years. The strategy deals with corsuch as the BP Deepwater Horizon catastrophe, working conporate requirements as well as strategic risks and opportuditions at Amazon and the VW emissions scandal. nities in regards to economic, social and ecological fields of action in the industry. RESPON SIBILITY Three pillar Corporate Responsibility model We focus specifically on areas in which our influence is greatest in regards to the issues and requirements that our stakeholders care about. Philanthropic projects, charitable donations and individual projects with a limited impact, are not Economic Goals Ecological Goals Social Goals the sole focus. Our continual and strategic further development concerning relevant subjects gives us credibility. As part of this, we take on corporate responsibility and set goals that go above and beyond legal standards. Not just in Austria, our country of origin, but in every country that we Social Goals: work in. This helps us avoid business risks and negative efSecure jobs, improvement of employee satisfaction, fects from our activities, and successfully positions us in the health care at the workplace, long-term cooperation agreements/sponsoring partnerships, development market as a provider of responsible entertainment. Today, 36 of further career opportunities, increase attractiveness years after being founded, NOVOMATIC is one of the global as an employer, compatibility of family and career. leaders in the high-tech gaming industry. At the same time, Economic Goals: NOVOMATIC is a company that is strongly anchored in our Positive and stable long-term corporate development, maintenance and expansion of market leadership, community, with high levels of responsibility towards cusinvestment in innovation, ensure transparency tomers, employees, business partners and other stakeholders. and Compliance, Responsible Entertainment, Data Protection. The challenges, goals, measures and results of our numerous Ecological Goals: Intelligent and efficient environmental protection: CR activities are described in this report, in accordance with More efficient use of resources, avoidance our five strategic pillars: of emissions and waste. 39 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 • Corporate Governance Our fields of action This principle applies to the aspects required to ensure a legally compliant and ethical corporate management. The focus is on our compliance and risk management, internal Responsible Entertainment monitoring systems and quality management. The tools we use are for example our Code of Conduct and our Anti-­ Corruption Guidelines. Enjoy working with us • Going Green This aspect refers to our measures regarding the efficient Corporate Governance handling of the energy and resources we use, as well as the reduction of our ecological footprint in terms of emissions, waste and waste water. As a technology company, Going Green this applies in particular to our numerous production locations. Our integrated management system covers the areas of environment, occupational safety, health and quality. Active in the Community • Active in the Community As a company, we are always anchored by our relationships with our stakeholders, as well as the culture and society in Five fields of action create the strategic pillars that encomthe countries in which we work. We want to be an active pass all our CR activities and include economic, ecological part of society, which is why we support the positive and and social issues that have been identified as relevant in the social activities of our stakeholders through joint projects, materiality assessments we regularly perform: sponsoring partnerships and donations. Our corporate volunteering activities and support for employees that volun• Responsible Entertainment teer their time provide proof that all our employees underThis field of action represents all activities that ensure stand that they are an important part of society. G4.2 gaming remains entertainment and does not lead to problematic behavior. The fundamental goal is to comply with The Group Corporate Responsibility Department is responall legal requirements. In addition, we remain true to the sible for the strategic, structural and impact-oriented manbasic principles of our Responsible Gaming Code and our agement of Corporate Responsibility at NOVOMATIC. This Responsible Marketing Code. This ensures responsible and department reports directly to the NOVOMATIC AG Executive secure gaming fun. Board. Coordination and conversation on strategic CR challenges, opportunities and risks take place on a regular basis, • Enjoy working with us both with the management of the company and with the This guideline represents our goal regarding the treatment Corporate Responsibility Committee of the NOVOMATIC AG’s of and collaboration with our employees. We aim to be Supervisory Board. As far as we know, only global Corporate an attractive employer. Numerous activities and offers reResponsibility pioneers have this type of committee, and we garding employee development, creation of a secure and are the only company in Austria to have one in place, which healthy workplace, and the diversity of our staff in terms highlights how strategically important CR is at NOVOMATIC. of gender, age, background, language, special physical or mental requirements, as well as sexual and religious orientation, help us foster satisfaction in our employees, which leads to excellent products and services. 40 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Corporate Responsibility has deeply integrated roots Organizational anchoring of CR management CR Committee of the Supervisory Board of NOVOMATIC AG (“CR Committee”) Consultation Ongoing reporting/ Management NOVOMATIC AG Consultation Group guidelines, Reporting active inclusion Joint Group-CR brainstorming RESPON SIBILITY Mag. Martina Kurz, Member CR Committee. CRFramework guidelines/ Board Strategy Active Other inclusion Italy UK Germany countries country contacts/operational management “In my eyes, “At NOVOMATIC, ­NOVOMATIC is an CR has a high priority. extremely generous But CR must also be company. We have authentic – not a fig a strong employee leaf taken casually. We orientation and offer live CR – all levels of challenging career hierarchy are actively ­perspectives. We offer involved in the subject. a lot of support – but Because it is mainly we also demand a lot.” up to the company to provide answers to societal questions. We strive to actively play a Martina Kurz Barbara Feldmann member of the CR Committee member of the CR Committee pioneering role in this at NOVOMATIC AG at NOVOMATIC AG respect, for example in the area of diversity.” 41 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 In addition, the Corporate Responsibility Board holds quarcoordinate CR activities across continents, encourage exterly meetings to foster continued development of subjects changes of good practice, carry out joint projects and ensure related to CR. The CR Board is made up of more than 15 repa common CR standard in all important countries. resentatives of the most important Group functions, Austrian operative units and internal experts on relevant CR subjects. This CR governance structure ensures that CR aspects are This ensures a high level of integration in all operative and anchored both strategically and operationally, and ­supports supporting business units. structured and strategic coordination of not just the ­economic effects of our activities, but also the ecological and social In terms of international coordination and monitoring, we ­effects. In this way, we can meet stakeholder expectations plan to integrate our international subsidiaries more strongly wherever NOVOMATIC goes. G4.34 – 36, 38 – 39 into the Group CR agenda in 2017. The goal is to ­increasingly Philipp Gaggl new Head of Group Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability “I am very excited to be able to continue the development of Corporate Responsibility at the NOVOMATIC Group. I see very clearly that NOVOMATIC really understands not just the challenges, but also the values of CR, not to mention exemplary organizational CR anchoring and integration. I am happy to be taking over this excellent foundation, with many thanks to my predecessor Dr. Monika Poeckh-Racek, Bettina Sterner and the whole team, to which I will be adding my experience in strategic and value-based orientation and international implementation of CR. The formula, as far as I am concerned, is as follows: focusing on the most important ­aspects creates measurable and authentic continued development, and therefore creates credibility and trust in our CR ­activities on the part of our employees, partners, customers, and all our other stakeholders.” Philipp Gaggl Head of Group Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability CR-report scope Italy with NOVOMATIC Italia S.p.A. with NOVOMATIC Italia Services s.r.l., The Corporate Responsibility (CR) contents are reported on a yearly ­basis. ­ADMIRAL Entertainment s.r.l., ADMIRAL Interactive s.r.l., ADMIRAL Gaming The previous CR report was published on April 29, 2016. This report is Bolzano s.r.l., Allstar s.r.l., Sogeslot s.r.l., Adria Gaming Vicenza s.r.l., Euromat ­developed in orientation to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard s.r.l., Electro System S.p.A. G4 at option Core. United Kingdom with NOVOMATIC UK Ltd. with Luxury Leisure, Gamestec Leisure Ltd., Astra Games Ltd., Bell-Fruit Group Ltd., Extreme Live Gaming Further information on the GRI content index, as well as the application of Ltd., S.A.L. Leisure Ltd., Playnation Ltd., RAL Ltd. the UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals can be found at our CR-website: www.novomatic.com/cr and in our online CR-report. Further countries: Spain: NOVOMATIC Gaming Spain S.A. All content, data and graphs are related to the reporting period of 1.1.2016– Netherlands: NOVOMATIC Netherlands B.V. with NOVOMATIC Services NL 31.12.2016 and the following companies if not otherwise indicated: B.V., NOVOMATIC Development NL B.V., NOVOMATIC Exploitatie NL I B.V., NOVOMATIC Exploitatie NL II B.V., NOVOMATIC Exploitatie NL III B.V., CaCR-core countries: sino Admiral Holland B.V., Casino Admiral Zeeland B.V., Eurocoin Gaming Austria with NOVOMATIC AG, NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH, B.V., Eurocoin Interactive B.V., Casino Admiral Holland Appelscha B.V., ­ ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment AG, ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH, Recreatieprojecten Zeeland B.V., Elam Group Electronic Amusement B.V., HTM Hotel und Tourismus Management GmbH, Greentube Internet JVH gaming products GmbH ­ Entertainment Solutions GmbH, NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions GmbH, Hungary: NOVOMATIC Hungária Kft Park Invest GmbH, Novo Invest GmbH Croatia: INTERIGRE d.o.o. Germany with LÖWEN-Group with LÖWEN ENTERTAINMENT GmbH, Iceland: NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions (Iceland) hf. Crown Technologies GmbH, EXTRA Games Entertainment GmbH, BPA Albania: Lotaria Kombëtare sh.p.k. Freizeitund Unterhaltungsbetriebe GmbH, ADMIRAL Play GmbH, ­ ­Spielbank Berlin Gustav Jaenecke GmbH & Co. KG 42 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Corporate Responsibility Management In order to build trust with our stakeholders and create added value for our company, we work on CR issues that are considered important and measure our performance progress. Dialog with our Stakeholders Within the framework of the many forms of stakeholder inclusion we offer, we are continuously part of a close exFor us, considering the demands and expectations of our stakechange and dialog with these stakeholder groups. Our goal holders is one if the main components of CR M ­ anagement. is to understand the requirements, expectations and development perspectives of our stakeholders with regards to our Our stakeholders include all legal entities and natural perCR activities. This supports us in finding an optimal balance sons on which our corporate activities have an effect, or that between our stakeholders’ requirements and our corporate can influence us in some way. This includes, among others, goals. RESPON SIBILITY our customers, employees, investors, business partners, regulatory authorities, both international or on state and country By doing so, we can evaluate the relevance of our most imlevels, interest groups, sponsorship partners, representatives portant CR topics through the eyes of the stakeholders, and of player protection institutions, research institutions in the set our CR priorities according to both stakeholder and corarea of addiction prevention, as well as other direct and indiporate perspectives. We are aware that not all stakeholders rect stakeholder groups. share our perspective and we have also been faced with criticism. Transparency, as well as open and constructive dialogs, are the central focus of our CR communication. We communicate with our stakeholders across a variety of channels, for Overview of our Stakeholders example in direct conversation, working groups, workshops and events, through reports, our website and recently via ­social media. This CR Report is intended to provide a clear summary of our CR approach, our goals and measures, and the results of our activities with stakeholders. G4.24 – 25 Internal stakeholders: Employees, management, owner Stakeholders with direct influence on NOVOMATIC: Business partners, authorities, Group Corporate Responsibility politicians and decision-makers, investors Tel.: +43 2252 606 0 and financial institutions, subsidiaries, surrounding environment at our facilities, sponsoring E-Mail: cr@novomatic.com partners, player protection and therapy centers, G4.31 research partnerships, self-help groups, customers Stakeholders with indirect influence on NOVOMATIC: NGOs, interest groups, media, interested public, market participants The following summary is a list of different types of information, dialog and direct cooperation with our stakeholders: 43 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Information Dialogue Participation Create transparency, provide Open exchange, Active involvement, information listen and learn realization of projects novomatic.com/cr annually Several research partnerships in the area of addiction prevention Annual CR reporting: annually Sponsoring in the area of addiction According to the GRI standard, prevention, science and research, social ­Progress Report according to affairs, and constant financial support UN Global Compact for addiction therapy centers Regular reporting to Training and further education for Member of respACT Austria, supervisory ­authorities CR officers, as well as internal training regular participation in working groups for all employees and workshops Ongoing communication with state Personal talks with relevant Internal CR-Board meetings for ­ongoing commissioners (ADMIRAL Casinos & stakeholders coordination within the ­NOVOMATIC Entertainment AG) Group Continuous coordination and Participation in press conferences NOVOMATIC Symposium twice a year ­communication with ADM Agenzia and talks with journalists (internal, for employees) delle Dogane e dei Monopoli (Italy) Intranet news for employees, Participation in international Active involvement of specialist ­NOVOWelcome Days for new expert conferences ­departments in the preparation of ­employees the annual CR report Participation in sustainability awards: Continuous survey among customers Employee satisfaction survey at TRIGOS, ASRA of the operating entities the Gumpoldskirchen location as well as (NGI, LÖWEN Group; ACE and ASW) in the operational area (in parts already completed or being planned) as well as at the LÖWEN Group (follow-up survey being planned) Publications and brochures Regular guided tours at the LÖWEN Group is a member of the Gumpoldskirchen facility umbrella association German Vending Association (Die Deutsche Automatenwirtschaft) LÖWEN long-standing partner Since 2016 NOVOMATIC is active of German Association for Small member of the working group Social and Medium-Sized Businesses: Responsibility of the industry platform “Entrepreneurs’ Brunch” EUROMAT ICE Totally Gaming, London: important annual ­industry trade show NOVOMATIC also views membership in interest and industry The following memberships allow us to make the best use of groups, as well as organizations with a sustainable or corpoour experience, for example with regards to player protecrate ­responsibility agenda. Thus the company takes the role tion, and to offer our perspective on continued development as significant for the dialog with relevant stakeholders as an of the CR agenda in the industry and conversation with other active designer of the community seriously. companies: 44 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC Location Interest Groups NOVOMATIC AG Group European State Lotteries World Lotteries Association European Lotteries Association EUROMAT European Gaming and Amusement Federation NASPL The North American Association of State and Provincial Lotteries CIBELAE Corporación Iberoamericana de Loterías y Apuestas de Estado GSA Gaming Standard Association Locally in relevant chambers of commerce and trade associations Austria respACT Austrian business council for sustainable development Leading companies Austria (Leitbetriebe Austria) Germany Federal Association of Private Casinos, Germany (Bundesverband privater ­Spielbanken Deutschland) Federal Economic Association (Bundesverband für Wirtschaft) Numerous compliance networks RESPON SIBILITY Italy Network of CSR Managers in Italy Next year, as always, we will be engaging in dialog with our stakeholders. Using social media and other channels, we will do our best to communicate with greater transparency on our activities, our handling of critical aspects of the core business, as well as the demands of our stakeholders. G4.16, 26 NOVOMATIC Italia also carries out numerous stakeholder dialog activities. This includes measures such as active dialogs with the Universities of Pavia, Florence, Bergamo and Salerno on player protection, as well as regular exchanges of information on Corporate Responsibility subjects in the Italian CSR Manager Network. 2016 there has been the joint book publication of legal framework conditions regarding player protection with the renowned lawyers Paolo Leone and Giampiero Moncada, publication of additional books together with LeX Gaming and Eurispes on player protection and pathological gaming, as well as publication of CR Publications on regulatory requirements in the industry and player protection in Italy information on the local website . CR NOVOMATIC Italia: www.novomatic.it/corporate-responsibility 45 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 In Croatia, an event on responsible gaming is hosted once a The following image of the “materiality matrix” shows the year, led by specialists for gaming addiction and therapy. CR issues identified as significant from the perspective of external stakeholders and those within NOVOMATIC. All issues Our subsidiary in the UK, NOVOMATIC UK, maintains close represented are actively addressed within the framework of contact with its stakeholders on the subject of responsible CR Management. gaming, for example, through dialog with the UK Gambling Commission, by taking part in workshops and working The next update to the materiality matrix is planned for 2017. groups on the subject, and by talking to experts. The Y axis shows the relevance of the CR subjects deemed In Peru, over the past year, a campaign was carried out tomaterial by NOVOMATIC’s external stakeholders (e.g. cusgether with SONAJA, the association of gaming companies, tomers, partners, authorities, etc.). The X axis shows, in paron responsible gaming and gambling addiction. allel, the relevance of these subjects from the perspective of NOVOMATIC AG (e.g. management, employees, Supervisory We Focus on the Material Issues Board). Our five strategic areas of action: Responsible Entertainment, The higher the relevance for our stakeholders and company, Enjoy working with us, Corporate Governance, Going Green the higher we prioritize the structured further development and Active in the Community, create the strategic pillars of our and improvement of our CR performance in these areas. corporate responsibility activities. At regular intervals, we carry out a process of identification of relevant economic, social This report deals with all CR subjects identified as material. and ecological subjects that have to be actively coordinated. In There is nothing significant to report for the following subdoing so, we follow the international materiality assessment jects in 2016, and/or these are the results of measures taken from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and orient ourfor general CR management: “Inward and outward transparselves on good practice in our industry. ency”, “Knowledge management”, “Lobbying”and “Financial stability”. “Attractiveness as an employer” is addressed GRI Standard: www.globalreporting.org in the various sections of the chapter “Enjoy working with us”. We are planning an update to the materiality matrix in The Materiality Assessment 2017. G4.19 – 22 2015 was the last time we carried out the complete process for updating the CR subjects identified as material. The following analyses, among others, took place: • Analysis of the Political, Economic, Social, Technological, Legal and Environmental (PESTLE) risks and chances • Analysis of the NOVOMATIC stakeholder groups and their influence on the company, as well as NOVOMATIC’s influence on them • Analysis of the material subjects based on the Business Model Canvas concept • Analysis of the Peer Group on a comparison of NOVOMATIC CR services with comparable companies • Determining the most significant subjects from an ­employee ­perspective • List of the perspective of the Supervisory Board of the NOVOMATIC AG, as well as department heads through structured interviews 46 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Materiality Matrix 2015 very high 5 11 1 12 3 13 4 Relevance for stakeholders 7a 6 7b 16 15 14 high 7c 18 2 19 RESPON SIBILITY 17 9 20 22 23 8 21 24 10 25 medium medium high very high Relevance for NOVOMATIC 1 Compliance (2013: 1, 11) 10 Sponsoring (2013: 10, 15) 20 Energy Efficiency (2013: 13) 2 Local anchoring 11 Financial stability 21 Recycling (2013: 13,14) 3 Innovation 12 Quality Management 22 Resource Conservation 4 Player Protection 13 Outward transparency (2013: 13,14) 5 Data Protection 14 Lobbying 23 Supply Chain 6 Responsible Marketing 15 Attractiveness as an employer 24 Synergy Management 7a Job stability 16 Knowledge Management 25 Inward transparency 7b Training and Education 17 Work-Life-Balance Topic areas 2013 and 2015 7c Occupational Safety 18 Recyclability Topic areas 2015 new 8 Health Management (2013: 13,14) 9 Diversity of employees 19 Customer Relations 47 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 You Can Only Manage What You Measure In NOVOMATIC Group production locations and operational subsidiaries across numerous international locations, we In order to actively manage our performance progress and use a variety of standards and tools to manage CR subjects. improvement on CR subjects regarding the effects for us and NOVOMATIC Group uses the following standards and guideour stakeholders, we use a series of management systems, lines for CR Management: standards, guidelines and certifications. For years, we have oriented ourselves in terms of Group CR Management on the latest standards and guidelines, such as the principles of the UN Global Compact, the standards from the Global Reporting Initiative, and lately also the global goals under Sustainable Development Goals. Process of identifying material issues for the materiality matrix and activities Perspective of external stakeholders Perspective of NOVOMATIC • Stakeholder analysis • PESTE-analysis • Business model canvas analysis • Stakeholder dialog event • Peer group analysis • Employee workshops • Structured stakeholder assessment • Structured interviews Identification of material issues • Compilation of all relevant issues via previous steps • Development of a list of priorities related to the analysis Prioritising issues • Prioritising based on standardised interviews with heads of group departments • Involvement of the core countries Austria, Germany, Italy and United Kingdom Materiality matrix Includes all issues that are relevant and of priority Progress in the identified issues via activities at group and country level 48 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 CR Management Tool Context In use from United Nations Corporate initiative founded in 2000 by UN General Secretary Kofi Annan, May 2014 ­Global Compact ­currently has more than 9,000 members. Illustrates ten principles for ­responsible (UNGC) Principles trading. Within the framework of this report, NOVOMATIC publishes a UNGC ­Communication on Progress (COP) United Nations 17 measurable goals in regards to sustainability, which, starting in 2016 as a 2015 Sustainable successor of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), apply to all countries ­Development Goals across the globe and provide guidance to corporations. (SDGs) NOVOMATIC uses these SDGs as a strategic guide and provides information within the framework of this report. Global Reporting Worldwide de facto standards (GRI Standards) for Corporate Responsibility 2011 Initiative Standards and Sustainability reporting. (GRI) Specifies, in a type of “dictionary function”, the aspects and detailed indicators in the categories “economic”, “ecological”, “work practices”, “human rights”, “society”, and “product responsibility” in order to provide a basis for comparison across corporate borders. This year’s report is again oriented on GRI standards. OECD Guidelines The guidelines for multinational enterprises of the Organisation for ­Economic 2014 for multinational Co-operation and Development (OECD) are recommendations providing RESPON SIBILITY enterprises ­principles and standards for responsible business conduct for multinational (OECD MNC) companies. NOVOMATIC adheres to these principles since 2014. Quality Management ISO 9001 is an ISO standard for managing numerous quality aspects, Country-specific standard ISO 9001 and provides a basis of evaluation for quality performance. NOVOMATIC uses ISO 9001 in numerous countries in a variety of ways. Environmental The standard, published by the International Standardisation Organisation Country-specific ­Management (ISO), helps with management and performance evaluation in regards to ­standard ­ecological aspects such as environmental protection, use of resources, waste, ISO 14001 waste water and so on. NOVOMATIC uses ISO 14001 in numerous countries in a variety of ways. Health and Safety NOVOMATIC is attempting to gain Level 1 certification in accordance with the Country-specific standard OHSAS OHSAS 180001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) standard in 18001/ISO 45001 Austria for the first time in 2017. Certification in accordance with the new ISO 45001 standards is subsequently planned for NOVOMATIC in Austria in 2018. NOVOMATIC uses OHSAS 18001 in numerous countries in a variety of ways. Information security This ISO standard specifies the requirements for an information security Country-specific standard ISO 27001 ­management system within an organization. It also provides requirements for evaluation and handling of information security risks. NOVOMATIC uses ISO 27001 in numerous countries in a variety of ways. While our subsidiaries usually base their selection of CR The standards most used within the Group are ISO 9001 and ­Management tools on legal requirements and local custom, ISO 14001. Some subsidiaries are also starting to use OHSAS there are many standards and additional tools used across 18001 and ISO 27001. G4.15 the entire NOVOMATIC Group. 49 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Our Activities a Summary Our Our Strategic Challenges Goals • Legal requirements that vary widely from region • Active participation in the responsible entertainment to region discussion • Excessive regulations in some countries, lack of • Creating better understanding of our activities in the ­regulations in others area of player protection • Advocating for sensible and responsible use of our ­services • Optimizing our prevention measures Highlights Our Next from 2016 Steps • Conversation and mutual education within the • Further develop our Responsible Gaming Code NOVOMATIC Group on responsible entertainment for the NOVOMATIC Group as part of the NOVOMATIC Symposium • Develop Group-wide Responsible Marketing Standards • Active dialog with our stakeholders as part of the • Continued evaluation and development of our player ­Responsible Gaming Symposium protection measures • New information brochures on responsible gaming • Support the exchange of good practices on Responsible and betting (for gaming terminal betting and sports Entertainment between subsidiaries betting in Austria) • Expand player protection training • Development of a new Responsible Betting Code • Expand development of biometric recognition systems in ­Austria for optimizing identity determination • Development of “Customer Care” to accompany • Scientific analysis of measures to protect gaming ­responsible gaming participation for our guests ­participants in Austria • Further develop the “Spiel Bewusst” awareness • Establishment of the Gesellschaft für Spielerschutz initiative in Germany und Prävention mbH (GSP) (Corporation for Player ­Protection and Prevention) • Certification by TÜV as a “regularly audited gaming ­facility” of more than 300 ADMIRAL gaming facilities in Germany • Awarded the “Legality Rating” in Italy for ethical ­company practices, presented by the gaming authority 50 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Responsible Entertainment Responsible entertainment is not a contradiction, as far as we are concerned; instead, long-term customer and stakeholder relationships are in our best interests. This approach also helps maintain our “License to Operate”, i.e. social acceptance of our company activities. The gaming industry is strictly regulated and controlled, with “Cautious and numerous regulatory requirements in the area of youth and ­moderate regulation player protection, as well as reliability and professionalism which takes market of the provider. These requirements are defined very differneeds into account is ently across Europe and even within individual countries – ­essential for effectiRESPON SIBILITY an example is Austria, with its differing state laws. You can ve player protection. find a summary of the legal framework conditions in Austria, Excessive regulation, Germany and Italy in our CR report from last year and, deor no regulation at all, pending on the country, on the websites of our subsidiaries. is counter-productive G4-PR6 and simply leads to more illegal gaming. You can find details to the legal framework in our ­NOVOMATIC has CR Report 2015: www.novomatic.com/en/explore-novomatic/ ­supported a dialog Dr. Monika P­ oeckh-Racek corporate-responsibility for finding a joint CEO of ADMIRAL Casinos & ­Entertainment AG ­solution between As a producer of high-tech gaming equipment, NOVOMATIC ­politics, ­authorities, providers and those affected is one of the leading companies in the industry. Our cusfor years, and we will continue to follow this path.” tomers and business partners benefit from the unreserved commitment to top quality, perfect handling of the highest grade materials, and the precision work in the interest of the customer. Our aspirations as a producer also apply, of course, to our operating subsidiaries, which run electronic casinos, casinos and sports betting facilities. NOVOMATIC created the Responsible Gaming Code as a guideline for our various operational units to provide guidance on and, therefore, a minimum standard for responsible gaming. 51 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Responsible Gaming Measures in Overview The following overview shows the implementation of Responsible Gaming measures in the group in selected operational ­markets by end of 2016 (all sales channels): Al ba Au nia st Be ria la Bo rus sn Bu ia & lg Cr aria erz oa H eg Cz tia Es ec to eph R ov ina n Ge ia ubl rm Un an ic it y Ita ed La ly Kin gd Li tv th uia om M an ac ia M edo on n Ne ten a th eg Pa erl ro i ra an Pe gua s Po ru y d la Ro nd m Se ani rb a Sl ia ov a Sl kia ov Sp enia ai n Information offering • • – • • • • • • • • • • • – • – – • • • • • • Helpline – • • – – • • • • • • • • • – – – • • • • • • – Website & e-mail • • • • – • • • • • • • • • – • • • • • – • • • Cooperation (therapy & counseling institutions) • • – – • • – • • • • • • • – • – – • • • • – – Support of self-help groups – • – – – • – • • • – – • – – – – – – • – – • – Support of research institutes – • – – – • – • • • • – – – – • – – – • – • – – Employee training • • – • • • • – • • • • – • – • – • • • • • • • Access control system – • ** – – – • – • • – – – • • * – • – – • • – – • – Access restrictions – • • ** – – – • • • – • • • • – • • • • • • • • • Protection of minors • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Technical prevention measures on devices – • ** – – – – – – • – • – – – ** – *** • *** – *** – *** – • – • • – * Access control system currently only implemented for the casino segment. ** In the area of state-licensed machine gaming in Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Burgenland, Carinthia, as of January 2016 also in Styria. *** No legal provisions in Paraguay and Peru. • recently established • in planning implemented • 52 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 From left to right: Moderator, Laura DaSilva, Dr. Monika Poeckh-Racek, Sabrina Höllinger, Dr. Fred Luks, Agatha Kalandra The concrete definition of responsible gaming measures priThe NOVOMATIC Responsible Gaming marily depends on the legal framework of the individual marRESPON SIBILITY Code includes the following principles kets in which we are active. In this context, it should be noted that we operate only in regulated markets, even if the legal 1. Prevention is the best player protection. provisions differ from one country to the next. Our active pro2. We protect children and young adults. tection of players and minors makes us pioneers in our indus3. We communicate responsibly. try, and we continue to work on improving our Responsible 4. We strengthen our customers’ sense of responsibility. ­Gaming measures. G4-DMA 5. We employ competent staff members. 6. We value informed customers. The most important Group event within the area of 7. We make controlled gaming possible. Responsible Gaming was the Responsible Gaming ­Symposium, 8. We guarantee fair playing conditions. which took place in 2016 for the 7th time at the N ­ ovomatic 9. We work with experienced partners. Forum with the title “Responsible Entertainment is not a 10. We take on responsibility in regulated online gaming contradiction”. Panel discussions were held by Dr. Monika markets. Poeckh-Racek, ­ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment AG, S­ abrina Höllinger, Group Treasury NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH, Dr. Fred Luks, Competence Center Sustainability at the This Code is used in internal training sessions on player proVienna University of Economics and Business, the British Cortection and is provided to every new employee. It is available porate Social Responsibility expert Laura DaSilva, and Agatha both to the public and on the NOVOMATIC intranet in GerKalandra, PwC Austria. After the panel discussions, four parman, English and Italian. As an expansion of the Code, we allel workshops took place that dealt with different areas of work on Responsible Marketing Standards for the Group. In responsible entertainment. The workshops were moderated doing so, we make use of our experience in Austria and other by Laura DaSilva, Dr. Alfred Uhl and Dr. Alexander Puhm. The strictly regulated core markets. well-known mathematician Professor Rudolf Taschner held a lecture on “Luck and Chance”. As part of the symposium, The Responsible Gaming Codex can be found here: certificates were awarded for the prevention representative www.novomatic.com/en/explore-novomatic/corporate-­ course, which has been held for years in cooperation with the responsibility Anton-Proksch Institute in Vienna. You can find the complete report in German on the event here: www.novomatic.com/en/explore-novomatic/press 53 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The following sections describe the highlights of our activiLast year, the information folder “Player protection is teamties over the past few years. These are just a few examples work!” was developed for branch employees at ADMIRAL of the numerous measures taken across the entire Group of Casinos & Entertainment, and personally handed to every companies. employee in every branch. This folder provides a compact overview of the most significant pillars of the player protecPlayer Protection tion program from ACE and highlights their important role in this program. Taking responsibility for player protection has added value for gaming operators. After all, customer relationships are NOVOMATIC Italia developed new player protection materials only sustainable if they receive a certain amount of care. This last year, marked by the red warning triangle recognizable by is particularly true in the gaming services industry. A coneveryone within the NOVOMATIC Group. These documents fluence of various factors may represent a higher risk that are part of the Italian Responsible Gaming program, which is guests will lose control over their gaming participation. A made up of four pillars: Communication, training, research and good degree of attentiveness combined with high sensitivity ­corporate social responsibility activities. In terms of communicafor potential negative effects provides our employees with a tion, as was the case in 2015, last year the focus was on a player solid foundation for protecting our players. G4-PR3 protection information campaign featuring the well-known Italian swimmer Federica Pellegrini. Pellegrini advocated for Responsible Gaming responsible gaming on more than 200 taxis in Rome. In terms of education, training sessions for employees, both on location ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment (ACE) operates state-­ and online, were offered. Online training has the advantage of licensed gaming in Austria with gaming terminals and is the reaching more employees and is able to provide quicker access only provider that has a state license in all five “permission to new regulatory content. NOVOMATIC Italia works togethstates” (Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Burgenland, Styria, er with leading experts researching early recognition of risky Carinthia). Due to strict and comprehensive legal framework behavior. In other CR management areas, NOVOMATIC Italia conditions, this segment is one of the most highly ­regulated embraces its role as an active citizen and supports activities in in the gaming industry. This almost unique high degree of the arts, culture, sport and environmental protection. regulation allows not only the implementation of very different measures for player protection but also allows us to More information about our activities in Italy can evaluate these measures. With the information available be found here: www.novomatic.it/gioco-responsabile regarding frequency and intensity of player participation, ­ ACE is able to develop a prevention program tailored to ­individual guests. Employee information folder “Player protection is team work” 54 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Pillars of Player Protection at ADMIRAL • Training of our branch employees The basis for effective prevention work is a ­well-trained workforce. Training of our branch • Prevention through information ­employees Proactive information on responsible gaming with the first visit. ­Prevention • Our guests in focus Options for through The direct contact of our branch staff to the self-control ­information guests is an ideal basis for effective social control. • Preparing the talk and establishing contact The personal talk with our guests is part of the ­ secondary prevention. The branch manager talks with the guest when necessary. • Talk with the guest Our guest Talk with in focus the guest Well trained branch managers lead the talk with guests about the potential dangers of excessive gaming. • Options for self-control Preparing the talk and Ideal advice of guests in respect to the options ­establishing to limit the game participation i.e. limiting the contact days of visit. 55 Federica Pellegrini in front of an advertisement for Responsible Gaming on a taxi (in Rome) NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Information material on the “Spiel-Bewusst” campaign of the LÖWEN Group The LÖWEN Group in Germany, together with Löwen Play and concessions. The GSP is divided into three areas: active prethe Schmidt Group, established the “Gesellschaft für Prävenvention work (with a current total of 17 prevention counsetion mbH” (Corporation for Prevention) or GSP, in 2016. This lors), player protection and training. The GSP makes use of a corporation combines the activities and competence of the campaign that is already widespread and builds on the social three companies in the areas of protection of players and concept SPIEL-BEWUSST.DE from the LÖWEN Group, which minors, as well as addiction prevention. The goal of the GSP provides players with information on how to handle gaming is to offer gaming facility operators a variety of high standresponsibly. The aim is to give players the tools to recognize ard services that allow them to implement effective player when their own gaming behavior starts to change. protection and prevention measures of the highest quality. This includes the provision and continued development of You can find information on the activities of GSP here: a state-wide social concept for gaming facilities with state www.gsp-spielerschutz.de 56 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Another success in 2016 for the LÖWEN Group, one of the leading operators of gaming facilities in Germany, was the suc“Play Nice” rules cessful certification of around 300 ADMIRAL gaming facilities as “Regularly audited gaming facilities”, carried out by TÜV If you are concerned that your gaming is no longer Rheinland. This seal of quality includes the audit of 137 criteria fun and at risk of becoming a problem, there are in the areas of organization, personnel, legal framework consome simple steps that you can take. ditions, operations, infrastructure and social programs. Yearly monitoring audits and unannounced mystery audits lead not • It’s good to talk just to the awarding of the certificate, but also to the continuTalk to someone close that you trust – either a family ous development of responsible game operations. The goal for member or friend. You can also talk to the manager 2017 is to certify all ADMIRAL gaming facilities. or licensee where you gamble. They will understand because their experience gives them an awareness of You can find information on the TÜV certification the issues involved. ­“Regularly audited gaming facilities” and a self-test here: • Take a break www.tuv.com Take a short break and clear your head. It will help you see things differently and perhaps make you Astra Gaming Group, a subsidiary of NOVOMATIC UK in think more about how much time you are spending ­United Kingdom, kick-started the “Play Nice” initiative for playing. supporting responsible gaming. The goal is to support players in recognizing problematic gaming behavior, and to • Know your limits provide information, help and advice. Responsible gaming Whatever we do for fun, we all have to know our RESPON SIBILITY means maintaining control over how often players play, and ­limits and gaming is no exception. Commit before how much time and money they invest in gaming activities, you start playing by setting a limit on how much moas gaming is supposed to be fun, not a burden. “Play Nice” ney and time you will spend. More importantly – stick offers, in addition to general information on gaming and recto it! ognizing indications of uncontrolled gaming behavior, a selfcheck list and several points of contact and ways to get help. • Enjoy it Make sure that your gaming is an enjoyable pastime In the Netherlands, NOVOMATIC Netherlands supports the that doesn’t impact negatively on other areas of your Center for Player Protection (“Centrum voor Verantwoord life. If it ceases to give you pleasure it’s time you reasSpelen”), an independent aid foundation and non-profit sessed the way you play. Honesty is the best policy. ­organization that brings the government, gaming companies • Self-exclusion and player protection institutions together. The focus is on If you think that gaming is becoming a problem and using help-desk services, training, research, certification and the measures we’ve talked about here don’t work counseling to prevent and recognize gaming addiction, and for you, it is perhaps time to take an extended break to provide therapy for those affected. from gaming. Simply talk to the manager and fill in a form. You can find information on “Play Nice” here: www.playnice.org.uk Our subsidiary INTERIGRE in Croatia implemented NOVOMATIC Biometric Systems (NBS) in its electronic and live casinos in 2016. This will increase protection of minors in particular. 57 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Responsible Sports Betting and Lottery Games The Responsible Betting Code describes The company offers sports betting in over 250 facilities in Austhe following principles in detail tria, as well as online. In addition to information brochures, such as the customer folder “Responsible Entertainment – 1. Prevention is the best protection for gaming customers tips for responsible handling of sports betting”, ADMIRAL 2. We protect children and young adults Sportwetten also provides contact to support and therapy fa3. We communicate responsibly cilities. The ADMIRAL customer card (not to be confused with 4. We strengthen our customers’ sense of responsibility the ADMIRAL Card from ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment) 5. We employ competent staff members and associated bonuses support player p ­ rotection. 6. We value informed customers 7. We make controlled betting possible In 2016, together with NOVOMATIC Group experts, ADMIRAL 8. We guarantee fair betting conditions published its own Responsible Betting Code for employees. 9. We work with experienced partners The contents of this Code are part of the training for new employees and will become an essential component of continued education for all facility employees in 2017, as part of a new annual training program. The annual training for all facility employees, which was newly designed in 2016, will be rolled out in March 2017 and provided in addition to existing training standards. In addition to dealing with responsible gaming and betting, it also includes updates on new regulations, product training and communication sessions. It will offer a forum RESPONSIBLE for employees to exchange information with one another. BETTING CODEX Advertisement of ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH 1 NOVOMATIC Responsible Betting Codex The Lotaria Kombëtare subsidiary in Albania, acquired in 2016, has introduced numerous player protection measures. Regular employee training, as well as training new point of sales partners in the area of Responsible Gaming, is standard. Customers are informed about the risks and characteristics of gaming addiction using fliers, websites and personal discussions. They also receive information on the prevention of gaming addiction and on the odds of winning when gaming. 58 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Responsible Marketing Responsible marketing begins when selecting target groups and builds on established high industry standards in communication. When designing the advertising message, advertisers make a conscious decision to ensure the advertising does not appeal to particularly vulnerable target groups. This ­applies explicitly to children and young adults. All measures to protect our customers are based on the principle of enhancing personal responsibility. However, we also have self-imposed restrictions with regards to our advertising communication measures. Our Responsible Marketing Standards describe the limits of our advertising presence. For example, we do not publish any ads in media that pictures minors or is directed towards youth and young adults. Gaming is communicated as a way to have fun, and not a way to make money. When developing our Marketing Standards, we also took into account the results of a study by the Player Protection department of the Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance. G4-PR6 RESPON SIBILITY A good example of the application of our Group Marketing Standards is the implementation of the Responsible Advertising and Marketing Code at Lotaria Kombëtare in Albania. The Code is oriented on local conditions and legal requirements. The goal, for example, is never to raise false hopes in regards to potential winnings, avoid the message that gaming can be used as an income substitute, as well as prevent at-risk groups such as children and minors being addressed by the advertising in any way, shape, or form. For this reason, all communication, including at the point of sale and on posters, in brochures, on television and radio, as well as online advertising, notes both the strict minimum playing age of 18 and the principles of playing responsibly. TV, cinema or print advertising is never used in media directed at children or young adults. The company does not advertise near schools, at youth events or religious institutions. You can find information on the CR activities of Lotaria Kombëtare here: www.lotaria.al Example of a Responsible Gaming folder at Lotaria Kombëtare 59 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Our Activities a Summary Our Our Strategic Challenges Goals • Maintain legal conformity in all corporate areas • Create a Group-wide Compliance Management network • Sustain our high-quality manufacturing and service • Substantiate significant legal requirements and ­standards sensitize the Group to using Group-wide compliance • Create a culture in which all employees act in guidelines accordance with our Code of Conduct • Ensure risk-conscious and quality-aware thought • Digital transformation as inspiration for innovation and action • Continue to merge quality management into an ­integrated management system (IMS) in Austria Highlights Our Next from 2016 Steps • Establishment of the NOVOMATIC AG’s Supervisory • Measures for implementing the EU General Data Board Compliance Committee ­Protection Regulation • Passing of additional Group compliance guidelines, • Further development of Third Party Due Diligence for example on anti-corruption ­Standards • Provision of training on preventing money laundering, • Development of a Group-wide data protection guideline anti-corruption and data protection • Exchange of innovation and idea management within • Updating our quality policy the Group • Further standardization of quality management in Austrian facilities • Monitoring audit and recertification of ISO 9001 in Austria • Preparation for the switch to ISO 9001:2015 in Austria 60 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance A responsible and value-adding company leadership, ensuring the fulfillment of all legal requirements, and the creation of the highest quality in production and services, are the core of our corporate governance activities. Corporate governance, as a concept, includes at NOVOMATIC “It is not always easy all those values, structures and measures that support a comto be compliant in all pany in precluding, as much as possible, any conflicts or opareas of business, and portunistic actions on the part of employees and even the it is often associated management of a company that are opposed to the interwith hard work and ests of the owners. It reduces the possibilities and motivation it unavoidable costs. for engaging in behavior that is deliberately wrong or even At the same time, RESPON SIBILITY criminal. This takes place at a general level by communicating however, it is the only corporate values and conduct guidelines and, more specificourse of action that cally, through company guidelines, and is supplemented by can lead to success measures such as whistleblowing hotlines. over the long term, and that contributes to Compliance with legal regulations and company guidelines a stable and foreseeis not the only part of corporate governance; it also includes Thomas Veverka able development of Head of Group Legal Compliance ensuring that all employees and managers are in line with the company.” company values and the values of the society in which we are active. Corporate governance is the framework in which Every employee of NOVOMATIC Group receives a copy of we act as employees, and also the compass that guides us the Code of Conduct at the beginning of their time with us. in our actions. Compliance with laws (e.g. data protection The Code has now been translated into the most important laws) and internal company codes of conduct, maintaining Group languages to accurately reflect the company’s diversiminimum standards for our suppliers, ensuring high-quality ty. The contents of the Code of Conduct and other compliance standards, and encouraging innovation are all part of what subjects are also explained using practical examples at our we consider effective corporate governance management. NOVOWelcome Days, held every quarter for new employees Employee conduct that conforms with rules and regulations, at our headquarters in Gumpoldskirchen. The NOVOMATIC and is also in line with company values, cannot be ensured Code of Conduct is based on company values and is binding by a single department, but is instead the responsibility of for all employees in all corporate and business segments, as each employee and manager. In order to provide our emwell as all management levels in the Group. The Code conployees with information on our corporate values and codes tains rules for ethically and legally correct behavior and deof conduct, corporate governance content is part of the cision-making for all employees. It is based on local laws and training program for new employees, carried out as part of international standards. The Code of Conduct comes into the NOVOWelcome Days. play when an employee is uncertain as to what conduct is correct and appropriate. The use of principles and codes of conduct also protects the public image of the company itself and reduces legal and regulation risks. 61 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Compliance with the Code of Conduct is ensured by responsible executives within the company and monitored by the inBasic elements of a CMS in accordance ternal audit department. The consequences of not complying with the IDW PS 980 standard with the Code are listed therein and range from disciplinary measures to criminal charges being brought. G4-DMA 01 Compliance culture 02 Compliance goals 03 Compliance risks 04 Compliance program Content of the NOVOMATIC 05 Compliance organization Code of Conduct 06 Compliance communication 07 Compliance monitoring • Basic required values • Responsibility to our customers More information at: www.idw.de • Treatment of business partners and other third-parties • Ways to do business • Company property, confidentiality and property rights • Dealing with conflicts of interest Compliance Organization • Preventing money laundering • Environmental protection In 2016, a Group Legal Compliance office that reports • Contact support directly to the Executive Board has been established. ­ • Outlook and consequences in the event ­Further a Compliance Committee, headed by the CEO, was of violations established for the further development of the Group-wide compliance management system and for developing recommendations to promote compliance with the Code of Conduct. The members of the Committee are the heads of the Group Legal Compliance, Legal, Human Resources, Regulatory Compliance and Internal Audit departments. The goal of the Committee is to avoid breaches of legal provisions within the Group and ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct. To do this, the Committee undertakes continuous monitoring of compliance activities within the NOVOMATIC AG Group. If necessary, recommendations are prepared for the NOVOMATIC AG Executive Board, and regular reports are provided to both the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board at NOVOMATIC AG. In addition, the Compliance Committee coordinates the processing of complaints and whistleblowing cases. Code of Conduct: Our key compliance document NOVOMATIC has its own whistleblowing hotline, where Compliance employees can call to anonymously report a violation of either the Code of Conduct or the law. The reports are The goal of the NOVOMATIC Compliance Management dealt with by the Compliance Committee, and any further ­System (CMS) is to ensure that all managers and employees action is determined based on risk classification. If necesact on behalf of the owner, and in accordance with company sary, recommendations are made to the Executive Board of values and legal framework conditions. Group guidelines and NOVOMATIC AG. Whistleblowing reports are part of the the Code of Conduct are created to support this. regular reports to both the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of NOVOMATIC AG. The CMS is based on the seven basic principles of a CMS in accordance with the German auditing standard for compliance management systems, IDW PS 980, a standard set by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer). 62 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC’s compliance organization was also further develTraining oped in 2016 with the introduction of a corresponding Group guideline, to appropriately reflect legal framework conditions The intensification of compliance training was one of the most and increased legal liability frameworks, which are growing important tasks in 2016. The focus of this training was on anever more strict. To implement the guideline, Compliance ti-corruption, preventing money laundering in accordance with Officers will be appointed per country and per region. These the new 4th EU Money Laundering Directive, data protection officers will take on specific duties, for example advising local under the new EU General Data Protection Regulation, as well Group subsidiaries in questions of compliance, monitoring local as on selected questions with practical examples from the Code law, training employees, implementing Group guidelines, and of Conduct. 175 international managers were trained within reporting to Group Legal Compliance. G4-SO5 the framework of two NOVOMATIC Symposiums, in April and November. About 120 people took part in 10 management Guidelines training sessions at the headquarters in Gumpoldskirchen. In addition, colleagues from the NOVOMATIC AG Group were given In 2016, we introduced an internal Anti-Corruption Group presentations on selected compliance subjects within the frameguideline with regards to presenting or accepting gifts, invitawork of the international NOVOMATIC HR Days and CIO Days. tions, events, sponsoring activities and donations. This Group New employees received basic training as part of the NOVOWelguideline will be implemented in all Group companies majority come Days. Compliance training is also part of the NOVOMATIC owned by the NOVOMATIC AG. The goal of this guideline is training catalog which is also valid for ACE and ASW. G4-SO4 to set out specific conduct obligations and value limits for certain business activities (e.g. lunch invitations, accepting gifts), Data Protection to avoid suspicion of corruption from the start, and therefore RESPON SIBILITY to reduce potential liability risks relating to companies within Customers trust us with their personal data when using our the NOVOMATIC AG Group, its organizations and employees. gaming services, i.e. when operating gaming terminals, betting on sports, or when engaging in online and interactive gamIn the area of money laundering, too, a variety of measures ing. In the interests of the customer, and in accordance with were introduced in 2016 to prevent NOVOMATIC products and our Code of Conduct, we take very good care of these data. services being misused for money laundering. One important Upcoming obligations under the EU General Data Protection preventative measure was the approval in 2016 of a Group Regulation were communicated Group-wide in 2016, and the guideline by the Executive Board that further developed miniinitial effects on data use within the Group were evaluated. A mum requirements for payment processes used in transactions Group-wide survey on processing personal data was designed and accounting Group-wide. For this reason, the guidelines with help from the IT department. Training sessions were procontain concrete specifications on accepting and providing vided to help prepare for the new data protection regulations. payment and standardize basic principles for payment transactions. For the purpose of preventing money laundering, and Since its establishment in 2011, ADMIRAL Casinos & as an implementation of the “Know Your Customer” principle, ­ Entertainment (ACE) has had an Information Security Group contract partners were checked in cooperation with the Management System (ISMS) in place, certified in accord­ Group security department, and an integrity check was carried ance with the international ISO standard ISO/IEC 27001. This out. More than 300 checks took place in 2016. As a supplement standard, which includes 114 individual aspects, describes the to the guideline, money laundering prevention training was requirements for official certification. Among other things, provided for employees. NOVOMATIC AG Group management constructional and personal safety measures are defined, as was informed during the 6th NOVOMATIC Symposium on the well as compliance guidelines and measures to ensure op4th EU Money Laundering Directive, as well as on new duties erational and network security. The international standards and effects on companies in the gaming industry. are also subject to regular updates. Currently, ISO standard 27001:2013 applies to our ISMS. A recertification audit was carried out by an external auditor in January 2015. ACE passed the audit with flying colors and may continue to use the certificate until the end of 2017. G4-PR8 ISO 27001 norm information security management ­system: www.iso.org/home.html 63 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Quality Management Quality management is only effective when the company is considered as “a whole”. A system with many different NOVOMATIC’s high-quality products and services are some working parts, that work together as a unit and complement of the many reasons it is one of the world’s leading gameach other. Our quality policy supports this understanding, ing technology companies. Quality is deeply rooted in each and describes principles for quality in order to ensure the of our business segments, in the manufacturing of gaming highest possible quality for gaming products and services. equipment, in service and catering, and when running casiQuality management guarantees the quality of our services nos. Regardless of the business segment, NOVOMATIC placand therefore satisfaction for customers – customers who es emphasis on continuous improvement, and also subjects then become long-term business partners. In the year 2016 itself to regular external certification to safeguard internal at NGI new areas as such as media technology and joinery, processes. were brought into the quality management system. This happened for example through the documentation of existing Quality Policy processes, employee training, internal audits and implementing identified improvement measures. Last year, NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries (NGI) in Austria ­revised its quality policy and moved further towards a potenAnother focus last year at NGI was, in cooperation with the IT tial future integrated management system. Our quality poldepartment, the development of a software tool that records icy supports this self-perception and describes principles for recognized errors and documents the relevant correction and quality-conscious actions of the executives and employees, in preventative measures for the future. This was implemented order to ensure the highest quality of gaming products and for quality assurance and technical support. services. . External Verification and Tests Quality Policy Principles NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries, as an Austrian producer of gaming equipment, and also ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertain• Faultless products guarantee our pioneering position ment, an Austrian provider of slot machines, are certified in in the market. accordance with ISO 9001 . Our internal processes are im• Effective processes support product quality and ensure proved on an ongoing basis by means of annual monitoring products are available on time. audits and recertification audits every three years. • Intensive exchange of information and experienced and qualified employees increase the quality of prodISO 9000 norm quality management: ucts and services. www.iso.org/iso-9001-quality-management.html • Avoiding errors from the start and minimizing nonconformity costs is a crucial goal. Quality management at ACE is also based on the ISO 9001 • All employees are actively included in continuous standard. In 2016, ACE focused in particular on facility auimprovement processes. dits, in order to develop and promote a unified standard at • Excellent cooperation with partners, suppliers, customall locations. In addition to technical occupational safety and ers and authorities ensures mutual added value. legal guidelines, they tested how well employees knew and • Quality applies not just to products, but also to activicould carry out work processes. This year focus was on service ties and services. quality and the registration process. Due to the implementa• The effectiveness of the quality management system tion of a continuous improvement process, it was easy to see is checked using audits. a big improvement over the results of the previous year, and therefore also an improvement in service quality. In addition, customer feedback was collected, processed, and incorporatQuality policy of NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH: ed into the further development of the quality management www.novomatic.com/en/explore-novomatic/press/publications system. 64 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 ADMIRAL branch As in 2015, the service quality at ACE facilities was tested by an Innovation independent market research company. The test scenarios, carried out as mystery tests (unannounced visits to the facility) foNOVOMATIC’s success is based, in addition to the highest cused particularly on registration as well as on youth and player quality products and services, strongly on the innovation of protection. In addition to a positive impression and high-qualour employees, from research and development right up to ity service from our employees, the testers noted that, on the the realization of new products and solutions. As one of the one hand, our facilities go above and beyond expectations and, top international gaming technology companies, it is crucial on the other, based on their pleasant atmosphere and good that we not only recognize trends early on but also trigger service, facilities were to be recommended to others. and drive new trends in order to maintain a strategic position within the market. In the future, more business areas are to be integrated into quality management, and we also plan to strengthen synergies Intellectual Property between environmental, occupational safety and health management within the framework of an integrated management Innovation management is, therefore, understood as systemsystem. Additional challenges will come from changes to the atic planning, management and control of innovation withISO standard revision ISO 9001:2015, which must be implein organizations. Our courage in introducing innovations mented into our existing system by 2018 and then certified. and changes is reflected in the large number of patents and trademarks registered in NOVOMATIC’s name. The number of registered intellectual property rights has now exceeded 4,000 and shows that innovation is a core part of our business. NOVOMATIC supports innovation wherever possible, particularly as a way to meet new market challenges, such as the digital transformation, upfront and head-on. 65 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC CEO Harald Neumann, Economic County Minister Dr. Petra Bohuslav, ecoplus Clustermanager Harald Bleier, ecoplus Managing Director Helmut Miernicki Digital Transformation Innovation In Austria, NOVOMATIC is a member of an initiative entitled Another example of our promotion of this innova“Digital Transformation”, which is run by “Mechatronik und tive ­ spirit can be found at the NOVOMATIC subsidiary Kunststoff des Landes Niederösterreich” (ecoplus mechatron­LÖWEN-­ENTERTAINMENT in Germany. The company has, for ics and plastics cluster initiative for Lower Austria), the IMC FH some time, been operating an internal platform used to colKrems and eleven leading Austrian companies. The partner lect creative and innovative suggestions from employees. This companies worked under the title “Enterprise 4.0” and cohelps provide idea management with new impetus. Selected operated intensively with leading researchers and academics projects are regularly highlighted in the quarterly employee on Industry 4.0 subjects. The goal was to better understand magazine “WIR”. the opportunities and challenges of the digital transformation and to implement them quickly and effectively. Based on Another great example of encouraging innovation within our specific and innovative use-case projects, digital technologies Group can be found at NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions (NLS) in were implemented and systematically investigated with reIceland, which hosted the “Heavy Mental” event for the sevgards to their effects on productivity, business model, organenth year. The event is a hackathon (a word created by combinization and employees. NOVOMATIC was the host of the first ing “computer hacking” with “marathon running”) in which Enterprise 4.0 Forum, with more than 100 participants at the employees work in interdisciplinary teams to develop new Novomatic Forum. ideas for products, services or internal topics of interest within 24 hours. Last year, around 75 percent of the workforce was Initiative Enterprise 4.0: www.ecoplus.at involved in idea teams or the jury, and around every second employee came up with a new idea. After the presentation, the victor, the person with the best and most innovative idea, was selected. Next year, planning is under way to host this event at other NLS locations in Serbia, Spain and Austria. 66 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Our subsidiary in Germany sources mainly semi-finished goods or machine components from Austria. Further purchases are handled by a central purchasing department at the Bingen headquarters. All contract partners of the German LÖWEN Group are required – as is the case for contract partners to our Austrian headquarters – to acknowledge our Code of Conduct, which applies across the Group, and confirm their compliance in writing. We are able to report a 100 percent compliance rate with the Code in Germany. NOVOMATIC is an active employer and good citizen, using local suppliers and being actively engaged in its community (e.g. corporate volunteering) as well as with other regional companies (e.g. Enterprise 4.0). Not only that, it creates economic added value by paying numerous fees and taxes. NOVOMATIC’s contribution to value creation for the economy in various countries is shown in the graphs at the beginning of this report. G4-EC9, EN32, LA14, HR10, SO9 Customer Relations RESPON SIBILITY NOVOMATIC’s high-quality products and services create high levels of customer satisfaction. To determine the satisfaction of our customers with regards to our products and servicPablo Anaya, Software Developer, es in a targeted manner and, above all, on a regular basis, Winner of category Technical Idea Heavy Mental NOVOMATIC uses several survey tools. Supply Chain and Local Ties B2B customers are asked for constructive feedback via an ­ ongoing survey from NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries (NGI) The implementation of our Code of Conduct principles is not in Austria. The overall picture provided by the customer satjust compulsory for our management and employees, but also isfaction survey in 2016 concerning NOVOMATIC Gaming for our suppliers. Our suppliers’ products are integrated into ­Industries revealed that NGI customers are particularly happy, our own production processes, meaning that risks associated in addition to the performance of their gaming systems, with with our suppliers’ products also – to a certain degree – become services in the areas of technical support and consultation. A our own risks. new survey is planned for 2017. Due to the international orientation of our company, our In the operational area of state-licensed gaming and sports suppliers also come from all over the world. In 2015, we perbetting (B2C customers), a customer satisfaction survey was formed an in-depth analysis of our 25 suppliers with the highcarried out in 2015 with support from an external polling instiest revenue. Together, they represent approximately 75 pertute. In 2016, numerous measures were put into place that had cent of the total purchasing volume at our Gumpoldskirchen been inspired by the survey results. The plan is to repeat this location in Austria. The vast majority of these suppliers do customer satisfaction survey at two-year intervals. G4-PR5 not carry any economic, ecological or social risk. This is because, on the one hand, these successful business relationships have existed for a long time and, on the other, because the vast majority of suppliers for our Gumpoldskirchen location come from places where European law applies, which requires compliance with certain minimum standards regarding environmental protection, labor laws, and occupational health and safety. 67 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Our Activities a Summary Our Our Strategic Challenges Goals • Lack of specialists due to sociodemographic changes • Increase our appeal as an employer • New challenges to employee expertise in light of the • Further develop our education and training, particularly digital transformation in the context of Industry 4.0 • Keep up the high levels of employee satisfaction Highlights Our Next from 2016 Steps • Establishment of an internal Learning & Development • Increased use of Massive Open Online Courses Board and selection of coordinators (MOOCS) for self-directed learning • Implementation of executive training sessions • International rollout of our new human resource • Continued development of the NOVOTalent High ­management software ­Potential Program • Further development of corporate health management • Beginning of our partnership with Haufe Akademie, in Germany the largest German professional academy • Introduction of yearly employee evaluations for service • Awarded the NESTORGOLD seal of quality for personnel in Germany ­intergenerational and aging appropriate companies, • Carry out an employee satisfaction survey in Austria for the first time • Creation of an integrated management system (IMS) • Once again received the Best Recruiter silver seal in Austria • Implementation of corporate health management, • Certification in accordance with OHSAS 18001 for the first time in Germany and then ISO 45001 in Austria • New training program for improving management skills in Italy • Implementation of a first online employee survey in Croatia • Implementation of legal management software for ­occupational safety and environmental protection in Austria • Hosted the second NOVO Safety Day in Austria 68 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Enjoy Working with Us We offer our employees a healthy, secure and motivating work environment in all ­business segments, from manufacture to customer service. The following graphs show key data of the CR-core countries Austria, Germany, Italy and United Kingdom. The table complements this information with further data of the CR-core countries, as well as other countries of the group. If not all companies mentioned in the reporting scope are covered, it will be explained in a footnote. Employees by employment type in % for 2016 RESPON SIBILITY Austria 95 % 5% 3,158 Germany 93 % 7% 4,400 Italy 96 % 4% 2.031 United Kingdom 89 % 11 % 3,478 *) 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 Average full-time employees Average part time employees *) Employees per country Gender ratio total and in % for 2016 Austria 37 % 63 % 3,158 Germany 61 % 39 % 4,400 Italy 49 % 51 % 2,031 United Kingdom 52 % 48 % 3,478 *) 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 Women Men *) Employees per country The women in the workforce of the group is 49 % 69 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Staff turnover in % for 2016 30 % 30 % 25 % 22 % 22 % 20 % 15 % 14 % 10 % 5% 0% Austria Germany Italy United Kingdom Data inclusive of changes within the group and retirements United Kingdom: Data of Luxury Leisure and Gamestec Leisure Ltd. The staff turnover is higher in locations with many operational branches compared to production locations (exemplary United Kingdom) G4-LA1 HR data of the CR core countries and other countries of the group for 2016 core countries other countries Austria Germany Italy United Spain Croatia Hungary Netherlands ­Kingdom Employees total 3,158 4,400 2,031 3,478 789 1,006 418 264 Women in % 37 % 61 % 49 % 52 % 49 % 66 % 74 % 31 % Men in % 63 % 39 % 51 % 48 % 51 % 34 % 26 % 69 % Part time employees 5% 7% 4% 11 % 1% 8% 1% 32 % in % Staff turnover in % 22 % 22 % 14 % 30 % 37 % 27 % 15 % 1% Average years 8 9 3 7 3 4 5 13 of service Average age 37 42 36 42 35 33 40 43 Training days total 3,542 1,592 683 n.a. 540 34 150 13 G4-LA1, LA9, LA12, G4-10 70 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Our employees are our most valuable capital. We have been • Service in casinos and electronic casinos, as well as in­ able to write international success stories for over 36 years licensed betting offices thanks to their skills, commitment and satisfaction. As one • Business operations in the areas of human resources,­ of the leading manufacturing and service companies in the controlling and finance, purchase, compliance, legal,­ technology and gaming industry, we are always on the lookcorporate responsibility, and more. out for talented people who want to innovate and shape the • IT in the areas of IT security, company networking, data future with us. NOVOMATIC offers it’s employees a creative, centers and business applications secure working environment, exciting tasks, and the potential to develop their knowledge and skills. In order to offer all our employees the best possible framework conditions for a healthy, safe and motivating work “The fact that the age ­environment, we engage in numerous activities and regularly pyramid is tipping expand the number of training and further education courses means it is increaon offer. We are particularly focused on current training consingly difficult to find tent and training on the job, for example in the context of qualified young talent. digitalization, or through expanding online training options. This is connected to a wave of economic and You can find information on NOVOMATIC as an societal complexity. ­employer here: www.novomatic.com/careers In the end, this will create a new awareWe are not the only ones convinced that NOVOMATIC is ness of the important an attractive employer, our external stakeholders have also RESPON SIBILITY role employees play in confirmed this to be the case, as evidenced by the following achieving corporate awards: Dr. Klaus Niedl Head of Group HR at NOVOMATIC goals. This brings with it new challenges, such berufundfamilie (career and family) audit as new types of management, q ­ ualifications and simply the way we deal with people in the company. This government-certified seal of quality is awarded by the To quote Ken ­Robinson: “Human resources are like Austrian Federal Ministry of Families and Youth, and recognatural resources; they’re often buried deep. You nizes companies striving to achieve optimal family-friendly have to go looking for them, they’re not just lying working conditions. around on the surface.‘“ NOVOMATIC received the seal of quality in November 2015 and has set challenging goals that are continuously being ­implemented. NOVOMATIC is active in numerous business segments, including manufacture, operating electronic casinos and sports betting offices, as well as providing online gaming. The company employs around 29,000 employees around the globe; over 3,000 of them work in Austria, our domestic market. Almost half of those work in the segments manufacture and research and development. Due to the variety of business activities we engage in, we offer employment in a broad spectrum of professional areas, such as: • Research and Development in gaming equipment and gamedesign areas • Manufacture of gaming terminals and gaming e ­ quipment, across 13 locations worldwide Award “Certificate since 2015 audit berufundfamilie” 71 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 best recruiter Workplace Health Promotion This ranking recognizes the top employers amongst the 500 The Austrian network “Betriebliche Gesundheitsförderung” largest companies in Austria, Germany and Switzerland. (Network for workplace health promotion, or BGF), led by Recruiting quality is examined based on various criteria in the Lower Austrian Regional Public Health Insurance (“Gebithe areas of recruiting presence, online job offers, treatetskrankenkasse”) set the goal of using a standardized cerment of applicants and feedback from applicants. In 2016, tification process to help make company efforts in the area NOVOMATIC received the Best Recruiter silver seal for the of corporate health promotion visible. The seal of quality is third time in a row. awarded to those companies that have implemented workplace health promotion in accordance with the quality criteria of the European Network for BFG (ENWHP). NOVOMATIC applied for the first time in 2016 for the seal of quality and was awarded by the Austrian network for workplace health promotion (BGF) for its Gumpoldskirchen location. Award “best recruiters” by Career Leading Companies in Austria Companies that stand out in terms of special services or areas of responsibility receive the Leading Companies in Austria honor, which allows them to describe themselves as a Leading Seal of quality “Gesundheitsförderung BGF 2017 – 2019” Company (“Leitbetrieb”). The evaluation focuses on sustainable management, strong market and customer orientation, The following sections describe the highlights of our activities as well as consideration of employees, the environment and over the past year. These are just a few examples of the nusociety by the company’s management. NOVOMATIC is one merous measures taken across our entire Group of companies. of the 1,000 exemplary Austrian companies. G4-DMA, G4-LA2 Training and Further Education As a technology company, NOVOMATIC is constantly developing hardware and software systems. Its high levels of innovation and excellent specialists have driven NOVOMATIC to become one of the leading gaming technology companies in the world. Education and training for our employees is of utmost importance to NOVOMATIC. We have a Learning & Development Team that deals with training challenges and services across all our departments and business segments. In the future, ­acquiring skills for the digital transformation, or Industry 4.0, Award Leitbetriebe Austria will be a new aspect to consider for our staff. 72 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 In 2016, we introduced new human resource management software that supports NOVOMATIC with application management and the creation of an internal Group job market. operated by We plan to roll out this software in other countries in 2017. G4-LA10 ZUKUNFTSWEISENDE ENTWICKLUNGEN beginnen hier. Programs for Trainees and People with High Potential Last year, NOVOMATIC started a pilot program to encourage people with high potential. Entitled NOVOTalent, this twoyear program is designed to steer employees identified as having special potential through three training pillars: Personal development, basic seminars – for example conflict management, project management, business administration/ controlling – plus a specialization agreed with the relevant manager (for example data scientist). Another highlight was the preparation and establishment of the Casino Arcade Management Trainee Program, with the goal of training new management personnel in the area of BILDUNGScasino and arcade management. Nine trainees were selected KATALOG RESPON SIBILITY from 372 applicants, to participate in an 18-month training program starting at the beginning of 2017. Sept 2016 – Feb 2017 Extensive Training and Further Education Opportunities NOVOMATIC Education Catalog 2016 Our Austrian sports betting company, ADMIRAL Sportwetten Apprentices Welcome (ASW), developed a newly designed training course for all facility employees in 2016. Development of the content took NOVOMATIC employs plenty of apprentices, who also have place across departments, to cover as many operational asaccess to our special programs. One of these is the Apprenpects as possible. The goal, in addition to updating employtice Outdoors Event, which takes place every year. In 2016, ees’ specialist knowledge, is to provide a platform for dialog 15 apprentices took part in the three-day event in July. In and discussion. a series of workshops, they learned about diversity, corporate volunteering, conflict management, and other topics. In order to further develop, update, and improve the trainIn 2017, the event will be held again and the focus will be ing content, the NOVOMATIC Group signed a framework on a new topic. contract with the Haufe Akademie. The education and training offered by Haufe, for example in the areas of management, languages, soft skills and IT training, are on offer to all ­employees via the NOVOAcademy training catalog, which is operated by the Haufe Akademie. Team building as part of the apprentice outdoor event 73 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Company Day of Greentube Diversity of Employees Promoting Diversity The fact that we have around 29,000 employees in more than Greentube, the NOVOMATIC Interactive division, offers a 40 countries speaks for itself. Diversity is an integral part of great example of promoting diversity, not because it is necNOVOMATIC, and our international growth and acquisition essary, but because it is completely in line with its corporate of new business areas, for example, in the area of online goals. The NOVOMATIC subsidiary is a leading provider and gaming, is only going to increase our diversity in the future. operator of online and mobile gaming services in Europe, the 67 nationalities are represented at NOVOMATIC in Austria USA and Australia. To stand out in a dynamic environment, alone. In addition to Austrian and German citizens, we have, innovation and know-how in terms of the latest trends and for example, employees from Hungary, Serbia, Germany and technologies is essential. This is why Greentube currently Bosnia-Herzegovina. ­employs 550 employees from more than 50 countries. The annual Company Day, an event for all staff members, is used To ease the entry into NOVOMATIC for our employees across to bring this diverse group together. all locations, many of them with different languages and cultures, all new employees complete the e-learning module NOVOWelcome when they begin working for us. This introduction covers the history of NOVOMATIC, the NOVOMATIC employees, our production cycle, the core NOVOMATIC Group business areas, winning technology as a hallmark of our company, responsible gaming, as well as the contents of our Code of Conduct. 74 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions Girls in ICT Day 2016 Women in Technology Focus on Employer Branding Our subsidiary NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions (NLS), with To recruit the best minds and thereby increase diversity headquarters in Austria and Iceland, is another example of at our company, we are always developing our employer diversity. NLS took part, for the second time, in the internabranding. In 2016, we made our careers website more user tional “Girls in ICT Day” , an initiative run by the United friendly and transparent, worked with universities and techNations International Telecommunications Union (UN ITU). nical colleges, involved ourselves in regional mechatronic Women with technical training from the Iceland offices cluster initiatives, and supported the Robot Challenge paired up with female students from the area and showed for the first time in Vienna, which is the largest internationthem what a workday at NLS is like. The goal is to get girls al championship for individually built, autonomous and moexcited about studying and later working in the information bile robots in Europe. Over the next year, NOVOMATIC will and telecommunications area. increase its transparency and stakeholder dialog with a new Facebook presence, by appearing more often on employer UN ITU Girls in ICT Day: www.itu.int platforms such as Kununu and Glassdoor, but also by providing more information about how we act as an employer. RobotChallenge 2016: www.robotchallenge.org NOVOMATIC on Kununu: www.kununu.com/at/novomatic NOVOMATIC on Glassdoor: www.glassdoor.com/Jobs 75 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC AG and NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH receive the NESTORGOLD certificate from the minister of social affairs Alois Stöger Employer of Young and Old 8 years, as well as the average age of staff in our core markets, which is around 40 years old, simply provide more proof that As diversity does not just apply to geographical and ­cultural NOVOMATIC is a secure and well-loved company to work at. variety, but also to working together across generations, we made an effort to expand our activities for creating an NESTORGOLD certificate: ­aging and intergenerational appropriate workplace through www.sozialministerium.at/siteEN/Ministry/Seal_of_Quality/ the NESTOR GOLD certification . In 2016, we received the NESTOR_GOLD/ ­NESTORGOLD certificate for our efforts in this area by ­Austrian Minister for Social Affairs, Alois Stöger. The measures for Work-Life-Balance receiving and maintaining the certificate include, among other things, NOVOTalk, a guideline for employee conversaWe do not consider the compatibility of family and career to tions, tailored e-learning education and training measures, be a “nice to have” option, but rather an additional buildallowing students to carry out mandatory internships at ing block towards ensuring NOVOMATIC is an attractive NOVOMATIC, introducing a partial retirement model, creat­employer. This is not just regarding part-time and maternity ing the NOVOSilver Family pensioners network, and more. leave models, but also keeping terms of employment flexible In addition to this certificate, the average period of employso they can be adjusted to suit an employee’s current time ment, for example in Austria and Germany, which stands at of life. 76 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Career and family BERATUNGSHOTLINE für MitarbeiterInnen in schwierigen Lebenslagen With the basic certificate audit berufundfamilie (career and family), which was awarded in 2015, NOVOMATIC carried out another important step towards improving numerous workNOVOHE LP life balance aspects, such as compatibility with parental and Beratun gshotlin e für Mita rBeiteri 0800 85 nnen 83 85 maternity management, career management and associated ExtErn UnD proF AnonyM EssionEll UnD vErt KostEnlo rAUlich s Für AllE MitArbEi tErinnEn Montag part-time models, holiday daycare for children, and more. – Don Wir hDöriernzu ! Freitag nerstag 9:00 17:0 0 9:00 15:0 Uhr 0 Uhr In 2018, the auditing process for acquiring the full audit ­berufundfamilie certificate will begin. PROFESSIONELL – ANONYM KOSTENLOS 0800 85 83 85 In terms of childcare, NOVOMATIC in 2016 began offering NOVOHELP NOVOHELP organized holiday care for children aged 6 to 10. Childcare from a variety of professional organizations was supported Info flyer for the help hotline NOVOHelp financially for a duration of two weeks. This program will continue in 2017, and the age group will be expanded to Health Management ­include children aged 3 to 6. and Occupational Safety Support at Difficult Times A healthy and safe workplace is the basic prerequisite for productive and motivated employees. This is why we v­ alue Another measure, introduced at the end of 2015, is the prothe health and safety of our staff, going above and beyond RESPON SIBILITY vision of external counseling for employees in a difficult sitthe legal requirements to protect it. In addition to runuation. NOVOHelp offers anonymous, free and professional ning electronic casinos, casinos and sports betting facilities, counseling through an external hotline, which is manned by NOVOMATIC is one of the leading producers of gaming a team of doctors, psychologists and psychotherapists. Every equipment, with a high level of vertical integration. For this employee receives a brochure with details on NOVOHelp reason, we particularly focus on aspects of environmental when they join the company. The contents are also availaand health protection. ble to everyone via the company intranet. In 2016, we were able to help many employees through the hotline, for examIn our Austrian headquarters, experts on occupational safety, ple during break-ups and divorces, with problems stemming health management, environmental protection, quality manfrom financial burdens, with guidance for family problems, agement, as well as a company doctor, work closely together issues surrounding relatives requiring care and, of course, to implement coordinated measures for avoiding accidents grief counseling. We also carried out workplace dialogs on and maintaining good health. the subjects of overwork and dealing with stress, fears and conflicts. We expect that this service will support the perforFurther Development mance, health and personal productivity of our employees and executives. For 2017, we plan on further development with the ultimate goal of an integrated management system (IMS) at our Gumpoldskirchen location in Austria. In preparation, in 2016, we carried out integrated audits for quality, environmental, occupational safety and health management. We also implemented a new software solution for evaluating legal compliance in the areas of environmental protection and occupational safety. 77 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVO Safety Day at Gumpoldskirchen headquarters We achieved further success in 2016 by training more than The LÖWEN Group in Germany introduced professional 100 executives on acting in accordance with the law. We fohealth management back in 2015. In 2016, a dedicated team cused on initial training in the areas of occupational safety as used this as a base to structurally implement measures to well as compliance. A new training concept, for example for maintain and promote health. This included, for example, forklift and crane operators, or for working with dangerous first-aid training, health days together with the Techniker substances, is intended to ensure that everyone is acting in Krankenkasse (health insurance provider for technicians), accordance with the law. health checks by the company doctor, the offer of company sports and massages, cooperation with fitness facilities, sports In Austria, the occupational protection management system, events such as bowling and jogging, as well as the offer of flu in accordance with the international standard OHSAS 18001, vaccines for employees. In 2017, we plan to introduce a prowas further developed. We plan on carrying out a level 1 fessional counseling service for employees in difficult circumaudit on OHSAS 18001 in 2017, based on the systemization stances, similar to the NOVOHelp counseling service. of safety and health activities, as well as improvement and transparency of our processes in 2016. This will provide the Health and Safety Days basis for full certification, or for switching to the new ISO 45001 standard. The NOVO Safety Day, held for the third time in August 2016, was once more attended by hundreds of employees. In 2016, we also began further improvements for reinteThe multi-­ faceted program dealt with security and safety grating employees after long periods of sick leave. To do so, ­issues, such as first-aid and environmental and fire protecwe developed a reintegration model coordinated with both tion, self-defense, as well as a spectacularly simulated rescue Group Human Resources and occupational medicine profesfrom the 4th floor of our headquarters in Gumpoldskirchen. sionals, which is put into action when an employee is on sick leave for an extended period. Several salaried employees, The Dutch subsidiary, NOVOMATIC Netherlands, reworked who are currently on extended sick leave, are supervised by the emergency planning for its new office in Waalwijk in an interdisciplinary team under this model, in order to ease 2016. Employees received training in the new processes and their integration back into the daily work routine. carried out an emergency practice run. 78 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Opening of NOVOMATIC Health Day from left to right: Michael Buchleitner, Ferdinand Köck, Dr. Monika Poeckh-Racek, Dr. Gerhard Schörg, Stefan Krenn Another highlight was the second NOVOMATIC Health Day, in ­ergotherapy, shiatsu, business yoga, zumba, acupressure, which for the first time was hosted at two locations in A ­ ustria, back training, and more. A health street, as well as healthyat our Gumpoldskirchen headquarters and the location of back bus, rounded out the day, both providing quick checks ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment in Wiener Neudorf. The for general health, muscle power and posture. The Health program included presentations on stress management, Day also saw the start of ADMIRALFit, the jogging and trainwork-life balance, healthy nutrition and personal motivaing project for ACE in Austria. tion, as well as numerous workshops for active participation 79 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Our Activities a Summary Our Our Strategic Challenges Goals • Digitalization as a means to ecological efficiency • Continuously improving energy and resource efficiency • Increasing ecological efficiency in our production during production • Strengthening ecological awareness and supporting • Measuring and reducing the resource, energy ­and­ ­ecological action on the part of our employees ­emission footprint of the NOVOMATIC AG Group • Supporting the Group-wide exchange of good practice • Implementing and certifying new standards in environmental protection, e.g. ISO 14001:2015 • Ensuring legal compliance Highlights Our Next from 2016 Steps The following measures were put into place for our These measures apply to activities in Austria: ­production location in Gumpoldskirchen, Austria: • Continue to merge environmental management into • Successful ISO 14001:2005 monitoring audit an integrated management system (IMS) • Implementation of a new legal database • Recertification for ISO 14001:2005 and preparation • Completion of integrated management audit between for ISO 14001:2015 quality, environmental and health & safety management • Ensure completeness and evaluation of legal requirements • High energy savings in comparison to the previous year • Integrate new factories in the waste management system 80 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Going Green When manufacturing our products and running our locations, our goal is to minimize energy and resource use and therefore reduce emissions and waste, as far as possible. The following graphs show key data of the CR-core countries Austria, Germany and for energy also Italy. The table complements this information with further data of the CR-core countries including United Kingdom, as well as other countries of the group. If not all companies mentioned in the reporting scope are covered it will be explained in a footnote. operations production Energy use in MWh in 2016 RESPON SIBILITY Austria 100 % 16,112 Germany 96 % 4 % 39,617 Italy 92 % 8 % 13,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 0 10,000 Austria: NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH and ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH headquarter (mainly production), Germany: All except Crown Technologies GmbH (production and operations), Italy: All locations (production and operations) For Austria at the moment only data from the production location is available. The energy use in the production in Austria is significantly higher than in Germany or Italy due to the production for the group. The energy use for Germany and Italy is shown separately for the production and operations such as sports betting, arcades and casinos. G4-EN3 Waste total in tons in 2016 production Austria 1,129 Germany 963 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 Austria: NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH and ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH headquarter (mainly production) Germany: LÖWEN ENTERTAINMENT GmbH (production) For Austria and Germany due to data availability only the data from production locations is shown. Due to the proportionally higher production in Austria than in Germany also the waste is higher. G4-EN23 81 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Water use in m3 in 2016 production Austria 14,757 Germany 3,820 0 2,500 5,000 7,500 10,000 12,500 15,000 Austria: NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH and ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH headquarter (mainly production) Germany: LÖWEN ENTERTAINMENT GmbH (production) For Austria and Germany due to data availability only the data from production locations is shown. Due to the proportionally higher production in Austria than in Germany also the waste is higher. G4-EN8 Environmental data in CR core countries and other countries in the group in 2016 core countries other countries Austria Germany Italy United ­Kingdom Spain Croatia Hungary Energy use in MWh 16,112 39,617 13,000 1,289 3,823 9,551 5,002 Water use in m 3 14,757 3,820 4,400 n.f. 14,568 16,527 16,483 Waste total in t 1,129 963 139 n.f. n.f. 27 302 Waste non-hazardous in t 1,051 743 123 n.f. Waste hazardous in t 78 220 16 n.f. Austria: NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH and ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH headquarter, Germany: LÖWEN ENTERTAINMENT GmbH, Other countries: Complete to extend data was available Historically, the success of the NOVOMATIC Group has been Across the globe, we run production locations in 10 countries, based on innovation and the quality of our products. This inincluding Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Germany, the cludes all types of gaming technology, such as gaming termiNetherlands, and other locations in Europe and South Amernals, gaming cabinets, video lottery terminals (VLTs), lottery ica. Over the next few years, we expect due to the constant technology, video poker devices, multiplayer terminals, highgrowth of NOVOMATIC Group, to add more production loend media solutions and end-to-end system solutions . cations. Worldwide, we manufactured ten thousand gaming With vertical integration of more than 90 percent, which is and betting terminals in 2016. Logistics is run in part using unique to the industry, the production stages are carried out company-owned trucks, and our service technicians make solely in NOVOMATIC’s 13 production centers and 20 technoluse of company-owned cars. We, therefore, make direct use ogy centers. At our headquarters in Gumpoldskirchen in Ausof numerous resources, from materials and primary products tria, for example, we have our own production departments, to electrical parts and technological components, and use resuch as a joinery, print shop, metal working shop, plastics sources such as electricity, water, thermal and cooling power, manufacturing plant and circuit board assembly line. Assemand fuel for our production and logistic processes. Due to our bly and quality control all take place ­in-house. global expansion, business flights also caused the emission of around 3,000 tonnes of CO2 in 2016. All these activities contribYou find information on our Gaming Products here: ute to our ­environmental footprint, which we seek to reduce www.novomatic.com/en/products/gaming ­continuously. You find information on our Media Technology Solutions here: www.novomatic-mt.com 82 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 “NOVOMATIC has The following sections describe the highlights of our activhigh standards at ities over the past few years. These are just a few examples our production of the numerous measures taken across our entire Corporate ­locations with regards Group. G4-DMA, EN27 to waste reduction, resource conservation Energy Efficiency and energy efficiency. Used materials and Many of our corporate activities use energy in the form of devices are repaired electricity, as well as heating and cooling services (e.g. district in order to reuse them.” heating), and we make use of fuel, on the one hand directly for our vehicle fleet, and on the other indirectly for logistics and transporting our products to customers. In doing so, we create emissions, both directly and indirectly, which we aim Helmut ­Wenger Head of Production to minimize as much as it is possible. In addition to the production of high-tech gaming equipAt our subsidiary NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries, our headment, NOVOMATIC also operates electronic casinos, landquarters for manufacturing and administration, in Gumbased casinos, sports betting facilities, as well as offering poldskirchen in Austria, we have implemented a series of comprehensive solutions in the areas of lottery, sports measures within the framework of our environmental manbetting, and online, mobile, and social gaming. Globally, agement to optimize energy use. The largest energy savings NOVOMATIC runs more than 1,800 gaming facilities , in 2016 were due to the optimization of ventilation and air RESPON SIBILITY including the Swiss Casinos in Mendrisio, Locarno and Bad conditioning, reduction of leaks in the compressed air sysRagaz, as well as Spielbank Berlin, the casino with the largtem, more efficient lighting in the manufacturing area, the est turnover in Germany. In terms of our operative business replacement of fluorescent lighting with LEDs, and the modactivities, environmental effects are lower than those relaternization of our vehicle fleet. ed to production, but nevertheless, we strive to minimize our environmental impact and use of resources as much as Energy efficiency measures were able to reduce CO2 emissions ­possible. at our Gumpoldskirchen location by 116 tonnes in the year 2016. The CO2 emissions balance for the year under review You find information on our Lottery Solutions here: yielded a CO2 impact of around 7,700 tonnes for the Gumwww.novomaticls.com poldskirchen location. You find information on our Interactive Gaming Products At our ADMIRAL Sportwetten facilities, energy use was rehere: www.greentube.com duced by around 90 MWh through renovation measures, as well as switching to more efficient lighting and screens. This You find information on our Sports Betting Solutions also reduced CO2 emissions by 2.5 tonnes. here: www.novomatic-sbs.com We also were able to reduce energy use and emissions in In production and operations, the interests and needs of our 2016 with regards to the vehicle fleet by using a few key customers have the highest priority. However, we believe it strategies. Employees in the research and development deis our job to ensure that this goal is reached while minimizpartment used their own initiative to create a platform for ing our use of resources and energy. This is why we have carpooling. Not only that, a gas-saving folder was issued implemented a variety of measures to reduce our ecological to all employees at our Gumpoldskirchen location, and our footprint. To do so, we make use of numerous standards and professional drivers took part in training on reducing gas tools and have implemented environmental management use. Our fleet vehicles are always being modernized, with in many countries in accordance with the international ISO older vehicles replaced by newer, more efficient models. In 14000 standard. Finally, we set ecological goals, the achievethe year under review, 19 new vehicles were purchased in ment of which, for example, is strictly controlled within the Austria, which represents an improvement in the average framework of the European Energy Efficiency Act. standard consumption of our vehicle fleet from 5.1 liters per 100 km to 3.8 liters per 100 km. This will, for example, save 22,102 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. In total, en83 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 ergy efficiency measures in Austria alone in 2016 were able to save more than EUR 80,000 through direct energy costs and canceled installment payments within the framework of the Energy Efficiency Act. In 2016, the LÖWEN Group expanded its certification for the ISO 50001 standard to all locations. This standard determines the requirements for the use of an energy management system. With help from this standard, the ­LÖWEN Group companies have documented an improvement in their emissions balance and a reduction in CO2 emissions. In addition, foundations were laid that can be used for evaluating the future effectiveness of technological changes with regards to further improving the energy balance. G4-EN6, EN7, EN15, EN30 NOVOMATIC employee sorting waste Resource Conservation and Recycling NOVOMATIC Italia also focused on recycling. The company attempted to reduce the amount of electronic waste creatDue to our high levels of vertical integration and the use ed by the machines they sell and entered into a partnership of numerous different commodities, materials and primary with the national consortium for waste collection and recyproducts in our production, the conservation of resources is cling, COBAT. The goal for 2017 is to combine the switch to more than just about complying with local environmental a new generation of slot machines with recycling of valuable laws or goodwill but is, in fact, a significant cost factor across resources by COBAT . all measures. The lower our waste rates are, for example, the less we pay for waste management or the purchase of comCOBAT – Consorzio Nazionale Raccolta e Riciclo modities that we don’t need. Economics and ecological effiwww.cobat.it ciency go hand in hand. When it comes to resource conservation, there are continuWaste and resource management is strictly controlled at all al small improvements to report, from the use of commodour production locations. We, therefore, have waste and ities to waste prevention. A good example of one of these resource management that is based on local conditions and measures is the modernization of the washbasin faucets at requirements at all our locations. Some of our locations are the Hotel Admiral am Kurpark in Baden near Vienna. Old certified in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard. washbasin faucets, with a water flow rate of around 12 liters/ minute and shower heads with a rate of around 16 liters/minAt our production location in Gumpoldskirchen, Austria, we ute were replaced with more efficient faucets with a rate of focused in 2016 on the correct sorting of waste materials. To around 6 liters/minute water consumption and shower heads foster this, monthly environmental tips were sent via intranet, with around 10 liters/minute. This reduced water consumpand signs were put up near garbage bins. The effectiveness tion in each case by close to 50 and 40 percent, respectively. of these measures is checked through audits and inspections. Fewer liters of hot water means lower energy consumption In 2016, structured waste sorting was rolled out across the and a CO2 emissions reduction of around 2.5 tonnes per year. entire Gumpoldskirchen location, including our subsidiary G4-EN1 ADMIRAL Sportwetten. We also pay attention to safety. For example, we have now implemented short-circuit proof storRecyclability age of old batteries in containers we produced ourselves. Once waste has been collected and sorted, we recycle this, Another example of the effect of waste sorting measures wherever possible. For example, waste from 3D printers, is NOVOMATIC Lottery Solutions (NLS) in Iceland, who polystyrene, perspex, cartons, scrap metal, electronic compo­removed all private waste containers from its offices and nents, used glass and toner is collected and given to external replaced them with modern recycling stations. The result waste removers for recycling. Thanks to our sorted collecwas a reduction in residual waste, and therefore a rise in tion of recyclable material, we were able to gain around EUR properly sorted waste. 60,000 from our disposal partners. 84 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 We also do our best, where it is technically possible in terms of quality, to reuse materials or machine components inhouse after extensive testing. For this reason, at our production location in Hungary in 2016, we processed around 6,000 monitors, 2,000 ticket printers and more than 9,000 bill validators, and used them in production orders. In order that our customers have access to as many processed components as possible, we extract them from old machines before any particular customer request is made, and put them through the refurbishment process. Not only that, depending on customer requirements, entire used devices can be repaired. In the past year, a total of 8,000 used devices were refurbished, mostly in our sister factory in the Czech Republic, so that they can continue to be used for many years to come. We also recycle waste materials in the Gumpoldskirchen print shop. Tasks at the print shop include printing decorative elements for gaming machines, but also internal print runs for office and advertising material. For example, last year, 800 calendars were printed on a total of 1000 m2 of cardboard, and many of them were collected for recycling when the new RESPON SIBILITY calenders were issued. As the paper was added to the recycled paper, almost half of cardboard, was able to be used again for printing the new calenders. Not only that, accrued remains of perspex pieces from manufacture are used again as protection for circuit boards. NOVOMATIC employee assembling a gaming terminal 85 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Our Activities a Summary Our Our Strategic Challenges Goals • Social commitment, donations and sponsoring activities in • Regular adaptation of Group sponsoring activities harmony with our corporate values and donations guidelines • Good relationships and intensive contact with research • Supporting our employees’ volunteer work and consulting facilities in the area of addiction prevention Highlights Our Next from 2016 Steps • Preparation for the NOVOTeam Corporate Volunteering • Revision of the sponsoring activities and donations initiative ­guideline for NOVOMATIC AG • ADMIRAL is the new sponsoring partner for Rhein-Neckar • Start of the “NOVOTeam” Corporate Volunteering Löwen Deutschland ­program • ADMIRAL is the new major partner of the Austrian • Joint focus of activities in the group while being ­Basketball Union (OEBV) locally flexible • Sponsoring of the “Ball of Sports” hosted by Deutsche Sportshilfe (German Sports Aid) • Sponsoring of numerous events in the Novomatic Forum • Partnership with the Vienna State Opera for training young talent 86 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Active in the Community We as a company, as well as our employees, understand that we are active members of ­society, which we support through volunteer work, sponsoring activities and donations. “As one of the worSustainable and efficient CR management is founded on the ld‘s leading gaming balance between corporate activity and the requirements of technology companies, external stakeholders. The important thing here is “how” a as well as a leading company operates and considers the interests of its stake­ company in Austria, holders. In our view, sustainability relates just as much to the we are very aware of efficient use of resources and avoiding negative environmenour responsibility. We tal effects as it does to assuming social responsibility. Sponsortherefore actively suping partnerships and donations based on our corporate values RESPON SIBILITY port selected initiatives and the needs of our stakeholders round off this management in order to contribute approach. to sustainable social development. We NOVOMATIC endeavors, through long-term sponsoring parttake personal contact nerships, targeted donations and voluntary work embedded Stefan Krenn General Secretary of NOVOMATIC AG with our sponsoring in the local community, to make a positive contribution to partners, such as social development. A sustainable impact is more important sports clubs and culture and science facilities, very to us than short-lived attention. Team spirit, commitment, seriously.” innovation and a sense of art and culture are examples of values that we support with our sponsoring focus. Companies express their actions as members of society through social commitment, sponsoring activities and also ­ Corporate Responsibility is more than CSR donations. Corporate Responsibility (CR) is, therefore, the hoThe principle of corporate social responsibility is often listic and – from the perspective of stakeholder expectations – associated with corporate responsibility management or responsible management of key topics within the meaning of wrongly used as a synonym. The reason for this confusion sustainable development. Modern CR management is aimed is mostly due to the word “social” in the term CSR. In the German-speaking world, it is wrongly understood to mean at the strategic, structured and integrated management of “do something good and talk about it” or “give something non-financial value drivers. It is closely associated with the as a company back to society”. This is, however, is only core business and value creation of the company, focusing one part of corporate responsibility management. In this context, “social” refers to society as a whole. Sustainability on the value contribution of ecological (e.g. protecting the here relates to the efficient use of resources and avoiding environment and conserving resources), social (e.g. employee negative environmental effects. CSR represents the aspect health and safety) and so-called governance aspects, such as of social responsibility and, in the German-speaking world, normally only refers to the aspects of sponsoring, donations compliance and anti-corruption. and volunteering. 87 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The balancing act of reconciling different interests Local connections and an according regional involvement on the one hand vs. Local International our international orientation as a gaming involvement orientation technology group with global operations, on the other. Our need for long-term and stable partnerships with trustworthy partners Long-term Short-term on the one hand vs. calls for short-term cooperation donations donations in emer­gency situations, e.g. in the case of natural catastrophes, on the other. The perceived expectation among the public to share corporate success with the Public Company community vs. the legitimate entitlement expectation interests to secure the economic health of the company for the future and therefore being selective with regard to sponsoring activities. In order to create a close relationship between our volunteering, sponsoring, and donation activities and our c­ ompany Our sponsoring activity focus on values, strategic CR orientation, and the needs of external • Prevention and player protection ­stakeholders, we have developed a Group-wide Sponsoring • Science and research • Art and culture Policy. It provides clear boundaries and orientation for all our • Sport activities in this area. This policy is revised at regular intervals, and will be revised again in 2017. The goal is to remain true Our principles to our international presence, strategic CR aspects, and chang• Orientation on strategic Group goals • Long-term cooperation before short-term activism ing stakeholder requirements. We take into account feedback • Long-term effects from our stakeholder dialog as well as our existing donation and sponsoring activity projects. We strive to actively deal with We receive many requests for support, and we always social trends and to support developments that are, in our do our best to share our available resources as fairly as ­possible. To guarantee this and in accordance with our opinion, both concrete and positive. In addition, plans are ungoal to remain transparent, we always place our focus derway to develop a Group CR strategy. G4-DMA on listed strategic donations and sponsoring activities, as well as significant CR subjects. 88 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The following sections describe the highlights of our activities Art and Culture over the past few years. These are just a few examples of the numerous measures taken across our entire Group of companies. A special focus is on the areas of art and culture, where we support numerous regional cultural initiatives, such as the Sponsoring Kulturregion Niederösterreich, the “Wir sind Wien Festival”, the Baden Theater and the Tschauner Theater. We have been Sponsoring activities, to us, means more than just a one-off partners with the Vienna State Opera since 2008, where our ­donation of goods or money. We focus on long-term cooperscholarship program supports young vocal talent. This supation with our sponsoring partners, such as sports clubs as well port allowed current opera stars to make their name on the as cultural and scientific institutions. Within the framework of a big stage right at the beginning of their careers. Another partnership, the goals of which are long-term and sustainable, highlight of our support for young talent in the ­Vienna landNOVOMATIC provides, in addition to money and equipment, its mark on Ringstrasse is our sponsorship of the Ballet Acadexperience, know-how and of course the time and enthusiasm emy at the Vienna State Opera; the Academy was founded of its employees. Needless to say, this also includes corporate in 1771, and we added our support in 2015. We support talvolunteering, which is carried out by our employees with our ented children and young adults currently in training by prosupport. viding them with scholarships. The focus is on encouraging young talent and providing the best possible preparation for NOVOMATIC supports numerous projects, initiatives and organan international career. izations in the listed focus areas. In Austria, for example, in the area of sports, this includes the Vienna Night Run, the Austrian Novomatic Forum Tennis State Championships, the National Basketball League, RESPON SIBILITY the National Basketball team and the ÖFB Samsung Cup. In the The activities and events at the Novomatic Forum in Viareas of science, research and general societal discourse, we enna, Austria, also reflect the goals and principles of our support, for example, Pro Mente (an Austrian mental health sponsoring strategy . The Novomatic Forum is a unique charity), and work together with ecoplus, the Financial Agency Art Nouveau building in the center of Vienna, which offers of Lower Austria, on the Enterprise 4.0 initiative. In addition, space for events, workshops, ideas, intensive dialog, cultural we value international cooperation between companies, which entertainment and culinary delights. More than 200 events is why we support, among others, the Vienna Economic Forum take place at the Novomatic Forum every year, and selected and the Europa Forum Wachau. Our social commitment is exevents were supported last year by NOVOMATIC. A great pressed, for example, by donating to Katastrophenhilfe Österexample is the so called “unconference” held by the diverreich (an organization in Austria that provides help in emergensity camp Vienna 2016, in which subjects are chosen and cies), Licht ins Dunkel (support for disabled children and their discussed by the audience regarding current topics such as families), and CliniClowns (clowns visiting sick children). diversity, inclusion, human resources, equal opportunities, accessibility, marketing and CSR, often leading to an intensive exchange of ideas. Website of Novomatic Forum: ­ www.novomaticforum.com More information on diversitycamp 2017: www.diversitycamp.at From left to right: Embassador (ret.) Dr. Elena Kirtcheva, Harald Neumann, Dr. Erhard Busek 89 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Novomatic Forum in Vienna Discussion at diversitycamp 2016 Handover of the Paralympics-awards at the medal party of the Olympic games and Paralympics 2016 Sport A yearly highlight from LÖWEN ENTERTAINMENT, our largest subsidiary in Germany, is support for Paralympic bonuses for As of 2016, ADMIRAL Sportwetten is the major partner of athletes belonging to Deutscher Behindertensportverband the Austrian national basketball team (OEBV). ADMIRAL will (German Handicapped Sports Association) as part of support ­accompany OEBV not just during qualifying games for the for the German Sports Aid Foundation. We support successmen’s European Championship in 2017, but also during all ful German Handicapped Sports Association athletes that their other activities up to 2018. have won medals at the Paralympics. In 2016, as part of this 90 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 International Stadium Festival Berlin (ISTAF) 2016 program, NOVOMATIC supported bonuses from the German community gatherings, such as the Hoffest (Courtyard FesSports Aid Foundation for 57 medals won by successful memtival) hosted by the mayor of Berlin, charitable events such bers of the German Olympic team at the Paralympics in Rio de as the AIDS Gala in Berlin, and also numerous local sportJaneiro in 2016. Christian Arras, Chairman of the Management ing clubs, particularly for team sports. Examples include the at LÖWEN ENTERTAINMENT, presented the bonuses to the ­Kassel Huskies (ice hockey), FC Union Berlin (soccer), Hertha medal winners as part of a medal party for the Olympic and BSC Berlin (soccer) and SCC Berlin (volleyball). Paralympic games at the Chancellery in Berlin. According to Christian Arras, this prize represents our support of values such In addition, NOVOMATIC has been supporting the German as team spirit, enthusiasm, willingness to get involved, fairness Sports Aid Foundation for years, along with its “Ball of and the drive to succeed. Sports” event, which took place in 2016 in Wiesbaden. This event, hosted by the German Sports Aid Foundation, is Together with Spielbank Berlin, NOVOMATIC has supported one of the most important social events of the year in Gerthe International Stadium Festival (Internationale Stadionmany. Around 1,800 guests from the world of sports, finance, fest Berlin, ISTAF) for several years. This event is the oldest politics, culture and the media meet once a year at this exand most well-attended track and field meet in the world. cellent event to support high-performance sports in GermaLast year, as in previous years, the ISTAF took place on Sepny. Last year, NOVOMATIC was present with an active darts tember 3 in Berlin’s Olympic Stadium and featured a total of ­station. 19 ­German Olympic champions. Ball of Sports: www.sporthilfe.de Our German casino subsidiaries, specifically Spielbank Berlin and Kurhessische Spielbank Kassel / Bad Wildungen, as well as our casino holding SIM Spielbanken, focused last year on sponsoring activities and donations in the area of sports projects. In addition to large events, they also sponsored 91 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC darts station at Ball of Sports 2016 LÖWEN ENTERTAINMENT is also active in the world of sports two ­years. The club was founded in 1948, with the goal of sponsoring, and its ADMIRAL brand has been the main sponmaking bowling an attractive sport for women. . The sor of the Rhein-Neckar Löwen handball club since the middle club was founded in 1948, with the goal of making bowling of last year. The Löwen were the German handball chaman attractive sport for women. We plan to continue to suppions for the 2015/2016 season. As part of this sponsorship, port these activities as part of our diversity management. LÖWEN ENTERTAINMENT also supported the “Löwenherz” (Lion heart) social project. For this project, the Rhein-Neckar Women bowling club Admiral: Löwen created a platform for sports, finance and media prohr-hr.facebook.com/kkadmiral fessionals to come together and learn about social projects in the area, and support them if they choose. Volunteering Rhein-Neckar Löwen: www.rhein-neckar-loewen.de In terms of corporate volunteering, we plan to build on preparations made in Austria last year with a project titled NOVOMATIC Hungaria, in addition to sponsoring activities NOVOTeam, which will start corporate volunteering profor the Red Cross and other civil protection organizations, is jects at our Austrian companies NOVOMATIC Gaming Indusalso focusing on sports, and supports both the NOVOMATIC tries and Admiral Casinos & Entertainment in 2017. The goal Arena Sopron, which bears its name, as well as Hungary’s of this initiative is to enter long-term partnerships with diflargest sport and soccer stadium “Groupama Arena – FTC ferent charity organizations, to support them through joint Stadion”. projects in the form of “action days” or project periods. This initiative is designed to appeal to those employees who, for NOVOMATIC Arena Sopron: www.mkbarenasopron.hu example, due to hectic family life, cannot take part in volunteering activities in their free time. These projects will be INTERIGRE, who runs the ADMIRAL gaming facilities in implemented during our employees’ working hours. ­Croatia, has been the major sponsor of the women’s ­Bowling Club Admiral (Kuglacki klub Admiral Zagreb) for the last 92 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 LÖWEN ENTERTAINMENT in Germany is also active in corporate volunteering, with the “LÖWEN apprentices help” initiative. The initiative was started in 2015, and in July 2016, LÖWEN apprentices supported the children‘s festival “Spiel und Sport im Park am Mäuseturm” (Games and Sports in the Park) in Bingen. The children were able to take part in a variety of actions and games, such as bouncy castles and creative stations. Social Commitment NOVOMATIC Italia also implements its social commitment ­through a variety of sponsoring activities. In addition to sponsoring activities in the area of Cancer Aid and the Italian Society for the Blind, NOVOMATIC Italia has a long-standing partnership with the Fondazione Telethon . This organizaRESPON SIBILITY tion is dedicated to researching rare diseases not well supported by the private sector. The 2016 campaign was titled “Non mi arrendo”, which translates to “Don‘t give up”. On December 16, a fundraising banquet supported by NOVOMATIC took place in Rimini, sponsored by NOVOMATIC for Telethon. Invitation to Telethon fundraising dinner in Rimini Fondazione Telethon: www.telethon.it Last year, NOVOMATIC Italia also took part in the “Woman Run the Show” project, together with Samsung and T ­ elefono Rosa, a charitable organization. The goal of the project is to draw attention to domestic violence and support those affected. As part of the project, ten women affected by domestic violence were provided with support for re-entry into working life, and the economic independence associated with it. As part of a national communications campaign, together with the well-known director, Maria Sole Tognazzi, the women produced a video that describes problems associated with domestic violence and promotes sensitivity to these issues. NOVOMATIC Italia specifically supported the project by creating a training program for office duties at its Rome location. 93 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Appendix: UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Since May 2014, NOVOMATIC has been a member of the UN In 2015 the United Nations passed the so-called Sustainable Global Compact, an initiative established in the year 2000 Development Goals which replace the Millenium Goals. In under the guidance of the then UN Secretary General contrast to these, they are also directed at developing Kofi Annan. The objective of the UN Global Compact is to countries as well as companies and NGOs. All in all, 17 enhance social and environmental sustainability on an interoverall objectives (and 169 subordinate objectives) were national level and to promote the social commitment of comdefined. In item 12.6 of the Sustainable Development panies. Ten Principles define in which areas the network sees Goals, for example, explicit reference is made to the importa need for action and hopes for according measures by its ance of sustainability reporting. We have decided to refer members. In order to enhance the effectiveness of this global to the Sustainable Development Goals in our Progress network, certain obligations must be met in order to join: Report. The following overview therefore provides a total among other things, an annual Progress Report (Communicaof four pieces of information: based on the ten principles tion on Progress) must be prepared which documents the of the UN Global Compact, we provide information as to reporting member’s efforts to promote and implement the which indicators are equivalent to the Global Reporting Initen principles of the UN Global Compact within their own tiative, where there is an equivalent in the Sustainable spheres of influence. This Progress Report must also be made Development and what progress we achieved in 2016 available on the homepage of the UN Global Compact. Theregarding each of the ten principles of the UN Global refore, our first, as well as our current Progress Report, can be ­Compact. found online . You find all indicators which are fulfilled by NOVOMATIC in www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/36511 the CR report marked with the symbol and the respective GRI indicator. sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs I NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 UN Global Compact Sustainable Global Communication on Progress (COP) NOVOMATIC Development Goals Reporting Initiative (G4) www.unglobalcomsustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs www.globalreDetailed definition in the GRI index. pact.org porting.org Human Rights: End poverty in all its forms everywhere/ GRI Indicators HR8 (Incidents of rights violations of indige­Businesses should Access to land nous people): Not applicable as NOVOMATIC is support and respect G4-HR2 / not ­involved in any dealings with indigenous the protection End hunger, achieve food security and G4-HR9 / people. of internationally ­improved nutrition and promote sustainable G4-HR12 / ­proclaimed agriculture / Access to land G4-SO1 / HR9 (Operations that are subject to human rights. G4-SO2 human rights reviews): Part of Compliance End hunger, achieve food security and ­Management Systems of NOVOMATIC. ­improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture / Indigenous rights HR12 (Grievances about human rights impacts): No proceedings relating to human rights violations. SO1 (Operations with implemented local community engagement): GRI interprets this indicator with regard to the involvement of local communities in development programs. This occurs during the course of approval processes to be carried out according to national requirements, e.g. during construction projects. SO2 (Operations with negative impacts on local communities): No significant negative impact on local communities recorded, as NOVOMATIC strictly adheres to applicable legal framework RESPON SIBILITY conditions. COP In 2015, the suppliers relevant to the Gumpoldskirchen location were subjected to an analysis, including regarding social risks (i.e. also with regard to the observance of human rights). No serious risk was determined. The analysis of suppliers will be expanded in the future. Human Rights: GRI Indicators HR1 (Significant investment agreements and Business should make contracts that include human rights clauses): sure they are not G4-HR1 / NOVOMATIC has its Group headquarters in complicit in human ­G4-HR10 / Austria, where the Human Rights Charter is rights abuses. ­G4-HR11 considered to be on a constitutional level. Accordingly, these principles are adhered to without requiring any separate agreements. In addition, ensuring that legal requirements are met is the responsibility of NOVOMATIC’s internal Compliance Management System. HR10 (Evaluation of suppliers regarding human rights.): Prior to signing any agreement, all ­NOVOMATIC suppliers must acknowledge our Code of Conduct and confirm this in writing. HR11 (Significant negative human rights impacts in the supply chain): No significant negative impact determined along the supply chain, to the degree that this was possible within the initial analysis carried out in 2015. II NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 UN Global Compact Sustainable Global Communication on Progress (COP) NOVOMATIC Development Goals Reporting Initiative (G4) www.unglobalcomsustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs www.globalreDetailed definition in the GRI index. pact.org porting.org Labour: Businesses Promote sustained, inclusive and ­sustainable GRI Indicators G4-11 (Percentage of total employees covered by should uphold economic growth, full and productive collective bargaining agreements.): All employment the freedom of ­employment and decent work / Freedom G4-11 / relationships in Austria are subject to a collective ­association and the of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 / bargaining agreement applicable to the employment effective ­recognition ­G4-LA4 relationship, with the exception of managing directors of the right to Promote sustained, inclusive and ­sustainable and board members. In Germany, no employment ­collective bargaining. economic growth, full and productive relationship is subject to a collective bargaining agree­employment and decent work / Labor / ment. These are the subject of individual contractual ­management relations agreements, which are based on an internal salary model. All employment in Italy is subject to a collective bargaining agreement applicable to the employment relationship, except Managing Directors and members of the Management Board. HR4 (Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk.): In 2015, a first analysis of the most important suppliers for the Gumpoldskirchen location was carried out. No significant social risk was determined (COP). LA4 (Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes): This indicator does not apply to NOVOMATIC in this form. Labour: Businesses Promote sustained, inclusive and ­sustainable GRI Indicators HR5 (Operations and suppliers with significant should uphold the economic growth, full and productive risk for incidents of child labor.): This indicator effective abolition ­employment and decent work / Abolition G4-HR5 is not applicable to NOVOMATIC, as we do not of child labour. of child labor work with suppliers who employ children. Labour: ­Businesses End poverty in all its forms everywhere / GRI Indicators G4-10 (Total number of employees by should uphold ­Earnings, wages and benefits ­employment contract and gender): It is disclosed the elimination G4-10 / in detail in the chapter “Enjoy working with us” of ­discrimination Ensure inclusive and equitable quality G4-EC5 / on page 70. in ­respect of ­education and promote lifelong learning G4-EC6 / ­employment and opportunities for all / Employee training G4-LA1 / ­ EC5 (Ratios of entry level wage by gender): occupation. and education G4-LA3 / This does not apply to NOVOMATIC, as the ­­G4-LA9 / salary schemes at NOVOMATIC do not make Achieve gender equality and empower all G4-LA11 / a distinction by gender. women and girls / Equal remuneration for G4-LA12 / women and men G4-LA13 / EC6 (Proportion of management hired locally): G4-HR3 This also does not apply to NOVOMATIC, Achieve gender equality and empower all as we do not recruit by origin, but rather women and girls / Gender equality by qualification. Achieve gender equality and empower all LA1 (Staff turnover rate): Is shown in chapter women and girls / Non-discrimination „Enjoy working with us“ at page 70. Achieve gender equality and empower all LA3 (Return to work and retention rates after women and girls / Parental leave parental leave, by gender): Is not disclosed in this report, as this data is only available for Austria, Achieve gender equality and empower all but not for Germany and Italy. women and girls / Women in leadership LA9 (Average hours of training per year per Promote sustained, inclusive and ­sustainable ­employee): Is mentioned in chapter „Enjoy economic growth, full and productive ­working with us“ at page 70. ­employment and decent work / Diversity and equal opportunity LA11 (regular performance and career ­development reviews): In the year 2016, the Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable instrument of employee career talks has been economic growth, full and productive employfurther developed and will be enforced in the ment and decent work / Employee training future. and education LA12 (Composition of the governance bodies): Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable With regard to the CR Committee of the Supereconomic growth, full and productive employvisory Board at NOVOMATIC AG, the according ment and decent work / Employment ­information is provided on page 41 of this report; further information is provided in NOVOMATIC’s annual report for the fiscal year 2016. III NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 UN Global Compact Sustainable Global Communication on Progress (COP) NOVOMATIC Development Goals Reporting Initiative (G4) www.unglobalcomsustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs www.globalreDetailed definition in the GRI index. pact.org porting.org Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable LA13 (Ratio of salary of women and men): economic growth, full and productive employCannot be disclosed for NOVOMATIC, as salary ment and decent work / Equal remuneration schemes do not differentiate by gender. This for women and men would also be a clear contradiction to our ­internal Anti-Discrimination Policy (COP). Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employHR3 (Number of discrimination incidents): ment and decent work / Non-discrimination ­Accordingly, can also not be reported. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work / Parental leave Reduce inequality within and among countries / Equal remuneration for women and men Environment: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being GRI Indicators EC2 (Financial implications and other risks ­Businesses should for all at all ages / Air quality due to climate change): The respective risks support a precauG4-EC2 / and opportunities are managed by the tionary approach Ensure availability and sustainable G4-EN1 / NOVOMATIC AG risk management if relevant. to environmental ­management of water and sanitation for all / G4-EN3 / challenges. ­Sustainable water withdrawals G4-EN8 / EN1 (Materials used): This indicator cannot G4-EN15 / be disclosed for business reasons. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable G4-EN16 / economic growth, full and productive employG4-EN17 / EN3 (Energy use): Is reported on page 81 for the RESPON SIBILITY ment and decent work / Energy efficiency G4-EN20 / locations in Austria, Germany and Italy (COP). G4-EN21 / Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable G4-EN27 / EN15 (greenhouse gas emissions): These were economic growth, full and productive employGE-EN31 reported for the first time in 2015 with regard ment and decent work / Material efficiency to the Gumpoldskirchen location, using the example of CO2 emissions due to air travel. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive Information can be found on page 81 in this and sustainable industrialization and foster report. (COP) innovation / Environmental investments EN16, EN17, EN20, EN21 are not reported due Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive to lack of data. and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation / Research and development EN27 (Results of mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services): Activities are described on page 84–85 in this report. EN31 (Environmental expenditures and investments): Is not disclosed for business reasons. Environment: Ensure availability and sustainable GRI Indicators COP The field of action “Going Green” Businesses should ­management of water and sanitation for all / was c­ onsciously given this name in order undertake initiatives Sustainable water withdrawals G4-EN1 / to ­communicate the underlying strategic to promote greater G4-EN2 / ­Management Approach to outside parties. environmental Ensure availability and sustainable G4-EN3 / responsibility. ­management of water and sanitation for all / G4-EN4 / NOVOMATIC’s declared goal is to firmly embed Water efficiency G4-EN5 / Group-wide internal standards in this area G4-EN6 / of action which provide for certain minimum Ensure availability and sustainable ­management G4-EN7 / requirements, e.g. the implementation of a Group of water and sanitation for all / Water-related G4-EN8 / Environmental Policy. In addition to this, a CR softecosystems and biodiversity G4-EN9 / ware is intended to provide support for an active G4-EN10 / international control of Environmental ManageEnsure availability and sustainable management G4-EN11 / ment at N­ OVOMATIC. of water and sanitation for all / Water quality G4-EN12 / G4-EN13 / N.B.: in order to avoid overlaps and repetitions, Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable G4-EN14 / we are not repeating our references to the and modern energy for all / Energy efficiency G4-EN15 – ­individual GRI indicators at this point. G4-EN21 / Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable G4-EN22 – and modern energy for all / Renewable energy G4-EN28 IV NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 UN Global Compact Sustainable Global Communication on Progress (COP) NOVOMATIC Development Goals Reporting Initiative (G4) www.unglobalcomsustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs www.globalreDetailed definition in the GRI index. pact.org porting.org Environment: GRI Indicators EN29 (Monetary value of fines due to non compliance ­Businesses should with environmental laws): In 2016 there have been no undertake initiatives G4-EN29 / lawsuits in this regard against NOVOMATIC AG. to promote ­greater G4-EN30 / environmental G4-EN31/ EN30 (environmental impacts of transporting products ­responsibility. G4-EN32 / and other goods): Cannot be provided due to a lack of G4-EN33 / according data for 2016. G4-EN34 EN31 (Environmental protection expenditures): Is not disclosed for business reasons. EN32 (New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria) and EN33 (Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain): We completed our first analysis of the top suppliers at the Gumpoldskirchen location, which included an evaluation of environmental risks. Further information on this topic is provided on page 67 of this report (COP). EN34 (Grievances about environmental impacts): ­NOVOMATIC can report zero incidents for the ­reporting period and the mentioned reporting scope. Environment: GRI Indicators N.B.: in order to avoid overlaps and repetitions, ­Businesses should we are not repeating our references to the encourage the develG4-EN6 / ­individual GRI indicators at this point. opment and diffusion G4-EN7 / of environmentally G4-EN19 / friendly technologies. G4-EN27 / G4-EN31 Anti-corruption: GRI Indicators G4-56 (Values, principles and norms of ­Businesses should ­behaviour): We refer to our Corporate ­Values work against G4-56 / and principles throughout this report, in addition ­corruption in all its G4-SO3 / to the Code of Conduct as well as our CR policy. forms, including G4-SO4 / ­extortion and bribery. G4-SO5 / SO3 (Operations assessed for risks related to G4-SO6 corruption): No detailed information is provided for this indicator for business reasons. We can merely provide assurance that compliance risks are naturally taken into consideration within our internal Risk Management System. SO4 (Communication and training on Anti-corruption Policies and procedures) and SO5 ­(incidents of corruption): Further information on this topic is provided on page 63 of this report. SO6 (Value of political contributions): Is not disclosed for business reasons. You find the details to the GRI indicators in the following GRI content index. V NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 GRI-Index GRI-Index Description GRI Additional information GRI Page External CommonaliCommonCore reference audit ties with alities CR Report review UN Global with OECD 2016 Compact Guidelines General standard information Statement by the most senior decision-maker Strategy G4-1 of the organization regarding sustainability Statement of the CEO of NOVOMATIC AG. Page 17 management. and Analysis Description of key impacts, risks, G4-2 and opportunities. Covered via the five CR fields of action. Pages 20-35 G4-3 Name of the organization. NOVOMATIC AG Pages ­ G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. 20-35 Wiener Strasse 158, 2352 Gumpoldskirchen, G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters. Austria Number of countries where G4-6 the company operates. Pages 10-11 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Page 2 Markets served (including geographic G4-8 ­breakdown, sectors served, and types Pages 10-11 of customers and beneficiaries). Scale of the organization, including total RESPON SIBILITY The amount of products or services delivered G4-9 number of employees, business locations, is not disclosed in the annual report. Pages 6-7 sales revenues, total capitalization. Total number of employees by employment Organizacontract and gender; total number of tional permanent employees by employment type The number of employees by gender and Profile and gender; total workforce by employees employment contract as well as by region is G4-10 and supervised workers and by gender; total presented for Austria in the chapter “Enjoy Page 70 X X workforce by region and gender; activities working with us”. performed by self-employed workers; variations in employment numbers. In countries in which there are corresponding Percentage of total employees covered G4-11 by collective bargaining agreements. provisions for collective bargaining, these also apply to the work contracts. G4-12 The organization’s supply chain. Page 67 Significant changes during the reporting G4-13 ­period regarding the organization’s size, Pages 8-9 structure, ownership. The Precautionary Approach is shown G4-14 Consideration of the Precautionary Approach. separately for the individual fields of action. Externally developed economic, UN Global Compact Principles, Sustainable G4-15 environmental and social charters Development Goals, GRI Standards, OECD Page 49 endorsed by the organization. Guidelines G4-16 Memberships in associations. Page 45 All entities included in the consolidated financial statements / specification of G4-17 companies that are not within the scope Page 2 of consolidation. Development Materiality Matrix. Process for defining the report G4-18 content and the aspect boundaries. The definition of the materiality of individual aspects is described in the individual reporting scope per chapter. Identified material G4-19 List of all material aspects. Page 47 aspects and Aspect boundary within the organization; See description of the material boundaries G4-20 specific limitations. aspects below in this overview. Aspect boundary outside of the organization; See description of the material G4-21 specific limitations. aspects below in this overview. Effect of restatements of information provided G4-22 in previous reports, as well as the reasons for Page 47 such restatements. Significant changes in the scope Increase of scope of content G4-23 and aspect boundaries. and data is seen in report scope. Page 42 VI NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 GRI-­ Description GRI Additional information GRI Page External CommonaliCommonIndex reference audit ties with alities CR Report review UN Global with OECD Core 2016 Compact Guidelines List of stakeholder groups G4-24 engaged by the organization. Page 43 Basis for identification and Stakeholder G4-25 selection of stakeholders. Page 43 Engagement Organization’s approach to stakeholder Our internal stakeholders were actively G4-26 engagement, frequency of engagement. involved in the preparation of this CR report. Page 43 Key topics and concerns that have been raised G4-27 through stakeholder engagement. How the Page 47 organization responded. Corresponds to NOVOMATIC AG’s G4-28 Reporting period. financial year; January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016. NOVOMATIC publishes a CR report annually. It is published together with the annual G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. report for the corresponding period. Date of the last CR report: April 29, 2016. Report G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual. Profile The responsibility lies with the Head of Contact point for questions Group-CR & Sustainability. G4-31 regarding the report or its contents. E-Mail: CR@novomatic.com Phone: +43 2252 606 0 Core. G4-32 “In accordance” option. GRI-Index version 4. For the report period no external G4-33 Practice regarding external audit. verification has been conducted. Since the end of 2014, NOVOMATIC has Governance structure, committees G4-34 of the highest governance body. had a special Supervisory Board committee Page 41 dedicated to CR and ethics issues. Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the G4-35 highest governance body to senior executives In CR Governance explained. Pages 41-42 and other employees. Corporate The organizations appointed executive-level Governposition or positions with responsibility for ance G4-36 economic, environmental and social topics, The Head of Group-CR & Sustainability. and if post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Composition of the highest G4-38 governance body and its committees. In CR Governance explained. Pages 41-42 Report if chair of the highest governance Head of Group-CR & Sustainability G4-39 body is also an executive officer. reports to CEO. We refer to our Corporate Values and Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles and norms of behavior ­principles throughout this report, in particular Pages 38-40 in the section on CR management. VII NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 GRIDescription GRI Additional information GRI Page External CommonaliCommonIndex reference audit ties with alities CR Report review UN Global with OECD Core 2016 Compact Guidelines Industry-related general standard information Required if available for the industry. Not available for NOVOMATIC’s industry. Specific standard information ManageThe Management Approaches for our ment five fields of action were presented in the Approach introductions of the individual chapters. Direct economic value EVG is not a key aspect, but we c­ ommunicate G4-EC1 generated and distributed. respective data at the beginning of the report. X Category: Economic Indirect economic impacts are highlighted via Type and scope of significant indirect G4-EC8 economic impacts. the economic value generated information at the beginning of the report. Proportion of spending on local suppliers This information is also included in the G4-EC9 at significant locations of operation. economic value generated at the beginning Page 67 of the report. Is relevant as NOVOMATIC has a high volume G4-EN1 Materials used by weight and volume. of inhouse production. Data can not be X X shown due to competiveness reasons. Is relevant as NOVOMATIC has a high volume Percentage of materials used G4-EN2 that are recycled input materials. of inhouse production. Data can not be X X shown due to competiveness reasons. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. Page 81 X X G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. Pages 83-84 X X Reduction of energy requirements G4-EN7 of products and services. Pages 83-87 X X Category: G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Page 82 X X RESPON SIBILITY Environmental Emission of hazardous substances, G4-EN15 in particular GHG. Pages 83-84 X X Total weight of waste G4-EN23 by type and disposal method. Page 81 X X Extend of impact mitigation of environmental G4-EN27 impacts of products and services. Pages 85-85 X X Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and G4-EN30 materials for the organization’s operations, Air travel shown. Pages 82-83 and transporting members of the workforce. Percentage of new suppliers that were Three quarters of all suppliers at location G4-EN32 screened using environmental criteria. Gumpoldskrichen are screened. Page 87 VIII NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 GRI-­ Description GRI Additional information GRI Page External CommonaliCommonIndex reference audit ties with alities CR Report review UN Global with OECD Core 2016 Compact Guidelines Total number and rates of new employee hires G4-LA1 and employee turnover by age group, gender Page 70 X X and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that Benefits are available for all G4-LA2 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees ­without discrimination. X X employees. Return to work and retention rates The total number of staff returning to G4-LA3 after parental leave, by gender. work is not compiled thus not shown. X X Minimum notice periods regarding operational As we do not have a workers union in G4-LA4 changes, including wheter these are specified ­Gumpoldskirchen, we are not able to X in collective agreements. show this information for 2016. Percentage of total workforce represented As we do not have a workers union in Category: in formal joint management-worker health ­Gumpoldskirchen, we are not able to Social labor G4-LA5 and safety committees that help monitor show this information. X and advise on occupational health and Health and safety is managed in our practices safety programs. ­integrated management programm. and decent employAverage hours of training per year per ment G4-LA9 ­employee by gender, and by employee No breakdown by gender currently possible. Page 70 X category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued G4-LA10 employability of employees and assist them Page 76 X in managing career endings. Composition of governance bodies and ­breakdown of employees per employee G4-LA12 ­category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other This information is shown if available Page 70 ­indicators of diversity. for the CR core countries in the report. Evaluation of suppliers Three quarters of all suppliers at location G4-LA14 based on labor practices. Gumpoldskrichen are screened. Page 67 Total hours of employee training on human According to the report scope trainings rights policies or procedures concerning related to the Code of Conduct can be G4-HR2 aspects of human rights that are relevant pointed to, as the CoC takes human rights to operations, including the percentage of into account. employees trained. Operations and suppliers identified in which According to the report scope in Austria the right to exercise freedom of association no such incidents have occured in 2016. G4-HR4 and collective bargaining may be violated or All employment contracts in Austria are X X at significant risk, and measures to support in a­ ccordance with Austrian collective these rights. ­bargaining regulations. Evaluation of suppliers Three quarters of all suppliers at G4-HR10 regarding human rights. location Gumpoldskrichen are screened. Page 67 Total number and percentage of operations According to the report scope referal G4-SO3 assessed for risks related to corruption and to the Compliance management. Pages 62-63 X X the significant risks identified. Communication and training on According to the report scope referal G4-SO4 Anti-Corruption Policies and procedures. to the Compliance management. Page 63 X X According to the report scope referal to the Confirmed incidents of corruption G4-SO5 and actions taken. Compliance management. In 2016 no such X X cases have been reported. Evaluation of suppliers Three quarters of all suppliers at G4-SO9 regarding social impact. location Gumpoldskrichen are screened. Page 67 IX NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 GRI-­ Description GRI Additional information GRI Page External CommonaliCommonIndex reference audit ties with alities CR Report review UN Global with OECD Core 2016 Compact Guidelines The GRI indicators on product health have limited applicability to NOVOMATIC’s specific range of services. All products and services are subject to legal Percentage of significant product and ­ requirements regarding the fulfillment of G4-PR1 service categories for which health and information duties (graded by service and X safety impacts are assessed or improved. product). All products and services are subject to legal ­G4-PR3 requirements regarding the fulfillment of Product and service labeling; – surveys on customer satisfaction. information duties (graded by service and Page 67 product). This information and labeling ­G4-PR5 requirement is fulfilled without exception. The offer of gaming services is subject to controversial public debates, particularly in the German-speaking area. NOVOMATIC deals intensively with the questions of these discussions and takes an active part in the discourse. NOVOMATIC adheres to all sales ­G4-PR6 restrictions and consequently sells its products Sale of banned or disputed products; (gambling equipment) exclusively to licensed – violation of advertising regulations. customers. In addition, the offer of slot Page 59 ­G4-PR7 machine games in Austria is subject to certain restrictions, which are strictly observed. NOVOMATIC limits itself in the approach of its customers by means of Responsible ­Marketing, since the specifications of the Austrian legislator leave room in this regard. NOVOMATIC ensures strict observance of Data Protection regulations, a Data Protection officer continuously reviews the existing Total number of substantiated complaints processes and is the first point of contact in G4-PR8 regarding breaches of Customer Privacy and case of grievances. In particular in the area of Page 63 losses of customer data. sports betting and machine gaming in Austria, Data Protection is seen as an important issue. In 2016, no grievances were reported, neither RESPON SIBILITY by individuals nor by the authorities. X N OVO MATI C CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 96 Management Report on the Individual and Consolidated Financial Statements 128 Consolidated Financial Statements 132 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 209 Statement by the Board of Directors 210 Auditor’s Report NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Management Report on the 2016 Individual Financial Statement and Consolidated Financial Statement, NOVOMATIC AG, Gumpoldskirchen 1. Purpose of the Business and Strategy NOVOMATIC1 is a globally operating, integrated gaming technology and entertainment group with more than 35 years of experience as a producer of innovative high-tech gaming equipment. The Group develops, manufactures and sells gaming products, lottery technologies and networked system solutions for domestic and international gaming and betting markets. NOVOMATIC furthermore operates more than 1,700 gaming facilities worldwide, which include casinos, automated casinos, bingo facilities and sports betting outlets. In addition to developing gaming equipment, the NOVOMATIC Group has established itself as a game content provider for licensed online and offline providers and as an operator of online gaming platforms. The NOVOMATIC Group is aware of its considerable social responsibility and pursues business activities only in markets with a clearly defined legal framework. NOVOMATIC’s dual strategy as a manufacturer of state-of-the-art gaming equipment as well as an operator of gaming facilities has contributed considerably to the company’s success since its establishment. With this integrated approach, the Group is able to introduce newly developed products into the marketplace very quickly, gain insights into their potential success and subsequently influence the development of new products in a goal-oriented manner. 2. Economic Conditions Macroeconomic Development In 2016, the global economy achieved a moderate increase in gross domestic product (GDP). In its latest analysis, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) assumes a growth rate of 3.1 percent2. As a result, the global economy experienced a moderate growth momentum similar to that already seen in preceding years. The economic growth of industrialized countries was negatively impacted by weak overall demand, particularly for investment goods. The high degree of political and economic uncertainty played a major role and was intensified, among other things, by the United Kingdom’s vote to leave the European Union. After five years of declining growth rates, the emerging market economies were able to stabilize in 2016. According to an analysis by the IMF, GDP growth in these markets was at 4.1 percent. Although the business climate was disappointing, commodity prices saw a clear recovery, above all crude oil, which benefited commodity-exporting emerging countries. The Chinese economy continued its transition to a growth model focusing more on consumption and its domestic market. The associated negative effects on the economy are being largely offset by an expansive monetary and fiscal policy. The pace of China’s economic growth was marginally slower than in the preceding year, at 6.7 percent. 1) In this management report, the terms “NOVOMATIC”, “Group” and “NOVOMATIC Group” refer to the group of consolidated companies included in the consolidated financial statement for NOVOMATIC AG 2) According to the World Economic Outlook provided by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) 96 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Overall, growth in the leading group of industrialized nations slowed to 1.6 percent in 2016. The United States contributed significantly to this development, with a 1.6 percent increase in GDP (after 2.6 percent in 2015). Lower investment activity and weaker exports due to the stronger US dollar can be cited as reasons for this. Yields began to rise substantially in the United States after the presidential election on the back of speculation about extensive debt-financed state spending programs in the future, which caused the US dollar to appreciate further compared to other currencies. The “Brexit” referendum held in the United Kingdom in June 2016, which ended in a surprising vote to exit the European Union, has caused significant volatility in the international financial markets. The resulting uncertainty following this decision led to a weakening of economic growth in the European Union, with the economic projection for GDP growth in the United Kingdom being significantly revised downwards to 0.9 percent in 2016. Economic growth in the European Monetary Union was 1.7 percent, higher than in the United States for the first time since 2008. The European Central Bank (ECB) continued its expanded bond purchasing program in 2016 while keeping its base rates low. This resulted in an easing of credit supply conditions and had a positive effect on credit volumes. However, risks emerged once again in the European banking system (particularly in Italy), which prevented a more positive trend in the euro zone. In its current forecast for the domestic economy, the Austrian Institute of Economic Research (WIFO) projects GDP growth of 1.7 percent for 2016, after a weak phase of several years with growth rates below 1 percent. Although the experts of the WIFO see no noteworthy signs of economic recovery, consumer spending at both private and public levels is increasing as a result of special factors, thus supporting overall economic growth. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Development of the Gaming Market After a reduction in global gaming expenditures in 2015, for which the gaming metropolis Macau was largely responsible, the global gaming market saw strong growth again in 2016. According to a study3 carried out by Global Betting and Gaming Consultants (GBGC), worldwide gross gaming revenues came in at USD 451 billion in the year under review. This corresponds to an increase of 8.0 percent and also represents a new high. The majority of gains were seen in the lottery sector, as well as the market for gaming machines outside of casinos (for instance in electronic casinos or bars). Worldwide gaming revenues 3 in billion USD (source: GBGC) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 0 100 200 300 400 500 Asia/Middle East/Oceania Latin America Europe/Africa North America In particular since the gaming monopoly in Macau was overturned in 2002, the Asia-Pacific region has grown to become the most important gaming market worldwide. 2015 saw a marked decline in gaming revenues, triggered by a campaign on the Chinese mainland to fight corruption and money laundering, in addition to a slowdown in the Chinese economy. The result was that gross gaming revenues of the casinos operated in Macau collapsed by 34.3 percent in 2015. However, in the second half of the year under review, there was a change in fortunes, and revenues rose again for the first time in over two years. Compared to the other three large markets (Asia-Oceania, North America and Europe), the gaming markets in Latin America and the Caribbean are less significant. Currently, however, this region is achieving the strongest growth momentum worldwide, with an average annual growth rate of 5.1 percent. Compared to 2015, gaming revenues increased again, with the lottery sector seeing particularly impressive growth at 11.6 percent. The North American gaming market grew by 4.2 percent in 2016. The casino sector (including the so-called tribal casinos that are operated by Native Americans) is the largest segment of the North American gaming industry with a share of 56.6 percent and again saw modest growth in the year under review. However, the strongest growth rates were seen in the lottery segment (+7.9 percent) and gaming machines outside of casinos (+7.3 percent). Following the global financial crisis, gaming expenditures around the world fell, with the European gaming market hit particularly hard. In 2016, gross gaming revenues surpassed the level in the crisis year of 2008 for the first time, with the combined Europe/ Africa gaming market generating revenues of USD 136.6 billion during the year under review. With a share of 34.3 percent, lottery 3) Estimates taken from the Global Gaming Report by GBGC 98 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 companies, which to a large extent are government-controlled, constitute the most important sector of the European gaming industry, followed by the area of gaming machines outside of casinos (video lottery terminals, fixed odds betting terminals and classic AWP4 devices). According to a study carried out by GBGC, the European gaming market is growing at an annual rate of 2.7 percent, with the strongest growth rates coming from the area of betting (in particular sports betting). According to a study carried out by GBGC, global online gaming revenues increased to USD 45.3 billion in 2016, compared to USD 43.4 billion in the previous year. High growth rates were achieved in this area in previous years, meaning that the share of global gaming revenues coming from online gaming rose steadily. This trend, however, has been showing signs of stabilizing since 2015 at a level of around 10 percent. While the areas of online casinos and online betting continued to demonstrate growth, the area of online poker is showing a downward trend. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4) Amusement with prizes 99 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 3. Business Performance Significant Events during the Reporting Period For NOVOMATIC, 2016 was again a very eventful year with positive business development. Through organic and acquisition-driven growth, revenues reached an all-time high of EUR 2,294.1 million. While the challenging regulatory framework conditions in individual jurisdictions (such as Germany) meant that earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) came in below the previous year’s level, the Group was still able to achieve one of the best results in the company’s history. The number of companies included in the scope of consolidation once more underscores the NOVOMATIC Group’s growth dynamics. The number of fully consolidated companies increased from 188 (as of December 31, 2015) to 217 by the end of 2016. Acquisitions and Disposals of Interests in Companies On the one hand, the objective of acquisitions is to achieve or solidify a market-leading position in existing markets. On the other hand, acquisitions support the pursuit of NOVOMATIC’s strategy to develop new markets so as to achieve further diversification for the Group and thus create the basis for sustainable future growth. In 2015, NOVOMATIC acquired an indirect share of around 23.1 percent in Österreichische Lotterien GmbH (ÖLG), a company that is majority owned by Casinos Austria Aktiengesellschaft (CASAG). Casinos Austria Aktiengesellschaft and its subsidiaries are an internationally renowned gaming group focused on running national and international casinos. ÖLG, in turn, holds the only concession that permits the operation of classic lotteries, online gaming and video lottery terminals in Austria. Also in 2015, NOVOMATIC concluded further purchase agreements for the acquisition of direct and indirect interests in CASAG, which needed the approval of the Austrian Federal Competition Authority (BWB). In February 2016, the BWB submitted an audit request to the Austrian anti-trust court, which, in its ruling, refused to allow NOVOMATIC to acquire an interest that amounted to a shareholding of over 25 percent. This decision was, after NOVOMATIC AG appealed, ultimately upheld by the Supreme Court (OGH) in January 2017. It was, therefore, not possible to complete individual purchase agreements to acquire direct and indirect shares in CASAG. Furthermore, NOVOMATIC AG had to reduce its indirect interest in ÖLG to less than 25 percent and, in December 2016, sold shares amounting to 11.56 percent to a Czech group of companies to enable the closing of the stated 17.19 percent in CASAG. In February 2016, NOVOMATIC entered into a purchase agreement with Len Ainsworth regarding the acquisition of approximately 53 percent of the shares of Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd. (Ainsworth). Ainsworth is a publicly traded company listed in Australia and headquartered in Newington, Sydney. The company is one of the most renowned players in the international gaming industry. The company is a leading producer and provider of high-quality, innovative gaming solutions in Australasia as well as North and South America. Due to suspensive conditions, in particular, the required formal approvals by various international licensing and regulatory authorities, the closing of this transaction is not expected until the third quarter of 2017 at the earliest. The agreed purchase price is AUD 473.3 million. In June 2016, NOVOMATIC UK Ltd., a company of the NOVOMATIC Group, acquired 100 percent of the shares in Talarius Ltd. (Talarius) and its associated subsidiaries. The Talarius Group operates 7,500 gaming terminals in 162 gaming facilities in the United Kingdom. By concluding this transaction, NOVOMATIC continues its expansion strategy and is now the largest operator of gaming facilities in the sector of so-called “Adult Gaming Centers” in the UK. The agreed purchase price was GBP 102.5 million. During the financial year 2016, several smaller operators of gaming facilities in Germany, Italy and Spain were acquired, especially with the business purpose of operating gaming halls, bars and bingo. With these acquisitions, the Group is enhancing its market position in some of Europe’s most important core markets. 100 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Concessions and Other Important Events In June 2014, the Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) granted licenses for the operation of casinos according to § 21 of the Austrian Gaming Act. Because of a complaint brought forward by a competitor, the individual concessions granted to ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment AG (ACE) for the locations Vienna North-East (Prater) and Lower Austria (Bruck an der Leitha) were revoked by the Federal Administrative Court in July 2015. Both NOVOMATIC and the Federal Ministry of Finance filed an appeal against the verdict with the Highest Administrative Court (VwGH). With two findings from June 2016, the VwGH confirmed the decisions of the Federal Administrative Court and dismissed the appeals. NOVOMATIC has no knowledge of whether, when and to what extent the legally intended and still outstanding casino concessions will be re-tendered, as this will be decided by the Federal Ministry of Finance. Regarding the repeal of licenses for state-licensed gaming in Lower Austria and Burgenland by the Highest Administrative Court (VwGH), the gaming license for 1,339 gaming machines in Lower Austria was issued again to ACE in December 2016, after continued proceedings. This notice was then contested through complaints by three competitors. A decision by the Lower Austrian Provincial Administrative Court is expected in the second quarter of 2017. Continued operations are guaranteed until November 2017, due to the statutory duty to continue operations and a declaratory notice. The continued operation of the 110 approved gaming machines in Burgenland is guaranteed until June 2017, and a decision concerning the ongoing selection procedure is still pending. In respect of the legal discussions going on for several years as to whether the Austrian Gaming Act and the corresponding CONSOLIDATED provisions are consistent with EU law, the three highest courts in Austria have all confirmed conformity with EU law. In September 2016, NOVOMATIC carried out the largest capital market financing in its corporate history with the issuance of a bond with a total volume of EUR 500.0 million (benchmark bond). It was issued as part of a EUR 2,000.0 million issuance program of FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOVOMATIC AG, which was given the investment grade rating of BBB (stable outlook) by the international rating agency Standard & Poor’s. The funds raised were aimed at optimizing the financing structure and for future acquisitions. In April 2016, Gryphon Invest AG increased its interest in NOVOMATIC AG from 8 percent to around 10 percent. In the context of this transaction, NOVOMATIC AG increased its share capital by EUR 0.6 million, while the tied up capital reserve increased by EUR 84.4 million. 101 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Financial Statement for NOVOMATIC NOVOMATIC AG’s consolidated financial statement has been prepared according to the reporting and measurement methods stipulated by the IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards). INCOME STATEMENT Condensed Version with Selected Positions in million EUR 2016 2015 Difference in % Revenues 2,294.1 2,086.3 10.0 % Gaming taxes and betting fees -238.3 -191,4 24.5 % Revenues after deduction of gaming taxes and betting fees 2,055.9 1,894.9 8.5 % Other operating income 324.6 280.4 15.8 % Cost of material and other purchased services -358.6 -282.8 26.8 % Personnel costs -676.8 -567.8 19.2 % Total other operating expenses -756.7 -707.9 6.9 % EBITDA 588.5 616.7 -4.6 % EBITDA margin in % 25.7 % 29.6 % -13.2 % Depreciation and amortization -324.4 -301.3 7.7 % EBIT (= operating profit) 264.1 315.4 -16.3 % EBIT margin in % 11.5 % 15.1 % -23.9 % Financial result -34.7 -7.0 399.6 % Earnings before taxes 229.4 308.5 -25.6 % Annual profit 154.4 212.7 -27.4 % Earnings Position Through organic and acquisition-driven growth, revenues reached an all-time high of EUR 2,294.1 million during the financial year 2016. This is an increase of 10.0 percent over the previous year. The largest absolute increase was achieved in the area of gaming machine revenues, which rose by EUR 126.7 million to EUR 1,028.9 million. Apart from the successful acquisition of Talarius in the United Kingdom completed in 2016, the established companies in Italy and Germany as well as the recently acquired companies in the German, Italian and Spanish markets, also contributed to this positive development. Significant revenue growth was also achieved with betting revenues, which increased by EUR 35.9 million, as well as with sales revenues, which came in EUR 32.2 million higher than the previous year. Rental revenues also saw a slight increase. Compared to previous periods, e-commerce revenues did not increase as a company that was active in this area was sold as of the end of 2015 and no longer made a contribution to revenues in the year under review. Gaming taxes and betting fees, which depend largely on revenue, increased in 2016 to EUR 238.3 million, compared to EUR 191.4 million in the previous year. Linked to the higher sales revenues and increased capitalized own work, regarding gaming machines produced in-house, material costs increased by EUR 75.7 million against the previous year. The changes in inventory of finished and unfinished goods increased by EUR 12.9 million against the previous year. 102 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The increase in personnel expenses to EUR 676.8 million is due to the expansion during the years 2015 and 2016. The greatest changes were recorded in Great Britain, Germany and Italy. In terms of other operating expenses, there was an increase to EUR 756.7 million in 2016 (up EUR 48.7 million). The increase was mainly related to the expansion of business activities. The largest increase in absolute figures can be found in the position for rental, lease and operating expenses (up EUR 20.9 million). Depreciation and amortization across the Group increased by EUR 23.1 million to EUR 324.4 million. These increases are largely due to acquisitions, mainly stemming from the markets in Spain and Great Britain. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) declined by 4.6 percent against the previous year to EUR 588.5 million. This corresponds to an EBITDA margin of 25.7 percent, compared to 29.6 percent in 2015. Operating profit (EBIT) came in at EUR 264.1 million, down from EUR 315.4 million in the previous year. EBITDA and EBIT constitute key performance indicators that are not defined in the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). They serve as a way for the management of NOVOMATIC to measure and control the Group’s economic success and profitability. At NOVOMATIC, the EBIT key performance indicator refers to the operating profit as presented in the consolidated income statement. The EBITDA key performance indicator is calculated by taking the operating profit (EBIT) and adjusting it for the depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment. The EBITDA margin and EBIT margin constitute key performance indicators that are also not defined in the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These key CONSOLIDATED performance indicators represent the ratio of EBITDA or EBIT to revenues and serve as a way for the management of NOVOMATIC to measure and control the Group’s profitability. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Development of Revenues/EBITDA/EBIT 2016 (in million EUR) 2015 2,500.0 2,294.1 2,086.3 2,000.0 1,500.0 1,000.0 588.5 616.7 500.0 315.4 264.1 0.0 Revenues EBITDA EBIT At EUR -34.7 million, the financial result came in below the previous year’s level of EUR -7.0 million. Lower income from financial assets and currency translation losses from Group-internal financing are cited as the main reason for this decline. After consideration of tax expenses amounting to EUR 75.0 million, the Group was left with an annual profit of EUR 154.4 million for 2016. 103 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Assets Position The balance sheet total rose by EUR 685.1 million compared to the December 31, 2015, figure, amounting to EUR 3,668.2 million as of December 31, 2016. In terms of non-current assets, intangible assets increased by EUR 204.6 million to EUR 702.8 million. The increase was mainly related to licenses and concessions (up EUR 120.5 million) and is in large part due to the newly acquired companies in the United Kingdom (Talarius) and Italy (several smaller companies). A further cause behind the change is the rise in goodwill (up EUR 76.5 million), resulting from the recently acquired companies in the markets of the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, and Germany. Property, plant and equipment increased from EUR 856.9 million in the previous year to EUR 955.1 million. The largest difference is found in the position for equipment (in particular gaming devices and betting terminals), with both company acquisitions and investments by established companies having contributed to this rise. Financial assets, mainly comprising minority investments in Austrian gaming companies, increased from EUR 204.1 million to EUR 237.8 million in the year under review. Starting in June 2015, NOVOMATIC carried out a series of purchase transactions resulting in an indirect total investment of around 23.1 percent in Österreichische Lotterien GmbH (ÖLG). ÖLG is a company that is majority owned by Casinos Austria Aktiengesellschaft (CASAG). In December 2016, NOVOMATIC purchased 17.19 percent of the shares in CASAG, meaning that the number of shares held indirectly by NOVOMATIC in ÖLG would exceed the threshold of 25 percent. Due to anti-trust regulations, NOVOMATIC AG had to reduce its indirect interest in ÖLG to less than 25 percent and, in December 2016, sold shares amounting to 11.56 percent to a Czech group of companies to enable the closing of the stated 17.19 percent in CASAG. Current assets increased significantly by EUR 341.7 million to EUR 1,541.1 million during 2016. While the value of trade receivables increased only slightly against the previous year, inventories rose significantly by 17.5 percent to EUR 225.5 million. Another major change regarding current assets was in relation to cash and cash equivalents. Compared to the previous year, cash and cash equivalents increased by EUR 292.4 million to EUR 877.8 million. This was mainly caused by the issuance of a bond with a total volume of EUR 500.0 million (benchmark bond) in September 2016. BALANCE SHEET Condensed Version in million EUR 2016 2015 Difference in % Assets Non-current assets 2,127.1 1,783.7 19.3 % Current assets 1,541.1 1,199.5 28.5 % Balance sheet total 3,668.2 2,983.2 23.0 % Liabilities and shareholders' equity Equity 1,371.6 1,215.3 12.9 % Non-current liabilities and provisions 1,582.3 1,204.8 31.3 % Current liabilities and provisions 714.4 563.1 26.9 % Balance sheet total 3,668.2 2,983.2 23.0 % During the reporting period, equity capital rose by EUR 156.3 million to EUR 1,371.6 million, of which EUR 62.5 million consisted of other shareholders’ shares. In the course of a capital increase, the company’s share capital increased slightly from EUR 26.0 million to EUR 26.6 million. Due to the capital increase, there was a significant increase of EUR 84.4 million in capital reserves to EUR 85.4 million. In addition to this, equity capital is comprised of retained earnings (amounting to EUR 1,245.6 million), the revaluation reserve as per IAS 39 (amounting to EUR 5.2 million) and the currency translation adjustment (amounting to EUR -53.8 million). 104 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The rise in non-current liabilities is almost exclusively due to the non-current financial liabilities. These increased by EUR 351.4 million to EUR 1,395.1 million during the financial year. This was mainly caused by the issuance of a bond with a total volume of EUR 500.0 million (benchmark bond) in September 2016. The increase in current liabilities is largely attributable to the current financial liabilities, which went up by EUR 173.9 million to EUR 210.8 million. The most important reason for this change is a bond issued in 2010 with a volume of EUR 150.0 million, which was to be reported as current due to the maturity in October 2017. (Current) liabilities from other taxes, contained in other liabilities, fell substantially by EUR 72.0 million to EUR 104.9 million. Due to a legal dispute between Italian competitors and the Italian gaming authority, the competent court decided, in 2015, that all Italian concessionaires (i.e. including ADMIRAL Gaming Network S.r.l., a NOVOMATIC Group company), should not pay a part of their gaming taxes to the competent authority until the matter had been settled, but must instead deposit these amounts in a specifically designated bank account. For NOVOMATIC, this resulted in a temporary increase in tax liabilities as well as cash and cash equivalents by EUR 82.9 million in the previous year. The legal dispute came to an end in 2016, and the taxes set aside were paid to the competent authorities. Financial Situation Cashflow CONSOLIDATED Across the Group, cash flow from operating activities totaled EUR 429.2 million in 2016, compared to EUR 417.4 million in the previous year. This rise in cash flow from operating activities, despite lower operating profit in the year under review, resulted from lower payments for income taxes, and higher levels of provisions. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Due to a court order in 2015, part of the gaming taxes paid by all Italian concessionaires (i.e. including Admiral Gaming Network S.r.l., a NOVOMATIC Group company) had to be deposited in a specifically designated bank account (see chapter “Assets Position”). Due to the fact that this tax liability had already been set aside, this was already reported as a cash transaction in the previous year, thereby reducing the cash flow from operating activities in 2015. Cash flow from investment activities amounted to EUR -519.8 million in the year under review, while the same figure for 2015 amounted to EUR -439.9 million. Apart from an increase in cash outflows for investments in gaming devices produced in-house against the previous year, this significant change was in particular due to the numerous acquisitions in the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain and Germany. The cash flow from financing activities amounted to EUR 474.5 million during the reporting year, a considerable improvement over the previous year’s value of EUR -105.2 million. While the repayment of a bond that reached maturity in the previous year (volume of EUR 200.0 million) reduced the cash flow from financing activities, the issuance of a bond with a total volume of EUR 500.0 million (benchmark bond) in 2016 led to a considerable increase in cash inflow. Furthermore, lower dividend payments, along with a capital increase of EUR 85.0 million contributed to the improvement in cash flow from financing activities. The free cash flow (cash flow from operating activities plus cash flow from investing activities) for the financial year 2016 fell from EUR -22.5 million to EUR -90.6 million due to the higher level of investment. 105 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 INVESTMENTS in million EUR 2016 2015 Intangible assets 44.0 17.1 Property, plant and equipment 390.3 291.2 Total investments 434.3 308.3 Investments The Group’s investment activity (additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, excluding assets acquired through business combinations) amounted to EUR 434.3 million during the year under review, of which EUR 44.0 million was invested in intangible assets and EUR 390.3 million in property, plant and equipment. In comparison to the previous year, this corresponds to an increase in investment by EUR 126.0 million. The largest share of investments in property, plant and equipment was in gaming devices, manufactured mostly in-house, with investments of EUR 210.1 million. Investments in intangible assets made during 2016 related mainly to investments in licenses and concessions, as well as software. Selected Group Key Figures 2016 2015 Equity ratio (equity/balance sheet total) 37.4 % 40.7 % Return on equity (parent company shareholder result/equity capital) 10.8 % 17.1 % Return on assets (annual profit + interest cost)/balance sheet total 5.2 % 8.2 % Working capital (current assets current liabilities) in million EUR 826.8 636.3 Net debt (non-current financial liabilities + current financial liabilities cash and cash equivalents) in million EUR 728.1 495.2 Net debt to EBITDA (net debt/EBITDA) 1.2 0.8 Interest coverage ratio (EBIT/interest expense) 7.0 9.8 Asset coverage (equity capital/non-current assets) 64.5 % 68.1 % 4. Segment Analysis Segment Reporting Contents NOVOMATIC’s segment reporting follows the Group’s dual market strategy. The Gaming Technology segment includes the business areas related to the production and sale of gaming equipment. It also includes the sales channel “Online”, as it refers to the B2B segment. The Gaming Operations segment includes the area of “Gaming Operations”, including “Betting”, as well as the sales channel “Online”, as it refers to the B2C segment. The Other segment includes all activities not included in the Group’s core business areas. This segment mainly includes the I-New Group, as well as smaller holding companies. 106 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Gaming Technology External revenues in the Gaming Technology segment amounted to EUR 903.1 million in the year under review, representing a significant increase compared to the previous year (EUR 860.3 million). Online and Mobile Gaming (B2B) The Greentube Group, which is a part of the NOVOMATIC Group, is an internationally leading content provider of online games. Greentube offers these games to licensed operators of gaming websites, with both a fun and a cash mode. Furthermore, Greentube develops system solutions (front-end, back-end, content, service) and makes them available to licensed online gaming companies. The range on offer can be scaled as desired by the customer. During the financial year 2016, revenues of the companies falling into the Greentube Group’s B2B segment increased compared to the previous year. The online gaming market is dominated by a small number of large companies. The higher competitive pressure within the industry results in continuously slowing growth rates, while at the same time higher marketing expenses (costs per acquisition), an increased tax burden and higher structure costs, weigh on profitability. Germany The First State Treaty amending the current Interstate Gambling Treaty in Germany (Glücksspieländerungsstaatsvertrag, GlüÄndStV) CONSOLIDATED came into effect on July 1, 2012, and since the belated inclusion of Schleswig-Holstein in 2013, it has applied to all German federal states. For its implementation, a transitional period of five years was granted. The legislators’ intention regarding commercial gaming is centered mainly on a reduction of the offering of gaming possibilities and strengthening player protection. This is to be achieved mainly through the establishment of distance regulations for slot arcades, as well as a prohibition of multiple concessions (i.e. limitaFINANCIAL STATEMENTS tion to a maximum of twelve gaming machines per location). While the GlüÄndStV has been criticized by the European Commission and serious constitutional concerns exist, no major corrections to its legal provisions have been implemented so far. For supplementary provisions, the GlüÄndStV refers to the executive regulations of the individual states stipulated by state laws on gaming arcades. These individual state laws on gaming arcades vary considerably. In certain cases, there are important differences regarding limitations on opening hours, distance regulations, advertising bans and player identification requirements. In November 2014, a stricter amendment to the Gaming Ordinance was passed. This amendment includes further regulation aimed at improving the protection of players and minors, as well as preventing tax evasion and money laundering. A transitional period of four years was granted for the implementation of the Gaming Ordinance. This means the gaming machines currently installed in gaming arcades will lose their existing protecting after four years and, from November 11, 2018, only devices as per the new Gaming Ordinance may be operated. The German subsidiaries Löwen Entertainment GmbH and Crown Technologies GmbH have already been working for a while to develop attractive products that can be made available to the customers promptly upon expiration of the transitional period of the Gaming Ordinance. The impact of the new regulations is currently not entirely foreseeable. It must, however, be assumed that the total number of gaming machines operated in Germany will decline considerably after the expiration of the transitional period in 2017, although a higher capacity utilization of machines should result in a certain offsetting effect. The focus of the German Group companies in the Gaming Technology segment is in the area of gaming machine rental. In Germany, the NOVOMATIC Group has long held a share of more than 50 percent of the market for commercial gaming devices and, in 2016, was able to successfully defend this market share. In light of the stricter regulatory framework, however, the number of rented gaming machines decreased during the reporting period, which also led to a decline in revenues. In total, the German companies active in the Gaming Technology segment achieved revenues of EUR 317.5 million against EUR 344.9 million in 2015. 107 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Italy With more than 400,000 operated gaming machines, Italy is Europe’s largest gaming market. NOVOMATIC is one of the very few foreign companies that have been successful not only in establishing a presence in this highly competitive market but also in claiming a sustainable market share. In 2016, NOVOMATIC acquired 75 percent of the shares in Electro System S.p.A., a developer and manufacturer of CPUs for AWP gaming machines. This acquisition, along with the acquisition of a host of smaller companies active in the area of installing AWP machines in the food and beverage sector led to an increase in revenues in the year under review. Similarly, the existing Italian Group companies were able to increase the number of rented gaming machines and thus revenues again increased. Revenues of the companies falling into the Gaming Technology segment reached EUR 161.3 million in 2016, compared to EUR 137.9 million in the previous year. Great Britain The British gaming market is one of the largest and most developed markets in Europe. The United Kingdom was also one of the first jurisdictions to regulate online gaming, thus allowing a market to open in this area. The British market includes approximately 250,000 gaming machines, which are mostly located in pubs, licensed betting offices, gaming facilities and bingo halls. Due to the highly mature nature of the market, the potential for a further increase in the number of operated gaming machines is limited. The market is rather moving towards a state of consolidation. In particular, in the pub sector, a massive trend in the closure of pubs has been observable over the past 30 years. This has resulted in a lower number of gaming machines traditionally operated in pubs. For NOVOMATIC, Great Britain is a market of the future that, despite the difficult market environment, offers immense opportunities for the company. During the year under review, the British Group companies falling into the Gaming Technology segment achieved revenues of EUR 136.8 million, which is a considerable increase against the previous year’s figure of EUR 106.7 million. A major contribution to this positive development was delivered by Playnation Ltd., which was acquired in September 2015. Playnation is an operator of around 20,000 entertainment and gaming machines at over 1,700 locations, mainly in amusement parks, motorway service facilities, bowling alleys, pubs and airports. Spain The Spanish gaming market is one of the largest gaming markets in Europe and therefore represents an important target market for the NOVOMATIC Group. With GIGAMES S.L., NOVOMATIC owns Spain’s third-largest production and sales company for gaming machines with a strong market position, particularly related to the placement of gaming machines in bars, which is one of the core segments of the Spanish gaming industry. During the past financial year, the Spanish Group companies were again able to increase their revenues from the sale and rental of gaming machines. Revenues achieved a level of EUR 45.4 million against EUR 36.8 million in 2015. Netherlands Following a number of acquisitions of Dutch gaming companies focusing on the area of development and sales of gaming machines, the years 2015 and 2016 were marked by a consolidation of the acquired companies. A realignment of the organization enabled closer cooperation among the Group companies along with the harnessing of significant synergies. As with the British market, the Dutch market is moving more in the direction of consolidation rather than significant growth. This is evidenced by a general drop in the demand for slot machines popular in the Netherlands. Despite these framework conditions, revenues of the Dutch companies falling into the Gaming Technology segment increased to EUR 14.2 million in 2016, compared to EUR 13.8 million in the previous year. 108 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) and South Eastern Europe (SEE) A 15-year partnership entered into with Loteria Romana provides for NOVOMATIC to deliver sophisticated video lottery terminals (VLTs), as well as the corresponding required video lottery system (including a jackpot system, service, spare parts, logistics, etc.) in Romania. By the end of 2016, NOVOMATIC had already approximately 5,100 VLTs installed. In total, the companies falling into the Gaming Technology segment within the regions of CEE and SEE were able to achieve a positive business development during the financial year 2016. Apart from Romania, Lithuania also contributed to this rise in revenues. Rest of the World During the past financial year, revenues from the sale and rental of gaming machines achieved by the Group companies outside of Europe showed a stable development. While the number of gaming machines rented out increased slightly, the number of gaming machines sold was down by a small amount. Gaming Operations External revenues in the Gaming Operations segment amounted to EUR 1,370.6 million in the year under review, representing again an increase compared to the previous year (EUR 1,204.0 million). CONSOLIDATED Online and Mobile Gaming (B2C) The B2C market is divided into the segments of Social B2C (no payout of winnings) and Cash B2C (regular gaming with payout of winnings). While a phase of consolidation is under way in the Social B2C market and there is virtually no growth, the area of Cash FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B2C continues to display positive momentum. The main reason for this is the prevailing trend to regulate online gaming in many countries around the world. The expanded offer of Cash B2C products is driving out the Social B2C segment in regulated markets. Another trend to which the European online gaming industry, in particular, must adapt is the increasingly stricter framework conditions. While, at a national level, increasingly restrictive regulations are being introduced in matters of taxation and player protection, the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive and the General Data Protection Regulation at the European level have led to stricter standards that must be followed. The Greentube Group, which is part of the NOVOMATIC Group, holds an international portfolio of skill and chance games. These are available and offered with both a social and a cash mode. The games, most of which have been developed in-house, work not only in a web browser but also on mobile devices, as well as interactive televisions. Expansion of the games to new media channels is becoming more and more important. The companies of the Greentube Group with activities in the B2C segment reported a decline in revenues during the financial year 2016. In particular, Funstage GmbH with its gaming platform Gametwist and Cervo Media GmbH, both companies that are part of the Social B2C segment, posted declining revenues. Austria Due to the end of state-regulated gaming in Vienna in 2014, the Austrian operating companies falling into the Gaming Operations segment underwent commercial restructuring. After the home market of Austria saw a significant decline in revenues in the Gaming Operations segment in 2015 as a result of the change in regulatory framework conditions, a trend reversal was achieved in the current year under review. In particular, there was a considerable rise in betting revenues compared to the previous year. Revenues of all Austrian gaming and betting companies of the NOVOMATIC Group reached EUR 230.6 million in 2016, compared to EUR 223.4 million in the previous year. 109 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Germany In Germany, the NOVOMATIC Group owns casinos, as well as operating companies in the area of commercial machine gaming. With the venerable Spielbank Berlin, NOVOMATIC operates one of Germany’s gaming facilities with the highest revenues. With its subsidiaries, Spielbank Berlin, along with the Kurhessische Spielbank Kassel, were able to slightly increase revenues in the year under review. The German operating companies Extra Games Entertainment GmbH, BPA Freizeit und Unterhaltungsbetriebe GmbH, ADMIRAL Play GmbH as well as several smaller, recently acquired companies that operate in the market for commercial machine gaming were able to achieve a very positive development. The revenues of all German companies falling into the Gaming Operations segment reached EUR 339.3 million, compared to EUR 302.8 million in the previous year. During the past years, legal provisions were enacted (the First State Treaty amending the current Interstate Gambling Treaty in Germany (GlüÄndStV), related state laws on gaming arcades and amendments to the Gaming Ordinance), which, after multi-year transitional periods, resulted in significantly stricter overall conditions for the industry. At this time, it is difficult to foresee the future legal interpretation of the new legal provisions, as well as the ultimately implemented administrative practices. The legal and business-related implications for gaming facilities, however, remain highly uncertain – mainly because of the current ongoing complex and inconsistent political discussions. As in previous years, impairment tests were carried out in 2016 for the assets of the German operating companies, resulting in required impairment losses in the low single-digit million euro range. The impairment relates to usage rights for electronic casinos (intangible assets) as well as property, plant and equipment (in particular properties and buildings, as well as fixtures, furniture and office equipment). The scope of the impairment test included all slot arcades run by the operating companies active in the area of commercial machine gaming. The main focus was on scenarios regarding site shutdowns and the withdrawal of concessions. The investigation of the impact on the gaming facilities was carried out under the assumption of more restrictive legal interpretations. Italy Measured by the number of operated gaming machines, Italy is Europe’s largest gaming market. In this key European market, NOVOMATIC has been successfully implementing its dual market strategy as a producer of gaming products and operator of gaming facilities for several years. During the financial year 2016, several smaller operators of gaming facilities in Italy were acquired, primarily with the business purpose of operating gaming and bingo halls. With these acquisitions, the Group is enhancing its market position in this important core European market. The revenues of the Italian Group companies falling into the Gaming Operations segment increased once again thanks to organic and acquisition-driven growth, reaching EUR 173.8 million, compared to EUR 138.8 million in the previous year. Great Britain After NOVOMATIC had succeeded in entering the British market for electronic casinos (adult gaming centers or AGCs) with the acquisition of Luxury Leisure Unlimited and S.A.L. Leisure Limited in June 2014, the Group acquired 100 percent of the shares in Talarius Ltd. (Talarius) as well as its associated subsidiaries in the year under review. The Talarius Group operates 7,500 gaming machines in 162 gaming facilities in the United Kingdom. By concluding this transaction, NOVOMATIC continues its expansion strategy and is now the largest operator of gaming facilities in the “Adult Gaming Centers” sector in the UK. The agreed purchase price was GBP 102.5 million. All in all, the Group companies active within the Gaming Operations segment were able to achieve a significant increase in revenues of EUR 123.4 million, compared to EUR 75.1 million in 2015. 110 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Spain In December 2015, NOVOMATIC acquired all the shares of Admiral Operations Spain S.L. (formerly Overlord Gaming S.L.), a Spanish group of companies focused on the operation of gaming facilities in Madrid. During the financial year 2016, several smaller operators of gaming facilities in Spain were acquired, primarily with the business purpose of operating gaming halls. With these acquisitions, the Group is enhancing its market position in this important European gaming market. Following the opening of Casino Admiral San Roque north of Gibraltar in July 2016, NOVOMATIC acquired another casino in Spain with the Gran Casino Aljarafe in Seville. Revenues of all Spanish gaming companies of the NOVOMATIC Group reached EUR 35.0 million in 2016. Netherlands Since its market entry in 2013, NOVOMATIC has been one of the most important operators of gaming machines in the Dutch single site market (i.e. the operation of gaming machines at third-party locations such as bars). During the financial year 2014, the NOVOMATIC Group was able to enter the Dutch gaming arcade market. The Dutch market for commercial machine gaming is in a consolidation phase and can be described as fiercely competitive. The area of gaming arcades is dominated by a small number of large companies that continue to invest in gaming offers and successively acquire smaller competitors or push them out of the market. The single site market, which is also fiercely contested, has been following a downward trend during the past few years as the numCONSOLIDATED ber of available sites to install gaming machines steadily declined. Although the possibilities for organic growth are limited due to the maturity of the market, the Dutch Group of companies falling into the Gaming Operations segment was able to increase revenues to EUR 64.4 million in 2016, compared to EUR 62.2 million in the previous year. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) and South Eastern Europe (SEE) The companies falling into the Gaming Operations segment within the regions of CEE and SEE were able to achieve a very satisfactory business development during the financial year 2016. In short, not only did the total number of locations increase, along with the number of operated gaming machines, but revenues also increased, from EUR 262.3 million in 2015 to EUR 296.9 million in the year under review. In 2016, the Croatian operating companies were able to once again significantly increase the number of facilities operated and their revenues, both through organic growth as well as the acquisition of a smaller company. The Serbian and Macedonian gaming operations also achieved a positive development, with revenues rising noticeably. In Latvia, NOVOMATIC’s most important market within the CEE region, the two subsidiaries, Admiralu Klubs SIA and Alfor SIA, with a total of 126 gaming facilities, defended their strong market position. The development of revenues in Latvia was very positive, posting an increase to EUR 94.5 million. Rest of the World The Peruvian gaming market is experiencing strong competitive pressure, although NOVOMATIC was also able to defend its market position in the year under review. The number of Peruvian gaming arcades operated remained stable during the reporting period, while revenues also demonstrated a stable development compared to the previous year at EUR 28.6 million. 111 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Other The external revenues in the segment Other amounted to EUR 20.4 million in the reporting period, representing a decrease compared to the previous year’s level of EUR 22.0 million. Revenues in the segment ‘Other’ are also entirely attributable to the I-New Group. I-New Group I-New Unified Mobile Solutions AG (I-New), headquartered in Mattersburg, is one of the leading global technology providers for mobile virtual network operators (MVNO). The company’s technology is now in use on almost all continents. Over the past few years, I-New has benefited in particular from the dynamic development in Latin America and is now wellestablished with its MVNO solution. With renowned customers such as Virgin Mobile and Falabella (the largest retailer in Latin America), successful projects have been carried out in markets such as Chile, Colombia and Mexico. During the past financial year, revenues declined, mainly due to the I-New subsidiary in Mexico. 112 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 5. Individual Financial Statement of NOVOMATIC AG (Condensed Version in Accordance with the Austrian Uniform Commercial Code (UGB)) The following includes a discussion of the development of NOVOMATIC AG as a supplement to the reporting on the NOVOMATIC Group. The annual financial statement (individual financial statement) of NOVOMATIC AG is prepared according to the accounting and valuation principles of the Austrian Uniform Commercial Code (UGB). According to these regulations, the affiliated companies are identified as part of the financial assets. As such, the individual financial statement only provides an excerpt of the economic situation of NOVOMATIC AG and its affiliated companies. NOVOMATIC AG is the holding company of the NOVOMATIC Group, which performs the financing and controlling function for the Group. In addition to this role, NOVOMATIC AG is also the owner of the majority of the NOVOMATIC Group’s intellectual property rights as well as of a significant share of the Group’s property portfolio in Austria. During the reporting period, NOVOMATIC AG had no subsidiaries registered in the commercial register. Earnings Position During the past financial year, NOVOMATIC AG’s sales revenue amounted to EUR 76.6 million, remaining almost unchanged CONSOLIDATED against the previous year. Personnel expenses decreased against the previous year’s level to EUR 7.4 million. This was mainly due to effects in connection with a company reorganization towards the end of 2015. Other operating expenses decreased compared to the previous year’s level, reaching a total of EUR 74.2 million. The cause for this FINANCIAL STATEMENTS decline was largely due to a reduction in the expenses for development work. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) improved as a result of the optimized cost structure to EUR -1.6 million compared to EUR -15.3 million in the previous year. Depreciation and amortization fell slightly during the financial year 2016 from EUR 31.3 million to EUR 25.0 million. The financial result decreased significantly against the previous year from EUR 79.7 million to EUR 28.9 million, essentially due to substantially lower income from shareholdings. Financial Key Figures NOVOMATIC AG in million EUR 2016 2015 Change Revenue 76.6 78.5 -1.9 Personnel costs -7.4 -12.8 5.4 Depreciation and amortization -25.0 -31.3 6.3 Other operating expenses -74.2 -79.3 5.1 EBITDA -1.6 -15.3 13.7 Financial result 28.9 79.7 -50.8 Annual profit 9.3 40.6 -31.3 After the addition of income taxes amounting to EUR 6.9 million, taking the Group taxation into consideration, net profit for the year was EUR 9.3 million compared to EUR 40.6 million in 2015. 113 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Assets Position Fixed assets increased by EUR 211.5 million against the previous year to a total of EUR 1,430.6 million. This change was largely attributable to increases in the area of financial assets. Compared to the previous year, current assets rose by EUR 306.0 million to EUR 527.4 million, mainly caused by higher bank deposits due to the issuance of a bond in January 2016. In the course of a capital increase, the company’s share capital increased slightly from EUR 26.0 million to EUR 26.6 million. Due to the capital increase, there was a significant increase of EUR 84.4 million in capital reserves to EUR 85.4 million. With retained earnings of EUR 1.6 million and a balance sheet profit of EUR 111.2 million being taken into consideration, equity capital increased to a total of EUR 224.8 million. Equity capital’s share of total capital amounted to 11.4 percent in the year under review, compared to 12.4 percent in the previous year. While provisions were up slightly by EUR 1.9 million, liabilities saw a significant rise. Due to the largest capital market financing action in the history of NOVOMATIC, the liabilities from bonds increased from EUR 600.0 million to EUR 1,100.0 million. Overall, liabilities increased by EUR 475.7 million to EUR 1,733.8 million. During the past financial year, NOVOMATIC AG’s balance sheet total increased by 35.9 percent to EUR 1,975.0 million. 6. Non-Financial Performance Indicators Social and Employee Issues During the reporting year 2016, the number of employees in the NOVOMATIC Group increased by 18.1 percent to a total of 23,849 employees (headcount as of the balance sheet date, December 31, 2016). This increase reflects the continuation of the Group’s growth trajectory. As a company with a strong international alignment, particular emphasis is placed on networking in the areas of international human resources staff. This takes place within the framework of a global HR circle, in which the strategic alignments of this area are also discussed and rolled out. The HR strategy focuses above all on matters concerning the further establishment of a compliance culture, the development of the employer brand through operational measures and further improving efficiency in the HR organizations. When it comes to improving efficiency, the strategic project “novopeople.net” is particularly noteworthy. In the course of this HR software project, cross-border standard processes in the area of application and talent management are defined and successively implemented in the individual countries by means of this software solution. The applicant management solution was rolled out in August 2016, as part of an international pilot project with the application of the Swiss company, Umantis. Since this time, over 8,000 applications have been digitally processed into this system. Aside from the digital components, treating future employees respectfully is very important to the Group. The NOVOMATIC career portal was the subject of a major overhaul in the course of the project, now providing a strong, Group-internal job market as well as application processes that meet the demands of Generation Y. In addition to web-based processes, the recruitment channels were also supplemented by active sourcing methods. In a study on recruitment quality in the German-speaking region, NOVOMATIC is among the top 10 of the industry ranking of BEST RECRUITERS 2016/17 in Austria and, with this result, was awarded the silver BEST RECRUITERS seal of approval for the third time in a row. A particular focus is qualification measures across all levels, which support the innovative power of the NOVOMATIC Group and thus the ability of the Group to continue working in the future. Related topics include the further digitalization of business processes and the associated production environment (Industry 4.0) and the training of international casino/arcade managers. 114 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 A partnership with the largest external training institute in the German-speaking region – the HAUFE Academy – was concluded in 2016 to improve the depth of professional knowledge and process efficiency. The Haufe Group is, with over 1,500 employees, a specialist for professional and management knowledge in a business context, offering customers in the field of training online communities, expert portals as well as further education and training opportunities. In addition to professional depth, all operational training processes have been supported by an external provider since September 2016. Work has begun to offer the training courses around the world via partners of the HAUFE Academy. For instance, the partner Fast Lane offers globally qualified IT training courses on different topics. Industry 4.0 – often referred to as the fourth industrial revolution – has already begun and is characterized by the increasing digitalization and networking of products, value creation chains and business models. To prepare the NOVOMATIC Group for this transformation towards greater digitalization in the economy/society, NOVOMATIC has already been a partner in an Austrian industry cluster with ten other leading globally active companies and a network comprising domestic and foreign universities under the project title “Enterprise 4.0” for one year. In addition to technological challenges, the primary focus is on preparing employees and managers in time for this change through qualification measures that have been integrated into the training program. In the course of an “Enterprise 4.0” meeting organized by NOVOMATIC in November 2016, the top management levels were brought together for the first time with the project managers of use cases to be handled by the companies involved as well as international university professors for applied research and the transfer of know-how. The NOVOMATIC Group has a high acquisition rate, notably in the area of Operations. To take account of this trend, a high-quality training program for potential casino managers and area managers for arcades was launched. The program has been designed as CONSOLIDATED cross-border training, combining professional training topics as well as practical work in the area of Operations. These measures are complemented by coaching and individual measures. In a next step, there are plans to offer this program in cooperation with several universities as a certified program with an academic qualification. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOVOMATIC pursues a sustainable course when it comes to the topic of diversity. The Group holding company NOVOMATIC AG and the Austrian producing subsidiary NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH had themselves audited in this important area as part of the certificate for an age-appropriate working world, and NOVOMATIC was awarded the “NESTORGOLD” certificate in November 2016. The two Austrian subsidiaries falling into the Gaming Operations segment, ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment AG and Admiral Sportwetten GmbH, received the “NESTORGOLD Bewegt” certificate for their initiatives in respect of responsible generation management. The demographic development shows that sustainable generation management is important to keep employees healthy and motivated for longer at work. Investing in employees and promoting the dialog of generations among employees is essential to be able to safeguard the retention and transfer of knowledge in the NOVOMATIC Group over the long term. 115 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 7. Prospective Development of the Group In its latest analysis, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) assumes a global growth rate of 3.4 percent5 for 2017. Analysts at GBGC6 also expect a similar trend, forecasting an increase in global gaming expenditures of 3.5 percent in 2017. NOVOMATIC plans to continue its successful growth strategy, aiming to achieve market-leading positions in large, regulated markets. During the financial year 2017, revenues are expected to rise further, although it can be assumed that the regulatory environment will also remain challenging in the key markets in the coming year. In the home market of Austria, licenses for state-licensed gaming in Lower Austria and Burgenland were repealed by the Federal Administrative Court (VwGH). After continued proceedings, the gaming license for 1,339 gaming machines in Lower Austria was issued again to ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment AG (ACE) in December 2016. This notice was then contested through complaints by three competitors. A decision by the Lower Austrian Provincial Administrative Court is expected in the second quarter of 2017. Continued operations are guaranteed until November 2017, due to the statutory duty to continue operations and a declaratory notice. The continued operation of the 110 approved gaming machines in Burgenland is guaranteed until June 2017, and a decision concerning the ongoing selection procedure is still pending. The First State Treaty amending the current Interstate Gambling Treaty in Germany (Glücksspieländerungsstaatsvertrag, GlüÄndStV) came into effect on July 1, 2012. A further amendment concerning the area of sports betting is currently being reviewed by the European Commission. The First State Treaty amending the current Interstate Gambling Treaty in Germany essentially involves creating distance regulations between gaming arcades and youth facilities. It also includes a ban on multiple concessions, thereby limiting a site to a maximum of 12 gaming machines. A (fundamental) transitional period of five years was granted to implement the restrictive new regulations, which means that the provisions are applicable from July 1, 2017. It is to be expected that the current legal situation will have an even greater impact on the restrained and muted willingness of the German gaming industry to invest in the future. Furthermore, there is a risk that players will move into unregulated markets or take advantage of illegal offers. NOVOMATIC expects a declining market in the German Gaming Arcades segment from July 1, 2017, although higher device utilization should have a certain compensatory effect. If gaming arcades need to be made smaller or closed, this will, however, have a negative impact on revenues (from the rental of gaming machines or the operation of gaming machines). In the core market of Italy, the government is considering a further increase in gaming-related taxes for the financial year 2017. At the time the Group management report was prepared, it was unclear whether, when and to what extent such measures will be decided. If implemented, however, additional pressure on earnings can be expected. In 2016, numerous licenses for online gaming, sports betting and bingo in Italy expired which, however, were prolonged pending a new tender expected during 2017. The reason for the delay of the new tender is due to both the unexpected change in government as a result of the failed referendum on constitutional reform in 2016 and the lack of coordination between municipalities and the federal government to reach an agreement on the framework conditions for the gaming and betting business. Despite the challenging regulatory environment, NOVOMATIC expects a further increase in revenues as a result of organic and acquisition-driven growth. In the large European gaming markets of the United Kingdom and Spain, further revenue increases are forecast, due to the recently completed acquisitions. In both markets, this increase is mainly due to the developments within the Gaming Operations segment. In the regions of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) and South Eastern Europe (SEE), rising revenues are expected. Countries such as Romania and Croatia, which offer stable gaming markets, contribute significantly to this positive development. The acquisition of approximately 53 percent of the shares in Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd. (Ainsworth), the closing of which is still outstanding due to formal approval requirements from various international licensing and regulatory authorities and not expected before the third quarter of 2017, represents another milestone in the history of NOVOMATIC. The acquisition is of major 5) According to the World Economic Outlook provided by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) 6) Global Gambling Report by GBGC 116 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 strategic importance as it paves the way to access the enormously important North American market, a region with almost one million operated gaming machines. Ainsworth is also a market leader in gaming-enthusiastic Australia and has a strong presence in the Latin American market. For 2017, the NOVOMATIC Group companies active in the area of online gaming are likely to be confronted with a challenging market environment. Growth rates will slow further as a result of increased competitive pressure. At the same time, higher costs for acquiring new customers and securing customer loyalty, as well as rising taxes, will influence profitability. 8. Risk Management Within the scope of its business, the NOVOMATIC Group is subject to a number of risks which inevitably arise in connection with entrepreneurial activities. Risk management, as it is understood and applied within the NOVOMATIC Group, aims at both securing the long-term existence of the company and increasing the added value. It, therefore, represents a major factor in the Group’s success. Risk Management System NOVOMATIC engages in extensive risk management that involves all major Group companies. The risk management system aims at systematically identifying, evaluating, controlling, monitoring and documenting material risks as well as risks directly jeoparCONSOLIDATED dizing the company’s existence in order to ensure achievement of the corporate objectives and to increase risk awareness within the Group. All risks and opportunities, which are determined and analyzed systematically, are recorded within a professional, IT-based risk FINANCIAL STATEMENTS management system that ensures risks, as well as the assigned management measures and control mechanisms are monitored, on a permanent basis. For continued monitoring of the risk and opportunity situation and to ensure active controlling, risks and opportunities are assigned to the responsible individuals within the individual corporate areas and Group companies. It lies within the responsibilities of the risk officers to define and implement measures aimed at dealing with the individual risks and/or at seizing opportunities, to document emergent risks and opportunities, and to perform reassessments of the identified opportunities and risks at regular, defined intervals. Central risk management supports the individual areas in a consulting function and ensures the continuous updating and further development of the risk management system. Central Group risk management, which is assigned to the internal audit department, monitors implementation of the defined countermeasures and reports regularly to the Executive Board regarding the current risk situation. Important Features of the Internal Control System Relevant to the Financial Reporting Process The predominant objective of the accounting-related internal control system at NOVOMATIC is to ensure the correctness of financial reporting by verifying that the consolidated financial statement and the management report comply with all relevant regulations. As a guide for this process, the internal control system at NOVOMATIC relies on the comprehensive enterprise risk management approach developed by the COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission). Control Environment NOVOMATIC AG’s Executive Board is responsible for the establishment of an appropriate internal control and risk management system concerning the accounting process. In order to evaluate the appropriateness and effectiveness of this internal control system, the Executive Board has instructed the internal audit department to continuously analyze the main processes, respective related risks and existing control measures, and to report the results to the Executive Board. 117 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 In the area of Group accounting, the organizational structure consists of the local departments responsible for accounting within the individual Group companies, as well as NOVOMATIC AG’s central accounting department. The Group companies prepare complete and correct individual financial statements according to IFRS on the respective company level, based on the uniform Group-wide accounting and valuation principles. The main tasks and responsibilities of the Group accounting department are the analysis of the reported Group company data, the performance of consolidation measures and the corresponding preparation of financial reports. It is this department that is also responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statement. Risk Assessment To avoid material misstatements in the presentation of transactions, multilevel quality assurance measures have been implemented with the objective of ensuring that individual financial statements according to IFRS are recorded correctly for the purpose of consolidation. These measures include automated controls within the consolidation software as well as manual controls performed by employees of the subsidiaries, as well as by employees of the Group accounting department. Based on the financial statements for the individual Group companies, Group accounting performs comprehensive plausibility and data quality checks on several levels. This aims at ensuring the data reflecting the Group companies’ transactions is properly recorded for the purpose of consolidation or preparation of the consolidated financial statement. In addition to this, Group accounting enlists the support of external service providers for certain issues that require specialist knowledge, such as the evaluation of pension obligations and severance payments. Control Activities The Group’s unified accounting and measurement methods are summarized in the Group manual. Amendments to the IFRS are continuously monitored by Group accounting and included in the Group manual on an annual basis. This update is followed by the publication of the manual’s current annual version. The Group companies prepare the individual financial statements mainly using Microsoft Dynamics NAV. Further ERP systems currently in use include proAlpha and SAP. The data is transmitted electronically in a standardized format and imported into the consolidation software (IDL Konsis) by Group Accounting. For the accounting-related IT systems, access privileges have been defined to ensure that sensitive data is protected from unauthorized access, use and modification. Information and Communication The Executive Board keeps abreast of relevant developments at the Group companies through regular reports prepared by the Group financial department. This includes, above all, the development of current earnings as well as any detected major deviations from the approved annual budget, calculation of the Group cash flow, as well as calculation of the result and value-oriented key figures. The Executive Board itself informs the Supervisory Board on a quarterly basis regarding the development of the corporate Group as a whole as well as the development of the individual business areas. Monitoring Monitoring of compliance with ongoing accounting processes (except the preparation of the annual financial statement) is performed by the Group’s auditing department, which reports directly to the Executive Board. The Group’s auditing department has documented all financial reporting processes as part of the internal control system and has monitored compliance with the defined controls at regular intervals. 118 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 As per the Austrian Company Law Amendment Act (URÄG) of 2008, the Supervisory Board is also included in the control system via the auditing committee. The auditing committee’s main responsibilities include monitoring the accounting process, monitoring the internal control and risk management system, monitoring the audit of the consolidated financial statement and critically appraising the audited consolidated financial statement, as well as the Group management report. Compliance In addition to the types of risk described, there are also threats related to the reputation and the competitiveness of the company as a whole. As one of the basic principles of entrepreneurial activities, NOVOMATIC pays particular attention to compliance with statutory and ethical regulations. The term “compliance” is used to describe all measures with which the company ensures that laws, regulations and voluntary codes are adhered to. NOVOMATIC’s compliance activities focus mainly on measures aimed at ensuring that national and international laws on the prevention of criminal acts, market abuse, money laundering and misuse of data are adhered to. The Group’s compliance system is based on NOVOMATIC’s Code of Conduct, a set of guidelines that is binding for all employees and all business areas. In the Code of Conduct, employees find guidelines and principles for values-based and lawful behavior during day-to-day business activities. This Code of Conduct also provides the basis for training activities related to integrity and compliance. Depending on the risk and target group, training sessions requiring personal attendance, as well as web-based training events, are held. An e-learning tool allows a large number of employees to be educated on issues such as data protection, property rights CONSOLIDATED violations and the fight against corruption. The Code of Conduct provides the foundation for the Group-wide organization of compliance activities. Throughout the entire Group, there are designated contact persons for questions regarding the issues mentioned within the Code of Conduct. In addition FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to the Compliance Manager at NOVOMATIC AG, there are Local Compliance Officers at the Group companies who continuously ensure that ethical and rule-abiding behavior is sustainably anchored throughout the entire company. Significant Risks and Uncertainties The following is a detailed description of the risks and uncertainties that can have a major influence on the asset, financial and earnings position, as well as the reputation of the NOVOMATIC Group. Business and Market Risks The NOVOMATIC Group’s business is dependent on general economic conditions There is a risk that a deterioration of general economic conditions, increasing unemployment, declining real incomes and increased volatility in the capital markets, could have a significant negative impact on the asset, financial and earnings positions of the NOVOMATIC Group. Expansion into new markets or product and/or service areas may be unsuccessful and the success of the strategy pursued by the NOVOMATIC Group is uncertain A central element of the NOVOMATIC Group’s growth strategy is the geographic diversification of its business by entering markets that offer opportunities for growth. There is a risk that in the future, for various reasons including legal conditions, NOVOMATIC may not or may only to a limited extent be able to pursue a course of expansion, or may not be able to expand its product and/ or service offerings. 119 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The NOVOMATIC Group is subject to risks related to completed, ongoing and future acquisitions, joint ventures and investments It is possible that not all major risks related to acquisitions, joint ventures and investments are identified, which may have a substantial negative impact on the asset, financial and earnings positions of the NOVOMATIC Group. The NOVOMATIC Group’s success as a business depends on its management and key employees NOVOMATIC’s business success comes thanks to the existing knowledge and expertise of its management and employees. Should one or several individuals in key positions leave the company, there is a risk that NOVOMATIC might not be able to recruit qualified individuals with comparable know-how within an appropriate period to deal with emerging challenges. The NOVOMATIC Group is dependent on technology systems and relies on technologies and sophisticated information technology systems that could be subject to malfunctions, disruptions or illegal attacks and fraudulent activities NOVOMATIC operates in a highly technology-dependent field of business where new technologies are developed or used within short innovation cycles. There is a risk that NOVOMATIC may not recognize innovative technologies and developments at a sufficiently early stage. The integrity, reliability and operative performance of the NOVOMATIC Group’s IT systems are essential to the business. These IT systems may be damaged or interrupted due to increased load, human error or natural catastrophes. Illegal attacks or fraudulent manipulation could also damage or disrupt the IT systems. Any damage to the IT systems could result in widespread business problems and force NOVOMATIC to deploy considerable financial means to remedy such problems. Risks related to pathological gaming behavior and lawsuits brought forward by players In the context of its operating activities, the NOVOMATIC Group could be subject to legal proceedings demanding the refund of gaming and betting stakes, for example in connection with pathological gaming behavior, particularly if this results in the player’s legal incapacity. In addition to this, NOVOMATIC could be subject to legal claims such as for damages stemming from the conclusion of gaming and betting contracts. The NOVOMATIC Group could suffer losses due to technical errors, illegal attacks or fraudulent manipulation The NOVOMATIC Group’s business success is strongly dependent upon the ability to discover and prevent fraudulent manipulation (including betting manipulation) or illegal attacks on products and/or services. Should one of the NOVOMATIC Group’s products and/or services be subject to technical errors, fraudulent activity or illegal attacks, it could negatively impact NOVOMATIC’s reputation. This could result in NOVOMATIC incurring losses or being subject to damage claims – or even the revocation of licenses by the responsible authorities. Claims for damages due to technical, organizational or program-related errors are partially insured against. Technical glitches, illegal attacks or fraudulent activity could seriously impair the NOVOMATIC Group’s ability to manufacture or provide its products and/or services. If NOVOMATIC were to be unable to achieve its production targets or supply products to customers because of such interferences, this would have a strongly negative impact on the company’s reputation and revenues. NOVOMATIC is also subject to the risk of a temporary or permanent interruption of operations due to internal manipulation. Inappropriate behavior could force NOVOMATIC to temporarily or permanently shut down certain business areas or business locations on account of official orders. 120 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The NOVOMATIC Group is subject to the risk of losing its image The image of the NOVOMATIC Group and its brands is strongly influenced by business partners and media coverage of the gaming industry. Inappropriate behavior by business partners or negative coverage in the media could result in damage to the image and, consequently, in the loss of financing by banks or the withdrawal of licenses. Risks due to product liability or product defects The NOVOMATIC Group could be held liable for damages caused by defective products due to applicable product liability provisions. There is also a risk that third parties could bring forward claims against NOVOMATIC AG or one of its affiliated companies due to unexpected product defects. This risk has largely been insured against. If defective products are not replaced (at all or in a timely fashion), this may also result in revenue losses for the NOVOMATIC Group. The NOVOMATIC Group’s production activities depend on the availability of high-quality raw materials and semi-finished products provided by a limited number of suppliers The NOVOMATIC Group’s production relies on the availability of high-quality raw materials and semi-finished products. Inventory shortages or increased demand could result in an increase in raw material costs, as well as in production problems or interruptions CONSOLIDATED and hence in delivery problems for the NOVOMATIC Group. In addition to this, the NOVOMATIC Group sources a considerable amount of raw materials and semi-finished products from a limited number of external suppliers. Should one of these suppliers be unable to supply its goods (at all or in a timely fashion), FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOVOMATIC would be forced to search for alternatives. This could also result in a considerable impairment of NOVOMATIC’s production capabilities. The NOVOMATIC Group is subject to the risk of a temporary or permanent disruption of production or operations due to external events Some of the NOVOMATIC Group’s companies are located in parts of the world where the weather conditions are extreme, are subject to an elevated risk of natural catastrophes, or where terrorist attacks may occur. These factors could result in the temporary or permanent interruption of NOVOMATIC’s business activities. The NOVOMATIC Group cannot guarantee that it will be able to insure itself against such risks. For reasons of efficiency, the NOVOMATIC Group has concentrated a considerable share of its production in a few manufacturing locations. Production at these manufacturing locations is subject to numerous operative risks, including machine failure, labor shortages, accidents, natural catastrophes and power outages. The occurrence of such risks could negatively impact NOVOMATIC’s business activities and result in financial losses as well as legal liabilities. The NOVOMATIC Group is not insured against all risks and its insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover certain losses NOVOMATIC’s operating activities are subject to complex operative risks such as climatic conditions, political unrest, terrorist or similar activities, as well as other events or accidents at the Group’s production facilities. Such risks could result in damage to NOVOMATIC’s production facilities, personal injury, death, environmental damage, business interruptions and possible liabilities. NOVOMATIC is not insured against all of the risks mentioned above. It also cannot be guaranteed that any payments from existing insurance contracts will be sufficient to cover all possible damages. 121 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The security mechanisms of the NOVOMATIC organization could fail There is a risk that security mechanisms established by the NOVOMATIC organization (in particular related to the compliance system and the internal control system) could fail, either in part or completely. In consequence, this could result in the violation of national and international laws on the prevention of criminal acts, market abuse, money laundering, corruption and misuse of data. The occurrence of such risks could negatively impact NOVOMATIC’s reputation and result in economic losses, legal liabilities and the loss of licenses. Risks related to changes in customer behavior Diverse recreational and entertainment options entail constantly changing customer behavior. To maintain NOVOMATIC’s market position in its target markets, product and/or service adjustments, as well as continuous innovation, are required. There is a risk that customer or consumer desires may be recognized not at all or only when it is too late. In addition, a further intensification of the trend towards online gaming could result in a decline in the number of visitors to the Group’s terrestrial gaming facilities. The NOVOMATIC Group is subject to competitive risks Some of NOVOMATIC’s competitors have extensive financial, technical and other resources at their disposal. There is a risk that the number of competitors – in particular, the number of companies providing online gaming and betting services – will continue to increase. In addition, there is the risk that competition in currently profitable markets may grow more challenging should NOVOMATIC be unable to offer innovative and competitive products and/or services, or should the company not receive the required gaming licenses. The NOVOMATIC Group is dependent on certain markets NOVOMATIC generates the majority of its revenues in a limited number of markets. As these are relatively well-developed markets, further growth opportunities are rather limited. NOVOMATIC plans to expand its business activities in other markets, an effort for which considerable resources are being deployed. There is a risk that the anticipated growth in these countries and regions will not be realized, and/or the NOVOMATIC Group will not be successful in implementing its strategies there. 122 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Legal and Geographic Risks The NOVOMATIC Group’s international business entails economic, political, legal and other risks The NOVOMATIC Group conducts business in more than 70 countries. Some of these countries are politically or economically unstable which subjects NOVOMATIC to certain risks. Social unrest or strikes could force NOVOMATIC to interrupt or halt its business activities. The gaming industry is subject to particularly frequent and sudden legal amendments that can make business significantly more difficult or prohibit it entirely. Insufficient legal or administrative conditions in some countries can furthermore provide insufficient protection for the NOVOMATIC Group’s intellectual property or other rights. In some of these countries, crime and corruption are widespread, which could have a negative impact on the NOVOMATIC Group’s business. Risks due to possible changes in gaming laws or taxation policy in the countries in which the NOVOMATIC Group does business The NOVOMATIC Group operates on the basis of currently prevailing political, economic, legal and fiscal conditions. NOVOMATIC is subject to the risk of changes to legal and taxation-related framework conditions. Changes that have already been adopted, in particular in connection with the German State Treaty on Gaming, the German Gaming Ordinance, the Austrian Gaming Act or the discontinuation of state-regulated gaming in Vienna, changes in administrative practices or even the possible additional prohibition of gaming machines or other restrictions in other jurisdictions, also have a sustained impact on NOVOMATIC’s business activities. CONSOLIDATED On an international level, for example, the increase in gaming taxes in Italy constitutes a risk to the NOVOMATIC Group. Finally, it cannot be ruled out that betting laws in certain jurisdictions may be tightened for the purpose of player protection. Risks due to the dependence on national licenses, regulations on competition and statutory provisions regarding the operation of FINANCIAL STATEMENTS gaming and betting facilities, as well as risks due to the dependence on production, sales and product licenses In the countries where NOVOMATIC does business, the operation of gaming and betting facilities requires a license, concession or another type of permission from the authorities in charge. Such licenses/concessions are usually granted for a limited period of time or in the form of license agreements with limited duration. Should no option for prolongation be provided or if an extension were only possible under economically unacceptable or untenable conditions or requirements, NOVOMATIC would need to participate in new tender procedures in order to recover such a license/concession. Within the core market of Austria, NOVOMATIC is applying and has applied for concessions required to operate casinos and electronic casinos. NOVOMATIC cannot guarantee that its participation in such procedures for the awarding of concessions will be successful or that the awarding of a concession will not be subsequently successfully contested. In the countries where NOVOMATIC does business, a permit by a state gaming authority is frequently required in order to be able to sell gaming machines and other gaming products and services. Both manufacturing and sales licenses are generally granted for a limited period of time and are subject to an audit plus subsequent certification by the inspecting authorities. Once licenses have been granted, they are usually extended automatically, provided that all license requirements are met. The possibility cannot be excluded that, despite the utmost care, legal provisions, regulatory requirements, technical standards or licensing conditions may not be complied with within the NOVOMATIC Group, which could result in the partial or complete withdrawal of a license, the determination of breaches of competition laws, or other types of damage to the NOVOMATIC Group’s asset, financial and earnings positions or reputation. Risks related to legal proceedings and arbitration proceedings During the course of its business activities, the NOVOMATIC Group is involved in legal disputes or administrative proceedings or is threatened by legal disputes or administrative proceedings resulting from the Group’s regular business activities. 123 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Risks due to the possible tightening of regulatory measures Gaming, and in particular online gaming, is currently not harmonized at the EU level. The individual legal frameworks of the EU Member States are, in some cases, disputed among gaming law experts. There is a risk that, in the future, limitations with regard to gaming and betting could be implemented at a national level. In addition to this, regulatory measures such as access restrictions, stricter player protection measures, provisions for the protection of non-smokers, technical requirements, advertising bans or location requirements, could be introduced. Such measures could result in a decline in the number of visitors and the revenues earned. Evolving legal systems and tax structures, in particular in the Central, Eastern and South Eastern European countries as well as in Latin America, could have a considerable detrimental impact on the NOVOMATIC Group Legal systems, in particular in the Central, Eastern and South Eastern European countries as well as in Latin America have been subject to a profound transformation over the past few years. In some of these states, the legal order and legal systems are still at an early stage of development, resulting in the inconsistent application and interpretation of legal norms. These countries therefore still lack the experience, precedent-setting cases and/or other suitable interpretation aids by which practitioners are bound and guided. In particular, NOVOMATIC is subject to a high number of taxation standards that, in some cases, have only been in effect for a short period of time. This frequently makes the administrative practice by which they will be implemented impossible to forecast. Taxpayers such as NOVOMATIC regularly need to turn to the courts for help in order to defend their position against the tax authorities. Therefore, there is a risk that NOVOMATIC might become subject to unpredictable and burdensome taxation. The NOVOMATIC Group is subject to risks related to intellectual property The NOVOMATIC Group develops, produces and sells sophisticated technological gaming equipment and systems that are to a large extent protected by industrial property rights such as trademark protection rights, patent rights and rights for the protection of registered designs, as well as copyright. There is a risk of third parties violating industrial property rights or copyrights belonging to the NOVOMATIC Group, as well as of NOVOMATIC violating the industrial property rights or copyrights of third parties. In particular, there is a risk that developments owned by NOVOMATIC might be copied and illegally used or introduced to the market by third parties. NOVOMATIC is also subject to the risk that third-party components included in its own products might violate certain intellectual property rights. In such cases, NOVOMATIC could be obligated to either not use said intellectual property rights or to pay considerable licensing fees to third parties. NOVOMATIC is also subject to the risk that third parties might acquire patents or other intellectual property in order to initiate actions for damages, etc. The gaming industry is characterized by rapid technological development, which forces the NOVOMATIC Group to continuously develop new products and enter new markets. The NOVOMATIC Group’s success, therefore, depends on its ability to continuously enhance the development of its products and systems in order to integrate new technologies and expand into new markets created by new technologies. Should certain technologies be protected by intellectual property rights held by third-parties, including by competitors, NOVOMATIC might not be able to offer certain products or expand into certain markets. The NOVOMATIC Group is subject to the risk of being unable to sufficiently protect its customer data The NOVOMATIC Group holds information about its customers which is in part sensitive (name, address, age, bank data and gaming tendencies) and must follow the strict data protection rules stipulated by the EU and other jurisdictions. Despite the security systems implemented by NOVOMATIC, there is the risk that customer data could be retrieved and/or used illegally, either by employees or by customers or third-parties. There is also the risk that customer data might be deleted, disclosed or edited involuntarily or in violation of data protection regulations. Should NOVOMATIC or one of its external service providers transmit customer data without sufficient protection, or should confidential customer data be lost in any other way, NOVOMATIC might be held liable under data protection laws, which would also damage the Group’s reputation. 124 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Risks due to a tightening of international anti-money laundering provisions (Financial Action Task Force) In the countries where NOVOMATIC pursues business activities, the operation of gaming facilities such as casinos is subject to numerous and increasingly strict legal and regulatory provisions regarding money laundering. At an international level, organizations such as the Financial Action Task Force and the EU continuously adapt and tighten the regulations and standards related to anti-money laundering provisions. A further tightening of these standards and regulations could result in additional organizational measures as well as further financial expenses for NOVOMATIC’s business operations. Risks due to audits by tax authorities During the course of tax audit procedures carried out by the tax authorities, the NOVOMATIC Group could be obligated to pay additional taxes or charges. Should the total amount of taxes or charges payable in arrears result in a substantial figure, this could have a negative impact on the NOVOMATIC Group’s liquidity and earnings position. Financial Risks and Usage of Financial Instruments The NOVOMATIC Group is subject to financial risks in the form of capital risks, financing risks, liquidity risks, counterparty risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and risks related to capital investments. In order to limit these risks, NOVOMATIC makes use of financial instruments when necessary. CONSOLIDATED Extensive descriptions of the individual risks, including the methods used to hedge the risks mentioned above, are provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statement. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 125 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 9. Research and Development Thanks to its numerous technology centers, the NOVOMATIC Group is a pioneer in the development of innovative products and system solutions in the area of gaming. The Group’s development activities focus both on “Distributed Gaming Solutions” and on gaming content and application software. Prominent among these developed software system solutions are management information systems, ticketing and smart card systems, access systems, video lottery systems, biometric player recognition, links to government regulatory authorities, player protection programs, “gaming as a service”, online and mobile gaming system solutions, jackpot systems, multiplayer and community gaming systems, and a new tournament for NOVO LINE under the name “World Championship of Slots”. Both modular software architecture and the various developments’ interoperability are crucially important. Development activities should be equally efficient for homogeneous markets and highly specialized niche markets. This is ensured by an open platform architecture and development teams that are specialized in individual market segments. The open platform infrastructure allows for the integration of third-party providers and their gaming applications to be able to satisfy market needs in a better and faster manner. In developing the newest generation of cabinet variants and models, which start new industry trends, industrial design is an extremely important factor. Innovations in terms of hardware include new and ergonomic cabinet designs for casino, video lottery and AWP gaming markets with control possible via up to five monitors; skill-based roulette facilities with state-of-the-art ball release mechanisms; the new GAMINATOR® Scorpion cabinet and V.I.P. terminals with giant screen technology and dynamic lighting effects via LED technology. In terms of data security, increasing emphasis is being placed on physical random number generators that use quantum mechanics. New categories of game features included in the portfolio are “Allpay”, “ExtraBet”, “Quattro”, “Reel Refill”, “Fixed Wilds”, “Xtra Stax” and “WinWays”, to name a few. Standalone progressive jackpots (referred to as “SAP Jackpots”) further expand gaming offerings, as does a new Egyptian-themed jackpot named “Kingdom of Ra”. NOVOMATIC is also represented in the field of branded games through licenses for Christopher Nolan’s Batman trilogy and the Sherlock Holmes films by Guy Ritchie. A license for the cult TV series MacGyver could be acquired as the most recent brand. Development is supported by hardware and software development teams in Austria, Germany, Great Britain, Iceland, the Netherlands, Spain, Russia, Argentina, Canada and Poland, working either in-house or related to the Group, as well as by exclusive partnerships with developers in Slovenia, Greece, the USA and Australia. The global importance of intellectual property protection is on the rise. With more than 4,000 registered IP trademarks and in excess of 100 registrations per year, this area is paid special attention. The Group is constantly developing new products and product variations, resulting in over 300 new gaming variants per year. With the help of the software development kit (SDK), it is possible to add games developed by third-parties (who use this SDK) to the portfolio immediately. 20 companies around the world are now working with this SDK, thereby adding to NOVOMATIC’s already extensive portfolio of games. NOVOMATIC’s innovative strength receives frequent public recognition in the form of awards. 126 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 10. Acknowledgments We would like to thank all employees of the NOVOMATIC Group for their strong commitment, with which they have made a major contribution to the company’s further development and success. We are especially indebted to the owner, Prof. Johann F. Graf, as well as to the Supervisory Board active in the reporting year chaired by Senator Herbert Lugmayr – they have contributed significantly to the positive development of the NOVOMATIC Group. We would also like to acknowledge the positive relationships with our capital providers and business partners, relationships which have always been characterized by a pleasant collaboration. Gumpoldskirchen, March 31, 2017 CONSOLIDATED Harald Neumann Ryszard Presch Thomas Graf Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Technology Officer, CTO Chief Executive Officer, CEO Chief Operating Officer, COO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Peter Stein Dr. Christian Widhalm Chief Financial Officer, CFO Chief Investment Officer, CIO 127 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2016 EUR m Notes 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets (7.1, 7.3) 702.8 498.21 Property, plant and equipment (7.2, 7.3) 955.1 856.91 Investment property (7.4) 21.1 18.7 Investments in associated companies (7.5) 0.2 0.2 Financial assets (7.6) 237.8 204.1 Deferred tax assets (7.7) 93.2 94.3 Other non-current assets (7.8) 116.9 111.3 2,127.1 1,783.7 Current assets Inventories (7.9) 225.5 191.9 Trade receivables, other receivables and assets (7.10) 372.5 359.2 Current tax receivables (7.7) 34.0 30.5 Current financial assets (7.11) 31.3 32.3 Cash and cash equivalents (7.12) 877.8 585.4 Assets held for sale (7.13) 0.0 0.2 1,541.1 1,199.5 Total ASSETS 3,668.2 2,983.2 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital (7.14) 26.6 26.0 Capital reserves (7.15) 85.4 1.0 Retained earnings (7.16) 1,245.6 1,172.51 Revaluation reserve (7.17) 5.2 -8.6 Currency translation adjustment (7.18) -53.8 -24.11 1,309.1 1,166.9 Non-controlling interests (7.19) 62.5 48.41 1,371.6 1,215.3 Non-current liabilities Non-current financial liabilities (7.20) 1,395.1 1,043.7 Non-current provisions (7.21) 66.1 52.1 Non-current tax liabilities (7.7) 11.0 18.3 Deferred tax liabilities (7.7) 90.4 66.01 Other non-current liabilities (7.22) 19.6 24.8 1,582.3 1,204.8 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities (7.23) 210.8 36.9 Current provisions (7.24) 68.7 48.1 Current tax liabilities (7.7) 33.9 27.8 Trade payables and other liabilities (7.25) 401.0 450.4 714.4 563.1 Total EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,668.2 2,983.2 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures pursuant to IAS 8 or IFRS 3 “Business combinations” 128 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for Financial Year 2016 EUR m Notes 01–12/2016 01–12/2015 Revenues (8.1) 2,294.1 2,086.3 Gaming taxes and betting fees (8.2) -238.3 -191.41 Revenues less gaming taxes and betting fees 2,055.9 1,894.91 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress (8.3) 21.0 8.2 Own work capitalized (8.3) 194.6 147.6 Other operating income (8.4) 109.0 124.6 Cost of material and other purchased services (8.5) -358.6 -282.8 Personnel costs (8.6) -676.8 -567.8 Amortization, depreciation, impairment and reversal of impairment for intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and investment property (8.7) -324.4 -301.31 Other operating expenses (8.8) -756.7 -707.9 Operating profit 264.1 315.4 Interest income (8.9) 7.8 8.4 Other financial income (8.10) 12.6 24.4 Interest expenses (8.11) -37.2 -32.1 Other financial expenses (8.12) -12.1 -13.4 CONSOLIDATED Currency exchange gains/losses from intra-group financing (8.13) -5.8 5.8 Financial result -34.7 -7.0 Earnings before taxes 229.4 308.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income taxes (8.14) -75.0 -95.81 Net income for the year 154.4 212.7 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests 6.8 4.5 thereof attributable to shareholders of the parent (net profit) 147.6 208.21 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures according to IAS 8 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for Financial Year 2016 EUR m Notes 01–12/2016 01–12/2015 Net income for the year 154.4 212.7 Amounts that will be reclassified to profit and loss account in subsequent periods Currency translation (7.18, 7.19) -29.9 6.81 Market value of financial assets available for sale (7.17) 18.4 1.0 Apportionable income tax -4.6 -0.2 Amounts that will not be reclassified to profit and loss account in subsequent periods Revaluation of the net defined benefit liability (7.16) -3.0 -0.8 Apportionable income tax 0.8 0.2 Other comprehensive income after taxes -18.3 7.0 Total comprehensive income 136.1 219.8 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests 6.7 4.4 thereof attributable to shareholders of the parent (net profit) 129.4 215.31 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures pursuant to IAS 8 or IFRS 3 “Business combinations” 129 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for Financial Year 2016 EUR m Notes 01–12/2016 01–12/2015 Operating profit 264.1 315.41 Loss (+) / Gain (-) from the disposal of fixed assets -9.6 -13.1 Depreciation (+) / Appreciation (-) of fixed assets 324.4 301.31 Other non-cash income and expenses -33.2 -44.4 Interest received and interest-related income 13.0 10.3 Taxes paid -89.7 -125.9 469.0 443.7 Increase (-) / Decrease (+) in inventories -30.4 -9.8 Increase (-) / Decrease (+) in receivables -31.8 -38.8 Increase (+) / Decrease (-) in provisions 24.9 0.3 Increase (+) / Decrease (-) in liabilities -2.4 22.0 Cash flow from operating activities 429.2 417.4 Proceeds from the disposal of fixed assets (excluding financial assets) 76.2 63.6 Proceeds from the disposal/repayment of financial assets 106.3 6.2 Proceeds from the sale of consolidated companies, net of cash 51.9 54.8 Acquisition of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment -415.3 -308.0 Acquisition of financial assets and other financial investments -139.4 -176.3 Acquisition of consolidated companies, net of cash -199.8 -89.5 Results from associated companies and investments 0.3 0.0 Investment income from other investments 0.0 9.3 Cash flow from investing activities -519.8 -439.9 Proceeds from capital increase 85.0 0.0 Dividend payments -50.8 -161.3 Proceeds from non-controlling interests 0.3 0.0 Expenditures from change in interests in subsidiaries (without change of control) -16.5 -18.2 Proceeds from the issuance of bonds 492.7 0.0 Expenditures from the redemption of bonds 0.0 -189.4 Proceeds from bank loans and financial liabilities 135.7 430.6 Payouts from bank loans and financial liabilities -133.0 -120.2 Interest paid and interest-related expenses -38.9 -46.7 Cash flow from financing activities 474.5 -105.2 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 383.9 -127.7 Currency translation adjustments -8.6 2.5 Changes in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in scope of consolidation 0.1 0.5 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 375.3 -124.7 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period (7.12, 9) 502.52 627.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period (7.12, 9) 877.8 502.52 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 375.3 -124.7 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures according to IAS 8 2) The cash and cash equivalents shown on the balance sheet amounted to EUR 585.4 million in 2015. The deviation of EUR 82.9 million against the cash and cash equivalents disclosed in the cash flow statement was the result of funds tied up for tax liabilities. Further details are provided in note (7.12) and (9). 130 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for Financial Year 2016 Noncontrolling Shares of shareholders of NOVOMATIC AG interests Equity Currency Share Capital Retained Revaluation translation EUR m capital reserve earnings reserves adjustment Total As of 1/1/2016 26.0 1.0 1,172.5 -8.6 -24.1 1,166.9 48.4 1,215.3 1) Total comprehensive income Net income for 0.0 0.0 147.6 0.0 0.0 147.6 6.8 154.4 the year Other comprehensive 0.0 0.0 -2.1 13.8 -29.9 -18.2 0.0 -18.3 income 2) Dividend payments 0.0 0.0 -50.0 0.0 0.0 -50.0 -0.8 -50.8 3) Change in noncontrolling interests 0.0 0.0 -14.1 0.0 0.1 -14.0 -2.5 -16.5 4) Changes in the scope 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.3 10.4 10.7 of consolidation 5) Obligation from written put options CONSOLIDATED for non-controlling interests 0.0 0.0 -8.6 0.0 0.0 -8.6 0.0 -8.6 6) Capital increase 0.6 84.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 85.0 0.3 85.3 As of 12/31/2016 26.6 85.4 1,245.6 5.2 -53.8 1,309.1 62.5 1,371.5 NonFINANCIAL STATEMENTS controlling Shares of shareholders of NOVOMATIC AG interests Equity Currency Share Capital Retained Revaluation translation EUR m capital reserve earnings reserves adjustment Total As of 1/1/2015 26.0 1.0 1,139.9 -9.4 -30.9 1,126.5 47.8 1,174.3 1) Total comprehensive income Net income for 0.0 0.0 208.21 0.0 0.0 208.2 4.5 212.7 the year Other comprehensive 0.0 0.0 -0.6 0.9 6.91 7.1 -0.1 7.0 income 2) Dividend payments 0.0 0.0 -152.0 0.0 0.0 -152.0 -9.3 -161.3 3) Change in noncontrolling interests 0.0 0.0 -9.6 0.0 0.0 -9.6 -5.3 -14.9 4) Changes in the scope 0.0 0.0 -11.7 0.0 0.0 -11.7 10.71 -1.1 of consolidation 5) Obligation from written put options for non-controlling interests 0.0 0.0 -2.8 0.0 0.0 -2.8 0.0 -2.8 6) Other equity transactions 0.0 0.0 1.2 0.0 0.0 1.2 0.0 1.2 As of 12/31/2015 26.0 1.0 1,172.5 -8.6 -24.1 1,166.9 48.4 1,215.3 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures pursuant to IAS 8 according to IFRS 3 “Business combinations” 131 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2016 (1) Information about the Company The NOVOMATIC Group consists of NOVOMATIC AG and its subsidiaries. NOVOMATIC AG is a public limited company according to Austrian legislation, and its registered office is in Gumpoldskirchen, Austria. The company’s address is NOVOMATIC AG, Wiener Strasse 158, 2352 Gumpoldskirchen. The company is filed with the Register of Companies maintained by the Regional Court of Wiener Neustadt under FN 69548 b. The NOVOMATIC Group is a globally operating, integrated gaming technology and entertainment company. The Group develops, manufactures and sells gaming products, lottery technologies and networked system solutions for domestic and international gaming and betting markets. The NOVOMATIC Group, furthermore, operates more than 1,700 gaming facilities worldwide, including casinos, automated casinos, bingo facilities and sports betting outlets. In addition to the development of gaming equipment, the NOVOMATIC Group has also established itself as a content provider of games for licensed online and offline suppliers and as an operator of online gaming platforms. The NOVOMATIC Group is aware of its considerable social responsibility and pursues business activities only in markets with a clearly defined legal framework. (2) Accounting Principles The present consolidated financial statement as of December 31, 2016, was prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as well as with the interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as adopted by the European Union (EU). The requirements of Sec. 245a para 1 of the Austrian Commercial Code have likewise been fulfilled. The financial year corresponds to the calendar year. The financial statements of every fully consolidated domestic or foreign company included in the consolidated financial statement for 2016 were prepared as of the balance sheet date of the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statement is prepared in euros. For the purpose of clarity, all items in the consolidated financial statement are shown in millions of euros (EUR m). Due to the financial rounding of individual values and percentages, insignificant discrepancies may arise. 132 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (3) Scope of Consolidation This consolidated financial statement covers NOVOMATIC AG and the companies that it controls. The control over a subsidiary is assumed if NOVOMATIC AG can exercise control over the associated company either directly or indirectly, is exposed to fluctuating returns on its investment, and can influence returns in terms of their size due to the power to control. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the acquisition date, i.e. the date on which the Group gains control over the company. Inclusion in the consolidated financial statement ends when the parent no longer exercises control over the subsidiary. The equity method is applied for companies that are significantly influenced – but cannot be considered to be controlled – by NOVOMATIC AG. In cases of joint operations, the attributable assets and liabilities are recognized. Affiliated companies, whose influence on the net assets, financial and earnings position of the Group is marginal, are not included in the scope of the fully consolidated companies but are shown as financial assets at acquisition costs. The scope of consolidation developed as follows: Scope of consolidation Fully consolidated Valued at equity Joint activity As of 1/1/2016 188 1 1 First time inclusion in 2016 40 0 0 Disposed of in 2016 -4 0 0 CONSOLIDATED Merged in 2016 -7 0 0 Switched from valuation using the equity method to fully 0 0 0 consolidated in 2016 As of 12/31/2016 217 1 1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS thereof non-Austrian companies 198 0 1 A summary of fully consolidated subsidiaries, companies consolidated using the equity method, joint operations and non-consolidated affiliated companies can be found under other disclosures. During 2016, the Group acquired or founded the following subsidiaries: • Admiral Gaming Castilla y Leon S.L., Spain • AGI Novomatic Tunisia S.A.R.L., Tunisia • Ainsworth UK Ltd., United Kingdom • Albanisch Österreichische Lotterien Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H., Austria • Automaten Service Playtime GmbH, Germany • BeKu Automaten & Gastronomie Service GmbH, Germany • Bingo Time Vicenza S.r.l., Italy • Blue Sky d.o.o., Croatia • Bolus d.o.o., Croatia • City Freizeitanlagen GmbH, Germany • Casino delle Alpi S.r.l., Italy • Casino Rixos GmbH, Germany • Comercial Txartel S.L., Spain • El Dolar de plata Linense S.L., Spain • El Dorado Derby S.L., Spain • Electro System S.p.A., Italy • Ellepi Ges. S.r.l., Italy • EZEA GmbH, Germany • Gran Casino Aljarafe S.A., Spain • I-New Peru S.A.C., Peru 133 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 • Königstraße Spielstätten und Automaten UG, Germany • Lotaria Kombëtare Sh.p.k., Albania • MG Gaming S.r.l., Italy • Millenium S.r.l., Italy • Moislinger Spielstätten und Automaten UG, Germany • Mühlenstraße Spielstätten und Automaten UG, Germany • Novomatic Services Spain S.L., Spain • Orione S.r.l., Italy • Otiumgi S.L., Spain • Promotrice Giocchi S.r.l., Italy • RAL Ltd., United Kingdom • Recreativos Hispajuegos S.L., Spain • Red Devil Spielothek GmbH, Germany • S4Gaming S.L., Spain • Super Sansa d.o.o., Croatia • Talarius Ltd., United Kingdom • Turhan Spielsalon GmbH, Germany • Verajuegos S.L., Spain • ZS Casino Emsland GmbH, Germany Novo Panama S.de R.L. was moved from the non-consolidated companies to the scope of fully consolidated companies as of January 1, 2016. Subsidiaries in Iceland, Croatia, Romania, Slovakia and Austria were merged. (4) Accounting Policies Standards and Interpretations to be Applied for the First Time in Financial Year 2016 The following new or revised standards and interpretations were adopted by EU legislation and implemented for the first time in the financial year 2016: Standard/Interpretation IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative IAS 16, IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortization IFRS 11 Acquisition of an Interest in a Joint Operation Miscellaneous Annual Improvements to IFRS 2010 – 2012 Miscellaneous Annual Improvements to IFRS 2012 – 2014 When implementing IAS 1 “Disclosure Initiative”, the structure of the notes was redesigned, and the notes and explanations realigned in consideration of materiality and relevance. The application of the other amendments had no significant impact on the consolidated financial statement. 134 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Standards and Interpretations Already Published, but only to be Applied in Future Periods At the date upon which this financial statement was authorized for publication, the following standards and interpretations relevant to the NOVOMATIC Group were already published but not yet mandatory and were not voluntarily applied in advance: Obligatory application for the Standard/Interpretation financial years from IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative January 1, 20171 IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealized Losses January 1, 20171 Sales or Contributions of Assets between an Investor and IFRS 10, IAS 28 its Associate or Joint Venture moved1 IAS 40 Investment Property January 1, 20181 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments January 1, 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers January 1, 2018 Clarification to IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” January 1, 20181 IFRS 16 Leasing January 1, 20191 Miscellaneous Annual Improvements to IFRS 2014 – 2016 January 1, 2017 and 20181 CONSOLIDATED IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration January 1, 20181 1) Not adopted by EU legislation so far The introduction and implementation of the aforementioned standards and interpretations in the NOVOMATIC Group are intenFINANCIAL STATEMENTS ded from the time of mandatory application taking into account any potential exemptions. The new IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” deals with the classification, recognition, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities. In addition, it introduces a new model for the impairment of financial assets geared to expected credit defaults. Furthermore, the regulations regarding hedge accounting were modified with the objective of allowing entities to better reflect risk management activities and measure their effectiveness more easily. According to current assessments, the application of IFRS 9 is expected to have an occasional impact on the categorization and measurement of financial assets. The regulations regarding the disclosure of impairments will tend to result in an earlier recognition of credit default losses (as well as with regards to trade receivables). IFRS 9 also requires comprehensive new disclosures and changes in the presentation. This relates in particular to the areas of hedge accounting and impairments. It is to be expected that these requirements will influence the nature and extent of disclosures concerning financial instruments in the year of first-time application. IFRS 9 is to be applied for the first time in the financial years commencing on or after January 1, 2018. NOVOMATIC does not plan to adopt the new standard early. The new IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” regulates the recognition of revenue and thus replaces IAS 11, IAS 18, IFRIC 13, IFRIC 15, IFRIC 18 and SIC-31. Pursuant to IFRS 15, revenues are to be recognized when the customer acquires the power to dispose of the agreed goods and services and may derive a benefit from them. The standard provides for a five-step model to recognize revenues. The first step is to identify the contract/contracts with customers and the independent performance obligations so as then to determine the transaction price and divide up the contractual performance obligations. NOVOMATIC generates revenue primarily in the following areas: 135 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 • Revenue from the operation of gaming machines • Rental and management revenue from gaming machines • Sales revenues from gaming machines • Revenue from eBusiness • Betting revenues NOVOMATIC is just starting a project to determine and evaluate the possible effects of the future application of the new standards. Work is currently beginning to analyze the regulations of IFRS 15 for the individual areas listed above, with a focus on: • Examining the summary of contracts • Examining the contract for individual lease obligations • Handling any variables in the transaction price • Interaction of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 in the rental business The current status of the investigation does not permit any deeper explanations of possible effects from the future application of IFRS 15. IFRS 15 is to be applied for the first time in the financial years commencing on or after January 1, 2018. NOVOMATIC does not plan to adopt the new standards early. The new IFRS 16 “Leasing” regulates the recognition, measurement and reporting, as well as the disclosure requirements, regarding leases. For the lessee, the standard provides a single accounting model. This model results in the lessee having to recognize all assets and liabilities from lease agreements in the balance sheet. The only exceptions are for current leases and leases for low-value assets. Lessors, on the other hand, continue to differentiate between financing and operating leases. The NOVOMATIC Group will initiate a detailed analysis of the impact of IFRS 16 shortly. At a general level, it is expected that the recognition of usage rights and leasing liabilities from the contracts previously classified as operating leases, where the Group acts as lessee, will be enhanced. The most important effect is apparent in the area of operated gaming arcades or locations that are largely rented by third-parties. As of the balance sheet date, the NOVOMATIC Group had non-cancellable operating lease agreements of EUR 275.1 million (reference to note pursuant to IAS 17). IFRS 16 is to be applied for the first time in the financial years commencing on or after January 1, 2019. NOVOMATIC does not plan to adopt the new standards early. The NOVOMATIC Group does not expect any significant impact on its net assets, or its financial and earnings position due to the first-time application of the other standards and interpretations. Basis of Consolidation First-time consolidation of acquired companies is carried out according to the purchase method at the date of acquisition. The consideration transferred in the case of a business combination is measured at its fair value, which is an aggregate of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities taken over from the former owner of the acquired company at the date of acquisition in exchange for control of the company. The contingent consideration is treated as part of the transferred consideration and is measured at its fair value at the date of acquisition. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the previously held interest in the acquired entity is revalued at the fair value prevailing at the acquisition date, and the resulting profit or loss is recognized in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. Additional acquisition costs are directly recognized as an expense. The acquired identifiable assets and liabilities are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition, unless there are exceptions. In accordance with IFRS 3, any excess of the consideration transferred over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. If the consideration transferred is below the identifiable net assets, the difference is recognized against income after a reevaluation of the acquired net assets. 136 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Non-controlling interests are valued initially at either their respective share of the identifiable net assets or their fair value. During the subsequent accounting, the profit/loss of the subsidiary is attributed proportionally to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in a negative balance. The presentation is within the equity and separate from the equity attributable to the share-holders of NOVOMATIC AG. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal. Changes in interests in subsidiaries without loss of control are recognized as equity transactions. The results, as well as the assets and liabilities of associated companies, are included using the equity method. Investments in associated companies are recognized on the balance sheet at acquisition costs, adjusted by post-acquisition changes of the Group’s share of net assets, as well as by losses resulting from impairment. Losses exceeding the Group’s share of the associated company are not taken into account. In the case of joint operations, the Group recognizes its share in jointly held assets, incurred debts, revenues and expenses. All significant intercompany receivables, liabilities, expenses and earnings, as well as intragroup profits, are eliminated. Foreign Currency Translation CONSOLIDATED For the currency translation of foreign financial statements, the concept of the functional currency is used. For all companies, this is the local currency, as these entities conduct their business independently in terms of financial, economic and organizational aspects. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Apart from the positions within equity, all balance sheet items are translated into the reporting currency at the exchange rate prevailing on December 31, 2016. Income and expense items of foreign consolidated companies are translated at average exchange rates for the period. Exchange differences arising are recognized in other comprehensive income. Upon the elimination of a foreign company from the consolidation scope, the exchange difference is recognized in profit or loss. The exchange rates used for currency translation developed as follows: Exchange rate prevailing at the Average exchange Equivalent amount = EUR 1 balance sheet date rate for the year 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 2016 2015 British Pound 0.8575 0.7350 0.8228 0.7240 Croatian Kuna 7.5500 7.6410 7.5310 7.6164 Macedonian Dinar 61.5520 61.5817 61.5594 61.5516 Peruvian New Sol 3.5200 3.7228 3.7165 3.5337 Romanian Leu 4.5420 4.5240 4.4922 4.4398 137 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Intangible Assets and Goodwill Acquired intangible assets are capitalized at acquisition costs and amortized on a scheduled straight-line basis according to their economic useful life or contract period, with the exceptions of client base and technology, which are written off using the diminishing balance method. Internally generated intangible assets are capitalized at production costs if the criteria for inclusion are met and amortized on a scheduled straight-line basis according to their economic useful life. Trademarks and licenses can have indefinite useful lives. The assessment of intangible assets with an indefinite useful life is reviewed once a year to decide if the assumption of an indefinite useful life is still justified. If this is not the case, the assumption of an indefinite useful life is changed prospectively to a limited useful life. For intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, an impairment test is carried out at least annually or, in cases where indications of impairment arise, also during the year. Impairment is given if the recoverable amount is lower than the book value. The recoverable amount is the higher value of the fair value and the value-in-use. Impairment is recognized in the year during which the event causing the impairment arises. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the assets are written up. In the case of business combinations, any excess of the consideration transferred over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is shown as goodwill and allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of an impairment test. The allocation to cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units is carried out on the identified business segments that are expected to profit from it. The carrying amount of the goodwill is subject to an impairment test annually as of September 30, or if there is any indication of impairment. The book value is compared to the recoverable amount for the cash-generating unit to which it is allocated. Any impairment loss is immediately charged against income and is not reversed in any later period. The estimated useful lives for intangible assets and goodwill are: Useful life in years from to Goodwill indefinite Software 3 5 20 Patents and trademarks 3 or indefinite 20 Licenses 5 or indefinite Customer relationships 3 20 Other intangible assets 3 10 Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated on the balance sheet at acquisition or production costs less the scheduled straight-line depreciation and amortization. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment begins when they are ready for use. For the determination of the estimated useful life of property, plant and equipment, their expected economic life is taken into account. Concerning impairment tests in cases where the corresponding indications arise, we refer to the remarks above. 138 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The estimated useful lives for property, plant and equipment are: Useful life in years from to Buildings 20 50 Investments in rented property 10 20 Machines 3 10 Gaming machines 3 7 Equipment 3 10 Investment Property Investment property denotes land and buildings held but not used in business operations. They are stated at amortized cost. Buildings are written off over their estimated useful lives of 25 to 50 years using the straight-line method. Leasing Agreements by which all risks and rewards of ownership related to the use of the assets transferred to the Group are classified as CONSOLIDATED finance leases. Assets held as finance leases are recognized initially at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, and are written off over their estimated useful life or over the shorter term of the leasing contract, if applicable. The capitalized assets are shown on the balance sheet along with the present value of the liability from all lease payments outstanding at the balance sheet date. For agreements where the Group is lessor, the amounts payable by the lessee based on finance lease relationships are shown as receiFINANCIAL STATEMENTS vables amounting to the net investment in the lease of the Group. All other leases are qualified as operating leases. Rentals are shown as an expense or income. Inventories Inventories are stated at acquisition or production cost, or at the lower net realizable value. Costs of raw materials and supplies are calculated using the weighted average price method. Aside from individual manufacturing and material costs, finished and unfinished goods contain reasonable shares of material and production overheads. Inventories are reviewed for slow movement or obsolete items and, if necessary, appropriate adjustments are made. Advance payments concerning inventory are related to advance payments for deliveries. Other Assets Precious metals (gold) are valued and recognized in accordance with the current market value. Due to the high liquidity and volatility, a measurement at fair value is usual and considered the most suitable valuation method. Financial Instruments A financial instrument is a contract that is simultaneously recognized by one entity as a financial asset and by that entity’s counterparty as a financial liability or an equity instrument. The recognition of the financial instrument in the balance sheet occurs only when the Group is a party to the contract. The valuation of financial instruments is dependent on the categories to which the specific instruments belong, as defined in accordance with IAS 39. In the NOVOMATIC Group’s balance sheet, the following financial instruments are disclosed: 139 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 • Loans and receivables • Available-for-sale financial assets • Financial liabilities recognized at amortized cost • Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss Loans and Receivables Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on tradable markets are recognized under this category. Such assets primarily include trade receivables, loans and other receivables, as well as cash and cash equivalents. Loans and receivables are carried at amortized cost less impairment. Foreign currency receivables are valued using the prevailing rates as of the balance sheet date, and the resulting currency translation differences are recognized in profit or loss. Available-for-sale Financial Assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that have been either designated as such or not classified in any of the other categories in accordance with IAS 39. These include securities, investments in affiliated, non-consolidated entities and other participating interests. The valuations of available-for-sale assets are carried at fair value. The valuation of securities is made to correspond with market values – the values of which can be derived from quoted market prices on the balance sheet date. Any changes in value resulting from fluctuations in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income, accumulated under changes in revaluation reserve (IAS 39). When the investment is impaired, the cumulative gains or loss previously accumulated in the revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss. In some cases, the valuation of holdings in affiliated, non-consolidated entities and other participating interests cannot be reliably determined. Therefore, such assets are carried at amortized cost less impairment. If the reasons for the impairment no longer exist, the assets will be appreciated up to the maximum of their original acquisition costs. Financial Liabilities Recognized at Amortized Cost Financial liabilities, which include bonds, borrowings from banks and other liabilities, are carried at amortized cost. Non-current liabilities are discounted using the effective interest method, with the interest expense, calculated in accordance with the effective interest rate, recognized in profit or loss. Foreign currency liabilities are valued using the prevailing rates on the balance sheet date, and the resulting currency translation differences are recognized in profit or loss. Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss A financial liability is measured at fair value through profit or loss when it is classified as a derivative or contingent consideration. The Group uses derivatives as hedging instruments against interest and currency risks. These derivatives are valued at fair value on the basis of generally accepted financial mathematical models. Derivatives are recognized as assets when their fair value is positive, and as liabilities when their fair value is negative. This method of recognition applies to all derivatives within the Group, as they do not fulfill the criteria of a hedging relationship as prescribed in IAS 39. The principle of hedge accounting is not applicable. For the initial recognition of contingent considerations in a business combination, the facts and circumstances surrounding the contingent consideration that existed at the time of acquisition are disclosed. Subsequent valuation is measured at fair value through profit or loss. 140 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Impairment of Financial Assets Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected negatively. Losses expected to arise from possible future events, regardless of their likelihood of occurrence, cannot be recognized. For the purposes of determining the recoverability of receivables, the creditworthiness of customers, existing collaterals, changes in payment history and behavior, and past experiences, are taken into account. Expected default risks are calculated into value adjustments or write-downs. Recognition and Derecognition Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. Recognition and derecognition are booked at the trading date. The Group derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset along with all significant risks and rewards associated with ownership of the asset to another entity. The Group derecognizes a financial liability when the Group’s obligations related to that financial liability have been discharged or canceled, or have expired. CONSOLIDATED Provisions Provisions for pensions or similar obligations, as well as provisions for severance and jubilee payments, are measured according FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to the regulations of IAS 19 using the projected unit credit method. The costs of the estimated benefit entitlements are allocated over the full period of employment. Future increases in remuneration are taken into account. Actuarial gains and losses concerning provisions for severance payments and pensions are recognized in other comprehensive income or charged against income when it comes to jubilee payments. Past service costs are recognized as an expense at the time of plan adjustment. Provisions correspond to the present value of the obligations (DBO). The accrued amounts are based on expert opinion of qualified actuaries as of the respective balance sheet date. Other provisions are stated at the amount necessary to cover uncertain payment obligations and result from careful consideration of all the facts involved. Contingent Liabilities Contingent liabilities are possible current obligations that arise from past events, where an outflow of resources is nonetheless improbable. If in rare cases, a present obligation is not recognized in the consolidated financial statement as a provision because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability, this is also classified as a contingent liability. Contingent liabilities are not stated in the consolidated balance sheet but are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statement. Revenue and Expense Recognition The Group recognizes revenues from the sale and rental of gaming machines, the operation of gaming halls and electronic gaming machine casinos, as well as from online gaming and betting. Revenues from the sale of gaming machines are recognized when the products are delivered, and risk and ownership have passed to the customer. Rental revenues are recognized at the rendering of service; obtained special rent payments are deferred on a straight-line basis over the service performance period (basic rental period). Revenues from the operation of gaming halls and electronic gaming machine casinos are shown as the net amount of bets placed by customers and payouts received by them and are recognized at the time of settlement. In cases where the supply and networking of account settlement systems represent the core business activity, the consideration received is shown as revenue. Revenue from online gaming is recognized as soon as the underlying games have taken place or the service has been provided. 141 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Betting income is recognized according to the number of bets placed up to the balance sheet date, insofar as the underlying bets have already taken place. Revenues from betting operations are shown as net amounts resulting from bets and payouts from betting. Operating expenses are recognized when incurred or at the date of use of the service. Financial Result Interest expense is comprised of interest accrued on debt financing and finance leases. Other finance cost relates to the impairment of financial assets, losses on the disposal of financial assets and expenses related to derivatives. Interest income includes realized interest income from the investment in funds and investments in financial assets. Other finance income is comprised of dividends and similar income, profits from the sale of financial assets, and income from derivatives. Foreign currency effects resulting from intragroup financing are stated separately in the financial result because of their close connection to financing activities. Taxes The income tax expense disclosed is comprised of the income tax payments by each subsidiary based on its taxable profit for the year and calculated using the applicable tax rate for the respective jurisdiction (“actual taxes”), as well as of changes in the deferred taxes. Deferred taxes are accounted for using the balance sheet liability method and recognized for temporary differences arising between the carrying amounts stated in the consolidated balance sheet as per IFRS and the corresponding tax base used on the balance sheet of the subsidiary. Furthermore, the probable tax advantages resulting from tax loss carried forward are also taken into account for the determination of deferred taxes. Temporary differences arising from non-deductible goodwill or (under certain circumstances) from the initial recognition of an asset or liability are not recognized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown net in the Group if a right of set-off exists and the taxes relate to taxpayers in the same tax group. Important average tax rates used by Group companies are: Country 2016 tax rate 2015 tax rate Chile 24 % 22.5 % and 24 % Germany 15.825 %–57.2 % 15.825 %–57.2 % United Kingdom 20 % 18 % and 20 % Italy 27.5 % to 31.4 % 24 %–31.4 % Croatia 20 % 20 % Latvia 15 % 15 % Malta 5 % and 35 % 5 % and 35 % Macedonia 10 % 10 % Netherlands 25 % 25 % Austria 25 % 25 % Peru 28 % 28 % Romania 16 % 16 % Spain 25 % 25 % and 28 % United States 40 % 40 % 142 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Fair Value Measurement The fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The NOVOMATIC Group uses the following hierarchy to allocate certain assets and/ or liabilities, which are either to be stated at fair value or at least where the fair value has to be disclosed, to a certain measurement method: Level 1: Measurement on the basis of quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets. Level 2: Measurement on the basis of market prices for similar instruments or on the basis of valuation methods, relying solely upon parameters observable in the market. Level 3: Measurement on the basis of parameters that significantly affect the fair value and are not based on observable market data. In the face of varying influential factors, the fair values presented can only be considered as indicators of the values that could actually be generated in the market. Estimates and Judgments For the preparation of the financial statement, assumptions and estimates were made that influence the amount of assets and CONSOLIDATED liabilities, income and expenses, for the review period. Even under a high degree of diligence, these assumptions may differ from the actual circumstances. For the following situations, the assumptions made at the balance sheet date are of particular importance: The assessment of recoverability of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment is based on assumptions for the future. For FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the impairment tests, several assumptions to determine the recoverable amount are taken into account. Of particular importance are future cash flows as well as the discount rate. Cash flow predictions are based on financial plans approved by the management. In addition, assumptions for the presence of indicators for impairments or the reversal of impairments are necessary. Concerning purchase price allocations performed for business combinations, assumptions are made concerning the existence and valuation of assets (in particular intangible assets), liabilities and contingent liabilities received. The evaluation of their fair value is based on several different assumptions, especially for future cash flows and the discount rate. For the evaluation of contingent considerations, assumptions are made concerning the probability of achieving the defined objectives. Assumptions are necessary for estimating the useful life of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable income will be generated in future periods to utilize deductible temporary differences or existing tax loss carryforwards. The fair value of financial assets (if reliably determinable), as well as derivatives, is derived based on market information available on the balance sheet date. When calculating the market value of financial investments, a multiplier method is used as there is no active market available for this. The parameters used in the measurement may be fraught with predictive uncertainty and, similarly, the selection of the suitable peer group requires assumptions about their comparability. In the face of varying influencing factors, the values disclosed may deviate from values realized at a later point in time. Concerning the valuation of inventories, assumptions must be made regarding market development and economic exploitability. Concerning receivables, individual value adjustments are made based on assumptions about the probability of default. 143 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Additionally, the preparation of financial statements requires that assumptions are made about future developments. Concerning social capital obligations, assumptions are made about the employees’ retirement age and life expectancy as well as about future pension and salary increases. The assumptions upon which estimates are based are subject to constant scrutiny and adjustment. Changes in Recognition Gaming taxes and betting fees are levied in different amounts in the jurisdictions in which the NOVOMATIC Group is active as operator of gaming arcades and casinos, as well as betting shops and sports betting outlets. The different taxes range from fixed taxes to taxes that depend on gross gaming revenue (GGR) or insertion (IN), although, within these categories, there may be an arrangement for minimum and maximum amounts. The tendency has been for the calculation basis for gaming taxes and betting fees in the Group’s core markets to become a variable form of taxation. The recognition of gaming taxes and betting fees is therefore, from this financial year, directly in revenues in the consolidated profit and loss account, so as to achieve an informative presentation for the target audience of the financial statement. Adjustment of the Comparative Information of the Consolidated Financial Statement as of December 31, 2015 The values as of December 31, 2015, were corrected as per IAS 8.41 et seq. At the end of December 2015, a long-standing contract on the provision of services in the field of software for a Scandinavian customer was, contrary to expectations, not extended. This means that the existing contract expires at the end of 2017. The effects on capitalized customer relationships were not taken into account in the consolidated financial statement as of December 31, 2015. An impairment of EUR 10.0 million should have been recognized for customer relationships. The following tables show the effects of the adjustments on the individual items of the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. There is no effect on the opening balance of the previous year. Effects as a result of error correction Previously reported Adjustment Adjusted EUR m 12/31/2015 12/31/2015 12/31/2015 Non-current assets Intangible assets 507.5 -10.0 497.5 Equity Retained earnings 1,180.5 -8.0 1,172.5 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 70.4 -2.0 68.4 Effects as a result of error correction Previously reported Adjustment Adjusted EUR m 12/31/2015 12/31/2015 12/31/2015 Amortization, depreciation, impairment and reversal of impairment for intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and investment property -291.3 -10.0 -301.3 Operating profit 325.4 -10.0 315.4 Earnings before taxes 318.5 -10.0 308.5 Income taxes -97.8 2.0 -95.8 Net income for the year 220.7 -8.0 212.7 144 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (5) Company Acquisitions in 2016 Talarius Group, United Kingdom As of June 24, 2016, the Group company NOVOMATIC UK Ltd. acquired 100 percent of the shares in the British gaming operator Talarius Ltd. The acquired company operates 7,500 gaming terminals in 162 gaming facilities via its operating subsidiary RAL Ltd. With this acquisition, the Group is continuing its expansion strategy, becoming the largest operator of adult gaming centers in the UK. The Talarius Group has been included on the basis of provisional fair values for the acquired assets and assumed liabilities. When recording the acquisition on the balance sheet, trademarks and usage rights in particular for the operation of approved gaming arcades (licenses) were identified and valued. The allocation of the total purchase price has not yet been completed. There may be changes uncovered in particular regarding intangible assets and goodwill. The provisional fair values at the acquisition date are as follows: EUR m Fair values Intangible assets 102.9 Property, plant and equipment 22.0 Other non-current assets 1.3 CONSOLIDATED Deferred tax assets 4.8 Inventories 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 8.6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other current assets 3.6 Non-current liabilities and provisions -3.7 Deferred tax liabilities -18.6 Current liabilities and provisions -15.4 Net assets 105.6 Non-controlling interests 0.0 Goodwill 20.1 Consideration 125.7 The consideration amounting to EUR 125.7 million has been paid in cash. Goodwill resulting from the acquisition reflects expected strategic advantages for the Group due to the expansion of operational business activities and further potential growth through synergies. None of the goodwill resulting from this acquisition is tax-deductible. Revenue amounts to EUR 45.9 million since the acquisition date, whereas the result for the period since the acquisition date amounts to EUR 3.9 million. Other Company Acquisitions Germany On January 25, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in the newly founded company Turhan Spielsalon GmbH were acquired, followed by the transfer of 5 gaming arcades. This means that the acquired company operates 5 gaming arcades in Schleswig-Holstein. On April 1, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in Red Devil Spielothek GmbH were also acquired. The acquired company operates 4 gaming arcades in Baden-Württemberg. 145 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 On May 2, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in the three German companies Königstrasse Spielstätten und Automaten UG, Moislinger Spielstätten Automaten UG, and Mühlenstrasse Spielstätten und Automaten UG were acquired, respectively. The acquired companies operate a total of 3 gaming arcades in Schleswig-Holstein. The acquisition of 100 percent of the shares in Casino Rixos GmbH as of June 7, 2016, ZS Casino Emsland GmbH as of July 15, 2016, and EZEA GmbH as of July 25, 2016, was also completed. The acquired companies operate a total of 18 gaming arcades spread across Hesse, Lower Saxony and North-Rhine Westphalia. On June 7, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in Automaten Service Playtime GmbH were acquired. The acquired company operates 3 gaming arcades in Schleswig-Holstein. On September 15, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in City Freizeitanlagen GmbH were acquired. The acquired company operates 5 gaming arcades in Schleswig-Holstein. On December 2, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in Beku Automaten & Gastronomie Service GmbH were acquired. The acquired company operates 7 gaming arcades in North Rhine-Westphalia. These acquisitions were carried out to enhance the Group’s presence as an operator within the German gaming market. Italy On January 1, 2016, 75 percent of the shares in Electro System S.p.A. were acquired. The acquired company develops and manufactures CPUs for AWP gaming machines. Call and put options have been agreed upon for the remaining 25 percent stake of non-controlling interests. The obligation resulting from the written put option was balanced as a liability. With this acquisition, the Group enhances its production capacity for the Italian market. On January 29, 2016, Allstar S.r.l. acquired 100 percent of the shares in Alpina Entertainment S.r.l. and promptly merged. The subject of the transaction is the placement of 460 AWPs in hospitality establishments. Furthermore, on July 7, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in MG Gaming S.r.l. were acquired. The subject of the transaction is primarily the placement of 636 AWPs in hospitality establishments. This and the aforementioned acquisition enhance the Group’s market position in the Italian market for machine placement. On February 19, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in Newco S.r.l., an operator of 7 gaming arcades in the Emila-Romagna region were acquired and promptly merged with Allstar S.r.l. Furthermore, on August 5, 2016, 51 percent of the shares in Casino delle Alpi were acquired. The acquired company operates 5 gaming arcades in several regions in Italy. With this acquisition, the Group enhances its activities as an operator of gaming arcades. On April 1, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in Promotrice Giochi S.r.l. were acquired. The company operates a bingo hall in the area of Milan. On June 10, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in Ellepi Ges S.r.l., an operator of a bingo hall in the Latium region, were acquired. Furthermore, on July 15, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in Orione S.r.l., an operator of a bingo hall in the area of Abruzzo, were acquired. On November 30, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in Bingo Time Vicenza S.r.l., which operates two bingo halls in the Veneto region, were also acquired. With these acquisitions, the Group has expanded its existing portfolio in Italy to include bingo activities. Spain On July 7, 2016, 60 percent of the shares in Verajuegos S.L. and Recreativos Hispajuegos S.L. were acquired. The two acquired companies operate a total of 7 existing gaming arcades and 3 new sites in Andalusia. 146 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 On July 11, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in El Dolar de Plata Linense S.L., an operator of a gaming arcade in Cádiz, were acquired. On September 26, 2016, 80 percent of the shares in El Dorado Derby S.L. and Comercial Txartel S.L. were acquired. These two acquired companies operate a total of 8 gaming arcades in the Basque Country. With these acquisitions, the Group has successfully increased its presence as an operator of gaming arcades in several regions across Spain and entered the market in the Basque Country. On July 21, 2016, 60 percent of the shares in OTIUMGI S.L., as well as its wholly owned subsidiary S4Gaming S.L., were acquired. The acquired companies develop video bingo software for customers primarily in Latin America. With these acquisitions, the Group would like to expand in the Latin American market with regards to video bingo technology. On July 29, 2016, 99.46 percent of the shares in Gran Casino Aljarafe S.A. were acquired. The other non-controlling shares have also since been acquired. The company is the only casino operator in the region of Seville. The current license issued allows the casino to be operated until 2023. With this acquisition of a casino operator, the Group has expanded the scope of its activities in Spain. United Kingdom (other acquisitions) On April 15, 2016, NOVOMATIC UK Ltd. acquired 100 percent of the shares in Ainsworth (UK) Ltd. The acquired company is a company selling AWP gaming machines of the Australian manufacturer Ainsworth to the European market. With this transaction, the CONSOLIDATED Group has expanded its sales channels. Croatia FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On May 17, 2016, Novo Gaming d.o.o. acquired 100 percent of the shares in Bolus d.o.o., as well as its subsidiary Super Sansa d.o.o. The acquired companies operate 96 betting shops and 2 gaming arcades, each with 30 AWP gaming machines. On June 1, 2016, the Group company also acquired 100 percent of the shares in Blue Sky d.o.o. The acquired company operates a casino in Split, with 13 live game gaming tables, 1 multiplayer roulette and 177 AWP gaming machines. With these acquisitions, the Group continues its expansion strategy in the Croatian gaming market. With a view to concentrating operating activities, all acquired companies were merged with the existing Group company Interigre d.o.o. Albania/Austria On November 30, 2016, 100 percent of the shares in the Albanisch Österreichische Lotterien Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H., Austria, and indirectly in its wholly owned subsidiary Lotaria Kombëtare Sh.p.k., Albania, were acquired. The Albanian company runs the national lottery in Albania until 2023 due to a state concession. With this acquisition, the Group has expanded its activities in the area of lotteries. The recognition of the individual company acquisitions pursuant to IFRS 3 in Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom (other acquisitions), Croatia and Albania/Austria was largely completed as of the reporting date, whereas provisional values are still being used for this in Spain. Accordingly, the values in the opening balances have not yet been finally determined, and the allocation of the total purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed has also not yet been completed. Changes are possible, in particular in the area of intangible assets. The inclusion of these acquired companies in the consolidated financial statement is therefore partially based on provisional fair values. 147 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 In the following overview, the provisional fair values for these further business combinations (i.e. excluding the separately recognized Talarius Group) are presented in summary: EUR m Fair values Intangible assets 76.9 Property, plant and equipment 23.7 Other non-current assets 2.7 Deferred tax assets 2.2 Inventories 3.7 Cash and cash equivalents 15.9 Other current assets 13.8 Non-current liabilities and provisions -29.9 Deferred tax liabilities -21.3 Current liabilities and provisions -24.6 Net assets 63.0 Non-controlling interests -10.4 Goodwill 62.4 Received surpluses recognized in profit and loss -1.4 Consideration 113.6 The consideration for the listed acquisitions amounted to EUR 113.6 million, with EUR 93.1 million paid in cash, EUR 7.6 million resulting from contingent considerations and EUR 13.0 million resulting from offsetting with receivables. The contingent purchase price has been calculated depending on the development of the underlying performance indicators of 2016. Non-controlling interests have been valued at their respective shares of the recognized identifiable net assets at the acquisition date. Provisional goodwill resulting from the acquisitions reflects the strategic advantages that are expected for the Group from the expansion of operating activities in the respective market, as well as the expected synergies. Based on a preliminary assessment, goodwill will not be tax-deductible. Other current assets consist mainly of trade receivables with a fair value of EUR 6.9 million or EUR 7.3 million gross. Revenue amounts to EUR 52.0 million since the acquisition dates, and the results for the period amount to EUR -1.4 million. Further Comments on the Acquisitions Assuming that the acquisition dates for business combinations – Talarius Group and the other company acquisitions – were at the start of the reporting periods, revenues in the present consolidated financial statement would come to EUR 2,153.6 million and the annual profit to EUR 222.4 million. 148 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (6) Company Acquisitions in 2015 The individual company acquisitions are detailed in NOVOMATIC AG’s consolidated financial statement as of December 31, 2015. Playnation Group As of the time of preparation of the 2015 consolidated financial statement, the Playnation Group was included based on provisional fair values, as the values in the opening balance, as well as the valuation of intangible assets, had not yet been conclusively determined. The final values for this business combination are now available and have been taken into account retroactively: EUR m Provisional fair values Final fair values Intangible assets 24.9 25.1 Property, plant and equipment 34.1 29.4 Other non-current assets 4.9 4.9 Deferred tax assets 0.5 0.5 Inventories 3.3 3.3 Cash and cash equivalents 8.1 8.1 Other current assets 6.5 6.5 CONSOLIDATED Non-current liabilities and provisions -25.4 -25.4 Deferred tax liabilities -6.6 -6.0 Current liabilities and provisions -17.8 -17.6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Net assets 32.6 28.8 Goodwill 0.0 3.8 Consideration 32.6 32.6 Goodwill resulting from the acquisition reflects expected strategic advantages for the Group due to the expansion of operational business activities and further potential growth through synergies. None of the goodwill resulting from this acquisition is taxdeductible. The other disclosures from 2015 remained unchanged. Other Acquisitions At the time of preparation of the 2015 consolidated financial statement, the accounting for the company acquisition in Spain had not yet been completed, in particular with regards to intangible assets, meaning provisional fair values had been used. The final values for this business combination are now available and have been taken into account retroactively. 149 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The following overview provides a summary for the company acquisitions in Germany, Italy, Canada, the USA, Croatia, Serbia, the UK (other acquisitions) and Spain: EUR m Provisional fair values Final fair values Intangible assets 71.2 65.1 Property, plant and equipment 15.8 15.8 Other non-current assets 1.2 1.2 Deferred tax assets 0.7 0.7 Inventories 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 12.2 12.2 Other current assets 5.0 5.0 Non-current liabilities and provisions -20.8 -20.8 Deferred tax liabilities -18.1 -16.3 Current liabilities and provisions -9.6 -9.6 Net assets 57.5 53.3 Non-controlling interests -12.1 -10.6 Goodwill 27.4 30.2 Consideration 72.9 72.9 Goodwill resulting from the acquisitions reflects expected strategic advantages for the Group due to the expansion of operational business activities in the respective markets. None of the goodwill resulting from these acquisitions is tax-deductible. The other disclosures from 2015 remained unchanged. 150 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (7) Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet (7.1) Intangible Assets EUR m Trademarks Licenses and Customer Other Acquisition costs Goodwill and patents concessions relationships Software intangible assets Total As of 1/1/2015 140.5 32.0 255.8 61.8 126.9 68.0 685.0 Currency translation adjustments 1.4 1.0 2.0 3.5 1.1 0.1 9.1 Acquisitions through business combinations 34.11 2.1 56.21 26.61 4.8 1.0 124.8 Additions 0.0 0.0 1.7 0.0 6.5 8.8 17.1 Disposals -1.9 -3.6 -3.4 0.0 -5.9 -5.6 -20.4 Reclassifications 0.0 -0.3 0.7 0.0 0.4 -0.7 0.1 As of 12/31/2015 174.0 31.3 313.0 91.9 133.8 71.6 815.6 Trademarks Licenses and Customer Other Acquisition costs Goodwill and patents concessions relationships Software intangible assets Total As of 1/1/2016 174.0 31.3 313.0 91.9 133.8 71.6 815.6 Currency translation adjustments -4.7 -2.8 -9.9 -1.6 -0.5 -0.3 -19.7 Acquisitions through business combinations 82.5 12.0 143.7 18.7 6.2 1.2 264.2 Additions 0.0 0.0 21.2 0.0 14.3 8.4 44.0 Disposals -0.4 0.4 -5.8 0.0 -1.8 0.6 -7.0 CONSOLIDATED Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 -0.1 0.0 0.9 -1.0 -0.2 As of 12/31/2016 251.4 40.9 462.1 109.0 153.0 80.5 1,096.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cumulative depreciation and amorTrademarks Licenses and Customer Other tization Goodwill and patents concessions relationships Software intangible assets Total As of 1/1/2015 34.5 9.8 93.7 8.6 68.5 31.3 246.3 Currency translation adjustments 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.5 Acquisitions through business combinations 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.2 Additions 0.0 0.9 18.8 16.61 21.6 6.4 64.3 Impairment 8.0 2.2 3.5 0.1 0.2 1.6 15.7 Disposals -0.3 0.0 -3.3 0.0 -4.4 -0.8 -8.9 Reclassifications 0.0 -0.2 0.7 0.0 0.2 -0.7 0.1 Impairment reversals 0.0 0.0 -0.7 -0.1 0.0 0.0 -0.8 As of 12/31/2015 42.2 12.9 112.7 25.5 86.4 37.8 317.4 Cumulative depreciation and amorTrademarks Licenses and Customer Other tization Goodwill and patents concessions relationships Software intangible assets Total As of 1/1/2016 42.2 12.9 112.7 25.5 86.4 37.8 317.4 Currency translation adjustments 0.5 -0.1 0.4 2.1 -0.2 -0.2 2.5 Acquisitions through business combinations 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.9 0.0 2.0 Additions 0.0 1.5 24.6 9.6 22.5 6.0 64.1 Impairment 0.6 1.2 10.3 0.0 0.9 2.0 14.9 Disposals -0.2 0.4 -5.8 0.0 -1.6 1.1 -6.1 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 -0.1 0.0 0.2 -0.1 0.0 Impairment reversals 0.0 0.0 -0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.7 As of 12/31/2016 43.1 15.9 141.3 37.1 110.2 46.5 394.1 Book values as of 12/31/2015 131.8 18.4 200.3 66.4 47.4 33.8 498.2 Book values as of 12/31/2016 208.4 25.0 320.8 71.9 42.8 34.0 702.8 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures pursuant to IAS 8 or IFRS 3 “Business combinations” 151 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the following groups of cash-generating units: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Gaming Operations – Germany 25.7 12.4 Gaming Operations – United Kingdom 43.1 27.8 Gaming Operations – Italy 18.4 7.6 Gaming Operations – Netherlands 4.8 4.8 Gaming Operations – Online 10.3 10.3 Gaming Operations – Spain 13.5 2.71 Gaming Technology – Spain Casinos 5.2 0.0 Gaming Technology – Italy 26.6 19.4 Gaming Technology – Online 10.3 10.1 Gaming Technology – Spain 7.7 4.5 Gaming Technology – United Kingdom 14.0 5.31 Mobile Virtual Network 4.4 4.4 Other 24.3 22.51 Total 208.4 131.8 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures according to IFRS 3 “Business combinations” Goodwill with a single value below EUR 4.0 million is summarized under “Other.” Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives Intangible assets comprise licenses with an indefinite useful life amounting to EUR 144.3 million (previous year: EUR 61.5 million) and trademarks with an indefinite useful life amounting to EUR 1.5 million (previous year: EUR 10.9 million). The licenses and trademarks are allocated to the following groups of cash-generating units. Single values below EUR 4.0 million are summarized under “Other.” Licenses EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Gaming Operations – Latvia 18.6 18.6 Gaming Operations – United Kingdom 124.1 40.1 Other 1.5 2.9 Total 144.3 61.5 Trademarks EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Gaming Operations – United Kingdom 0.0 9.8 Other 1.5 1.1 Total 1.5 10.9 The useful life of the preceding intangible assets is indefinite because there is currently no prospect of an end to their economic use. However, in the case of Gaming Operations UK, a rebranding process was started, meaning it may now be assumed that trademarks have a foreseeable useful life. As result, the amortization methods and periods of these trademarks were adjusted and will be spread over the planned transformation period. 152 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Impairments and Reversals of Impairments Details concerning impairment tests for intangible assets may be found under note (7.3). Research and Development Expenses Internally generated intangible assets are only capitalized if the criteria stipulated by IAS 38.57 are fulfilled. In the financial year, non-capitalizable development costs have been charged against income in the amount of EUR 95.0 million (previous year: EUR 84.7 million) as personnel costs, other expenses, as well as depreciation and amortization on property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. (7.2) Property, Plant and Equipment EUR m Land and Factory and office Prepayments and property Acquisition costs buildings Plant and machinery equipment under construction Total As of 1/1/2015 629.9 809.2 328.1 16.5 1,783.7 Currency translation adjustments 1.1 2.4 1.9 0.0 5.4 Acquisitions through business combinations 9.7 37.31 27.2 0.0 74.2 Additions 39.6 176.6 53.4 21.7 291.2 CONSOLIDATED Disposals -38.0 -127.6 -32.7 -7.7 -206.0 Reclassifications 2.9 3.5 -0.4 -6.5 -0.5 As of 12/31/2015 645.2 901.4 377.6 24.0 1,948.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Land and Factory and office Prepayments and property Acquisition costs buildings Plant and machinery equipment under construction Total As of 1/1/2016 645.2 901.4 377.6 24.0 1,948.1 Currency translation adjustments -2.9 -13.7 -5.8 0.1 -22.4 Acquisitions through business combinations 52.8 55.1 42.6 0.2 150.7 Additions 52.7 216.6 75.1 45.9 390.3 Disposals -42.0 -93.2 -37.9 -29.5 -202.6 Reclassifications 4.7 3.9 2.7 -11.1 0.2 As of 12/31/2016 710.5 1,070.0 454.2 29.6 2,264.3 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures according to IFRS 3 “Business combinations” 153 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Cumulative depreciation Land and Factory and office Prepayments and property and amortization buildings Plant and machinery equipment under construction Total As of 1/1/2015 265.7 510.1 207.5 1.4 984.7 Currency translation adjustments 0.2 -0.8 1.1 0.0 0.5 Acquisitions through business combinations 3.7 11.0 14.3 0.0 29.0 Additions 34.0 132.4 41.3 3.8 211.5 Impairment 8.6 0.2 3.1 6.4 18.3 Disposals -18.4 -101.9 -21.9 -0.3 -142.6 Reclassifications 0.4 2.6 -0.4 -2.7 -0.1 Impairment reversals -5.3 -1.4 -1.7 -1.8 -10.2 As of 12/31/2015 288.9 552.1 243.3 6.9 1,091.2 Cumulative depreciation Land and Factory and office Prepayments and property and amortization buildings Plant and machinery equipment under construction Total As of 1/1/2016 288.9 552.1 243.3 6.9 1,091.2 Currency translation adjustments -1.9 -7.1 -4.1 0.0 -13.1 Acquisitions through business combinations 35.8 39.4 29.9 0.0 105.0 Additions 36.5 146.6 50.6 1.2 234.9 Impairment 12.4 1.4 4.6 0.0 18.4 Disposals -21.6 -73.5 -24.3 0.0 -119.4 Reclassifications 0.1 1.1 0.1 -1.2 0.0 Impairment reversals -4.9 -0.5 -2.1 -0.4 -7.9 As of 12/31/2016 345.3 659.5 297.9 6.5 1,309.2 Book values as of 12/31/2015 356.3 349.3 134.3 17.1 856.9 Book values as of 12/31/2016 365.2 410.5 156.3 23.1 955.1 Plant and machinery contains slot machines with a book value of EUR 396.1 million (previous year: EUR 337.4 million) for the Group’s own operations and rental. In order to collateralize loans, liens were registered on property, plant and equipment (particularly property) of EUR 1.7 million (previous year: EUR 5.9 million). Impairments and Reversals of Impairments Details concerning impairment tests for property, plant and equipment may be found under note (7.3). 154 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (7.3) Impairments and Reversals of Impairments 7.3.1 Calculation Model and Principles The recoverable amount is the higher value of the fair value less costs to sell and the value-in-use. Where capitalized earnings methods are applied, cash flow projections for a three-year period based on financial plans approved by the management are used. The cash flow projections are based on the detailed budget for the following financial year as well as forecasts for the subsequent two years derived therefrom. The main assumptions are based on the previous financial year, experiences of comparable businesses and the overall economic development. During the planning period, these base values are increased by development improvements estimated by the management in light of comparable projects, market potentials and risks. In substantiated cases, the cash flow projections are extended to a period of up to five years. Cash flows occurring after this detailed planning period of between three and five years are perpetuated with a growth rate of 0.00 percent to 1.90 percent and finally calculated with a perpetual annuity. The discount rates used for the cash flow forecasts are post-tax interest rates when calculating the fair value less costs to sell and pre-tax interest rates when calculating the value-in-use, taking respective country-specific risks into consideration. Groups of cash-generating units Recoverable amount Discount rate Pre-tax/post-tax interest rate Gaming Technology – Italy Fair value* 9.19 % Post-tax interest rate Gaming Technology – Online Value-in-use 14.87 % Pre-tax interest rate CONSOLIDATED Gaming Technology – Spain Fair value* 8.61 % Post-tax interest rate Gaming Technology – United Kingdom Fair value* 7.04 % Post-tax interest rate Gaming Operations – Germany Fair value* 6.08 % Post-tax interest rate FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Gaming Operations – Italy Fair value* 8.57 % Post-tax interest rate Gaming Operations – Netherlands Value-in-use 10.33 % Pre-tax interest rate Gaming Operations – Online Value-in-use 10.67 % Pre-tax interest rate Gaming Operations – Spain Fair value* 8.61 % Post-tax interest rate Gaming Operations – Spain casino Value-in-use 10.87 % Pre-tax interest rate Gaming Operations – United Kingdom Value-in-use 8.65 % Pre-tax interest rate Mobile Virtual Network Value-in-use 10.52 % Pre-tax interest rate Fair value* and 6.14 % bis Post-tax interest rate and Other value-in-use 14.56 % pre-tax interest rate *) Fair value less costs to sell 7.3.2 Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives The comparison of book values with the recoverable amounts for the (groups of) cash-generating units that was undertaken as part of the annual impairment test for goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, which was carried out as of September 30, 2016, resulted in an impairment in the amount of EUR 1.7 million (previous year: EUR 10.1 million) due to business not having developed as expected. The impairments made relate entirely to the (group of) cash-generating units Gaming Operations – Lithuania Casino. These comprise two companies that jointly operate casino locations in Lithuania. VSGA UAB holds the license to operate casinos in Lithuania, which is underpinned by an indefinite useful life and is attributable to the greatest share of the impairment. • The capital costs (WACC before tax) considered in the model are 9.65 percent. • The growth rate considered in the model is 1.9 percent. • The detailed planning period is five years 155 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The underlying cash flow forecasts are based on the financial plans approved by company management (detailed budget for the following financial year and the derived forecasts for the subsequent four years). Impairment in the Gaming Operations segment last year came to EUR 3.0 million. No impairment was made in the Gaming Technology segment (previous year: EUR 7.1 million). Goodwill resulting from acquisitions completed after September 30, 2016, was tested as of the balance sheet date on December 31, 2016. No required impairment was identified. The recognized recoverable amounts of the (groups of) cash-generating units, therefore, correspond to Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. For the (group of) cash-generating units Gaming Technology – Spain, the recoverable amount (fair value) exceeded the book value by EUR 14.0 million. If the discount rate were to increase to 10.68 percent, the exceeding amount would be consumed. For the (group of) cash-generating units Gaming Operations – Spain casino, the recoverable amount (value-in-use) exceeded the book value by EUR 3.2 million. If the discount rate were to increase to 15.57 percent, the exceeding amount would be consumed. Gaming Operations – United Kingdom In June 2014, NOVOMATIC acquired 100 percent of the shares in Luxury Leisure Ultd. and SAL Leisure Ltd. With these acquisitions, NOVOMATIC succeeded in entering the British market for electronic casinos (adult gaming centers or AGCs). As part of the purchase price allocation, goodwill of EUR 27.6 million and intangible assets (in particular licenses and concessions) of EUR 40.8 million were accounted for this transaction. In June 2016, 100 percent of the shares in Talarius Ltd. (Talarius) and its associated subsidiaries were acquired. With the conclusion of this acquisition, NOVOMATIC became the largest gaming facility operator in the area of adult gaming centers in the United Kingdom. As part of the purchase price allocation, goodwill of EUR 20.1 million and intangible assets (in particular licenses and concessions) of EUR 85.4 million were accounted for this transaction. In 2015 and 2016, additional acquisitions were made of smaller companies also attributable to the area of adult gaming centers, but these are of minor importance compared to the aforementioned transactions. With these acquisitions, NOVOMATIC implements its dual market strategy in the United Kingdom, which was already successfully implemented in other large gaming markets in Europe (in particular in Germany and Italy). In the stated markets of Germany and Italy, the companies falling into the Gaming Operations segment already contribute significant amounts to Group profit. A similar development is expected for the United Kingdom. Due to local reorganization (in particular mergers, combination of administrative units, other use of synergies etc.) and other measures (above all Group-wide uniform rebranding, investments in modern gaming equipment), initial costs are incurred. However, this leads to increased customer loyalty, improved efficiency and contributes to a significant increase in results in the medium term. From a regulatory perspective, the area of adult gaming centers (from the current standpoint) is classified as very stable. Due to the fact that the maximum stakes and winnings of gaming machines approved in the gaming facilities (category B3, C and D machines with maximum stakes of between 10 pence and GBP 2) are very low, these are not seen as a risk (e.g. in respect of gaming addiction) by politicians, stakeholders and the media. In contrast, category B2 machines that are used in so-called licensed betting offices (LBOs) with stakes of up to GBP 100 are increasingly the subject of open discussions. The most important criticisms here are, in addition to the risk of gaming addiction, above all youth protection and potentially favorable conditions for money laundering. NOVOMATIC is not currently represented in the area of LBOs. Due to the increasingly intense debate on the risks of gaming machines in the B2 category, it is not only possible but, from today’s perspective, highly likely that the regulatory framework conditions will be tightened. If there is such a change in the maximum amounts that can be paid in and out, or a general ban on B2 machines is introduced, the area of adult gaming centers could see a huge increase in its attractiveness, attract new customer groups and see a significant improvement in its earnings. NOVOMATIC has not considered such scenarios in the planning assumptions underlying the impairment test for assets. 156 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The impairment of assets in the Gaming Operations – United Kingdom cash-generating unit was tested by means of an impairment test and classified as sufficient. • The capital costs (WACC before tax) considered in the model are 8.65 percent. • The growth rate considered in the model is 1.9 percent. • The detailed planning period is three years. • The detailed revenue planning shown in the impairment test is moderate. The underlying cash flow forecasts are based on the financial plans approved by company management (detailed budget for the following financial year and the derived forecasts for the subsequent two years). ­It is anticipated that, after considering the full business year in 2017 (in 2016, Talarius was only considered with one-half of the year), there will be revenue growth in the subsequent planning years 2018 and 2019, which is to be considered conservative in view of the location optimization measures mentioned, as well as correspond to comparable development curves of other NOVOMATIC markets. Gaming machines: An increase in the number of machines or the mix of machines (e.g. higher value B3 machines instead of category C machines) was not assumed for the detailed planning period. Sensitivity analyses were carried out to validate the calculated values-in-use. The change in growth rate from 1.9 percent to 1.68 percent, or an increase in capital costs (WACC before tax) of 8.65 percent to 8.81 percent, with all other things remaining CONSOLIDATED equal, would use up the EUR 2.3 million of enterprise value currently exceeding the assets. 7.3.3 (Other) Intangible Assets and Property, Plant and Equipment FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An event-driven impairment test for non-current assets concerned is carried out if indications (triggering events) exist. This resulted in impairments of EUR 31.6 million (previous year: EUR 25.7 million) or impairment reversals of EUR 8.6 million (previous year: EUR 11.0 million). The impairments made (with an individual value of over EUR 4.0 million) relate to the (group of) cash-generating units Gaming Technology – Austria with EUR 6.5 million (previous year: EUR 8.8 million), Gaming Technology – Lottery with EUR 0.0 million (previous year: EUR 10.0 million), Gaming Operations – Austria with EUR 6.5 million (previous year: EUR 4.3 million), Gaming Operations – Germany with EUR 5.3 million (previous year: EUR 3.6 million), Gaming Operations – Spain with EUR 6.4 million (previous year: EUR 0.0 million) and Gaming Operations – Italy with EUR 1.6 million (previous year: EUR 5.7 million). Impairment reversals (with an individual value of EUR 4.0 million) relate to the (group of) cash-generating units Gaming Operations – Italy with EUR 6.6 million (previous year: EUR 4.8 million). The following takes a closer look at the important three core markets in which the existence of impairment or impairment reversals was examined in more detail. Gaming Operations/Technology – Germany The First State Treaty amending the State Treaty regarding Gaming in Germany (Glücksspieländerungsstaatsvertrag, GlüÄndStV) came into effect on July 1, 2012. A further amendment concerning the area of sports betting is currently being reviewed by the European Commission. The First State Treaty amending the State Treaty regarding Gaming in Germany essentially involves creating distance regulations between gaming arcades and youth facilities. It also includes a ban on multiple concessions, thereby limiting a site to a maximum of 12 gaming machines. A (fundamental) transitional period of 5 years was granted to implement the restrictive new regulations, which means the provisions are applicable from July 1, 2017. 157 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 For supplementary provisions, the GlüÄndStV refers to the executive regulations of the individual states stipulated by state laws on gaming arcades. These individual state laws on gaming arcades vary considerably. In certain cases, there are important differences regarding limitations on opening hours, distance regulations, advertising bans and player identification requirements. In November 2014, a stricter amendment to the Gaming Ordinance was passed. This amendment includes further regulation aimed at improving the protection of players and minors, as well as preventing tax evasion and money laundering. A transitional period of four years was granted for the implementation of the Gaming Ordinance. This means that gaming machines currently installed in gaming arcades will lose their existing protection after four years and, from November 11, 2018, only devices as per the new Gaming Ordinance may be operated. The focus of the German Group companies in the Gaming Technology segment, Löwen Entertainment GmbH and Crown Technologies GmbH, is in the area of gaming machine rental. In light of the stricter regulatory framework, however, the number of rented gaming machines decreased during the reporting period, which also led to a slight decline in revenues. The two German subsidiaries have already been working for a while to develop attractive products that can be made available to the customers promptly upon expiration of the transitional period of the Gaming Ordinance. In the Gaming Operations segment, the German companies Extra Games Entertainment GmbH, BPA Freizeit und Unterhaltungsbetriebe GmbH, Admiral Play GmbH and other smaller, recently acquired companies are represented as operating companies in the area of commercial machine gaming. NOVOMATIC expects a declining market in the Gaming Arcades segment from July 1, 2017, although higher device utilization should have a certain compensatory effect. If gaming arcades need to reduce in size or close, this will, however, have a negative impact on revenues (from the rental or operation of gaming machines). As in previous years, impairment tests were carried out in 2016 for the assets of the German operating companies. The scope of the impairment tests included all slot arcades run by the operating companies active in the area of commercial machine gaming. The main focus was on scenarios regarding site shutdowns and the withdrawal of concessions. The investigation of the impact on the gaming facilities was carried out under the assumption of more restrictive legal interpretations. In total, the required impairment loss amounted to EUR 5.3 million (previous year: EUR 3.6 million). The largest share of this relates to the impairment of the rights of use of the gaming arcades (disclosed under “Licenses” within the intangible assets), as well as an impairment of property, plant and equipment (in particular land and buildings, as well as fixtures, furnishings and office equipment). The reevaluation led to the conclusion that a reversal of impairment was required for certain gaming facilities, as the assessment regarding the impact on the individual locations in question had changed. In total, the identified reversal of the impairment amounted to EUR 1.1 million (previous year: EUR 2.8 million). An impairment test was also carried out on the assets (in particular the goodwill) of the Gaming Operations – Germany cashgenerating unit, resulting in a clear surplus. • The capital costs considered in the model (WACC after tax) are 6.08 percent. • The growth rate considered in the model is 1.9 percent. • The detailed planning period is three years The underlying cash flow forecasts are based on the financial plans approved by company management (detailed budget for the following financial year and the derived forecasts for the subsequent two years). The recognized recoverable amounts of the (groups of) cash-generating units, therefore, correspond to Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. An impairment test was also carried out on the assets (in particular the goodwill) of the Gaming Technology – Germany cashgenerating unit, resulting in a clear surplus. 158 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Impairments (less impairment reversals) of a cumulative EUR 56.1 million (previous year: EUR 51.9 million) were made over the past few years on non-current assets. The book value of the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounts to EUR 99.9 million (previous year: EUR 86.7 million) as of the balance sheet date. Gaming Operations/Technology – Italy With more than 400,000 operated gaming machines, Italy is Europe’s largest gaming market. The companies active in the Gaming Operations segment operate AWP and VLT devices in the gaming arcades. Moreover, this segment includes one of the Italian concessionaires with Admiral Gaming Network S.r.l.. In the previous year, impairment tests were carried out for the Italian Group companies allocated to the Gaming Operations segment. These led to required impairment losses. In the financial year 2016, a renewed evaluation of the Italian gaming facilities was carried out based on current performance and future forecasts. This resulted in required impairment losses of EUR 1.6 million (previous year: EUR 5.8 million, thereof EUR 0.9 million goodwill), which was almost entirely recorded under property, plant and equipment. The reevaluation concluded that for certain gaming facilities a reversal of impairment was required as the assessment regarding the impact on the individual location had changed. The according reversal of impairment amounted to EUR 6.6 million (EUR 4.8 million). In the Gaming Technology – Italy segment, the focus is on the rental and sale of gaming devices as well as in the production (installation) of gaming devices and central processing units (CPUs). CONSOLIDATED An impairment test was carried out on the assets (in particular the goodwill) of the Gaming Technology – Italy cash-generating unit, resulting in a clear surplus. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • The capital costs considered in the model (WACC after tax) are 9.19 percent. • The growth rate considered in the model is 1.9 percent. • The detailed planning period is three to five years. The underlying cash flow forecasts are based on the financial plans approved by company management (detailed budget for the following financial year and the derived forecasts for the subsequent two to four years). The recognized recoverable amounts of the (groups of) cash-generating units therefore correspond to Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Gaming Operations – Austria ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment AG (ACE), a NOVOMATIC Group company, was able to obtain permits pursuant to Sec. 5 of the Austrian Gaming Act (GSpG) for state-licensed gaming with gaming machines in Lower Austria and Burgenland (in addition to other provinces) in 2012 and 2013. The permit for the province of Lower Austria covers 1,339 gaming machines and has been granted for a period of 15 years. The permit for the province of Burgenland covers 110 gaming machines and has been granted for a period of 10 years. Competitors submitted timely appeals against these decisions to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court passed these complaints on to the Administrative Court (VwGH), which reversed the decisions of the Lower Austrian and Burgenland provincial governments with its rulings in May and June 2016. The decisions were justified with formal deficiencies of both provincial governments. In December 2016, ACE was again granted licenses for the operation of 1,339 gaming machines in Lower Austria following a subsequent proceeding. This decision was then contested through complaints by competitors. A decision by the now-competent Lower Austrian Provincial Administrative Court is expected in the second quarter of 2017, with the following developments essentially possible: 159 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 1. The decision is revoked by the Provincial Administrative Court and sent back to the Lower Austrian provincial government to be revised. A consequence of this decision would presumably be an appeal to the Administrative Court by NOVOMATIC. 2. The decision is confirmed by the Provincial Administrative Court and therefore the decision would have legal power. A consequence of this decision may be an appeal to the Administrative Court by one or more of the plaintiffs – but now only through extraordinary legal channels. 3. The Provincial Administrative Court decides itself in the case. This means that the decision would also have legal power. A consequence of this decision may be that, depending on the decision, either NOVOMATIC or one or more of the plaintiffs – but then only through extraordinary legal channels – would appeal to the Administrative Court. Continued operations in Lower Austria are guaranteed until November 2017, due to the statutory duty to continue operations and a declaratory notice. One of the three abovementioned scenarios should have occurred by then. In any case, it may be assumed that – in connection with the new ruling on the decision in Lower Austria – this will lead to several years of proceedings at the Administrative Court. NOVOMATIC assumes that the competent Lower Austrian Provincial Administrative Court will reject the complaints, because the deficiencies previously listed by the Administrative Court have been resolved – from NOVOMATIC’s perspective – in the newly issued approval decision (December 2016). This is, however, an assumption based on a current assessment of the situation. The continued operation of the 110 approved gaming machines in Burgenland is guaranteed until June 2017, and a decision concerning the ongoing selection procedure is still pending. A change in Burgenland’s law on events is currently being considered. At the moment, it is assumed that the approval decision will be granted again to NOVOMATIC by the competent authority. In this case, subsequent developments in Burgenland would be assessed in a way similar to those in Lower Austria. If the Burgenland provincial government does not grant an approval decision to NOVOMATIC, an impairment of the fixed assets at the locations currently operating in the province would be recorded in the low single-digit million euro range, in the worst case. 160 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (7.4) Investment Property EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Balance as of 01/01 18.7 18.8 Currency translation adjustments 0.1 0.1 Additions 3.2 0.0 Impairment 0.0 -1.9 Disposals -0.3 0.0 Reclassifications 0.0 0.5 Reclassification as held for sale 0.0 1.7 Depreciation -0.6 -0.6 Balance as of 12/31 21.1 18.7 Investment property denotes land and buildings held but not used in business operations. The gross book values total EUR 35.8 million (previous year: EUR 32.7 million) and the accumulated depreciation amounts to EUR 14.8 million (previous year: EUR 14.0 million). For the determination of the fair value, external valuation reports from independent regional experts were obtained in the financial year 2015. Given that the underlying assumptions have not materially changed, the reports were not updated. The fair value (fair value hierarchy – level 3) amounts to a total of EUR 24.1 million (previous year: EUR 21.7 million). CONSOLIDATED Both income and expenditures from investment property were insignificant. (7.5) Investments in Associated Companies FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Balance as of 01/01 0.2 0.2 Balance as of 12/31 0.2 0.2 The companies recognized at equity on the consolidated balance sheet are shown in the investment schedule. The following table shows the basic data from the balance sheet and profit and loss account of the companies recognized at equity, whereas the data corresponds to 100 percent and not to the percentage of shares owned by NOVOMATIC Group in associated companies: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Assets 11.4 11.5 Liabilities 10.1 10.2 Revenues 0.8 0.7 Results 0.0 -0.1 (7.6) Financial Assets EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Investments in affiliated companies, non-consolidated 18.2 6.9 Securities 10.0 7.8 Other investments 209.6 189.4 Total 237.8 204.1 Through the acquisition of LTB Beteiligungs GmbH, RSV Beteiligungs GmbH and BAIH Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH in 2015, the NOVOMATIC Group acquired an indirect interest of 23.11 percent of Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft mbH (ÖLG), a company that is majority owned by Casinos Austria Aktiengesellschaft (CASAG). 161 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 In 2015, NOVOMATIC concluded further purchase agreements for the acquisition of direct and indirect interests in CASAG, which needed to be approved by the Austrian Federal Competition Authority (BWB). In February 2016, the BWB submitted an audit request to the Austrian antitrust court, which, in its ruling, refused to allow NOVOMATIC AG to acquire an interest that amounts to a shareholding of over 25 percent. This decision was, after NOVOMATIC AG appealed, ultimately upheld by the Supreme Court (OGH) in January 2017. As a consequence of this decision, it was not possible to complete individual purchase agreements to further acquire direct and indirect shares in CASAG. In addition, NOVOMATIC had to reduce its indirect interest in ÖLG to less than 25 percent and, in December 2016, sold shares amounting to 11.56 percent to a Czech group of companies to enable the closing for the purchase of 17.19 percent directly in CASAG. These two financial investments of 11.56 percent in ÖLG indirectly and 17.19 percent in CASAG directly, are recognized under other investments with a fair value of a total of EUR 196.6 million, as no significant influence may be exerted over the two companies. Details concerning the calculating of the fair values can be found in the notes to the financial instruments. The fair value of investments in affiliated companies and other investments (except for ÖLG and CASAG) cannot be reliably evaluated; therefore, they are valued at their acquisition costs less any possible impairment. The securities classified as available-for-sale primarily comprise stocks and promissory notes. They are not subject to any restraint of disposal. (7.7) Taxes Current taxes: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Current tax receivables 34.0 30.5 Non-current tax liabilities 11.0 18.3 Current tax liabilities 33.9 27.8 Deferred taxes: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Deferred tax assets 93.2 94.3 Deferred tax liabilities -90.4 -66.01 Total 2.8 28.3 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures pursuant to IAS 8 or IFRS 3 “Business combinations” Deferred tax assets and liabilities result from the following temporary valuation and accounting differences between the carrying amounts of the financial statement prepared according to IFRS and their respective tax bases. 162 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Intangible assets -69.7 -46.41 Property, plant and equipment 34.5 30.61 Financial assets 2.5 6.9 Other non-current assets -2.6 -1.3 Inventories 8.6 6.5 Current financial assets 0.9 1.4 Trade and other receivables -2.8 -0.1 Non-current financial liabilities 1.5 1.3 Other non-current liabilities 0.1 0.2 Non-current provisions 8.3 7.0 Current financial liabilities 0.6 0.4 Current provisions 0.5 0.2 Trade payables and other liabilities 7.4 5.5 Tax loss carryforward 13.1 16.2 Total 2.8 28.3 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures pursuant to IAS 8 or IFRS 3 “Business combinations” CONSOLIDATED Income tax charged directly to equity: EUR m 2016 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Revaluation of available-for-sale financial instruments -2.0 2.6 Revaluation of the net defined benefit liability 3.6 2.7 EUR -12.2 million (previous year: EUR 14.4 million) of deferred taxes are classified as non-current and EUR 15.1 million (previous year: EUR 13.9 million) as current. In accordance with IAS 12, deferred tax assets on the existing loss carried forward adding up to EUR 13.1 million (previous year: EUR 16.2 million) were capitalized because they can be offset against taxable income in the future. Tax assets are netted with tax liabilities if they concern the same tax authority, and if the right and intention to offset exist. In 2016, subsidiaries that incurred losses in the previous year or the years before carried forward tax losses in of EUR 237.2 million (previous year: EUR 201.3 million) that can no longer be utilized. Of the carried forward tax losses that are still utilizable – the value of which is EUR 57.7 million (previous year: EUR 47.9 million) – EUR 0.4 million will expire in 2017 (previous year: EUR 2.1 million in 2016) and EUR 57.4 million will expire in 2017 onwards (previous year: EUR 45.9 million in 2016 onwards). No deferred tax liability was recognized on the temporary differences resulting from the proportionate IFRS equity values and the tax base of the subsidiaries amounting to EUR 1,001.4 million (previous year: EUR 990.7 million) as the Group is in the position of being able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and will probably not reverse the temporary differences in the foreseeable future. 163 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (7.8) Other Non-Current Assets EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Loans 44.5 50.5 Receivables from finance lease 17.8 9.1 Purchase price receivables 8.0 7.9 Deposits with gaming authorities 21.1 21.9 Miscellaneous other non-current assets 25.5 21.9 Total 116.9 111.3 (7.9) Inventories EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Raw materials and supplies 93.1 76.5 Work in progress 24.0 22.9 Finished goods and trade goods 104.3 89.3 Prepayments 4.1 3.2 Total 225.5 191.9 The inventory total includes inventory write-downs amounting to EUR 67.5 million (previous year: EUR 65.3 million). (7.10) Trade Receivables, Other Receivables and Assets EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Trade receivables 221.4 201.6 Receivables from non-consolidated affiliated companies 8.2 5.3 Prepaid expenses 39.7 36.9 Purchase price receivables 10.8 32.5 Precious metals 35.3 31.4 Other tax receivables, excluding income taxes 7.1 11.4 Other current receivables and assets 50.0 40.1 Total 372.5 359.2 The reported trade receivables include write-downs amounting to EUR 30.4 million (previous year: EUR 31.7 million). The impairment expenses for the reporting period are recognized as other operating expenses in the profit and loss account. The age structure of the trade receivables is as follows: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Receivables without valuation allowance not overdue 107.8 99.1 overdue up to 3 months 47.8 31.4 overdue between 3 and 6 months 9.4 6.5 overdue for more than 6 months 12.0 9.8 Receivables with valuation allowance 44.4 54.8 Total 221.4 201.6 164 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The trade receivables shown above disclose the amounts that are overdue as of the balance sheet date. The Group has not created any provisions for write-downs for these amounts as no material changes to the creditworthiness have been detected, and recoverability of outstanding amounts is also expected. The receivables from non-consolidated affiliated companies include trade receivables of EUR 7.5 million (previous year: EUR 2.8 million). Precious metals with a book value of EUR 35.3 million (previous year: EUR 31.4 million) are valued at their market price (fair value hierarchy – level 2) in profit and loss. Changes in value due to the subsequent measurement of precious metals of EUR 3.9 million (previous year: EUR -0.4 million) are accounted for as other operating income or expenses. Other current receivables and assets are comprised primarily of the offset with payment service providers, prepayments and deferred income. (7.11) Current Financial Assets EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Securities 9.2 10.7 Loans 3.6 3.7 Receivables from finance lease 10.8 13.0 CONSOLIDATED Derivatives 6.1 4.1 Other current financial assets 1.7 0.7 Total 31.3 32.3 (7.12) Cash and Cash Equivalents FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Cash 141.7 111.6 Bank balances 736.1 473.8 Total 877.8 585.4 The stated cash of EUR 141.7 million (previous year: EUR 111.6 million) is largely tied up as cash reserves and base filling of the gaming machines at the various gaming establishments. Due to a legal dispute between Italian competitors and the Italian gaming authority, the competent court decided that all Italian concessionaires (i.e. including ADMIRAL Gaming Network S.r.l., a NOVOMATIC Group company), should not pay a part of their gaming taxes to the competent authority until the matter has been settled, but must rather deposit these amounts in a specifically designated bank account. For NOVOMATIC, this resulted in a temporary increase in tax liabilities as well as cash and cash equivalents (bank balances) by EUR 82.9 million. As a decision in the case was made during the reporting period, the charging with the Italian gaming authority was completed. The bank balances included a partial amount of EUR 65.3 million which was deposited for the potential acquisition of direct and indirect shares in Casinos Austria Aktiengesellschaft. These funds were freely available again in February 2017. 165 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (7.13) Assets Held for Sale The property concerned in Hungary has now been sold. (7.14) Share Capital The share capital of EUR 26.6 million (previous year: EUR 26.0 million) is fully paid and divided into 26,590,000 registered no-par value shares. Each share corresponds to EUR 1.0 of the share capital. In April 2016, Gryphon Invest AG increased its interest in NOVOMATIC AG from 8 percent to around 10 percent. In the context of this trans­action, NOVOMATIC AG increased its share capital by EUR 0.6 million, while the tied up capital reserve increased by EUR 84.4 million. (7.15) Capital Reserves The capital reserves of EUR 85.4 million (previous year: EUR 1.0 million) are tied-up reserves. (7.16) Retained Earnings The retained earnings consist of the Group’s consolidated profit for the year and the accumulated profits from previous periods. Retained earnings also comprise the revaluation of net debt from defined benefit obligations of EUR ‑10.0 million (previous year: EUR ‑7.9 million), with the change of EUR ‑2.1 million (previous year: EUR -0.6 million) being stated in other comprehensive income. (7.17) Revaluation Reserve The revaluation reserve comprises the revaluation of financial instruments available for sale of EUR 5.2 million (previous year: EUR ‑8.6 million), with the change of EUR 13.8 million (previous year: EUR 0.9 million) being stated in other comprehensive income. (7.18) Currency Translation Adjustment Upon consolidation, differences from the translation of foreign subsidiaries at the exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date are transferred to this position. For the financial year 2016, changes in the currency translation adjustment of EUR -28.0 million (previous year: EUR 7.0 million) are stated in other comprehensive income. Due to deconsolidation, EUR -1.9 million (previous year: EUR 11.1 million) has been reclassified from other comprehensive income into the profit and loss account. (7.19) Non-Controlling Interests Non-controlling interests consist of the interests in equity of consolidated subsidiaries held by other shareholders. The portion allocated to the non-controlling interests from the change of foreign currency translation adjustments of EUR 0.0 million (previous year: EUR -0.1 million) is stated in other comprehensive income. 166 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Subsidiaries with non-controlling interests: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 NonProfit/loss Accumulated Accumulated controlling attributable to nonNonProfit/loss attribunoninterests non-controlling controlling controlling table to non-contcontrolling (%) interests interest interests (%) rolling interests interest Gaming Technology Crown Gaming S.A.C., Peru 35 % -1.4 3.8 Electro System S.p.A., Italy 25 % 1.3 5.6 GiGames S.L., Spain 20 % 0.1 7.2 20 % -0.5 7.1 Gaming Operations Admiralu Klubs SIA, Latvia 40 % 3.0 19.3 40 % 2.7 17.1 Alfor SIA, Latvia 40 % 5.9 16.4 40 % 5.2 10.5 Automáticos Surmatic S.L., Spain 40 % 0.0 6.2 40 % 0.0 6.11 Marginal non-controlling interest -3.6 7.8 -1.6 3.71 6.8 62.4 4.5 48.4 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures according to IFRS 3 “Business combinations” CONSOLIDATED The amounts held as non-controlling interest correspond to the voting rights. A summary of financial information regarding Group subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests (before Group-internal FINANCIAL STATEMENTS elimination) is presented in the following table: EUR m 12/31/2016 Electro Admiralu Automáticos System S.p.A., GiGames S.L., Klubs SIA, Alfor SIA, Surmatic S.L., Italy Spain Latvia Latvia Spain Balance sheet Non-current assets 18.9 17.5 42.1 30.9 17.6 Current assets 13.7 28.6 11.1 19.1 2.2 Non-current liabilities 5.9 6.5 3.3 1.6 3.7 Current liabilities 4.5 11.9 1.7 7.5 0.8 Profit and loss account Revenues 18.2 25.1 25.5 69.0 10.0 Annual profit 5.2 0.1 7.6 14.6 0.1 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 Cash flow from operating activities -5.0 2.2 10.1 20.7 2.2 from investing activities -5.5 -1.0 -0.6 -8.4 -0.7 from financing activities -0.1 1.4 -0.8 0.0 -0.1 Net change in cash and cash equivalents -10.7 2.6 8.7 12.3 1.5 167 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 EUR m 12/31/2015 Admiralu Automáticos Crown Gaming GiGames S.L., Klubs SIA, Alfor SIA, Surmatic S.L., S.A.C., Peru Spain Latvia Latvia Spain Balance Sheet Non-current assets 33.9 20.1 41.4 29.6 19.51 Current assets 27.6 23.1 6.1 14.4 1.0 Non-current liabilities 14.8 7.4 3.4 1.9 4.21 Current liabilities 35.9 8.3 1.4 15.8 1.0 Profit and loss account Revenues 13.0 20.4 23.0 64.0 0.7 Annual profit -4.0 -2.0 6.8 13.0 0.0 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 0.0 0.0 0.4 8.8 0.0 Cash flow from operating activities 2.7 0.5 10.4 27.9 -0.3 from investing activities 0.5 1.1 -2.2 -6.7 -9.7 from financing activities 2.9 -1.6 -0.4 -8.8 0.0 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 6.0 0.0 7.8 12.4 -10.0 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures according to IFRS 3 “Business combinations” During the financial year 2016, the Group increased its share of ownership in some subsidiaries. (7.20) Non-Current Financial Liabilities EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Bonds 937.8 592.0 Bank loans 443.1 443.4 Obligations under finance leases 6.0 5.0 Other non-current financial liabilities 8.2 3.3 Total 1,395.1 1,043.7 NOVOMATIC AG issued bonds with the following terms and conditions: Nominal value 150 EUR m 250 EUR m 200 EUR m 500 EUR m Term 2010–2017 2013–2019 2014–2021 2016–2023 Denomination EUR 500.– EUR 500.– EUR 500.– EUR 500.– Nominal interest rate 5.00 % p.a. 4.00 % p.a. 3.00 % p.a. 1.625 % p.a. Coupon 10/27 every year 01/28 every year 06/23 every year 09/20 every year Redemption 10/27/2017 bullet 01/28/2019 bullet 06/23/2021 bullet 09/20/2023 bullet Closing price 12/31/2016 EUR 103.876 EUR 106.8705 EUR 108.856 EUR 102.1805 ISIN AT0000A0KSM6 AT0000A0XSN7 AT0000A182L5 AT0000A1LHT0 The bonds are listed on the second regulated market of the Vienna Stock Exchange. During the reporting period, NOVOMATIC AG issued a bond with an emission volume of EUR 500 million that is due on September 20, 2023. 168 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Bonds of the Group with a nominal value of EUR 6.2 million (previous year: EUR 6.2 million) were bought back. The partial book value of this repurchase has been deducted from bond liabilities, whereas the exceeding part of the repurchase price has been accounted for in financial expenses. The fair value of the bonds issued amounts to EUR 1,145.0 million (previous year: EUR 625.8 million), of which EUR 991.5 million were long-term and EUR 153.5 million were short-term. The fair value of bank loans amounts to EUR 449.7 million (previous year: EUR 444.1 million). Bank loans with a term of 1 to 5 years amount to EUR 350.6 million (previous year: EUR 401.3 million) and those over five years to EUR 92.5 million (previous year: EUR 42.1 million). The weighted average interest rate comes to 2.29 percent (previous year: 3.41 percent). (7.21) Non-Current Provisions EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Provision for severance payments 26.2 20.7 Provision for pensions 19.9 18.4 Provision for jubilee payments 6.2 4.8 Other non-current provisions 13.8 8.2 CONSOLIDATED Total 66.1 52.1 Provision for Severance Payments Due to legal or collectively agreed obligations, employees in Austria and Italy are entitled to receive severance payments upon FINANCIAL STATEMENTS termination of employment or upon reaching normal retirement age. Such entitlements depend on their years of service and final compensation levels. For the future liabilities, provisions are generated according to actuarial principles. The provision for pensions was calculated in accordance with IAS 19 (projected unit credit method) using an interest rate of 1.31 percent to 1.58 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent) and assuming a pay increase from 1.0 percent to 2.5 percent (previous year: 1.0 percent to 2.5 percent) into account. The estimated retirement age refers to the earliest possible retirement age according to local legislation. Discounts due to fluctuations or other factors are not taken into account. Expenses for severance payments recognized as personnel costs: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Current service cost 4.2 3.1 Interest expense 0.4 0.3 Expense for the year 4.6 3.4 169 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Provision for severance payments shown on the balance sheet: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Balance as of 01/01 20.7 19.8 Amounts recognized in the profit and loss account Current service cost (+) 4.2 3.1 Interest cost (+) 0.4 0.3 Remeasurement of the period (other comprehensive income) Actuarial gains/losses from the change in demographic assumptions 0.7 0.2 Actuarial gains/losses from the change in financial assumptions 1.7 0.6 Payments (-) -2.4 -3.4 Change in the scope of consolidation 0.8 0.0 Present value of obligations as of 12/31 26.2 20.7 Sensitivity analysis for severance payments: Change in the present Change in the parameter value of the obligation EUR m 12/31/2016 Discount rate 0.5 % -1.6 Discount rate -0.5 % 1.3 Salary increase 0.5 % 1.3 Salary increase -0.5 % -1.6 As of December 31, 2016, the average maturity of severance obligations is 10 to 15 years (previous year: 10 to 16 years), depending on the country. Payments of EUR 3.1 million (previous year: EUR 2.4 million) are expected for the next financial year. Provision for Pensions Due to individual agreements, some Group companies are obligated to accord a pension allowance to Executive Board members and employees beginning with the date of their retirement. The amounts of such entitlements depend on years of service and final compensation levels. The provision for pensions was calculated in accordance with IAS 19 (projected unit credit method) using an interest rate of 1.58 percent to 1.60 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent to 2.4 percent) and taking adjustments of values from 2.0 percent to 3.0 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent to 3.0 percent) into account. Expenses for pensions recognized as personnel cost: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Current service cost 0.1 0.1 Interest cost 0.4 0.4 Expense for the year 0.5 0.5 170 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Provision for pensions shown on the balance sheet: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Balance as of 01/01 18.4 18.5 Amounts recognized in the profit and loss account Current service cost (+) 0.1 0.1 Interest cost (+) 0.4 0.4 Remeasurement of the period (other comprehensive income) Actuarial gains/losses from the change in financial assumptions 1.4 0.1 Payments (-) -0.5 -0.5 Change in the scope of consolidation 0.0 -0.1 Present value of obligations as of 12/31 19.9 18.4 Sensitivity analysis for pensions: Change in the present Change of the parameter value of obligation EUR m 12/31/2016 Discount rate 0.5 % -2.4 CONSOLIDATED Discount rate -0.5 % 2.9 Pension increase 0.5 % 1.7 Pension increase -0.5 % -1.5 As of December 31, 2016, the average maturity of pension obligations is between 3 and 15 years (previous year: between 4 and 15 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS years), depending on the country. Payments of EUR 0.5 million (previous year: EUR 0.5 million) are expected for the next financial year. Provision for Jubilee Payments After a long period of service with the company, employees are entitled to jubilee payments arising from collective agreements. The amount of these obligations was calculated under the assumptions of a discount rate of 1.58 percent to 1.7 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent to 2.9 percent) and a pay increase of 1.75 percent to 2.5 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent to 4.0 percent). A fluctuation discount based on an internal statistic concerning withdrawals of the previous 3 years and considering probable individual continuance in the company until the jubilee payment is due was taken into account. Expenses for jubilee payments recognized as personnel cost: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Current service cost 1.0 1.0 Interest cost 0.1 0.3 Past service cost 1.2 -0.4 Net actuarial gains/losses -0.1 -0.2 Expense for the year 2.3 0.7 171 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Provision for jubilee payments shown on the balance sheet: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Balance as of 01/01 4.8 4.8 Amounts recognized in the profit and loss account Current service cost (+) 1.0 1.0 Interest cost (+) 0.1 0.3 Past service cost 1.2 -0.4 Net actuarial gains/losses -0.1 -0.2 Payments (-) -0.8 -0.7 Change in the consolidation scope 0.0 -0.1 Present value of obligations as of 12/31 6.2 4.8 Other Non-Current Provisions The other non-current provisions essentially concern provisions for anticipated losses and dismantling obligations. The development of other non-current provisions is shown below: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Balance as of 01/01 8.2 10.2 Currency translation adjustments -0.5 0.2 Changes in the scope of consolidation 4.2 0.3 Utilization -1.5 -1.5 Release -0.5 -1.9 Allocation 4.1 0.9 Compounding -0.1 -0.1 Balance of provisions as of 12/31 13.8 8.2 (7.22) Other Non-Current Liabilities EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Deferred income 0.5 0.6 Other non-current liabilities 3.8 4.7 Purchase price obligations 15.3 19.5 Total 19.6 24.8 Purchase price obligations comprise contingent considerations from business combinations as well as obligations from written put options for non-controlling interests. 172 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (7.23) Current Financial Liabilities EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Bond 147.7 0.0 Current bank liabilities 58.9 33.6 Obligations under finance leases (current portion) 2.4 1.8 Current financial liabilities 0.9 0.8 Derivatives 0.9 0.7 Total 210.8 36.9 (7.24) Current Provisions Other provisions Obligations for Other current EUR m for personnel Warranties legal issues provisions Total As of 12/31/2015 15.0 3.2 4.0 25.9 48.1 Currency translation -0.6 -0.1 0.0 -1.1 -1.8 adjustments Changes in the scope of consolidation 0.8 0.0 0.5 0.6 1.8 Utilization -9.2 0.0 -1.1 -21.0 -31.3 Release -0.3 0.0 -0.9 -2.4 -3.7 CONSOLIDATED Allocation 20.6 0.5 3.7 30.8 55.6 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As of 12/31/2016 26.1 3.6 6.2 32.7 68.7 Other current provisions consist mainly of provisions for sites and connection costs. 173 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (7.25) Trade Payables and Other Liabilities EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Trade payables 113.5 100.3 Payables to non-consolidated affiliated companies 3.4 1.7 Advance payments received 3.6 3.5 Deferred income 35.3 37.2 Liabilities to employees 44.3 42.0 Other liabilities from social security obligations 11.6 9.6 Other tax liabilities, excluding income taxes 104.9 176.9 Purchase price obligations 20.9 22.0 Other current liabilities 63.5 57.1 Total 401.0 450.4 Deferred income consists mainly of special rent payments for slot machines and loyalty rewards for clients in Germany. Purchase price obligations cover contingent considerations from business combinations as well as purchase price components from business combinations or financial investments not yet due. The increase in tax liabilities in the previous year was related to the increase in bank balances. Further details are provided in note (7.12). Other current liabilities consist mainly of deposits received, outstanding invoices, accrued interest and short-term clearing accounts. (8) Notes to the Profit and Loss Account The profit and loss account was prepared applying the total cost method. (8.1) Revenues EUR m 2016 2015 Sales revenues 249.9 217.6 Income from slot machines 1,028.9 902.2 Income from rent and management services 607.0 594.7 Betting income 117.8 81.9 eBusiness income 159.8 167.9 Income from food and beverage 32.4 28.7 Other sales 113.6 104.3 Sales reductions -15.3 -11.1 Total 2,294.1 2,086.3 174 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (8.2) Gaming Taxes and Betting Fees EUR m 2016 2015 Gaming taxes -224.7 -181.0 Betting fees -13.6 -10.3 Total -238.3 -191.4 (8.3) Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods and Work in Progress as well as Own Work Capitalized EUR m 2016 2015 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 21.0 8.2 Own work capitalized 194.6 147.6 Total 215.6 155.8 Own work capitalized consists mainly of internally produced electronic gaming machines. (8.4) Other Operating Income EUR m 2016 2015 CONSOLIDATED Income from the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 16.5 19.2 Foreign exchange gains 7.4 13.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deconsolidation 30.4 49.0 Other operating income 54.7 43.0 Total 109.0 124.6 The income from deconsolidation is due to the sale of fully consolidated subsidiaries during the reporting period under review, as well as earn-out settlements from prior disposals. (8.5) Cost of Material and Other Purchased Services EUR m 2016 2015 Cost of material -351.2 -277.8 Purchased services -7.4 -5.1 Total -358.6 -282.8 175 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (8.6) Personnel Costs EUR m 2016 2015 Wages and salaries -547.0 -457.3 Expenses for severance payments -9.9 -8.5 Expenses for pensions -4.4 -3.7 Cost of statutory social security, payroll-related taxes and mandatory contributions -104.9 -89.7 Other social expenses -10.5 -8.6 Total -676.8 -567.8 Expenses for severance payments include expenses for defined contribution plans of EUR 1.9 million (previous year: EUR 1.7 million) and expenses for pension plans of EUR 1.8 million (previous year: EUR 1.8 million). The increase in personnel costs is mainly due to an increase in the number of employees in the Group. The average number of employees developed as follows: 2016 2015 Salaried employees 8,619 7,754 Workers 14,772 12,202 Total 23,391 19,956 (8.7) Amortization, Depreciation, Impairment and Reversal of Impairment for Intangible Assets, Property, Plant and Equipment, and Investment Property EUR m 2016 2015 Scheduled depreciation/amortization -299.7 -266.5 Impairment -33.3 -45.81 Impairment reversals 8.6 11.0 Total -324.4 -301.3 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures according to IAS 8 The breakdown of the depreciation/amortization for the year according to the individual asset classes is shown in notes (7.1), (7.2) and (7.3). The impairments relate to the “Gaming Technology” segment of EUR 9.1 million (previous year: EUR 16.3 million), the “Gaming Operations” segment of EUR 24.2 million (previous year: EUR 27.5 million), and to “Other” of EUR 0.0 million (previous year: EUR 2.0 million). The impairment reversals relate to the “Gaming Technology” segment of EUR 0.8 million (previous year: EUR 3.3 million) and the “Gaming Operations” segment of EUR 7.8 million (previous year: EUR 7.7 million). 176 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (8.8) Other Operating Expenses EUR m 2016 2015 Other taxes, fees and charges -75.8 -68.1 Maintenance -44.2 -37.2 Energy costs -31.9 -29.2 Telephone, communications -14.7 -12.3 Rental expense for real estate -121.2 -101.8 Rental expense for slot machines -9.3 -8.9 Rental expense for other assets -9.2 -8.0 Insurance costs -6.4 -5.1 Vehicle fleet operation costs -15.7 -14.5 Legal, audit and consulting costs -44.3 -37.7 Other services received -46.8 -42.2 Advertising costs -108.9 -107.0 Traveling costs -16.5 -14.1 Development costs -23.3 -29.7 License costs -13.8 -11.7 Commissions -16.0 -10.6 CONSOLIDATED Partners’ shares -23.0 -25.2 Bad debt and valuation adjustment -10.2 -10.8 Loss from the disposal of property, plant and equipment -6.8 -6.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Security costs -15.6 -14.1 Foreign exchange losses -3.7 -10.7 Deconsolidation 0.0 -5.5 Other expenses -103.8 -102.7 Release of provisions 4.5 5.1 Total -756.7 -707.9 The rental expenses for real estate, slot machines and other assets were incurred through operating lease agreements. Further details are provided in note (12). (8.9) Interest Income EUR m 2016 2015 Interest Income 6.6 7.1 Interest income from finance lease receivables 1.2 1.3 Total 7.8 8.4 177 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (8.10) Other Financial Income EUR m 2016 2015 Income from the disposal of financial assets 0.6 13.1 Investment income from other investments 3.8 9.3 Fair value valuation of interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 Other financial income 8.2 2.1 Total 12.6 24.4 The shares in NovoSun S.A., Chile, valued at equity, were sold in 2014. The disposal resulted in variable sales proceeds of EUR 13.1 million in 2015, which were recognized as a cash transaction in 2016. The financial investment in Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft mbH (ÖLG) resulted in investment income of EUR 3.5 million (previous year: EUR 9.3 million). (8.11) Interest Expenses EUR m 2016 2015 Interest expenses -10.6 -7.6 Interest expenses on bonds -26.3 -24.5 Interest expenses on obligation under finance lease -0.3 0.0 Total -37.2 -32.1 (8.12) Other Financial Expenses EUR m 2016 2015 Losses from the disposal of financial assets -0.8 -3.6 Impairment of financial assets, loans and securities -4.9 -1.6 Fair value valuation of interest rate swaps -0.8 -0.1 Other financial expenses -5.6 -8.0 Total -12.1 -13.4 (8.13) Currency Exchange Gains/Losses from Intra-Group Financing Foreign currency effects resulting from intra-group financing are stated separately in this item because of their close connection to financing activities. Exchange rate profit and loss amounts to EUR -5.8 million (previous year: EUR 5.8 million). 178 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (8.14) Tax Expenses EUR m 2016 2015 Current income tax expense -84.8 -95.8 Current income tax relating to other periods 0.1 -11.7 Deferred tax income/expense 9.7 11.71 Total -75.0 -95.8 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures according to IAS 8 A reconciliation of income tax applying the Austrian corporate income tax rate of 25 percent (previous year: 25 percent) to the effective tax rate for the financial year 2016 is stated below: EUR m 2016 2015 Earnings before taxes 229.4 308.51 Computed income tax expense of 25 percent (previous year: 25 -57.4 -77.61 percent) Adjustment of the computed income tax expense Adjustment for foreign tax rates -5.0 -5.8 Effects of non-taxable income 17.9 13.9 CONSOLIDATED Effects of non-deductible expenses -18.9 -10.0 Effects of tax advantages 3.7 2.9 Actual income tax relating to other periods 0.1 -11.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Effects of change in income tax rate on deferred taxes 1.3 0.7 Effects of initially not recognized and unused tax losses and possible offsets on the actual tax expense 4.5 2.2 Effects of initially not recognized and unused tax losses and possible offsets on the deferred tax expense 1.7 19.0 Effects of adjustments or of the reversal of a previous adjustment of a deferred tax asset -3.4 -3.9 Effects of unused tax losses and possible offsets not recognized as deferred taxes -16.9 -23.2 Withholding tax 0.1 0.9 Other -2.7 -3.1 Effective tax expense -75.0 -95.8 Effective tax rate in % 32.7 % 31.1 % 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures according to IAS 8 Income taxes included in the other comprehensive income: EUR m 2016 2015 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial instruments -4.6 -0.2 Revaluation of the net defined benefit liability 0.8 0.2 179 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (9) Notes on the Cash Flow Statement Cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities is shown separately in the consolidated cash flow statement. The consolidated cash flow statement was prepared in accordance with the indirect method. Liquid funds correspond to cash and cash equivalents as well as bank balances stated on the balance sheet. The amount of EUR 82.9 million deposited for tax liabilities has already been disclosed as a cash transaction in the cash flow from operating activities in the cash flow statement of the previous year. The Group undertook the following non-cash investing and financing activities that are not reflected in the cash flow statement: receivables related to the sale of included subsidiaries of EUR 10.8 million (previous year: EUR 20.9 million) and liabilities and/or settlements from the acquisition of companies of EUR 27.8 million (previous year: EUR 11.3 million). (10) Notes on Segment Reporting For management purposes, the NOVOMATIC Group is divided into two business segments. These strategic segments form the basis for the segment reporting. The “Gaming Technology” segment includes the production, sale and rental of gaming and entertainment machines, and the online B2B operations. The “Gaming Operations” segment consists of the operation of casinos and electronic gaming machine casinos, the betting business (in particular sports and horse-racing betting), and the online B2C business. The valuations for the segment reporting correspond to the accounting policies used for the IFRS consolidated financial statement. Those assets and liabilities that are not directly related to the gaming operation are summarized under the heading “Other”. Reconciliation comprises adjustments due to the consolidation. The inter-segment exchange of goods and services shows the supply and service relationships between the operating segments. The charging is carried out at arm’s length. Intercompany expenses, income and profits are eliminated in the reconciliation of segment revenues and/or segment results to the amounts disclosed in the consolidated financial statement. Segment assets consist mainly of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables and cash balances. Segment liabilities consist mainly of trade payables, provisions and deferred income. During the reconciliation of the segment assets and liabilities, intercompany receivables and liabilities are eliminated as part of the consolidation of debts. Unallocated assets and/or debts comprise those items on the balance sheet that are not defined as segment assets or segment debts and are used for the reconciliation with the consolidated value. 180 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Segment Revenues 01–12/2016 Gaming Gaming EUR m Technology Operations Other Reconciliation Total External revenues 903.1 1,370.6 20.4 0.0 2,294.1 Intra-segment revenues 139.0 9.0 7.2 -155.2 0.0 Total revenues 1,042.1 1,379.6 27.6 -155.2 2,294.1 01–12/2015 Gaming Gaming EUR m Technology Operations Other Reconciliation Total External revenues 860.3 1,204.0 22.0 0.0 2,086.3 Intra-segment revenues 125.0 9.4 7.1 -141.5 0.0 Total revenues 985.3 1,213.4 29.1 -141.5 2,086.3 Segment Result 01–12/2016 CONSOLIDATED Gaming Gaming EUR m Technology Operations Other Reconciliation Total Segment result (EBIT) 145.8 138.3 -10.5 -9.5 264.1 Financial result -34.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Earnings before taxes 229.4 Income Taxes -75.0 Annual profit 154.4 01–12/2015 Gaming Gaming EUR m Technology Operations Other Reconciliation Total Segment result (EBIT) 159.5 1 176.3 0.1 -20.5 315.4 Financial result -7.0 Earnings before taxes 308.5 Income Taxes -95.81 Annual profit 212.7 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures pursuant to IAS 8 or IFRS 3 “Business combinations” 181 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Segment Assets and Liabilities 2016 Gaming Gaming Non-allocated EUR m Technology Operations Other Reconciliation assets/liabilities Total Segment assets 1,290.6 1,165.6 138.3 -197.0 1,270.7 3,668.2 Segment liabilities 323.3 349.9 18.1 -163.8 1,769.2 2,296.7 2015 Gaming Gaming Non-allocated Mio. EUR Technology Operations Other Reconciliation assets/liabilities Total Segment assets 1,172.11 926.41 137.2 -230.81 978.2 2,983.2 Segment liabilities 294.1 364.1 13.7 -141.7 1,237.71 1,767.9 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures pursuant to IAS 8 or IFRS 3 “Business combinations” Other Segment Information 2016 Gaming Gaming EUR m Technology Operations Other Reconciliation Total Scheduled depreciation/ amortization -183.9 -109.3 -6.4 0.0 -299.7 Impairment -9.1 -24.2 0.0 0.0 -33.3 Impairment reversals 0.7 7.9 0.0 0.0 8.6 Investments 245.6 176.5 12.2 0.0 434.3 Investments through business combinations 45.5 262.4 0.0 0.0 307.9 Book value of associated companies 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.2 2015 Gaming Gaming EUR m Technology Operations Other Reconciliation Total Scheduled depreciation/ amortization -169.4 -90.8 -6.2 0.0 -266.5 Impairment -26.31 -17.5 -2.0 0.0 -45.8 Impairment reversals 3.2 7.7 0.0 0.0 11.0 Investments 190.0 111.9 6.4 0.0 308.3 Investments through business combinations 68.31 101.51 0.0 0.0 169.8 Book value of associated companies 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.2 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures pursuant to IAS 8 or IFRS 3 “Business combinations” 182 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Geographical Information The Group recorded the following revenues and assets in the individual regions: 01–12/2016 Other Other countries, NonUnited Eastern countries, inter­ allocated EUR m Austria Germany Italy Kingdom Europe Europe national assets Total Revenues 384.8 656.9 335.1 260.4 353.8 212.1 91.0 2,294.1 Assets 555.6 325.6 472.2 387.2 325.1 213.3 118.6 1,270.7 3,668.2 01–12/2015 Other Other countries, NonUnited Eastern countries, inter­ allocated EUR m Austria Germany Italy Kingdom Europe Europe national assets Total Revenues 408.6 647.7 276.6 182.1 304.0 177.0 90.2 2,086.3 Assets 564.1 278.7 1 367.3 248.9 1 263.9 1 174.3 1 107.7 978.2 2,983.2 1) Adjustment of previous year’s figures pursuant to IAS 8 or IFRS 3 “Business combinations” CONSOLIDATED Revenues are allocated to the individual regions based on the domicile of the company recording such revenues. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 183 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (11) Notes on Financial Instruments Category acc. to IAS 39 Fair value Financial assets Financial Contingent 12/31/2016 Loans and available liabilities at Financial consider­ EUR m receivables for sale amortized costs Derivatives Securities investments Derivatives ations Financial assets Financial assets 232.3 10.0 196.6 Other non-current assets 82.7 Trade receivables, other receivables and assets 252.5 Current financial assets 3.6 9.2 6.1 9.2 6.1 Cash and cash equivalents 877.8 TOTAL 1,216.7 241.5 0.0 6.1 19.1 196.6 6.1 0.0 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 1,383.4 Other non-current liabilities 18.4 0.0 Current financial liabilities 207.5 0.9 0.9 Trade payables and other liabilities 170.6 7.4 TOTAL 0.0 0.0 1,779.8 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.9 7.4 Category acc. to IAS 39 Fair value Financial assets Financial Contingent 12/31/2015 Loans and available liabilities at Financial consider­ EUR m receivables for sale amortized costs Derivatives Securities investments Derivatives ations Financial assets Financial assets 204.1 7.8 188.4 Other non-current assets 84.6 Trade receivables, other receivables and assets 247.5 Current financial assets 3.7 10.7 4.1 10.7 4.1 Cash and cash equivalents 585.4 TOTAL 921.2 214.8 0.0 4.1 18.5 188.4 4.1 0.0 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 1,037.8 Other non-current liabilities 14.0 9.4 Current financial liabilities 34.4 0.7 0.7 Trade payables and other liabilities 154.3 6.4 TOTAL 0.0 0.0 1,240.4 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.7 15.7 184 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Classification acc. to IFRS 7 Amortized costs Investments in Trade and Bank and Other non-consolidated Cash and cash lease lease Trade receivables companies and equivalents receivables Loans Bonds liabilities payables and liabilities shares 31.2 17.8 52.5 30.2 229.6 22.9 10.8 3.6 877.8 877.8 258.3 56.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 53.2 31.2 2.5 937.8 449.1 CONSOLIDATED 18.4 0.9 147.7 61.3 116.9 53.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 0.0 0.0 3.4 1,085.5 510.4 116.9 72.0 0.0 Classification acc. to IFRS 7 Amortized costs Investments in Trade and Bank and Other non-consolidated Cash and cash lease lease Trade receivables companies and equivalents receivables Loans Bonds liabilities payables and liabilities shares 7.9 9.1 58.9 25.7 206.9 40.6 13.0 3.7 585.4 585.4 229.1 62.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 66.3 7.9 2.4 592.0 448.4 14.0 0.8 0.0 35.4 100.9 53.4 0.0 0.0 3.1 592.0 483.8 100.9 67.3 0.0 185 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Valuation of Financial Instruments a. Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities regularly carried at Fair Value Some of the Group’s assets and liabilities are valued at fair value for financial reporting purposes. EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Hierarchy Assets Securities 19.1 18.5 Level 1 Financial investments 196.6 188.4 Level 3 Derivatives (positive market values) 2.1 0.9 Level 2 Derivatives (options) 4.0 3.2 Level 3 Liabilities Contingent considerations company acquisitions 7.4 15.7 Level 3 Derivatives (negative market values) 0.9 0.7 Level 2 Securities classified as financial assets available for sale include listed equity instruments such as shares and/or debt instruments such as bonds. For the valuation, the bid prices quoted on an active market are used. The financial investments include the indirectly held 11.56 percent interest in Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft mbH (ÖLG) and the directly held 17.19 percent in Casinos Austria Aktiengesellschaft (CASAG). For the market value measurement of both financial investments, internally created company valuations were used applying recognized multiplier methods. Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft mbH is the authorized concessionaire of the federal government as part of the gaming monopoly until September 30, 2027, performing the games Lotto “6/45”, Euromillionen, Toto, Score Bets, number games 1-90, the additional game “Joker”, raffle and instant scratch games, electronic lotteries (online gaming) at www.win2day.at and in video lottery terminal outlets, Keno, class lottery, Bingo and the numbers lottery “Toi Toi Toi”. For the market value measurement, an industry multiple derived from a peer group of eight international lottery companies was applied. The main input factor for this is the average ratio of enterprise value to EBITDA or EBIT for the selected peer group which is based on current market data and represents average market capitalization. At the time of submitting the offer or acquiring the interest, the EV/EBITDA multiplier was 7.83 and the EV/EBIT multiplier 8.89. The updated determination of the stated multipliers while maintaining the selected peer group led to an EV/EBITDA multiplier of 8.67 and an EV/EBIT multiplier of 9.67 for the financial year 2016. Firstly, the pro-rated EBITDAs and EBITs of ÖLG and its sub-subsidiaries from the most recent publicly available financial information for 2015 were calculated using these two multipliers. The calculated entity value was increased by the net financial assets or reduced by the net financial liabilities and adjusted for the special value of the investments. This equity value for a 100 percent interest was adjusted in consideration of an unchanged premium of 12.36 percent based on EBITDA, and 13.17 percent based on EBIT, for the acquisition of the interest and comes to around EUR 887.9 million. This resulted in a current market value of EUR 102.6 million for the 11.56 percent investment as of the balance sheet date. This subsequent measurement was recorded in equity, resulting in a revaluation of EUR 8.4 million that had no impact on income. An increase in the multiplier of 0.5x would lead to an increase in the fair value of EUR 5.0 million or an increase in the underlying EBITDA/EBIT of the valuation item of 10 percent to an increase in the fair value of EUR 9.2 million. Casinos Austria AG is the authorized concessionaire of the federal government within the framework of the gaming monopoly until December 31, 2027 and December 31, 2030, operating twelve casinos in Austria with day and evening games. It has locations in Baden, Bregenz, Graz, Innsbruck, Kitzbühel, Kleinwalsertal, Linz, Salzburg, Seefeld, Velden, Vienna and Zell am See. The casinos offer games such as roulette, different kinds of classic poker, Baccara chemin de fer, blackjack, Double Hit, Forty-one, 186 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Seven Eleven, Wheel of Fortune, Punto Banco, Red Dog, Sic Bo, Nevada, Tropical Stud Poker, Easy Poker, Easy Black Jack and gaming machines. A two-step weighted industry multiplier was used to measure the market value. When measuring the CASAG shares, the contribution of ÖLG (68 percent majority stake of CASAG) and the contribution of other CASAG companies were considered separately. A comparison group of 11 international casino companies served to calculate the industry multiplier for the other CASAG companies. At the time of submitting the offer or acquiring the interest, the EV/EBITDA multiplier was 9.11 and the EV/EBIT multiplier 13.55. The updated determination of the stated multipliers while maintaining the selected peer group led to an EV/EBITDA multiplier of 9.07 and an EV/EBIT multiplier of 13.35 for the financial year 2016. The multipliers from the ÖLG valuation and the other CASAG companies were weighted in accordance with the EBITDA/EBIT contribution, which resulted in an average EV/EBITDA multiplier of 8.81 and EV/EBITDA multiplier of 10.81 for the financial year 2016. Firstly, the EBITDA and EBIT were extrapolated from the most recent publicly available financial information of the CASAG Group for 2015 using these two multipliers. The calculated entity value was increased by the net financial assets or reduced by the net financial liabilities and adjusted for non-controlling interests. The resulting equity value for a 100 percent interest was adjusted in consideration of an unchanged discount of 24.4 percent based on EBITDA, and 18.2 percent based on EBIT, for the acquisition of the interest and comes to around EUR 546.7 million. This resulted in a current market value of EUR 94.0 million for the 17.2 percent investment as of the balance sheet date. This subsequent measurement was recorded in equity, resulting in a revaluation of EUR 8.2 million that had no impact on income. An increase in the multiplier of 0.5x would lead to an increase in the fair value of EUR 8.9 million or an increase in the underlying EBITDA/EBIT of the valuation item of 10 percent to an increase in the fair value of EUR 13.7 million. CONSOLIDATED In the second half of 2016, NOVOMATIC AG participated in the capital increase of Oberbank AG. The investment volume for the 9,000 new shares was EUR 0.5 million. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The derivative financial instruments mainly comprise interest rate swaps, interest rate options and forward currency contracts, the fair value of which is ascertained using the discounted cash flow method. For this, the future cash flows determined as of the valuation date are discounted using suitable discount rates with matching maturities (observable interest curves on the balance sheet date). Market valuations of derivative financial instruments are carried out by the Group’s own treasury management system, as well as the banks involved. The market value of derivatives corresponds to the value that the individual company would receive or have to pay if the contract was settled as of the balance sheet date. Changes in fair value are recorded in profit and loss. To hedge financial risks, the NOVOMATIC Group entered into the following derivative contracts: 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 EUR m Nominal amount Market value Nominal amount Market value USD forward contract (positive) 88.8 2.1 37.4 0.9 USD forward contract (negative) 0.0 0.0 25.0 -0.6 Interest rate swap 77.5 -0.9 77.5 -0.1 Through an option, the NOVOMATIC Group has secured the right to acquire shares in an unlisted company. To determine the current price of this purchased option, its successful assignment to an independent contractual partner was considered. This resulted in a current positive market value of EUR 4.0 million for the option as of the balance sheet date. This subsequent measurement was recorded in the income statement under other financial expenses with an amount of EUR 0.8 million. The contingent considerations from business combinations result from the contractual obligations of the acquiring Group company to pay an additional purchase price to the seller if certain contractually agreed revenue or EBITDA goals are reached within a certain period after closing. 187 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The valuation of the obligations from contingent purchase prices is based on updated revenue and/or EBITDA estimates. Changes after the initial recognition of EUR -0.6 million (previous year: EUR 0.7 million) from the subsequent valuation or settlement have been accounted for in other financial income or expense. The contingent considerations are shown in the balance sheet with EUR 0.0 million (previous year: EUR 9.4 million) under the other non-current liabilities (purchase price obligations) and with EUR 7.4 million (previous year: EUR 6.4 million) under trade payables and other liabilities (purchase price obligations). The change in the contingent consideration from business combinations by EUR -8.3 million is the result of an addition amounting to EUR 6.3 million from acquisitions and a disposal amounting to EUR -15.0 million from settlement or discharge. Purchase price obligations have a residual term of 1 year. b. Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities not carried at Fair Value regularly, whereby the Fair Value has to be disclosed For financial instruments valued at cost, the following table provides an overview of the book values as well as the corresponding fair values: 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 EUR m Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Hierarchy Financial liabilities Bonds 1,085.5 1,145.0 592.0 625.8 Level 1 Bank and leasing liabilities 510.4 517.0 483.8 484.5 Level 2 The fair value of bonds is the price listed on the stock market as of the valuation date. The market value of bank and leasing obligations is determined by discounting future fixed cash flows related to these obligations at the market interest rate on the balance sheet date. For financial assets and financial liabilities not listed above, it is assumed that their book value constitutes a reasonable approximation of the fair value. For cash, trade receivables, trade payables, other current receivables and other current liabilities, the fair value roughly corresponds to the book value due to the short residual maturities. For loans and borrowings, as well as other non-current financial receivables and liabilities, no major deviations between fair value and book value are assumed. The default risk is taken into consideration through the application of valuation allowances. 188 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Net Result by Category According to IAS 39 12/31/2016 Subsequent measurement At fair value At fair value through other through profit comprehensive EUR m Allowances or loss income Disposal result Net result Loans and receivables -10.2 -10.2 Derivatives 1.8 1.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 15.2 0.2 15.4 12/31/2015 Subsequent measurement At fair value At fair value through other through profit comprehensive EUR m Allowances or loss income Disposal result Net result Loans and receivables -10.8 -10.8 Derivatives -3.4 -3.4 Available-for-sale financial assets -4.7 -3.0 -7.7 Capital Risk Management The purpose of capital risk management is the control of the capital structure of the Group as well as the individual companies. It CONSOLIDATED ensures the maintenance of a high equity ratio in order to reduce debt costs and the safeguarding of sustained high profitability FINANCIAL STATEMENTS so that all Group companies are able to operate under the going concern principle. The development of the capital structure is supervised by means of the equity ratio and the ratio of net indebtedness to EBITDA. These ratios are regularly quantified and reported on a biannual basis to the executive board, which uses those ratios to guide further corporate development. The equity ratio is calculated as the ratio of equity to balance sheet total. Equity consists of the issued capital, capital reserves, retained earnings, as well as the revaluation reserve plus currency translation adjustments and non-controlling interests. Net debt is calculated as the sum of current and non-current financial liabilities less cash and cash equivalents. The debt ratio is calculated accordingly as the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). Due to its contractually agreed financial covenants, the NOVOMATIC Group is required to maintain an equity ratio of at least 20.0 percent and net debt in relation to the EBITDA of not more than 3.75x. The equity ratio and the ratio of net indebtedness to EBITDA as per December 31, 2016, and as per December 31, 2015, are calculated as follows: 2016 2015 Equity ratio (equity/balance sheet total) 37.4 % 40.7 % Net debt to EBITDA (net debt/EBITDA) 1.2 0.8 In October 2015, NOVOMATIC AG received a rating for the first time from the ratings agency Standard & Poor‘s and, since this time, has held a BBB rating with a stable outlook. 189 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Financial Risk Management The NOVOMATIC Group controls, monitors and limits the financial risks associated with the business segments in which it is active. Control of financial risks is supported by a treasury management system that is established in the industrial and bank sector. The financial risks relevant to the Group are monitored on a regular basis and, if necessary, collateralized via suitable measures and instruments (e.g. derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts) to reduce the risk resulting from the underlying transaction. Alongside the identification, analysis and evaluation of financial risks, decisions on the implementation of protective measures and instruments are made primarily by the headquarters. Analysis and quantification of the risk potential and the use of hedging instruments are monitored by the Group Treasury department. Any use of derivative instruments at a decentralized level is coordinated in advance with the Group Treasury in accordance with Group policy. Liquidity Risk Liquidity or financing risk is the risk associated with remaining solvent at any given moment and/or having the ability to obtain the necessary funds from investors at arm’s length so as to fulfill any due obligations on time and to provide intercompany financing and guarantees for internal Group purposes. Furthermore, the need for cash in the gaming industry is high, especially in terms of cash in the company’s own gaming arcades. Therefore, part of the indicated cash comprises base filling of the slot machines and cash reserves in the gaming arcades. Thanks to the Group’s conservative financing and debt policy, as well as the conservative investment policy, the NOVOMATIC Group’s liquidity risk is limited. Even so, the NOVOMATIC Group accords high priority to the topic of liquidity risk and its control. In order to guarantee the Group’s solvency and financial flexibility at all times, the Group maintains a liquidity reserve in the form of revolving usable credit lines (as of December 31, 2016: EUR 450.0 million, thereof EUR 450.0 million unused) and short-term money market investments. A short-term and a long-term continuous liquidity plan is compiled based on the results of the Group’s strategy and planning processes in order to provide an up-to-date impression of the expected development of liquidity at Group level. Medium-term and long-term liquidity and financing needs of the NOVOMATIC Group are determined based on projected cash flows. In addition to traditional credit financing, the NOVOMATIC Group in 2016 continues to enhance its focus on capital markets-based debt financing such as bonds (total volume as of December 31, 2016: EUR 1,100.0 million). To additionally reduce the liquidity risk, the NOVOMATIC Group always seeks to have an internationally diversified investor base. For this purpose, the emission of a eurobond in the amount of EUR 500.0 million (ISIN AT0000A1LHT0, due September 20, 2023) further strengthened the relationships to international investors such as banks, investment funds and financial service providers in the reporting year 2016. Over 300 investors registered interest in the transaction, meaning that the order book was oversubscribed six times. The investors come mainly from Germany, Austria, United Kingdom, France, Benelux and Italy. The acquisition of Talarius Ltd. in the United Kingdom was financed with OeKB equity financing in the amount of EUR 120.0 million. The promissory note tranche of EUR 5.0 million issued in December 2011, was repaid as agreed. The following table shows all payments for redemptions and interest from financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments that had been contractually fixed as of the consolidated balance sheet date. Derivative instruments are shown at their market value, whereas the other liabilities are shown in the amount of the non-discounted cash flows for the following financial years: 190 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 EUR m 2017 2018-2021 2016 2017-2020 Bonds 177.9 510.0 23.2 444.4 Bank loans 66.1 371.6 41.9 432.1 Lease liabilities 2.5 6.3 1.8 5.4 Trade payables 116.9 0.0 100.9 0.0 Derivatives 0.9 0.0 0.7 0.0 Contingent considerations 7.4 0.0 6.4 9.4 Other liabilities 53.7 18.4 53.4 14.0 Due to the high level of cash and cash equivalents, readily available investments and the revolving utilizable credit lines, on-time payment of the liabilities is guaranteed. Counterparty Risk Counterparty risk constitutes the risk of delay or default in payment by a contractual partner. In the NOVOMATIC Group’s financing activities, credit relationships with banks that can boast appropriately high ratings (investment grade rating) predominate. To screen the default risk for investments (current account balances, money market investments, capital market investments, CONSOLIDATED securities) and for derivatives (positive market value of derivatives), the NOVOMATIC Group monitors the limits. The limit for counterparty credit risk depends on the type of trade and the counterparty’s creditworthiness, with due attention paid to achieving a balanced distribution of the funds to avoid non-diversification risk. If a transaction exceeds its limit, measures to meet the defined target figures are initiated immediately. Furthermore, the development of the counterparties’ creditworthiness in terms of finance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (ratings, CDS spreads, common equity tier 1 ratio) is monitored continually, with counterparty risk limits being regularly adapted to correspond with any changes. Apart from financing, the NOVOMATIC Group is also exposed to counterparty credit risk in the area of sales, since customers might not fulfill their payment obligations in full or when they are due. This risk is kept in check by regularly analyzing the creditworthiness of the customer portfolio and by continuously monitoring outstanding receivables. The default risk is in some cases reduced even further via additionally demanded collateral such as e.g. received deposits or documentary letters of credit for exports. This applies in particular to new customers. Additionally, contractually secured reservations of title, advance payment in part or in full, direct debiting and requiring shorter payment terms, further minimize the risk to which the NOVOMATIC Group is exposed. Thanks to the high number of external customers, there is no concentration of default risk. The maximum risk in cases of default on receivables from customers to third-parties and loans to business partners is limited to their book value. For other financial assets (cash and cash equivalents, financial instruments available for sale and other financial instruments with the exception of derivatives), the maximum credit risk in the event of counterparty default is likewise the book value of these financial instruments. For derivative financial instruments, the maximum credit risk in cases of default is equivalent to the positive fair value of the derivative as of the valuation date. 191 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Market Risk a. Interest Rate Risk In the context of its external financing activities and investment strategy, the NOVOMATIC Group is exposed to risk related to changes in interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations can have a positive or negative effect on the value of financial instruments (present value risk) as well as on the resulting cash flows (cash flow risk). Due to risk management-related considerations, it is seen to that existing debt carries fixed as well as variable interest rates, and that a mix of short-term and long-term financing arrangements are concluded to minimize cluster risk. In order to limit interest rate risk, current interest rate developments are constantly monitored and interest rate risks are hedged, if necessary, e.g. using interest rate swaps. Due to the high share of fixed-interest liabilities (approximately 98 percent) in the NOVOMATIC Group’s financing portfolio, the cash flow risk due to increasing interest rates is limited. Variable-interest deposits exceed variable-interest financing vehicles, which structurally limits the cash flow risk due to increasing interest rates. Due to the current historical development of interest rates, the excess of variable-interest financial investments over the variable-interest financial liabilities increases the cash flow risk. If banks pass on the ECB’s negative deposit rates to their business customers in the future, this would lead to a further increase in the cash flow risk for the NOVOMATIC Group, as the variable-interest financial liabilities largely have a contractual floor for the reference rates concerned. The Executive Board has defined a guideline applicable across the Group for the use of hedging transactions. Derivative financial instruments are concluded exclusively for the purpose of collateralizing existing underlying transactions and not for speculative purposes. The interest rate swap with an amount of EUR 77.5 million and a term of five years (floored interest rate swap) that was concluded during the year under review in relation to the notes transaction is recognized at fair value as per the respective cut-off date in the consolidated financial statement. The following schedule shows the impact of potential interest rate changes (+/50 basis points) on earnings before taxes and on equity based on reasonable judgment. The interest rate sensitivity analysis includes the effects of variable-interest bank liabilities and bank deposits, as well as the payments due under concluded derivatives contracts. For the calculation, an interest rate increase by 50 basis points and an interest rate reduction by 50 basis points, were simulated, taking into account the impact on interest expenses for bank liabilities, interest income from bank deposits and compensatory payments of derivatives. EUR m 2016 2015 Change (in basis points) +50 basis points -50 basis points +50 basis points -50 basis points Change in earnings before taxes 1.8 -1.8 1.7 -1.7 Change in equity 1.3 -1.3 1.3 -1.3 In 2016, the average weighted interest rate for variable-interest financing was 2.3 percent, while the average 3M-EURIBOR was -0.265 percent (change of -0.245 percent). Due to the ECB’s monetary policy decisions, some banks have charged their customers a negative interest on short-term bank deposits or threatened to do so. Due to this, a future interest rate reduction by 0.5 percent against the current level (i.e. further negative interest) is possible. 192 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 b. Foreign Exchange Risk The risk resulting from fluctuations in the value of financial instruments, other balance sheet positions (e.g. receivables and liabilities), and/or cash flows denominated in foreign currencies due to exchange rate fluctuations, is called currency risk or exchange risk. This risk resides predominantly in business transactions conducted in currencies other than the local currency of an entity (i.e. in foreign currency) or in regular business activities (direct currency risk), as well as in transactions where the prices for products and services depend on a currency other than the invoicing currency (indirect currency risk). To limit currency risk in business transactions carried out in foreign currency or in those that are dependent on foreign currencies, the development of exchange rates is monitored constantly. Currency risk is quantified regularly on a rolling basis and significant exposures to such risks are hedged in such a way as to reduce the risk of exchange losses. An initial hedge for currency risk is provided through items that are naturally self-contained (natural hedge), for instance, the payments received from deliveries and services in USD are balanced by payments made for deliveries and services in USD. For the remaining net exposure, currency risk is usually hedged through forward currency contracts. With respect to exchange rate risks from operative business, payments for materials invoiced in USD mean that the NOVOMATIC Group is a USD net payer at present and for the medium term. The purchase price payment for the acquisition of Talarius Ltd. in the United Kingdom, which was paid in 2016 in GBP, was hedged using forward currency contracts. In an analysis to measure the sensitivity towards exchange rate movements, the payments and receipts in USD are netted. The CONSOLIDATED impact of an exchange rate movement by +/10 USD cents on the net position is then calculated. The following schedule, which is based on reasonable judgment, shows the effects of possible exchange rate movements by +/10 USD cents on earnings before taxes and on equity: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUR m 2016 2015 Exchange rate fluctuation, USD to EUR +10 USD cents -10 USD cents +10 USD cents -10 USD cents Change in earnings before taxes 4.2 -5.0 2.9 -3.5 Change in equity 3.2 -3.8 2.2 -2.6 As of the balance sheet date, interest-bearing financial liabilities in the NOVOMATIC Group were mainly denominated in EUR, and otherwise in USD or other currencies. Group companies with an accounting currency other than their financing currency were hence exposed to foreign exchange risk in terms of the financing currency (mainly EUR and USD). c. Capital Investments Risks in capital investments essentially cover market price and valuation risks. The capital investments held by the NOVOMATIC Group are comprised mainly of precious metals as well as exchange-traded shares and were hence exposed to price fluctuations during the financial year. In the second half of 2016, NOVOMATIC AG participated in the capital increase of Oberbank AG. The investment volume for the 9,000 new shares was EUR 0.5 million. There were no further significant capital investment-related events in 2016. 193 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (12) Notes on Leases and Contingent Liabilities Finance Lease NOVOMATIC Group as lessee: The book values of intangible assets held under finance leases come to EUR 5.5 million (previous year: EUR 4.0 million). These lease contracts concern platforms that are disclosed under other intangible assets. The term of the leases is 4 years. The book values of the Group’s property, plant and equipment held under finance leases totals EUR 0.9 million (previous year: EUR 0.2 million). The property, plant and equipment held under finance lease comprise plant and machinery, office equipment, and vehicles. The terms of the leases lie between 3 and 5 years. The book values of the Group’s investment property held under finance lease add up to EUR 10.0 million (previous year: EUR 10.5 million). After the expiration of the agreement, ownership of the property will be transferred to the Group. Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Within one year 2.5 1.8 2.4 1.8 Between one and five years 6.3 5.4 6.0 5.0 Over five years 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 8.9 7.3 8.4 6.8 Minus prospective financing costs -0.4 -0.5 Present value of lease obligations 8.4 6.8 NOVOMATIC Group as lessor: The Group concludes finance lease agreements for slot machines. The term of the concluded finance lease agreements is between 1 and 5 years. Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Within one year 12.5 14.2 10.8 13.0 Between one and five years 21.5 10.5 17.8 9.1 Over five years 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 34.0 24.8 28.6 22.2 Minus prospective financing income -5.4 -2.6 Present value of lease receivables 28.6 22.2 194 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Operating Lease NOVOMATIC Group as lessee: The Group has mainly entered lease agreements regarding the use of property (gaming arcades). The following obligations arise from irredeemable agreements: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 For the next year 63.8 53.0 For the following two to five years 143.2 125.1 Over five years 68.1 46.1 NOVOMATIC Group as lessor: The Group concluded contracts for the rental of gaming machines with mainly irredeemable terms between 12 and 24 months. The gaming machines are shown under property, plant and equipment as plant and machinery. The rent payments during the reporting period are shown as sales revenue under income from rent and management services. Within the rent payments, conditional lease payments amount to EUR 242.9 million (previous year: EUR 189.8 million). CONSOLIDATED The claims for future minimum lease payments from operating leasing rates are as follows: EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 For the next year 79.3 79.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the following two to five years 23.9 12.6 Over five years 5.5 0.4 Contingent Liabilities EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Bill commitments 0.9 0.2 Guarantees 7.7 5.9 Total 8.6 6.1 The Group has issued payment guarantees to UniCredit Bank Austria AG of EUR 0.2 million (previous year: EUR 0.2 million) in favor of third-parties. In Italy, payment guarantees of EUR 7.5 million (previous year: EUR 5.7 million) were granted to the regulatory authority ADM (formerly AAMS). 195 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (13) Other Disclosures Group Audit Fees The expenses for services provided by the Group auditor (including the network in accordance with Sec. 271b of the Austrian Company Code) are as follows: EUR m 2016 2015 Group audit and audit of financial statements 2.1 1.8 Audit-related services 0.2 0.0 Tax advisory services 0.3 0.3 Other consulting services 1.0 0.4 Related Party Transactions The parent company of NOVOMATIC AG is Novo Invest GmbH in Gumpoldskirchen. The consolidated financial statement of NOVOMATIC AG is therefore included in the consolidated financial statement of Novo Invest GmbH being the ultimate parent company and is filed at the Regional Court of Wiener Neustadt under FN 381832v. The related parties furthermore include the members of the bodies (Executive Board and Supervisory Board), non-consolidated affiliated subsidiaries, associated companies, as well as companies under the control of bodies or the shareholders of NOVOMATIC AG. The following table summarizes the scope of business relationships with related parties for the individual financial years: Other Management EUR m 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Receivables 16.0 10.7 0.0 0.0 Liabilities 5.4 13.7 0.2 0.2 Revenues 17.7 15.2 0.0 0.0 Cost of material 35.5 38.0 0.0 0.0 Consulting services 0.2 0.3 0.0 0.0 Research and development 11.9 15.8 0.0 0.0 Other expenses 4.5 2.7 0.0 0.0 Interest income 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 The item “Management” comprises the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of NOVOMATIC AG. The business relationships with the management result, in particular, from consulting services. The management’s remuneration is disclosed in the note on “company bodies”. The information provided for “Other” relates to companies that are controlled by the management or by the shareholders of NOVOMATIC AG. The transactions result from the delivery of goods and services, rental fees, and research and development services. Accounts receivable are unsecured and settled in cash. Guarantees were neither given nor received. There were no transactions with associated companies during the two financial years. 196 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Fully Consolidated Subsidiaries Superordinate IC code Company, domicile company Group share Direct share ABZOAT AbZorba Games Betriebsges.m.b.H., Austria GTA 100.00 % 100.00 % ADMICS Admira d.o.o., Serbia NOVOCS 100.00 % 100.00 % ACEAT Admiral Casinos & Entertainment AG, Austria NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % ADCAES Admiral Casinos S.A., Spain NOGES 100.00 % 100.00 % AGMIT Admiral Entertainment S.r.l., Italy ADRIT 100.00 % 100.00 % ADGAES Admiral Gaming Andalucia S.A., Spain NOGES 100.00 % 100.00 % ADCLES Admiral Gaming Castilla y León S.L., Spain ADGMES 100.00 % 100.00 % SAMAES/ 45.00 %/ 60.00 %/ ADOSES Admiral Gaming Madrid S.L., Spain ADGMES 40.00 % 40.00 % GMAIT Admiral Gaming Network S.r.l., Italy ADRIT 100.00 % 100.00 % AIIT Admiral Interactive S.r.l., Italy ADRIT 100.00 % 100.00 % ADGMES Admiral Operations Spain S.L., Spain NOGES 100.00 % 100.00 % ALPDE Admiral Play GmbH, Germany NSMLDE 100.00 % 100.00 % ADSLES Admiral Slots S.A., Spain NOGES 100.00 % 100.00 % ASWDE Admiral Sportwetten GmbH, Germany NSMLDE 100.00 % 100.00 % ASW Admiral Sportwetten GmbH, Austria AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % CONSOLIDATED ADMILV Admiralu Klubs SIA, Latvia AGI 60.00 % 60.00 % AGVIT Adria Gaming Vicenza S.r.l., Italy ALLIT 100.00 % 100.00 % ADRIAL Adriatik Game Sh.A., Albania EAGAL 100.00 % 100.00 % FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NLSTTN AGI Novomatic Tunisia S.A.R.L., Tunisia AGI/NLSAT 1.00 %/99.00 % 1.00 %/99.00 % AINSUK Ainsworth (UK) Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % AIRO Airoline GmbH, Austria AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % AK COMET d.o.o. Zivinice, Bosnia and COMEBA Herzegovina HTLBA 100.00 % 100.00 % Albanisch Österreichische Lotterien Holding ALLOAT Gesellschaft m.b.H., Austria AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % ALFLV Alfor SIA, Latvia AGI 60.00 % 60.00 % ALLIT Allstar S.r.l., Italy ADRIT 100.00 % 100.00 % AMONBA Amoniq d.o.o. Zenica, Bosnia and Herzegovina HTLBA 100.00 % 100.00 % ASTRAL Astra Albania Sh.A., Albania EAGAL 100.00 % 100.00 % ASCOUK Astra Casino Gaming (One) Ltd., United Kingdom ASCGUK 100.00 % 100.00 % ASTRUK Astra Games Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % AUSPDE Automaten Service Playtime GmbH, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % AUSUES Automáticos Surmatic S.L., Spain ADGMES 60.00 % 60.00 % BEAMT BeatYa Online Entertainment p.l.c., Malta GTA 100.00 % 100.00 % BeKu Automaten & Gastronomie Service GmbH, BEKUDE Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % BELLUK Bell-Fruit Group Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % BETWCS Betware d.o.o., Serbia BETWDK 100.00 % 100.00 % BETWDK Betware DK ApS., Denmark BETHIS 100.00 % 100.00 % BETWES Betware S.L.U., Spain BETHIS 100.00 % 100.00 % BTVIIT Bingo Time Vicenza S.r.l., Italy AGMIT 100.00 % 100.00 % BLUECA Bluebat Games Inc., Canada GTCACA 70.00 % 70.00 % BPA Freizeitund Unterhaltungsbetriebe GmbH, BPAFDE Germany NSMLDE 100.00 % 100.00 % BRASES Brasan Bros S.A., Spain JANOES 60.00 % 100.00 % 197 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NEWTUK Brian Newton Leisure Ltd., United Kingdom LUXLUK 100.00 % 100.00 % CAHONL Casino Admiral Holland B.V., Netherlands JVHPNL 100.00 % 100.00 % CAZENL Casino Admiral Zeeland B.V., Netherlands JVHPNL 100.00 % 100.00 % CAALIT Casino delle Alpi Srl, Italy ADRIT 51.00 % 51.00 % Casino Deluxe Beteiligungsgesellschaft m.b.H. I, CAS1DE Germany BPAFDE 100.00 % 100.00 % Casino Deluxe Beteiligungsgesellschaft m.b.H. III, CAS3DE Germany BPAFDE 100.00 % 100.00 % Casino Deluxe Beteiligungsgesellschaft m.b.H. IV, VIDDE Germany BPAFDE 100.00 % 100.00 % CASKDE Casino Entertainment GmbH & Co. KG, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % CARIDE Casino Rixos GmbH, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % CER Cervo Media GmbH, Austria GTA 100.00 % 100.00 % CITYDE City Freizeitanlagen GmbH, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % COMEES Comercial Txartel S.L., Spain ADGMES 80.00 % 80.00 % COSPDE Conrad Spielautomaten GmbH, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % CROMX Crown Gaming Mexico S.A. de C.V., Mexico AGI/HTM 99.99 %/0.01 % 99.99 %/ 0.01 % CROPY Crown Gaming Paraguay S.A., Paraguay NLAHES 65.00 % 65.00 % CROPE Crown Gaming S.A.C., Peru NOVOPE 100.00 % 100.00 % Crown Gaming Services Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V., AGIMX Mexico AGI/HTM 80.00 %/20.00 % 80.00 %/20.00 % CRODE Crown Technologies GmbH, Germany NSMLDE 100.00 % 100.00 % CRYAN CRYdata N.V., Curacao FMASK 100.00 % 100.00 % DOMIDE Domino-Automaten-Betriebs-GmbH, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % EAGAL Eagle Investment Sh.A, Albania AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % DOLAES El Dolar de plata Linense S.L., Spain VERAES 51.04 % 100.00 % DORAES El Dorado Derby S.L., Spain ADGMES 80.00 % 80.00 % Elam Group Electronic Amusement B.V., ELAMNL Netherlands EUCGNL 100.00 % 100.00 % ELSYIT Electro System S.p.A., Italy ADRIT 75.00 % 75.00 % ELLPIT Ellepi Ges. S.r.l., Italy AGMIT 100.00 % 100.00 % EMPUK Empire Games Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % EN61UK Ensco 961 Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % EN62UK Ensco 962 Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % EUCGNL Eurocoin Gaming B.V., Netherlands JVHPNL 100.00 % 100.00 % AWPDNL Eurocoin Interactive B.V., Netherlands JVHPNL 100.00 % 100.00 % EUROIT Euromat S.r.l., Italy ADRIT 60.00 % 60.00 % EXTDE Extra Games Entertainment GmbH, Germany NSMLDE 100.00 % 100.00 % EXLGUK Extreme Live Gaming Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 92.50 % 92.50 % EZEADE EZEA GmbH, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % FUNHUK Funhouse Leisure Ltd., United Kingdom PLAYUK 100.00 % 100.00 % FUSAUK Funhouse Leisure Sales Ltd., United Kingdom PLAYUK 100.00 % 100.00 % Funstage Spielewebseiten Betriebsges.m.b.H., FST Austria GTA 100.00 % 100.00 % G.A.M.E. SYS Geldspiel-AutomatenGAM Miet-Elektronik-System GmbH, Austria AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % GAMEUK Gamestec Leisure Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % GESGES GesGiGames S.L.U., Spain GIGAES 80.00 % 100.00 % GNORES GiGames Norte S.L., Spain GIGAES 80.00 % 100.00 % GIGAES GiGames S.L., Spain NOGES 80.00 % 80.00 % 198 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 GSM Giochi San Marino S.p.A., San Marino AGI 93.00 % 93.00 % GRCAES Gran Casino Aljarafe S.A., Spain ADCAES 100.00 % 100.00 % GALUK Greentube Alderney Ltd., United Kingdom GTMT 100.00 % 100.00 % Greentube Canada Interactive Entertainment GTCACA Corp., Canada GTA 100.00 % 100.00 % GTGIGI Greentube Gibraltar Ltd., Gibraltar GTA 100.00 % 100.00 % Greentube Internet Entertainment Solutions GTA GmbH, Austria ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % GTMT Greentube Malta Ltd., Malta GTA 100.00 % 100.00 % FMASK Greentube Slovakia s.r.o., Slovakia FST/GTA 0.38 %/99.62 % 0.38 %/99.62 % HIRDE Hirscher Moneysystems GmbH, Germany CRODE 80.00 % 80.00 % HOCAPE Hotel Carrera S.A.C., Peru IMRAPE/SIMAPE 99.90 %/0.10 % 99.90 %/0.10 % HPABDE HP Automatenbetriebs GmbH, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % HTLBA HTL d.o.o. Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % HTLMK HTL Makedonija DOOEL, Macedonia AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % HTLME HTL Montenegro d.o.o., Montenegro AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % HTLUA HTL Ukraine TOV, Ukraine AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % HTM Hotelu. Tourismus Management GmbH, HTM Austria NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % IDEADE Ideal Entertainment GmbH, Germany NWCDE 100.00 % 100.00 % CONSOLIDATED IGROUA Igrotech-Import TOV, Ukraine AZARLT 80.00 % 100.00 % INEWCL I-New Chile S.p.A., Chile INEWAT 76.81 % 100.00 % INEWCO I-New Colombia S.A.S., Colombia INEWAT 76.81 % 100.00 % FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INEWHU I-New Hungary Kft., Hungary INEWAT 76.81 % 100.00 % INEWPE I-New Peru S.A.C., Peru INEWAT 76.05 % 99.00 % INEWAT I-New Unified Mobile Solutions AG, Austria NAG 76.81 % 76.81 % I-New Unified Mobile Solutions S.A. de C.V., INEWMX Mexico INEWAT 76.80 % 99.99 % IMRAPE Inmobiliaria Rapid S.A.C., Peru CROPE 100.00 % 100.00 % INTEHR Interigre d.o.o., Croatia NOGHR 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVORO/ 99.9787 %/ 99.9787 %/ HTM/ 0.0099 %/ 0.0099 %/ INTRO Intertop S.r.l., Romania AGI 0.0017 % 0.0017 % J.u.C. Schaaf Spielautomatenbetriebsges.m.b.H., SCHAAF Austria GAM 100.00 % 100.00 % Juegos Automáticos Nacidos Para el ocio S.L., JANOES Spain SAMAES 60.00 % 80.00 % JVHPDE JVH gaming products GmbH, Germany JVHPNL 100.00 % 100.00 % Königstraße Spielstätten und Automaten UG, KOENDE Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % Kurhessische Spielbank Kassel/BadWildungen KSBKDE GmbH & CO. KG, Germany SIMKDE 100.00 % 100.00 % LOTAAL Lotaria Kombetare Sh.p.k., Albania ALLOAT 100.00 % 100.00 % NSMLDE Löwen Entertainment GmbH, Germany AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % ASCGUK Luxury Leisure Holdings Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % LUXLUK Luxury Leisure Ultd., United Kingdom ASCGUK 100.00 % 100.00 % MAGMK MA Gaming DOOEL, Macedonia HTLMK 100.00 % 100.00 % MAKOMK Makoten DOOEL, Macedonia AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % MASTMK Masterbet DOOEL, Macedonia HTLMK 100.00 % 100.00 % MEDHR Mediteran Gaming d.o.o., Croatia NOGHR 100.00 % 100.00 % MGGAIT MG Gaming S.r.l., Italy SOGIT 100.00 % 100.00 % 199 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 MILLIT Millenium Srl., Italy ADRIT 100.00 % 100.00 % MNAME MNA Gaming d.o.o., Montenegro HTLME 100.00 % 100.00 % Moislinger Spielstätten und Automaten UG, MOISDE Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % MICACS MS&NS d.o.o., Serbia NOVOCS 80.00 % 80.00 % Mühlenstraße Spielstätten und Automaten UG, MUEHDE Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % NMN NMN Immo GmbH, Austria AGI/NAG 1.00 %/99.00 % 1.00 %/99.00 % NORDDE Norddeutsche Spielbanken GmbH, Germany NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVOCR Novo Gaming CR Ltda., Costa Rica NLAHES 100.00 % 100.00 % NOGHR Novo Gaming d.o.o., Croatia AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % NLAHES/ 99.999 %/ 99.999 %/ NOVOGT Novo Gaming GT Limitada, Guatemala HTM 0.001 % 0.001 % IKGDE Novo Immobilien GmbH, Germany NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVOBG Novo Investment Bulgaria EOOD, Bulgaria AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVOCS Novo Investment d.o.o., Serbia AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVORO Novo Investment RO SRL, Romania AGI/HTM 99.85 %/0.15 % 99.85 %/0.15 % NLSIS Novo Lottery Solutions Iceland hf., Iceland NAG/NLSAT 0.24 %/99.76 % 0.24 %/99.76 % NOVOPA Novo Panama S.de R.L., Panama NLAHES/HTM 99.90 %/0.10 % 99.90 %/0.10 % NOVOBA NOVO RS d.o.o., Bosnia and Herzegovina AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % NVLTAT Novo VLTech GmbH, Austria AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % NVLTRO Novo VLTech Solutions SRL, Romania AGI/NVLTAT 0.01 %/99.99 % 0.01 %/99.99 % NOVOCL Novochile Ltda., Chile AGI/HTM 99.00 %/1.00 % 99.00 %/1.00 % NEE Novoloto OÜ, Estonia ADMILV 60.00 % 100.00 % AGISA Novomatic Africa (Pty) Ltd., South Africa AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % NAHUS Novomatic Americas Holdings Inc., USA NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % NAINUS Novomatic Americas Investments Inc., USA NAHUS 100.00 % 100.00 % NARUS Novomatic Americas Real Estate LLC, USA NAHUS 100.00 % 100.00 % NASUS Novomatic Americas Sales LLC, USA NAHUS/NAINUS 99.00 %/1.00 % 99.00 %/1.00 % AGIAR Novomatic Argentina Limitada S.r.l., Argentina AGI/HTM 90.00 %/10.00 % 90.00 %/10.00 % JVHMNL Novomatic Development NL B.V., Netherlands JVHPNL 100.00 % 100.00 % NGEXNL Novomatic Exploitatie NL I B.V., Netherlands JVHPNL 100.00 % 100.00 % LOONNL Novomatic Exploitatie NL II B.V., Netherlands JVHPNL 100.00 % 100.00 % JVHENL Novomatic Exploitatie NL III B.V., Netherlands JVHPNL 100.00 % 100.00 % OLACO Novomatic Gaming Colombia S.A.S., Colombia AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % AGI Novomatic Gaming Industries GmbH, Austria NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % NOGES Novomatic Gaming Spain S.A., Spain AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % NHCCL Novomatic Holdings Chile Ltda., Chile NICCL 100.00 % 100.00 % AGIHU Novomatic Hungaria Kft., Hungary AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % NICCL Novomatic Investment Chile S.A., Chile NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % ADRIT Novomatic Italia S.p.A., Italy NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % AGSIT Novomatic Italia Services S.r.l., Italy ADRIT 100.00 % 100.00 % NLAHES Novomatic LatAm Holding S.L.U., Spain AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % BETHIS Novomatic Lottery Solutions (Iceland) hf., Iceland NLSAT/NLSIS 15.84 %/84.16 % 15.84 %/84.16 % NLSAT Novomatic Lottery Solutions GmbH, Austria NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVONL Novomatic Netherlands B.V., Netherlands AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVOPE Novomatic Peru S.A.C., Peru AGI/HTM 99.99 %/0.01 % 99.99 %/0.01 % NOSSES Novomatic Services Spain S.L., Spain NOGES 100.00 % 100.00 % 200 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 JVHPNL Novomatic Services NL B.V., Netherlands NOVONL 100.00 % 100.00 % ASTUK Novomatic UK Ltd., United Kingdom AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % NWC Nord West Casino Beteiligungs GmbH, NWCDE Germany NWCKDE 100.00 % 100.00 % NWCKDE NWC Nord West Casino GmbH & Co. KG, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % ARGAR Octavian de Argentina S.A., Argentina AGI/HTM 90.00 %/10.00 % 90.00 %/10.00 % ALSGRU Octavian Game Art OOO, Russia AGI/SBPRU 99.90 %/0.10 % 99.90 %/0.10 % SBPRU Octavian SPb Limited Partnership, Russia AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % UGIRU OOO United Gaming Industries, Russia AGI 99.99 % 99.99 % ORIOIT Orione Srl, Italy AGMIT 100.00 % 100.00 % OTIUES Otiumgi S.L., Spain AGI 60.00 % 60.00 % PLANBY Planeta IGR, Belarus AZARLT 80.00 % 100.00 % PLAAT Platogo Interactive Entertainment GmbH, Austria GTA 100.00 % 100.00 % PLAYUK Playnation Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % Play-Point Spielhallenund PLAYDE Automatenbetriebsges.m.b.H., Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % PROMIT Promotrice Giochi S.r.l., Italy AGMIT 100.00 % 100.00 % RALLUK RAL Ltd., United Kingdom TALAUK 100.00 % 100.00 % LORZNL Recreatieprojecten Zeeland B.V., Netherlands CAZENL 100.00 % 100.00 % ADGMES/ 24.00 %/ 24.00 %/ CONSOLIDATED HISPES Recreativos Hispajuegos S.L., Spain SAMAES 27.04 % 36.05 % REDDDE Red Devil Spielothek GmbH, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % HTBLBA RSA Gaming d.o.o., Bosnia and Herzegovina NOVOBA 100.00 % 100.00 % FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RUTAES Ruta 777 S.L., Spain NOGES 80.00 % 80.00 % ASGOUK S.A.L. Leisure Holdings Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % SALLUK S.A.L. Leisure Ltd., United Kingdom ASGOUK 100.00 % 100.00 % S4GAES S4Gaming S.L., Spain OTIUES 60.00 % 100.00 % SAMAES Salones Macao S.L., Spain ADGMES 75.00 % 75.00 % SIMAPE Sierra Machines S.A.C., Peru CROPE 100.00 % 100.00 % SIM Spielbanken Investitions-, Beteiligungsund SIMKDE Management GmbH & CO. KG, Germany NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % SLOTHU Slotclub Kft. Hungary AGIHU 100.00 % 100.00 % MIBECS SM&SM d.o.o., Serbia NOVOCS 80.00 % 80.00 % SOGIT So.Ge.Slot S.p.A., Italy ADRIT 100.00 % 100.00 % Spielbank Berlin Entertainment GmbH & Co.KG, SBEKDE Germany NAG 60.00 % 60.00 % Spielbank Berlin Gustav Jaenecke GmbH & Co.KG, SBBKDE Germany NAG 59.50 % 59.50 % Spielbank Berlin nationale Beteiligungs­ SBNKDE gesellschaftmbH & Co.KG, Germany NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % STAKNL Stakelogic B.V., Netherlands GTA 100.00 % 100.00 % TALAUK Talarius Ltd., United Kingdom ASTUK 100.00 % 100.00 % TREU9 Treuhand 9 GmbH, Poland TREU1 60.00 % 100.00 % TREU1 Treuhand GmbH, Austria AGI 60.00 % 60.00 % TURHDE Turhan Spielsalon GmbH, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % AZARLT UAB Azarto Technika, Lithuania AGI 80.00 % 80.00 % NOVOLT UAB Novogaming Vilnius, Lithuania AGI 80.00 % 80.00 % TAXILT UAB Taxillus, Lithuania AZARLT 80.00 % 100.00 % VSGALT UAB VSGA, Lithuania AZARLT 80.00 % 100.00 % 201 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 ADGMES/ 24.00 %/ 24.00 %/ VERAES Verajuegos S.L., Spain SAMAES 27.04 % 36.05 % VILLBG Villox Group EOOD, Bulgaria NOVOBG 100.00 % 100.00 % WETTRO Wettpunkt International S.r.l., Romania NOVORO 100.00 % 100.00 % ZSCADE ZS Casino Emsland GmbH, Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % Non-Consolidated Affiliated Companies Superordinate IC code Company, domicile company Group share Direct share Crveno-Crno d.o.o. Mostar, Bosnia and CRVBA Herzegovina HTLBA 100.00 % 100.00 % ABZOUK AbZorba Games UK Ltd., United Kingdom ABZOAT 100.00 % 100.00 % CLUBUK Admiral Club Ltd., United Kingdom AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % BAGYHU Admiral Hungaria Kft., Hungary AGIHU 100.00 % 100.00 % AINSFR Ainsworth France SAS, France AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % ALEARO Alea Investrom SRL, Romania NOVORO/HTM 99.00 %/1.00 % 99.00 %/1.00 % ALPSIT Alp S.r.l., Italy ADRIT 70.00 % 70.00 % ABETUK Astra Betting (One) Ltd., United Kingdom GAMEUK 100.00 % 100.00 % ASGGUK Astra Gaming Group Ltd., United Kingdom ASTRUK 100.00 % 100.00 % BAMUUK Bell Amusements Ltd., United Kingdom GAMEUK 100.00 % 100.00 % BFGUK Bell-Fruit Games Ltd., United Kingdom BELLUK 100.00 % 100.00 % BFSUK Bell-Fruit Services Ltd., United Kingdom GAMEUK 100.00 % 100.00 % BEMARO Bet Master SRL, Romania NOVORO/HTM 99.00 %/1.00 % 99.00 %/1.00 % BETBMT BetCave Betting Solutions Limited, Malta BETHMT 100.00 % 100.00 % BETHMT BetMen Holding Limited, Malta ASW 100.00 % 100.00 % BETOMT BetMen Operations Limited, Malta BETHMT 100.00 % 100.00 % LOTTIT Big Admiral S.r.l., Italy AGMIT 100.00 % 100.00 % BINGIT Bingoland S.r.l., Italy AGMIT 51.00 % 51.00 % BUENNI Buena Vista S.A., Nicaragua CROPE 94.02 % 94.02 % Casino Entertainment Verwaltungs-GmbH, CASVDE Germany EXTDE 100.00 % 100.00 % CPASPH CP Asian Solutions Corporation, Philippines ASTUK 51.00 % 51.00 % DHTCMK DHTCM DOOEL, Macedonia HTLMK 100.00 % 100.00 % GNETUK Games Network Ltd., United Kingdom GAMEUK 100.00 % 100.00 % GTECUK Gamestec Ltd., United Kingdom GAMEUK 100.00 % 100.00 % GTSEMT Greentube Malta SEE Ltd., Malta GTMT 100.00 % 100.00 % HTLXK HTL Kosovo Sh.p.k., Kosovo HTLMK 100.00 % 100.00 % INEWBD I-New Bangladesch Ltd., Bangladesh INEWAT 76.81 % 100.00 % I-New Unified Mobile Solutions Africa (PTY) Ltd., INEWZA South Africa INEWAT 76.81 % 100.00 % INEWUS I-New USA Inc., USA INEWAT 76.81 % 100.00 % INTLB Interinvest Holding SAL, Lebanon AGI 95.00 % 95.00 % INLOLB Interlog SAL, Lebanon INTLB 95.00 % 100.00 % Kurhessische Spielbank Kassel/BadWildungen KSBDE Verwaltungs GmbH, Germany SIMKDE 100.00 % 100.00 % KWIKUK Kwik Tan Ltd., United Kingdom ASCGUK 100.00 % 100.00 % LEISUK Leisure Projects Ltd., United Kingdom PLAYUK 100.00 % 100.00 % MAZOUK Mazooma Games Ltd., United Kingdom BELLUK 100.00 % 100.00 % 202 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Mazooma Interactive Games Ltd., MIGUK United Kingdom BELLUK 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVAIT Novomatic Group S.r.l., Italy GMAIT 100.00 % 100.00 % Novo Gaming Honduras S.de R.L. de C.V., NOVOHN Honduras NLAHES/HTM 99.95 %/0.05 % 99.95 %/0.05 % Novo Immobilien Verwaltungsges.m.b.H., IVGDE Germany IKGDE 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVOFR NOVOMATIC France S.A.S., France AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % OSBKDE Ostsee-Spielbanken GmbH & Co. KG, Germany SBNKDE 51.00 % 51.00 % RLMSUK RLMS Sales Ltd., United Kingdom BELLUK 100.00 % 100.00 % SAYCO Say:Hola! SAS, Colombia INEWAT 76.81 % 100.00 % SIM Spielbanken Investitionsund Management SIMDE GmbH, Germany NAG 100.00 % 100.00 % SMARAT Smartspace GmbH, Austria INEWAT 65.29 % 85.00 % Spielbank Berlin Entertainment Verwaltungs SBEVDE GmbH, Germany SBEKDE 60.00 % 100.00 % Spielbank Berlin nationale Beteiligungen GIPDE Verwaltungs GmbH, Germany SBNKDE 100.00 % 100.00 % SBBVDE Spielbank Berlin Verwaltungs GmbH, Germany SBBKDE 59.50 % 100.00 % Spielbanken MV Bewerbergesellschaft GmbH & SBMKDE Co. KG, Germany SBNKDE 75.00 % 75.00 % Spielbanken MV Bewerbergesellschaft SBMVDE Verwaltungs-GmbH, Germany SBNKDE 75.00 % 75.00 % CONSOLIDATED STAKMT Stakelogic Malta Limited, Malta STAKNL 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVOKH Step © Enterprise Co. Ltd., Cambodia NOVOSG 100.00 % 100.00 % NOVOSG Step Holdings PTE Ltd., Singapore AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TREU16 Treuhand 16, Austria AGI 100.00 % 100.00 % TREU17 Treuhand 17, Austria AGI 80.00 % 80.00 % NOLOLT UAB Novoloto Vilnius, Lithuania AZARLT 80.00 % 100.00 % Companies Consolidated Using the Equity Method Superordinate IC code Company, domicile company Group share Direct share Pratergarage Errichtungsund Betriebs­ PRAGA gesellschaft m.b.H., Austria NAG 47.50 % 47.50 % Joint Operations Consolidated Companies Superordinate IC code Company, domicile company Group share Direct share INT7ES Interseven Gaming Team S.L.U., Spain GIGAES 40.00 % 50.00 % 203 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Exemption from Disclosure for Group Companies The following German companies are included in NOVOMATIC AG‘s consolidated financial statement as per IFRS as fullyconsolidated companies and avail themselves of the possibility of exemption from a disclosure of their financial statements as of December 31, 2016, as granted under Sec. 264 para 3 and Sec. 264 b of the German Commercial Code: • LÖWEN Entertainment GmbH, Bingen • ADMIRAL Play GmbH, Düsseldorf • Admiral Sportwetten GmbH, Rellingen • Automaten Service Playtime GmbH, Pfullendorf • Beku Automaten & Gastronomie Service GmbH, Pfullendorf • BPA Freizeit& Unterhaltungsbetriebe GmbH, Munich • Casino Deluxe Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH I, Munich • Casino Deluxe Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH III, Munich • Casino Deluxe Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH IV, Munich • Casino Entertainment GmbH & Co. KG, Pfullendorf • Casino Rixos GmbH, Pfullendorf • City Freizeitanlagen GmbH, Pfullendorf • Conrad Spielautomaten GmbH, Pfullendorf • Crown Technologies GmbH, Rellingen • Domino-Automaten-Betriebs-GmbH, Pfullendorf • Extra Games Entertainment GmbH, Pfullendorf • EZEA GmbH, Pfullendorf • HP Automatenbetriebs GmbH, Pfullendorf • Ideal Entertainment GmbH, Pfullendorf • Königstrasse Spielstätten und Automaten UG, Pfullendorf • Moislinger Spielstätten und Automaten UG, Pfullendorf • Mühlenstrasse Spielstätten und Automaten UG, Pfullendorf • NWC Nord West Casino Beteiligungs GmbH, Pfullendorf • NWC Nord West Casino GmbH & Co. KG, Pfullendorf • Play-Point Spielhallenu. Automatenbetriebsges.m.b.H., Pfullendorf • Red Devil Spielothek GmbH, Pfullendorf • Turhan Spielsalon GmbH, Pfullendorf • ZS Casino Emsland GmbH, Pfullendorf 204 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (14) Subsequent Events after the Balance Sheet Date Completed acquisitions In January 2017, NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH (NGI), a subsidiary of NOVOMATIC AG, acquired a majority stake in four Polish companies (including two additional Polish subsidiaries). The business purpose of the companies acquired in the course of this transaction, ATSI S.A. and Fortress Gaming Technology S.A., was in relation to the development and programming activities for NGI, even before the share acquisition. The company ATT S.A. generates income primarily from the sale, general overhaul and resale of used gaming machines, and the fourth company acquired, Novo Poland Sp.z.o.o., is a holding company with a subsidiary that operates four smaller casinos in Poland. Gryphon Invest AG, a company related to NOVOMATIC AG, was the seller of the investments. The consideration for the entire transaction was EUR 67.2 million. This acquisition constitutes a combination of companies with joint control over the subsidiary. As there are no specific rules provided for this in IFRS, and the fair values of the identified assets and assumed liabilities do not vary significantly from their book values, the fair values are not adjusted. The difference between the purchase price and acquired net assets, and the book values less shares of non-controlling shareholders, are offset against the retained earnings in the Group. The provisionally adopted book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities are as follows: EUR m Book values Intangible assets 0.1 CONSOLIDATED Property, plant and equipment 4.9 Other non-current assets 0.1 Deferred tax assets 0.2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Inventories 1.2 Cash and cash equivalents 27.8 Other current assets 3.7 Non-current liabilities and provisions -0.5 Deferred tax liabilities 0.0 Current liabilities and provisions -1.3 Net assets 36.3 In January 2017, the newly founded 70-percent Group company ALP S.r.l acquired 100 percent of the shares in CIV S.r.l and PDP S.r.l in Italy, respectively. The acquired companies operated two gaming arcades together in the March and Abruzzo regions with 170 VLTs and 5 roulette tables. The Group company Admiral Operations Spain concluded a purchase agreement in December 2016, for the acquisition of 51 percent of the shares in Basque Gaming S.L. The company operates a total of 13 gaming arcades in the Basque Country. With this acquisition, the Group will intensify its operating activity in the Basque Country and pool its own existing operations. The acquisition of Basque Gaming was subject to the condition precedent of various approvals by the Basque government and local authorities, which was ultimately met in March 2017. In March 2017, 100 percent of the shares in Super Game B.V. and Biermann's Bingo B.V., the Netherlands, were acquired. The two acquired companies operate a total of seven gaming arcades. In March 2017, NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries acquired 100 percent of the shares in Casino Royal GmbH, Germany. The acquired company and its 10 subsidiaries operate a total of 126 gaming arcades with a regional focus on North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony and Rhineland-Palatinate. With this acquisition, the Group strengthens its operating activity as an operator in the German gaming market. 205 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The preliminary fair values of the acquisitions listed above are as follows: EUR m Fair values Intangible assets 2.1 Property, plant and equipment 17.0 Other non-current assets 12.6 Deferred tax assets 0.0 Inventories 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 12.9 Other current assets 2.0 Non-current liabilities and provisions -41.1 Deferred tax liabilities 0.0 Current liabilities and provisions -13.6 Net assets -8.1 Non-controlling interests -8.4 Goodwill 153.6 Consideration 137.1 The considerations provisionally amount to a total of EUR 137.1 million for the listed acquisitions and must be paid in cash and cash equivalents. Purchase price allocations are not yet available. The information provided above is therefore based on the acquired companies’ latest available financial data. Goodwill resulting from the acquisitions reflects the expected strategic advantages for the Group due to the expansion of operational business activities in these markets. Based on a preliminary assessment, goodwill will not be tax-deductible. 206 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Acquisitions subject to suspensive conditions In February 2016, NOVOMATIC entered into a purchase agreement with Len Ainsworth regarding the acquisition of approximately 53 percent of the shares of Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd. (Ainsworth). Ainsworth is a publicly traded company listed in Australia and headquartered in Newington, Sydney. The company is one of the most renowned players in the international gaming industry. The company is a leading producer and provider of high-quality, innovative gaming solutions in Australasia as well as North and South America. Due to suspensive conditions, in particular, the required formal approvals by various international licensing and regulatory authorities, the closing of this transaction is not expected until the third quarter of 2017 at the earliest. The agreed purchase price is AUD 473.3 million. Financing In March 2017, NOVOMATIC AG concluded a revolving credit line of EUR 1 billion with a term of 5 years (with the option of prolonging for up to two years). The aim of this credit line is, on the one hand, to harmonize and refinance the existing credit lines, and, on the other hand, to provide general company financing, such as for company acquisitions. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 207 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (15) Company Bodies The following members of the Executive Board were appointed for the financial year 2016 and beyond: • Harald Neumann (CEO) • Ryszard Presch (deputy chairman since March 22, 2016, COO since January 5, 2016) • Thomas Graf (CTO) • Peter Stein (CFO) • Dr. Christian Widhalm (CIO since March 8, 2016) In the financial year 2016 and during the time of preparation of this report, the Supervisory Board consisted of the following members: • Senator Herbert Lugmayr (Chairman of the Supervisory Board until March 28, 2017) • Dr. Bernd Oswald (Chairman from March 28, 2017) • Dr. Christian Widhalm (Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board until March 8, 2016) • Martina Flitsch (Deputy Chairwoman of the Supervisory Board since March 8, 2016, previously member) • Martina Kurz (Member since March 8, 2016) • Barbara Feldmann (Member since March 8, 2016) • Dr. Robert Hofians (Member from March 28, 2017) The current total remuneration of the members of the Executive Board of NOVOMATIC AG amounted to EUR 5.2 million (previous year: EUR 4.1 million). Of the expenses for severance payments and pensions, EUR 1.1 million (previous year: EUR -0.1 million) and EUR 0.8 million (previous year: EUR 0.1 million), respectively, were attributed to the Executive Board. The members of the Supervisory Board received EUR 0.2 million (previous year: EUR 0.3 million) for their functions. No loans or contingencies were granted to members of the Supervisory Board or Executive Board in the financial year 2016. Dr. Bernd Oswald, Barbara Feldmann, Martina Flitsch, Martina Kurz, Dr. Robert Hofians 208 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 (16) Publication The present consolidated financial statement was released on March 31, 2017, by the Executive Board for examination by the Supervisory Board, for presentation at the general shareholders’ meeting, and for subsequent publication. Statement by the Executive Board We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the consolidated financial statement as of December 31, 2016, gives a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group as required by the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU), and that the consolidated management report as of December 31, 2016, gives a true and fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces. We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the annual financial statement of NOVOMATIC AG as of December 31, 2016, gives a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the company as required by the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB), and that the management report as of December 31, 2016, gives a true and fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the company faces. CONSOLIDATED Gumpoldskirchen, March 31, 2017 The Executive Board of NOVOMATIC AG FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Harald Neumann Ryszard Presch Thomas Graf Peter Stein Dr. Christian Widhalm CEO Deputy CEO CTO CFO CIO COO 209 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC AG Auditor’s Report Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of NOVOMATIC AG, Gumpoldskirchen which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2016, and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the financial year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply with legal requirements and give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position as at December 31, 2016, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows of the Group for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements under section 245a UGB. Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with the Austrian Generally Accepted Auditing Standards. Those standards require the application of the International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with laws and regulations applicable in Austria, and we have fulfilled our other professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Impairment of goodwill arising from Gaming Operations – United Kingdom Description and Issue The Group’s goodwill arising from the Cash Generating Unit Gaming Operations – United Kingdom has increased to EUR 43.1 Mio at December 31, 2016, due to the acquisition of Talarius. A goodwill impairment test based on the income approach has been carried out by the Group in its annual review of the valuation of goodwill. Uncertainties in relation to future cash flows, due in particular to the estimated growth rate in use after the detailed planning phase, as well as the determination of the discount rate, are inherent in the income projection. Unforeseen changes in market conditions, particularly in the financial and capital markets, could have significant effects on the future valuation of goodwill. For further explanations we refer to Section 7.3 “Impairments and Reversals of Impairments” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 210 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Our Response We have assessed the appropriateness of the valuation model used in the impairment review of the goodwill arising from the cash generating unit Gaming Operations – United Kingdom. We have verified the projected cash flows with the 2017 budget as approved by the Supervisory Board. We have also verified the growth rates in use in the subsequent forecasting periods with internal sources, and the growth rate in use thereafter with industry-specific external sources. In determining the plausibility of the discount rates, we have consulted with our internal valuation experts. In addition, we have performed sensitivity analyses over changes in discount rates and growth rates. Asset Valuation Gaming Operations – Germany Description and Issue Beginning July 1, 2017, there will be a reduction in the number of gaming venues and a decrease in the number of gaming machines in existing gaming venues due to the amended German Inter-State Treaty on Games of Chance (Glücksspieländerungsstaatsvertrag – GlüÄndStV) which came into force on July 1, 2012, and the related supplementary provisions for implementation as determined by the states. Financial items of concern include intangible assets and fixed assets, which have a total book value of EUR 99.9 Mio and accumulated depreciation of EUR 56.1 Mio as of December 31, 2016. Uncertainties arising from the interpretations of the treaty amendments and the implementations thereof could have significant effects on the determination as to whether impairment indicators exist. Due to the aforementioned uncertainties, estimations by management are inherent in the impairment CONSOLIDATED tests performed by the Group, which inevitably impacted the results of the impairment reviews. The actual implementation of the amendments in the future could lead to considerable revisions of these estimations in subsequent years. For further explanations we refer to Section 7.3 “Impairments and Reversals of Impairments” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our Response We have reviewed the Group’s documentation on the impacts of the treaty amendments on individual gaming venues and verified them with information within and external to the Group. In addition, we have critically assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s assumptions and assessments of the amendments. Valuation of the investment in Österreichischen Lotterien Gesellschaft mbH (ÖLG) and Casinos Austria Aktiengesellschaft (CASAG) Description and Issue As at December 31, 2016, the indirect shareholding of 11.56 % in ÖLG and a direct shareholding of 17.19 % of CASAG were carried at a total book value of EUR 196.6 Mio. As NOVOMATIC AG does not have significant influence over these entities, the investments were classified as available-for-sale financial assets. As such, these investments are measured at fair value and the fair value changes are recognized directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. A multiples-based model was used in the measurement of fair value. For this purpose, industry-specific multiples were derived from international entities in the lottery and casino industries. The selection of these entities, as well as the necessary adjustments included the model, such as valuation adjustments and normalization of earnings, are subjected to uncertainties related to estimations and judgments, which have considerable influence on the results of the measurement. For further explanations we refer to Section 11 “Valuation of Financial Instruments” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 211 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Our Response We evaluated the appropriateness of the valuation model with the involvement of our internal valuation specialists, examined the appropriateness of the entities from which the industry-specific multiples were derived, reperformed the calculations of the multiples, and agreed the other financial information used in the valuation with the published financial statements of ÖLG and CASAG. In regards to the adjustments in valuation, we have examined as to whether these adjustments have been consistently applied over the periods in which the investments were held. In addition, we have audited the completeness of the related disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Other Information Management is responsible for the other information. The other information contain all information in the annual report but does not include the consolidated financial statements, the management report and our auditor’s report thereon. The annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of the auditor’s report. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Responsibilities of Management and the Audit Committee for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, the additional requirements under section 245a UGB, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The audit committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. 212 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Auditing Standards, which require the application of the ISAs, will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. The scope of the audit does not include assurance on the future viability of the Group or on the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted or will conduct the affairs of the Group. As part of an audit in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Auditing Standards, which require the application of the ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for CONSOLIDATED one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that give a true and fair view. • We obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 213 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 We communicate with the audit committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the audit committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the audit committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 214 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Management Report Pursuant to statutory provisions, the consolidated management report is to be audited as to whether it is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and whether it has been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements. Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated management report in accordance with the Austrian Commercial Code. We conducted our audit in accordance with laws and regulations applicable with respect to the consolidated management report. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated management report are prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements, includes appropriate disclosures according to section 243a UGB and is consistent with the consolidated financial statements. Statement In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of our audit of the CONSOLIDATED consolidated financial statements, we have not identified material misstatements in the consolidated management report. Engagement Partner The engagement partner responsible for the audit is Dr. Christoph Waldeck. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Vienna, March 31, 2017 Deloitte Audit Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH Dr. Christoph Waldeck ppa. Mag. Barbara Müllner Certified Public Accountant Certified Public Accountant This English translation of the audit report was prepared for the client’s convenience only. It is not a legally binding translation of the German audit report. The consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report may be published or transmitted together only if the consolidated financial statements and the management report are identical with the confirmed version. Section 281 para 2 Austrian Commercial Code applies to versions that differ 215 Überarbeitet N OVO MATI C INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDIVIDUAL CLOSER VIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 218 Balance Sheet 220 Profit and Loss Statement 222 Notes to the Individual Financial Statement 237 Auditor’s Report 242 Report of the Supervisory Board NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC AG Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2016 Assets A. FIXED ASSETS 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 EUR EUR KEUR I. Intangible assets 1. Industrial and similar rights and assets and licenses in such rights and assets 10,475,460.29 23,282 II. Property, plant and equipment 1. Land, buildings and improvements to third-party buildings 131,914,952.10 144,978 2. Plant and machinery 83,734.80 96 3. Other equipment, plant and office equipment 1,746,443.76 1,856 4. Advance payments and assets under construction 44,902.92 522 133,790,033.58 147,452 III. Financial assets 1. Shares in affiliated companies 824,185,363.84 762,369 2. Loans to affiliated companies 332,515,279.79 264,933 3. Investments 24,175,444.55 238 4. Loans to associated companies 461,302.60 422 5. Securities held as fixed assets 99,909,323.92 12,261 6. Other loans 5,089,081.27 8,167 1,286,335,795.97 1,048,390 1,430,601,289.84 1,219,124 B. CURRENT ASSETS I. Receivables and other assets 1. Trade receivables 133,095.73 165 2. Receivables from affiliated companies 95,845,319.29 37,729 3. Other receivables and assets becoming due and payable after more than one year EUR 65,914.88 (Prior year: KEUR 66) 58,615,542.77 51,327 154,593,957.79 89,221 II. Securities and interests Other securities and interests 9,140,942.38 10,589 III. Cash, bank deposits 363,676,706.06 121,643 527,411,606.23 221,453 C. PREPAID EXPENSES 9,625,005.53 5,841 D. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 7,317,044.22 6,646 1,974,954,945.82 1,453,064 218 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Shareholders' equity and liabilities A. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 EUR EUR KEUR I. Called up and paid share capital 26,590,000.00 26,000 II. Capital reserves Tied up capital reserves 85,386,371.00 976 III. Retained earnings 1. Legal reserve 1,623,629.00 1,624 2. Other reserves (free reserves) 15,395.39 15 1,639,024.39 1,639 IV. Retained profits thereof retained profits brought forward EUR 101,914,382.91 (Prior year: KEUR 111,298) 111,171,890.80 151,914 224,787,286.19 180,529 INDIVIDUAL B. Provisions CLOSER VIEW 1. Provisions for severance payments 1,826,737.00 779 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2. Provisions for pensions 7,612,376.00 6,814 3. Provisions for taxes thereof deferred tax liabilities EUR 0.00 (Prior year: KEUR 1,748) 0.00 1,748 4. Other provisions 6,902,894.58 5,099 16,342,007.58 14,440 C. Liabilities becoming due and payable within one year EUR 360,758,586.88 (Prior year: KEUR 233,556) becoming due and payable after more than one year EUR 1,373,067,065.17 (Prior year: KEUR 1,024,539) 1. Bonds becoming due and payable within one year EUR 150,000,000.00 (Prior year: KEUR 0) becoming due and payable after more than one year EUR 950,000,000.00 (Prior year: KEUR 600,000) 1,100,000,000.00 600,000 2. Due to banks becoming due and payable within one year EUR 23,476,483.77 (Prior year: KEUR 11,476) becoming due and payable after more than one year EUR 422,729,643.73 (Prior year: KEUR 424,206) 446,206,127.50 435,682 3. Trade payables becoming due and payable within one year EUR 1,535,966.94 (Prior year: KEUR 2,504) 1,535,966.94 2,504 4. Payables to affiliated companies becoming due and payable within one year EUR 166,150,320.13 (Prior year: KEUR 197,935) becoming due and payable after more than one year EUR 337,421.44 (Prior year: KEUR 333) 166,487,741.57 198,268 5. Other liabilities becoming due and payable within one year EUR 19,595,816.04 (Prior year: KEUR 21,641) of which taxes EUR 42,107.69 (Prior year: KEUR 19) of which social security EUR 48,848.93 (Prior year: KEUR 24) 19,595,816.04 21,641 1,733,825,652.05 1,258,095 1,974,954,945.82 1,453,064 219 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC AG Profit and Loss Account for the period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 2016 2015 EUR EUR KEUR 1. Sales 76,624,483.11 78,475 2. Other operating income a. Income from the disposal of and additions to fixed assets, excluding financial assets 74,543.24 49 b. Income from the release of provisions 9,661.18 13 c. Other 4,010,300.86 47 4,094,505.28 109 3. Expenses for material and other purchased manufacturing services Cost of purchased services -730,545.98 -1,780 -730,545.98 -1,780 4. Personnel expenses a. Salaries -6,211,556.46 -10,828 b. Social expenses aa. Pension expenses -759,877.96 -101 bb. Expenses for severance payments and contributions to external severance payments funds -135,076.90 -461 cc. Cost of statutory social security, payroll-related taxes and mandatory contributions -253,475.87 -1,220 dd. Other -24,230.43 -164 -1,172,661.16 -1,946 -7,384,217.62 -12,774 5. Amortization and depreciation of intangible assets and of tangible assets thereof extraordinary depreciation EUR 6,500,000.00 (Prior year: KEUR 8,793) -24,975,512.03 -31,342 6. Other operating expenses a. Taxes not included in line 16 -246,794.97 -131 b. Other -73,927,697.53 -79,205 -74,174,492.50 -79,336 7. Subtotal of lines 1 to 6 (Operating profit) -26,545,779.74 -46,648 220 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 8. Investment income thereof from affiliated companies EUR 58,619,822.96 (Prior year: KEUR 106,081) 58,619,822.96 106,081 9. Income from other investments and long-term loans INDIVIDUAL thereof from affiliated companies EUR 8,740,816.64 (Prior year: KEUR 8,694) 9,719,880.78 9,880 CLOSER VIEW 10. Other interest and similar income FINANCIAL STATEMENTS thereof from affiliated companies EUR 25,443.12 (Prior year: KEUR 100) 244,613.46 214 11. Income from the disposal of and the appreciation to financial assets 2,839,016.55 6,057 12. Expenses from financial assets and securities held as current assets a. Depreciation EUR -2,597,477.39 (Prior year: KEUR -9,174) b. Expenses from affiliated companies EUR -2,810,188.69 (Prior year: KEUR -8,469) -4,398,446.75 -9,180 13. Interest and similar expenses thereof related to affiliated companies EUR -274,209.30 (Prior year: KEUR -673) -38,161,081.21 -33,313 14. Subtotal of lines 8 to 13 (Financial success) 28,863,805.79 79,739 15. Earnings before tax (Subtotal of lines 7 to 14) 2,318,026.05 33,091 16. Taxes on income thereof tax apportionment EUR 4,615,558.78 (Prior year: KEUR 6,148) thereof deferred taxes EUR 2,419,603.96 (Prior year: KEUR 1,448) 6,939,481.84 7,526 17. Earnings after taxes = Net income for the year 9,257,507.89 40,617 18. Disposal of retained earnings 0.00 8 19. Allocation to retained earnings 0.00 -9 20. Profits carried forward from the previous year 101,914,382.91 111,298 21. Retained profits 111,171,890.80 151,914 221 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Notes for the financial year 2016 I. ACCOUNTING AND VALUATION PRINCIPLES The accounting provisions of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB) in its current version – taking into account the amendments as a result of the 2014 law revising accounting principles (Rechnungslegungs-Änderungsgesetz, RÄG 2014) – have been applied to this annual financial statement as of December 31, 2016. In accordance with the provisions of RÄG 2014, the structure of the balance sheet and profit and loss account for the current financial year and the previous financial year has been adjusted. This means that the stated prior year figures may only be compared to the 2015 annual financial statement to a limited extent. The annual accounts were prepared in compliance with the relevant requirements and generally accepted accounting principles to present a true and fair view, in all material respects, of the financial and earnings position of the company. The principles of completeness and non-arbitrariness were applied. Valuation followed the principles of adequate and orderly accounting as well as the going concern assumption and was based on the valuation principles applied to last year’s annual accounts unless changes in the valuation principles are explicitly stated for individual items. Assets and liabilities were assessed individually as of the balance sheet date. In accordance with the principle of prudence, only profits realized as of balance sheet date are shown, and all apparent risks and impending losses that incurred during the current period or in previous periods were considered. The profit and loss account was prepared according to the total expenditure format. Items of the balance sheet or the profit and loss account showing a zero balance for the current and the previous period were not listed in accordance with Sec. 223 para 7 of the Austrian Commercial Code. The intangible assets, only if acquired against payment, as well as property, plant and equipment were stated at the cost of acquisition or production, less the scheduled depreciation corresponding to the expected useful life and less any potentially necessary extraordinary depreciation. Low-value assets with the cost of acquisition less than EUR 400.00 are fully depreciated in the year of acquisition or production. Receivables and other assets were stated at nominal value less necessary allowances. Overdue receivables were discounted and, for bad debts, a lump sum value adjustment was allowed. In application of the principle of prudence, all identifiable risks and liabilities of an uncertain amount and/or origin were considered by setting up provisions according to reasonable commercial judgment. Liabilities were valued at their redemption amount. Liabilities in foreign currency were valued at the foreign exchange rate offered at the balance sheet date or at a higher purchase rate at the date of transaction. 222 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 II. EXPLANATIONS CONCERNING THE BALANCE SHEET ASSETS A. Fixed Assets 1. Intangible Assets and Property, Plant and Equipment Fixed assets are stated at the cost of acquisition or production less planned linear depreciation corresponding to the estimated useful life. The development of each item in the fixed assets and the breakdown of the annual depreciation are shown in the fixed assets Schedule enclosed. 1.1. Intangible Assets Intangible assets are stated at acquisition cost less planned linear depreciation according to a useful life of 4 to 10 years. Writedowns and write-ups are made if the corresponding conditions exist. Additions of KEUR 6 are related to a trademark. INDIVIDUAL The book values of intangible assets acquired from affiliated companies add up to KEUR 9,876 (previous year: KEUR 21,458). CLOSER VIEW 1.2. Property, Plant and Equipment The real estate value of undeveloped and developed land amounts to KEUR 36,968 (previous year: KEUR 37,726). Other property, plant and equipment items are stated at the cost of acquisition or production less planned linear depreciation FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (spread over 25 to 50 years for buildings, 4 to 10 years for movable assets and structural investments). Low-value assets with a cost of acquisition of less than EUR 400.00 are fully depreciated in the year of acquisition or production. Significant additions of the financial year concern the renovation of the external grounds of the Novomatic Forum. 2. Financial Assets Financial assets are valued at their cost of acquisition. Securities are valued at their cost of acquisition or their lower market values as of the balance sheet date. Impairment of book values of domestic and foreign investments will be made in the case of: • a persistent deterioration of earnings, and/or • the necessity of support from the shareholder, and/or • deficient means and measures as a result of the acquisition, and/or • reorganization measures that will not result in substantial profits in the foreseeable future and represent deficiencies that cannot be eliminated anytime soon, and/or • losses that can no longer be absorbed by the affiliated company alone. Impairment is not made in cases of mere start-up losses. Additions to the shares in affiliated companies amounting to KEUR 191,323 are mainly due to capital increases at Austrian and one Italian subsidiary. 223 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 For further details concerning the shares in affiliated companies, please refer to point IV. Loans granted to affiliated companies amount to KEUR 332,515 (previous year: KEUR 264,933). This change concerned both disbursements to and repayments from subsidiaries in markets with promising growth prospects. Other loans increased in the amount of KEUR 561 on the one hand and, on the other, decreased by KEUR 3,639 due to repatriations. Thus, the total acquisition costs as of December 31, 2016, amounted to KEUR 20,476 (previous year: KEUR 23,554). Accumulated impairment remained at the previous year’s level of KEUR 15,387. Of loans granted to affiliated companies, an amount of KEUR 30,462 (previous year: KEUR 24,989) is due within one year. Of the other loans, an amount of KEUR 1,408 (previous year: KEUR 1,827) is due within one year. Non-current securities primarily relate to the addition of CASAG shares (17.19 percent stake). B. Current Assets 1. Receivables and Other Assets 1.1. Trade Receivables Trade receivables are stated at nominal value. In cases of apparent individual risk, the probable recoverable amount was recognized. Receivables are – as in the previous year – due within less than one year. 1.2. Receivables from Affiliated Companies Receivables from affiliated companies mainly concern allocations with the subsidiaries NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH of KEUR 86,557, Novo VLTech GmbH of KEUR 730 and RSV Beteiligungs GmbH of KEUR 3,475. The balances particularly relate to the allocation accounts for tax allocations, dividends and cash pooling. The receivables from affiliated companies include trade receivables of KEUR 19,557 (previous year: KEUR 23,587). The remaining time to maturity of the receivables – as in the previous year – is less than one year. 1.3. Other Receivables and Assets Other receivables and assets amounting to KEUR 58,616 (previous year: KEUR 51,327) mainly concern a deposit related to precious metals amounting to KEUR 35,300 (previous year: KEUR 31,400) as well as credit balances with the tax authorities. The remaining other receivables of KEUR 66 (previous year: KEUR 66) are due in more than one year. 2. Cash and Bank Deposits Bank deposits come to an amount of KEUR 363,676 (previous year: KEUR 121,643), of which KEUR 65,351 is not freely available. 224 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 C. Prepaid Expenses The prepaid expenses amounting to KEUR 16,942 (previous year: KEUR 12,491) consist of capitalized discounts and expenditures pertaining to 2017 and the following years. D. Deferred Tax Assets Deferred tax assets are reported using the balance sheet liability method for all temporary differences between the tax valuation amounts of assets and liabilities and the book values in the individual financial statement. Deferred tax assets are created for differences between the reported amounts in the individual financial statement and their respective tax bases that lead to a reduction in the tax burden in the future. The income tax rate underlying the calculation of deferred taxes is 25 percent (previous year: 25 percent). The net deferred tax assets resulting from differences in the amounts reported in the individual financial statement and their respective tax bases are as follows: Difference Deferred taxes Current financial Current financial Deferred taxes Change “+” = deferred tax asset year year Previous year Deferred taxes “-” = deferred tax liability EUR EUR EUR EUR INDIVIDUAL Property, plant and equipment 11,432,947.09 2,858,236.77 2,467,937.63 390,299.14 CLOSER VIEW Investments in affiliated companies 2,114,147.30 528,536.83 311,367.39 217,169.44 Investments 5,955,356.73 1,488,839.18 1,979,464.15 -490,624.97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Receivables and Other Assets 2,271.92 567.98 647.14 -79.16 Prepaid expenses and accruals 4,740,724.40 1,185,181.11 871,172.48 314,008.63 Provisions 5,034,257.83 1,258,564.45 1,019,885.45 238,679.00 Untaxed reserves -11,528.38 -2,882.10 -5,131.79 2,249.69 Total for 2016 balance = deferred tax assets 29,268,176.89 7,317,044.22 6,645,342.45 671,701.77 Shareholders’ Equity and Liabilities A. Shareholders’ Equity As a result of the capital increase by Gryphon Invest AG in April 2016, the called up and paid share capital of the company increased by KEUR 590 from KEUR 26,000 to KEUR 26,590, as well as the tied-up capital reserves by KEUR 84,410 from KEUR 976 to KEUR 85,386. Pursuant to RÄG 2014, as of 01/01/2016, 75 percent of the untaxed reserves previously created under Sec. 205 of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB) were moved directly into the retained earnings, less the deferred tax liabilities contained therein. Consequently, retained earnings increased by KEUR 15 from KEUR 1,623 to KEUR 1,639. B. Provisions In compliance with the principle of prudence, all identifiable risks and liabilities of an uncertain amount and/or origin at the balance sheet date were accounted for by setting up provisions according to reasonable commercial judgment. 225 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 The provisions for severance payments were calculated applying actuarial principles according to IAS 19 using the projected unit credit method with a discount rate of 1.58 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent) and assuming a pay increase of 2.5 percent (previous year: 2.5 percent). The minimum legal retirement age according to Austrian social security law (ASVG) regulations was assumed. Discounts due to fluctuations or other circumstances were not included. The expenses for severance payments, at KEUR 81 (previous year: KEUR 346), concern changes in provisions. Due to irrevocable pension commitments, a pension provision was formed. The calculation was conducted applying actuarial principles in accordance with IAS 19 using the projected unit credit method with an interest rate of 1.58 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent) and value adjustments of 3 percent. Pension expenses, at KEUR 799 (previous year: KEUR 148), concern changes in provisions. Other provisions consist of those for auditing and consulting fees, expenses for annual reports, bonus payments to the Executive Board, unconsumed vacation and jubilee payments. Provisions for jubilee payments were also calculated in line with actuarial principles according to IAS 19 using the projected unit credit method with a discount rate of 1.58 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent) and assuming a pay increase of 2.5 percent (previous year: 2.5 percent). The provision for unused vacation is calculated under the assumption of a divider of 18 working days per month. Please refer to the enclosed supplement showing the development of provisions. The provision for deferred tax liabilities was reversed in the financial year 2016, with the allocation of losses of foreign Group members within the meaning of Sec. 9 of the Austrian Corporate Income Tax Act (KStG), retrospectively taxed due to profits in 2016. C. Liabilities Maturity Total value of liabilities with a maturity of with a maturity of with a maturity of KEUR less than 1 year 1 to 5 years over 5 years Bonds 150,000 450,000 500,000 (previous year) 0 400,000 200,000 Due to banks 23,476 331,355 91,375 (previous year) 11,476 383,581 40,625 Trade payables 1,536 0 0 (previous year) 2,504 0 0 Due to affiliated companies 166,150 337 0 (previous year) 198,268 333 0 Other liabilities 19,596 0 0 (previous year) 21,641 0 0 In 2010, 2013, 2014 and 2015, bonds with a total value of KEUR 600,000 were issued to support further growth in the areas of development, production and gaming operations. In 2016, another bond was issued with a volume of KEUR 500,000, a maturity of 7 years and interest of 1.625 percent. Liabilities to affiliated companies amounting to KEUR 143,657 (previous year: KEUR 157,958) concern other liabilities. Of this sum, a significant amount of KEUR 131,776 (previous year: KEUR 157,958) is due to the implementation of cash pooling agreements with Austrian and foreign subsidiaries in 2013. Other liabilities include expenses of KEUR 17,885 (previous year: KEUR 15,535) that will become only cash-effective after the balance sheet date. 226 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 D. Contingent Liabilities At the balance sheet date, there are contingent liabilities amounting to KEUR 154,990 (previous year: KEUR 108,992), of which KEUR 154,990 (previous year: KEUR 108,992) concern affiliated companies. Contingent liabilities comprise comfort letters or guarantees for bank loans for affiliated companies, and are composed as follows: a) Contingent liabilities KEUR Bank Beneficiary company Security Ceiling As of 12/31/2016 UniCredit Bank Austria AG HTM Hotelund Tourismus Wien Management GmbH Comfort letter 7,218 7,218 UniCredit Bank Austria AG Wien I-New Unified Mobile Solutions AG Guarantee 500 267 HTM Hotelund Tourismus Raiffeisenlandesbank OOE Management GmbH Comfort letter 1,574 1,574 Raiffeisenlandesbank Burgenland I-New Unified Mobile Solutions AG Guarantee 600 600 ADMIRAL Casinos & Raiffeisenlandesbank OOE Entertainment AG Comfort letter 581 581 INDIVIDUAL ADMIRAL Casinos & CLOSER VIEW Erste Group Bank AG Entertainment AG Guarantee 3,153 3,153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Oberbank Leasing I-New Unified Mobile Solutions AG Comfort letter 9,471 9,471 Oberbank AG I-New Unified Mobile Solutions AG Comfort letter 2,000 824 ADMIRAL Casinos & Hypo Bank Burgenland Entertainment AG Guarantee 176 176 Hypo Bank Burgenland I-New Unified Mobile Solutions AG Guarantee 1,800 1,770 Hypo Bank Burgenland Admiral Sportwetten GmbH Guarantee 12,000 12,000 UniCredit Bank Austria AG Wien Crown Gaming S.A.C. Guarantee 19,024 15,124 Kensington Business Center Novomatic Americas Sales LLC Guarantee 1,075 1,075 ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH, Nord LB Deutschland Guarantee 1,500 1,500 UniCredit S.p.A., Roma NOVOMATIC Italia S.p.A. Guarantee 84,278 84,278 Sellergroup ELSY NOVOMATIC Italia S.p.A. Guarantee 3,250 3,250 Raiffeisenlandesbank NÖ-Wien ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH Comfort letter 3,300 0 Raiffeisenlandesbank NÖ-Wien I-New Unified Mobile Solutions AG Guarantee 428 428 Barclays Bank PLC NOVOMATIC UK Ltd. Comfort letter 11,701 11,701 TOTAL 154,990 b) Off-balance sheet transactions In 2016, comfort letters were issued to two Austrian subsidiaries. 227 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 c) Information regarding the nature of provided physical securities No physical securities were provided for liabilities in the financial year 2016. The physical security reported until the financial year 2015 in the Mödling land register, EZ 3184, with a value of KEUR 3,000 was removed in April 2016. E. Other Financial Obligations Obligations from current lease contracts comprise: KEUR Due within 1 year Due within 5 years Obligations from current lease contracts 1,118 5,589 (previous year) 1,120 5,504 228 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 III. EXPLANATIONS CONCERNING THE PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 1. Breakdown of Sales 1.1. By segments: KEUR Reporting period Previous year Income from trademarks and licenses 59,024 56,748 Provision of personnel 1,137 3,112 Income from rental and operating costs 12,967 14,361 Other income 3,496 4,254 Total 76,624 78,475 1.2. By geographical markets: KEUR Reporting period Previous year Domestic income 66,533 68,712 International income (EU) 10,091 9,763 Total 76,624 78,475 INDIVIDUAL CLOSER VIEW Due to the amended definition of revenues per the 2014 law amending accounting principles (RÄG), other operating income totaling KEUR 4,254 from the previous year was classified as revenue. 2. Cost of Material and Other Purchased Services FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Due to the change in reporting requirements as per the 2014 law amending accounting principles (RÄG), expenses in the previous year of KEUR 1,780 were reclassified from other operating expenses to expenses for purchased services. 3. Personnel costs Expenses for severance payments and contributions to external severance payment funds include payments to external severance payment funds of KEUR 54 (previous year: KEUR 94). 4. Extraordinary Depreciation Due to uncertain use following the revocation of the decisions regarding casino licenses, further extraordinary depreciation of KEUR 6,500 (previous year: KEUR 6,290) was recorded for a planned casino location in Vienna during the financial year 2016. 5. Other Operating Expenses See point 2 on the cost of material and other purchased services regarding the effect of the first-time application of the 2014 law amending accounting principles (RÄG). 6. Taxes on Income Pursuant to RÄG 2014, 25 percent of the deferred taxes contained in the release of or addition to untaxed reserves previously created pursuant to Sec. 205 of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB) in the previous year are reported under taxes on income. Taxes only affect results from ordinary business activities. 229 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC AG has taken the opportunity of forming a tax group pursuant to Sec. 9 of the Austrian Corporate Income Tax Act (KStG). Group members are: • HTM Hotelund Tourismus Management GmbH, Austria • Wett Cafe Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., Austria (merged with and into HTM as of December 31, 2015) • ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment AG, Austria • NMN Immo GmbH (formerly NMN Automatentechnik GmbH) • NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH, Austria (from 2016) • ADMIRAL Sportwetten GmbH, Austria (from 2016) • Novo VLTech GmbH, Austria (from 2016) • NOVOMATIC Italia S.p.A., Italy In the tax apportionment contract with the domestic tax group members, negative as well as positive tax apportionments within the tax group were stipulated. The profits allocated by the tax group member to the parent company are, depending on the usability of the losses, to be compensated at 21.5 percent or 25 percent (tax rate pursuant to Sec. 22 para 1 of the Austrian Corporate Income Tax Act [KStG]) by the tax group member. A symmetrical agreement exists for the allocated losses, whereby losses that cannot be allocated are to be credited as “internal tax loss carried forward” at 21.5 percent of the assessment basis if they are usable. No tax apportionment contracts were concluded with the foreign group members. Taxes on income is broken down specifically as follows: KEUR Corporate income tax expense in 2016 14 Corporate income tax expense in previous years 8 Corporate income tax expense for deferred taxes -2,420 Foreign withholding tax expense 50 Expense from tax apportionment “tax group” previous years 24 Income from tax apportionment “tax group” -4,615 Total -6,939 7. Release and Allocation of Retained Earnings Pursuant to RÄG 2014, 75 percent of the funds allocated to or released from the untaxed reserves previously created pursuant to Sec. 205 of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB) in the previous year are reported under release of retained earnings. 230 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 IV. INFORMATION ON SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS Book value as Company, domicile Share of 12/31/2016 Equity Annual result EUR EUR EUR NOVOMATIC Italia SpA, Rimini (I) 100 % 301,580,000 254,294,594 19,312,161 ADMIRAL Casinos & Entertainment AG (AT) 100 % 65,000,000 42,775,782 -2,790,361 NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH, Gumpoldskirchen (AT) 100 % 264,304,397 965,056,483 104,329,088 HTM Hotelund Tourismus Management GmbH, Gumpoldskirchen (AT) 100 % 1,072,607 62,899,734 4,567,348 NMN Immo GmbH (AT) 99 % 1,610,000 1,628,033 573,864 Novomatic Investment Chile S.A., Santiago (CL) 100 % 1,344,421 3,410,619 9,953,911 Novo Immobilien GmbH, Bingen/Rhein (DE) 100 % 3,000,000 18,582,681 2,599,815 Norddeutsche Spielbanken GmbH (DE) 100 % 25,000 20,021 -440 Novomatic Americas Holdings Inc., Illinois (US) 100 % 21,384,591 32,029,423 -200,350 Spielbank Berlin G.Jaenecke GmbH & Co.KG (DE) 59.5 % 8,619,917 12,839,351 1,035,642 Spielbank Berlin Entertainment GmbH & Co.KG (DE) 60 % 48,840 -2,606,685 593,653 Spielbank Berlin nat.Beteiligungsges mbH & Co.KG (DE) 100 % 5,338,002 4,660,109 -90,476 I-New Unified Mobile Solutions AG (AT) 76.814 % 12,586,735 -1,409,882 2,367,128 Novomatic Lottery Solutions GmbH (AT) 100 % 59,000,000 44,127,182 -9,916,097 Novo Lottery Solutions Iceland hf (IS) 0.24 % 245.56 19,865,240 36,601 INDIVIDUAL SIM Spielbanken Investitionsund Management GmbH, Frankfurt (DE) 100 % 25,619 44,161 24,095 CLOSER VIEW SIM Spielbanken Investitions-, Beteiligungsund Management GmbH & Co.KG, Frankfurt (DE) 100 % 6,914,017 7,420,650 491,658 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RSV Beteiligungs GmbH (AT) 100 % 72,330,974 4,006,895 3,474,574 LTB Beteiligungs GmbH (AT) 33.33 % 23,937,945 551,873 3,475,420 Pratergarage Errichtungsund Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H. (AT) 47.5 % 237,500 381,843 -24,046 Statements concerning intragroup relationships are omitted in accordance with Sec. 242 para 3 of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB). The equity and annual results presented are preliminary values determined in accordance with applicable local law. V. INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS On October 16, 2015, an interest rate swap with a nominal value of KEUR 77,500 and maturity date of October 8, 2020, was concluded. Its net present value, including interest, amounts to KEUR -926 as of December 31, 2016. The market value corresponds to the value that would be received or paid if the contract was settled as of the balance sheet date. Past cash flows (interest payments) are not taken into consideration. Future cash flows from variable payments as well as discount rates are determined based on generally accepted financial mathematical models. The negative market values are recorded in the other provisions for impending losses. 231 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 VI. MANDATORY INFORMATION CONCERNING MANAGEMENT BODIES AND EMPLOYEES 1.1. Average Number of Employees during the Financial Year Number of employees: 13 (previous year: 75) 1.2. Members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board during the Financial Year Executive Board: • Harald Neumann, Chairman, CEO • Ryszard Presch, Deputy Chairman, COO • Peter Stein, CFO • Thomas Graf, CTO • Dr. Christian Widhalm, CIO (since March 8, 2016) Supervisory Board: • Senator Herbert Lugmayr, Chairman (until March 28, 2017) • Dr. Bernd Oswald, Chairman (from March 28, 2017) • Dr. Christian Widhalm, Deputy Chairman (until March 8, 2016) • Barbara Feldmann, member (since March 8, 2016) • Martina Kurz, member (since March 8, 2016) • Martina Flitsch, Deputy Chairman (since March 8, 2016) • Dr. Robert Hofians, member (from March 28, 2017) 1.3. Other Information During the financial year 2016, gross payments of EUR 4,977,374.27 were made to members of the Executive Board. No advances, loans or guarantees were granted to members of the Executive Board. Payments made to members of the Supervisory Board during the year under review amounted to EUR 21,333.00. Expenses for severance payments and pensions for the members of the Executive Board amounted to EUR 1,076,216.52 and EUR 798,729.00, respectively. 1.4 Consolidated Financial Statement NOVOMATIC AG is required by law to prepare and disclose a subgroup consolidated financial statement according to Sec. 246 para 3 of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB). The financial statement for the subgroup NOVOMATIC AG is included in the consolidated financial statement of Novo Invest GmbH with its registered office in Gumpoldskirchen – as head of the Group – and is filed at the Regional Court of Wiener Neustadt under FN 381832v. 1.5 Audit Fees Fees for the audit of the financial statement and expenses for other services of the auditor are presented in the subgroup consolidated financial statement of NOVOMATIC AG. 1.6 Appropriation of Earnings An amount totaling KEUR 50,000 is to be appropriated from the balance sheet profit of KEUR 111,172 comprising profit of the financial year 2016 amounting to KEUR 9,258 and profit carried forward of KEUR 101,914. The remaining amount of KEUR 61,172 is to be carried forward. 232 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 1.7 Subsequent Events after the Balance Sheet Date In January 2017, NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH (NGI), a subsidiary of NOVOMATIC AG, acquired majority stakes in four Polish companies (including two further Polish subsidiaries). Even before the share acquisition, the business purpose of the companies acquired in the course of this transaction, ATSI S.A. and Fortress Gaming Technologies S.A., was on development and programming activities for NGI. ATT S.A. generates income primarily from the acquisition, general overhaul and re-sale of used gaming devices. The fourth acquired company, Novo Poland Sp.z.o.o. is a holding company with a subsidiary that operates four smaller casinos in Poland. Gryphon Invest AG, a company related to NOVOMATIC AG, was the company selling the investments. The consideration for the entire transaction amounted to EUR 67.2 million. In February 2016, NOVOMATIC entered into a purchase agreement with Len Ainsworth regarding the acquisition of approximately 53 percent of the shares of Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd. (Ainsworth). Ainsworth is a publicly traded company listed in Australia and headquartered in Newington, Sydney. The company is one of the most renowned players in the international gaming industry. The company is a leading producer and provider of high-quality, innovative gaming solutions in Australasia as well as North and South America. Due to suspensive conditions, in particular, the required formal approvals by various international licensing and regulatory authorities, the closing of this transaction is not expected until the third quarter of 2017 at the earliest. The agreed purchase price is AUD 473.3 million. In March 2017, NOVOMATIC Gaming Industries GmbH, a subsidiary of NOVOMATIC AG, acquired 100 % of the shares in Casino Royal GmbH, Germany. The acquired company and its 10 subsidiaries operate a total of 126 gaming halls with a regional focus on INDIVIDUAL North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony and Rhineland-Palatinate. The preliminary consideration for the entire transaction amounted to EUR 88.7 million. CLOSER VIEW In March 2017, NOVOMATIC AG concluded a revolving credit line of EUR 1 billion with a seven-year term. This credit line serves to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS harmonize and refinance the existing credit lines, which will fall due in 2018 and 2020, as well as for general company financing purposes, including company acquisitions. VII. SPECIAL INFORMATION FOR STOCK CORPORATIONS The share capital of EUR 26,590,000.00 is fully paid up and divided into 26,590,000 registered no-par value shares. The nominal value per share amounts to EUR 1.00. Gumpoldskirchen, March 31, 2017 NOVOMATIC AG Harald Neumann Ryszard Presch Thomas Graf Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Technology Officer, CTO Chief Executive Officer, CEO Chief Operating Officer, COO Peter Stein Dr. Christian Widhalm Chief Financial Officer, CFO Chief Investment Officer, CIO 233 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC AG Fixed Assets as of December 31, 2016 Development at cost of acquisition and production Balance as of Balance as of EUR 1/1/2016 Additions Transfers Reallocation Disposals 12/31/2016 A. FIXED ASSETS I. Intangible assets 1. Industrial and similar rights and assets and licenses in such rights and assets Rights 12,465,172.03 6,000.00 0.00 0.00 16,000.00 12,455,172.03 Technical software 123,400,219.21 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 123,400,219.21 Software 283,715.98 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,767.50 281,948.48 Advance payments 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 136,149,107.22 6,000.00 0.00 0.00 17,767.50 136,137,339.72 II. Property, plant and equipment 1. Land, buildings and improvements to third-party buildings Land 9,293,159.41 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 9,293,159.41 Buildings – real estate value 32,587,761.44 0.00 0.00 0.00 423,705.37 32,164,056.07 Buildings – value of building 138,770,416.68 600,751.88 931,571.88 0.00 5,955,075.30 134,347,665.14 Structural investments in leased property 2,796,160.66 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2,796,160.66 Buildings on non-owned land 24,742,062.68 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 24,742,062.68 208,189,560.87 600,751.88 931,571.88 0.00 6,378,780.67 203,343,103.96 2. Plant and machinery Plant and machinery 212,930.38 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 212,930.38 Tools and tool costs 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 212,930.38 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 212,930.38 3. Office fixtures, fittings and equipment Office fixtures, fittings and equipment 5,162,890.76 43,611.59 3,271.80 0.00 380,524.75 4,829,249.40 Car pool 1,444,752.55 186,200.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,630,952.55 Low-value assets 78,095.88 680.90 0.00 0.00 35,755.36 43,021.42 6,685,739.19 230,492.49 3,271.80 0.00 416,280.11 6,503,223.37 4. Prepayments and assets under construction Plants under construction 6,812,488.60 457,429.84 -934,843.68 0.00 0.00 6,335,074.76 6,812,488.60 457,429.84 -934,843.68 0.00 0.00 6,335,074.76 221,900,719.04 1,288,674.21 0.00 0.00 6,795,060.78 216,394,332.47 III. Financial Assets 1. Shares in affiliated companies 774,081,700.34 191,323,217.45 -23,937,944.55 0.00 106,324,009.93 835,142,963.31 2. Loans to affiliated companies 266,883,311.56 169,571,003.31 0.00 0.00 103,939,035.08 332,515,279.79 3. Investments 475,000.00 0.00 23,937,944.55 0.00 0.00 24,412,944.55 4. Loans to associated companies 844,039.29 78,565.96 0.00 0.00 0.00 922,605.25 5. Securities held as fixed assets 13,749,549.33 87,748,701.44 0.00 0.00 0.00 101,498,250.77 6. Other loans 23,554,064.35 561,105.87 0.00 0.00 3,638,880.51 20,476,289.71 1,079,587,664.87 449,282,594.03 0.00 0.00 213,901,925.52 1,314,968,333.38 TOTAL FIXED ASSETS 1,437,637,491.13 450,577,268.24 0.00 0.00 220,714,753.80 1,667,500,005.57 234 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Development of Amortization/Depreciation Book Values thereof Balance as of extraordinary Balance as of Balance as of Balance as of 1/1/2016 Additions depreciation Transfers Reallocation Disposals Write-ups 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 10,653,752.58 1,223,903.53 563,510.89 0.00 0.00 16,000.00 0.00 11,861,656.11 1,811,419.45 593,515.92 101,942,232.80 11,582,311.17 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 113,524,543.97 21,457,986.41 9,875,675.24 270,942.87 6,503.98 0.00 0.00 1,767.50 0.00 275,679.35 12,773.11 6,269.13 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 112,866,928.25 12,812,718.68 563,510.89 0.00 0.00 17,767.50 0.00 125,661,879.43 23,282,178.97 10,475,460.29 INDIVIDUAL CLOSER VIEW 0.30 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.30 9,293,159.11 9,293,159.11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4,155,198.48 531,985.39 0.00 0.00 197,643.30 0.00 4,489,540.57 28,432,562.96 27,674,515.50 41,171,931.68 4,722,172.34 0.00 0.00 3,464,924.44 0.00 42,429,179.58 97,598,485.00 91,918,485.56 2,758,209.52 31,957.80 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2,790,167.32 37,951.14 5,993.34 15,126,506.64 6,592,757.45 5,936,489.11 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 21,719,264.09 9,615,556.04 3,022,798.59 63,211,846.62 11,878,872.98 5,936,489.11 0.00 0.00 3,662,567.74 0.00 71,428,151.86 144,977,714.25 131,914,952.10 117,304.91 11,890.67 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 129,195.58 95,625.47 83,734.80 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 117,304.91 11,890.67 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 129,195.58 95,625.47 83,734.80 4,295,685.11 254,350.00 0.00 0.00 309,541.66 0.00 4,240,493.45 867,205.65 588,755.95 476,793.12 8,000.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 484,793.12 967,959.43 1,146,159.43 57,568.70 9,679.70 0.00 0.00 35,755.36 0.00 31,493.04 20,527.18 11,528.38 4,830,046.93 272,029.70 0.00 0.00 0.00 345,297.02 0.00 4,756,779.61 1,855,692.26 1,746,443.76 6,290,171.84 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 6,290,171.84 522,316.76 44,902.92 6,290,171.84 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 6,290,171.84 522,316.76 44,902.92 74,449,370.30 12,162,793.35 5,936,489.11 0.00 0.00 4,007,864.76 0.00 82,604,298.89 147,451,348.74 133,790,033.58 11,712,231.65 1,009,219.33 0.00 0.00 1,700,860.51 62,991.00 10,957,599.47 762,369,468.69 824,185,363.84 1,950,000.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,950,000.00 0.00 0.00 264,933,311.56 332,515,279.79 237,500.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 237,500.00 237,500.00 24,175,444.55 422,019.67 39,282.98 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 461,302.65 422,019.62 461,302.60 1,488,168.80 100,905.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 146.95 1,588,926.85 12,261,380.53 99,909,323.92 15,387,208.44 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 15,387,208.44 8,166,855.91 5,089,081.27 31,197,128.56 1,149,407.31 0.00 0.00 0.00 3,650,860.51 63,137.95 28,632,537.41 1,048,390,536.31 1,286,335,795.97 218,513,427.11 26,124,919.34 6,500,000.00 0.00 0.00 7,676,492.77 63,137.95 236,898,715.73 1,219,124,064.02 1,430,601,289.84 235 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC AG Provisions as of December 31, 2016 EUR Balance as of Balance as of PROVISIONS 1/1/2016 Consumption Release Allocation 31/12/2016 1. Provisions for severance payments Provision for severance payments 778,857.00 0.00 0.00 1,047,880.00 1,826,737.00 2. Provisions for pensions Provision for pensions 6,813,647.00 0.00 0.00 798,729.00 7,612,376.00 3. Provisions for taxes Provision for corporate income tax 1,747,902.19 1,747,902.19 0.00 0.00 0.00 4. Other provisions Provisions for auditing and consulting fees 379,600.00 350,938.82 9,661.18 513,453.00 532,453.00 Provisions for damage cases 0.00 0.00 0.00 100,000.00 100,000.00 Provision for unconsumed vacation 461,919.75 461,919.75 0.00 1,054,751.99 1,054,751.99 Other provisions for personnel 3,980,000.00 3,634,186.93 345,813.07 4,137,000.00 4,137,000.00 Provision for jubilee payments 49,553.00 0.00 0.00 28,193.00 77,746.00 Other provisions 228,055.61 116,696.00 0.00 889,583.98 1,000,943.59 5,099,128.36 4,563,741.50 355,474.25 6,722,981.97 6,902,894.58 TOTAL PROVISIONS 14,439,534.55 6,311,643.69 355,474.25 8,569,590.97 16,342,007.58 236 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC AG Auditor’s Report Report on the Financial Statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of NOVOMATIC AG, Gumpoldskirchen, which comprise the statement of financial position as at December 31, 2016, the statement of profit and loss and notes to the financial statements. In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements comply with legal requirements and give a true and fair view of the financial position as at December 31, 2016 and its financial performance for the year then ended in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Basis for Opinion INDIVIDUAL We conducted our audit in accordance with the Austrian Generally Accepted Auditing Standards. Those standards require the CLOSER VIEW application of the International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in accordance with laws and regulations applicable in Austria, and we have fulfilled our other professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Impairment of the investments in RSV Beteiligungs GmbH and LTB Beteiligungs GmbH Description and Issue The book values of the investments in RSV Beteiligungs GmbH and LTB Beteiligungs GmbH, measured at EUR 72.3 Mio and EUR 23.9 Mio respectively, are contrasted with an equity of EUR 4.0 Mio and an equity share of EUR 0.2 Mio. For details on this comparison, we refer to the schedule of investments in the notes to the financial statements. These entities have an indirect shareholding in Österreichischen Lotterien Gesellschaft mbH (ÖLG) amounting to 11.56 %. As its subsidiaries and the lower-tier subsidiaries do not have any significant assets or liabilities, the determination as to whether these investments are impaired is in all material respects determined by the valuation of ÖLG. As such, the Company performed an impairment review of the investment in ÖLG. A multiples-based model was used in this review. For this purpose, industry-specific multiples were derived from international entities in the lottery industry. The selection of these entities, as well as the necessary adjustments included the model, such as valuation adjustments, are subjected to uncertainties related to estimations and judgments, which have considerable influence on the results of the valuation. For further explanations we refer to Section 11 “Valuation of Financial Instruments” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 237 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Our Response We evaluated the appropriateness of the valuation model with the involvement of our internal valuation specialists, examined the appropriateness of the entities from which the industry-specific multiples were derived, reperformed the calculations of the multiples, and agreed the other financial information used in the valuation with the published financial statements of ÖLG. In regards to the adjustments in valuation, we have examined as to whether these adjustments have been consistently applied over the periods in which the investments were held. Other Information Management is responsible for the other information. The other information contain all information in the annual report but does not include the financial statements, the management report and our auditor’s report thereon. The annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of the auditor’s report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Responsibilities of Management and the Audit Committee for the Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The audit committee are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. 238 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Auditing Standards, which require the application of the ISAs, will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The scope of the audit does not include assurance on the future viability of the Company or on the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted or will conduct the affairs of the Company. As part of an audit in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Auditing Standards, which require the application of the ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from INDIVIDUAL error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in CLOSER VIEW the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosuFINANCIAL STATEMENTS res made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that give a true and fair view. 239 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 We communicate with the audit committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the audit committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the audit committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 240 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Report on the Audit of the Management Report Pursuant to statutory provisions, the management report is to be audited as to whether it is consistent with the financial statements and whether it has been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements. Management is responsible for the preparation of the management report in accordance with the Austrian Commercial Code. We conducted our audit in accordance with laws and regulations applicable with respect to the management report. Opinion In our opinion, the management report are prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements, includes appropriate disclosures according to section 243a UGB and is consistent with the financial statements. Statement In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of our audit of the financial statements, we have not identified material misstatements in the management report. Engagement Partner INDIVIDUAL CLOSER VIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The engagement partner responsible for the audit is Dr. Christoph Waldeck. Vienna, March 31, 2017 Deloitte Audit Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH Dr. Christoph Waldeck ppa. Mag. Barbara Müllner Certified Public Accountant Certified Public Accountant This English translation of the audit report was prepared for the client’s convenience only. It is not a legally binding translation of the German audit report. The consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report may be published or transmitted together only if the consolidated financial statements and the management report are identical with the confirmed version. Section 281 para 2 Austrian Commercial Code applies to versions that differ. 241 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 NOVOMATIC AG Report of the Supervisory Board for the fiscal year 2016 The annual financial statements of December 31, 2016, and the Management Report of the Executive Board, to the extent that it explains the annual financial statements, have been examined with regard to accounting by Deloitte Audit Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH, which was appointed as auditor by the Annual General Meeting and has been charged with providing an unqualified audit opinion. The examination of the annual financial statements by the Supervisory Board did not give rise to any objections. The Supervisory Board agrees with the proposal of the Executive Board regarding the use of the net profits from 2016. The annual financial statements drawn up by the Executive Board were approved by the Supervisory Board and hence adopted in accordance with the Aktiengesetz (AktG – Austrian Stock Corporation Act). The Supervisory Board acknowledges and thanks the Executive Board and all employees of NOVOMATIC AG’s companies for their work during the financial year of 2016. Gumpoldskirchen, March 2017 The Supervisory Board In its four meetings held during the course of financial year 2016, the Supervisory Board was regularly informed by the Executive Board on the business policy and dealt thoroughly with business developments and the position of the company. In addition, the Audit Committee heard reports from the Dr. Bernd Oswald Executive Board and the auditor during the two meetings. Chairman 242 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Space for Notes INDIVIDUAL CLOSER VIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 243 NOVOMATIC AG Annual Report 2016 Space for Notes 244 Imprint Symbols used in this report Owner, editor and publisher NOVOMATIC AG Reference to an indicator according to the Global Reporting Initiative, 4.0, Wiener Strasse 158 Level core 2352 Gumpoldskirchen Tel. +43 2252 606-0 Reference to further information or crossreferences within the report Commercial register number: FN 69548b www.novomatic.com In order to improve readability, some terminology is used only in its m ­ asculine form. Nevertheless, all passages refer equally to members of both genders. Editorial department: Bernhard Krumpel, Philipp Gaggl Design: isobar Werbeagentur GmbH We have prepared this report with the utmost care and have checked the Photos: NOVOMATIC, dpa, Herta BSC, Sonja Kadlec, Krischanz & Zeiler OG, data therein. Nevertheless, errors arising from rounding, typesetting or Jürgen Knoth, T ­homas Merz, Robert Polster, Sporthilfe.at, Sporthilfe/ printing cannot be excluded. The aggregation of rounded amounts and Herschelmann, ­tagesspiegel.de, Constanze Trzebin, Markus Wache, Amin percentages may result in rounding differences due to the use of auto­ Heydarifard, fair.versity, Deutsche Sporthilfe/picture alliance, Deutsche mated computational aids. Sporthilfe/SICHTSTARK, Thomas Meyer Photography, Vienna Economic Forum, Foto Spielbank Berlin, Joachim Haslinger, Sebastian Philipp, OFFSET by This report includes forward-looking statements based on information curShutterstock, Shutterstock rently available to us. These forward-looking statements are usually idenPrint: AV + Astoria Druckzentrum GmbH tified by expressions such as “expect”, “estimate”, “plan”, “calculate”, Editorial deadline: April 5, 2017 etc. Please note that various factors could cause actual circumstances – and therefore also actual results – to deviate from the expectations outlined in this report. Statements referring to people apply to both men and women. This annual report is available in German. In the event of disputes, the ­German version shall take precedence. www.novomatic.com
