MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP INTEGRATED REPORT For the Year Ended March 31, 2016 Creed We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. We base our activities on honesty, harmony, and a clear distinction between corporate and personal life. We shall strive for innovative management and technological development from an international perspective. Corporate Identity Statement This corporate identity statement represents our intention to “continuously provide an assured future where people can live safe, secure, and enriched lives through technologies that can excite people and passion as a manufacturer for the sustainability of the earth and humankind.” MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines MHI strives to move the world toward a more secure future. Through our technology, our business practices and our people, we: Care for the planet • We are eco-conscious, and engineer environmentally-friendly technologies that improve sustainability and ­protect the Earth Create a more harmonious society •W e embrace integrity and proactive participation to solve societal challenges Inspire the future • We cultivate global talent who share a vision and desire to move the world forward for generations to come Contents 2 26 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Achievements and Strategies for 2 Progressing along with Society Value Creation through Our Business 4 Management Reform in Recent Years: 26 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Successes and Challenges 30 Business Segment Highlights 6 Preparing for Takeoff 34 Business Segment Overview 8 42 Management Strategies Building a Framework for Value Creation 8 President’s Message 42 Roundtable: Defining Risk Management for Global Growth 14 Board of Directors 46 Corporate Governance 16 CFO’s Message 51 Human Resources 20 CTO’s Message 52 Technological Base 24 Initiatives Related to Material ESG Issues 54 Corporate Data 55 Overseas Head Offices and Networks / Oversea Offices 1 Corporate Aspiration A global group with the vision to mold an innovative and agile organization that leverages our dedication to technological advancement and engineering excellence in order to deliver solid growth amid constant changes and make a lasting difference in the communities we serve MHI Launches New Group Tagline Statement and Tagline In May 2016, the MHI Group unveiled a new Group Statement and tagline, “MOVE THE WORLD FORWARD,” which captures the unique value and vision the Company brings to the world today. The statement clarifies the role the Company Group Statement plays in today’s world and the value that it provides to customers globally. As the MHI Group strengthens its communications function at a global level, it aims to deepen understanding of the Group in markets worldwide. Embodying the Group statement in business activities in regions around the world will enable us to realize our corporate aspiration. The Group statement expresses the contribution that the MHI Group makes to the world by leveraging the full range of our technologies across our unique business portfolio in land, sea, air, and space to solve complex, global-scale challenges we face in the world today, and into the future. The tagline advocates that we to “Move the world forward” together with our global customers and local communities toward a more sustainable future. Structure of Information Disclosure Reason for Publishing This Report MHI Report contains information that is important to understanding MHI. More detailed information The MHI Group conducts management based on its firm will to realize is available on our website. its corporate identity statement, “Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow.” http://www.mhi-global.com/index.html To enhance the understanding of our philosophy among shareFinancial Information Non-Financial Information holders, investors, and a host of other stakeholders, from fiscal 2013 Important (the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014) we have integrated financial MHI Report information, including management strategy and operating performance, with non-financial information related to the Group’s environFinancial mental and social activities into this MHI Report. Section of Website MHI Report Website “Investor (Separate “CSR” Detailed Relations” booklet) (Exhaustive) Reference Guidelines International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) International Integrated Reporting Framework Forward-Looking Statements Global Reporting Initiative Forecasts regarding future performance in these materials are based on judgments Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Fourth Edition, or G4) made in accordance with information available at the time this presentation was prepared. As such, these projections involve risks and insecurity. For this reason, Ministry of the Environment of Japan investors are recommended not to depend solely on these projections for making Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version) investment decisions. It is possible that actual results may change significantly from these projections for a number of factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, economic trends affecting the Company’s operating environment, currency movement of the yen value to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies, and trends of stock markets in Japan. Also, the results projected here should not be construed in any way as being guaranteed by the Company. 2 MHI REPORT 2016 PROGRESSING ALONG WITH SOCIETY At the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, we built the Mitsubishi Model A-1, Japan’s first mass-produced passenger car. We embarked on the development of transportation equipment, such as steam locomotives and aircraft, as well as internal combustion engines. 1930s 1910s 1880s As Japan entered World War II, our leading-edge technologies were applied toward the production of military equipThe Company’s history dates back to ment, startling the world with the Zero 1884, when we entered the shipbuilding Carrier Fighter aircraft and the Musashi business by taking a lease on the govbattleship. ernment-owned Nagasaki Shipyard. We built up a track record in shipbuilding, constructing Japan’s first steel ship and large cruise ship. 3 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Leveraging our integrated capabilities, we pushed our businesses toward addressing global-scale issues such as infrastructure development and environmental preservation, including As Japan’s period of rapid economic the Taiwan High-Speed Rail, the growth came to an end, our own growth Dubai Metro, and other transportation stagnated for approximately 30 years. systems. During that time, however, we build the world’s first large-scale ultra-energy saving ships and the world’s largest combinedcycle power plant, honing the leading-edge After the war, in 1950 the General technologies that we retain to this day. Headquarters of the Allied Powers broke up MHI into three entities in line with its policy of dissolving the zaibatsu. We turned our energies to competing in the 2010s development of diverse products, including tankers, scooters, tractors, and air conditioners, thereby c­ ontributing to 2000s Japan’s reconstruction. 1990s 1980s 1970s 1950s In 1999, we delivered a CO2 recovery plant to Malaysia, channeling our technological capabilities toward the resolution of environmental issues, and we began to proactively We recombined after reintegration of roll out our products overseas. the three companies in 1964. We developed power plants, monorails, oil-drilling rigs, and other large-scale infrastructure products, supporting Japan’s rapid economic growth. More than 130 years have passed since the MHI Group’s Through its broad-based involvement in fields spanning founding in 1884. In accordance with Sankoryo, a set of three land, sea, air, and space, the MHI Group has the strength to principles that define the spirit of the Mitsubishi Group, we fully understand customer needs, local communities, and have always pursued leading-edge technologies. Through environmental conditions, and then to formulate and integrate manufacturing that applies these technologies, we have built solutions. By leveraging these integration capabilities, we will the foundations of society and industry in every era and supstrive and pursue innovation to remain an organization considered ported the modernization of Japan. Now active in fields that necessary by stakeholders around the world. span the globe, we are striving to contribute to progress of a more broad-based society, lending the strengths of the MHI Group to resolve complex, global scale issues such as rapid urbanization in emerging countries, infrastructure upgrades in advanced countries, and climate change and Hideaki Omiya other environmental problems. Chairman of the Board 4 MHI REPORT 2016 MANAGEMENT Affected by the stagnant growth of the Japanese economy and the global financial crisis from 2007, REFORM IN our 2010 Medium-Term Business Plan called for us to embark on full-fledged management reform to RECENT YEARS: achieve global growth. Building on the successes of measures we pursued steadily under the 2010 and 2012 Medium-Term Business Plans, net sales grew SUCCESSES and profitability increased. Furthermore, since fiscal 2010 our cash flow has increased significantly. In AND CHALLENGES the six years from fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2015, we amassed cumulative free cash flow of more than Billions of yen 4,000 Net sales Operating income (right scale) Free cash flows (right scale) 3,500 Cash flows from investing activities (right scale) 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 (FY) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2004 Medium-Term Business Plan 2006 Medium-Term Business Plan 2008 Medium-Term Business Plan Management Reform Policies 1 Expanding Our Business Scale In order to win out in competition against megaplayers around the world, we are making maximum use of our management resources and expanding our business scale by promoting business alliances, mergers, and acquisitions. 2 Increasing Profitability and Capital Efficiency By clarifying the profitability of each business through thorough selection and focus, we are improving capital efficiency and promoting cash flow management. 3 Transforming the Corporate Governance System Aiming to establish corporate governance appropriate to a global enterprise, we are separating the business execution and supervisory functions while reinforcing both. 5 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation ¥700 billion. We expect to generate an additional approximately ¥230 billion since fiscal 2013. Also, ¥130 billion in free cash flow in fiscal 2016. development is exceedingly protracted in our Mitsubishi At the same time, we have pushed forward with Regional Jet (MRJ) business—the first Japanese reforms to our corporate governance system to development of a passenger jet aircraft in half a century. make corporate functions more efficient and our Furthermore, the new medium-term business decision-making more expeditious and transparent. plan that we started in 2015 has faced headwinds, However, our strategies for global growth have such as slowing economic growth in China which entailed increases in risk that we had not yet faced, has resulted in global oversupplies and sluggish some of which are being materialized. A large cruise crude oil prices. Macroeconomic growth has accordship project aimed at being a high-value-added ingly slowed, particularly in emerging countries. business has generated cumulative losses of Billions of yen 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 –100 –200 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 Medium-Term 2010 Medium-Term Business Plan 2012 Medium-Term Business Plan Business Plan Transitioned to a business headquarters structure Transitioned to a business domain structure Established Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Established Primetals Technologies Introduced ROE as a management indicator Launched a strategic business evaluation system Reducing the number of directors and increasing the number of outside directors on an ongoing basis Introduced a chief officer system Transitioned to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee 6 MHI REPORT 2016 PREPARING FOR TAKEOFF Billions of yen Billions of yen (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 Medium-Term Business Plan 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Increasing the Sophistication of Introducing a strategic business evaluation system and business domain structure has made it possible to build a framework for allocating management resources from a companywide perspective, instead of a system whereby business viability and risk assessments were handled by facility-level organizations. From fiscal 2016, we have decided to move to a system that will enable us to take on appropriate risks in the interest of growth. CEO This framework will bring strategic, financial, and technological facets under the respective management umbrellas of the CEO, CFO, and CTO, enabling us to manage risks and CFO CTO pursue growth strategies from a companywide viewpoint. We will limit executive directors Optimized Companywide Management to these three chief officers, thereby pushing ahead with our separation of the supervisory An Assembly of and executional functions. Business Structures For specific strategies and measures, see the President’s Message on page 8, the CFO’s Message on page 16, the CTO’s Message on page 20, and Corporate Governance on page 46. 7 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Although some risks have materialized and the business environment is deteriorating, our orders have accumulated steadily in recent years. Due to this factor and the nature of our business, we expect to generally meet the performance targets we set out to achieve during the term of our 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan. Against this backdrop, we are now concentrating on building the foundations to support our next phase of full-fledged growth. To ensure that we do not miss out on major growth opportunities when the global economy rebounds, we believe our chief point of focus needs to be on honing our engineering skills, which are the core of our competitiveness. Another target will be to reinforce risk management. We will augment our ability to verify risks at the management level, as well as our ability to resist these risks and resolve them once they have materialized. © JAXA/NASA Strengthening Risk Management Cultivating the Driving Force We have established a Business Risk Management Division that reports for Growth directly to the CEO. We must undertake certain business risks in order The EPC* capabilities we have cultivated through petrochemical plant to grow, and this division engages in efforts to prevent them from mateprojects and in the transportation systems business are key to rializing. At the same time, the division is reinforcing our ability to resolve differentiating ourselves from European and U.S. competitors. Our CEO risks in the MRJ business and other future growth fields, as well as risks is spearheading our global development, our CFO is masterminding that have already materialized, such as in the cruise ships business. the allocation of capital into growth fields, and our CTO is leading Meanwhile, our CFO is taking the lead to further strengthen our financial technological innovation through our shared technology framework. foundation, and our CTO is working to enhance our technological * Engineering, procurement, and construction responsiveness on large-scale projects. 8 MHI REPORT 2016 President’s Message To reach the next stage, we will strengthen our risk management and hone our unique strengths. Shunichi Miyanaga President and CEO Results for FY2015 and Targets of 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Net Sales Operating Income Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent / ROE Billions of yen Billions of yen Billions of yen 5,000.0 Extraordinary loss on 200.0 450.0 the passenger ship 4,300.0 construction business 3,992.1 4,046.8 330.0 296.1 309.5 10.2% 110.4 100.0 6.5% 63.8 5.8% 3.7% 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） 9 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation ‌Please watch the video on the website below. www.mhi-global.com/finance/mr2016 risk resilience and faster post-merger integration (PMI) in February 2016. Our 2015 Business Plan Is MHI traces its origins to shipbuilding, and it has Generally on Course, but We Face a strong track record in the construction of cruise Challenges in Our Cruise Ship ships. The construction of cruise ships for the AIDA Construction Business. Cruises brand resulted in what I believe is a truly outstanding vessel. However, the difficulties we experienced during its construction were caused by In April 2015, we launched the MHI Group’s 2015 technical shortcomings in producing the hotel-class Medium-Term Business Plan spanning fiscal 2015 to accommodation and entertainment facilities that the fiscal 2017. Since its creation, we have implemented project required. The specifications of cruise ships a slate of measures to achieve the goals set out in have advanced significantly in recent years, and MHI the plan. One year in, we have made steady did not objectively evaluate its corresponding progress overall, and our drive toward business technical and comprehensive management scale expansion and improved profitability is more or capabilities for the construction project. As a result, less proceeding as planned. In fiscal 2015, however, we made various decisions using outdated our large cruise ship construction project again parameters. Any company that aims for ongoing required more time and resources than we had development must take up new challenges—there is originally assumed. This resulted in the booking of nothing wrong with stepping into uncharted an extraordinary loss for the term, exceeding ¥100 waters—but in this case, there were many areas that billion, which caused our net income to finish now call for serious review and the correction of substantially below target. Compounding this, there shortcomings identified along the way. For example, were a number of changes in our business our approach to decision making and the lack of a environment during the past year, including a framework for making sober, objective evaluations of slowdown in the global economy and increased overall technological and management capabilities competition. In response, we took steps to reinforce will require consideration. In response, we are now our 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan by doing our utmost to solidify the required risk introducing additional measures targeting enhanced management mechanisms. Measures of 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Existing Additional •P romote domain-based targets with clear aims • Accelerate independent management and PMI and strategies for their achievement • Reduce operating capital •S trategically reconfigure the product mix • Pursue optimum efficiency •S trengthen relatively superior products and • Asset management technologies • Radically reconsider risk management structure •R eform and create new businesses and business • Establish shared technology framework models for the next generation •S trengthen the technology base and innovate •D evelop more advanced business processes and strengthen human resources •R eform the corporate governance system 10 MHI REPORT 2016 or undertaking projects for overseas clients. I believe it is therefore absolutely necessary for the MHI Group to pursue a new type of risk management Seeking Stronger Risk Management appropriate to this situation, using as reference to Support the Next Stage points the risk management formats adopted by overseas companies, and learning from previous cases and how they were dealt with. Our experiences from the large cruise ship A core aspect of our response to these shortcomings construction project, combined with the experience is the launch of the Business Risk Management we have gained in resolving related issues, Division, under my direct oversight, which will deepened our understanding of risk management. strengthen our risk management capabilities. The However, given the magnitude of the loss we new division incorporates both a Risk Management incurred, this series of events simply cannot be Department and a Risk Solutions Department. The written off as a “worthy lesson.” Fortunately, we have Risk Management Department is charged with been able to get through this process thanks to a addressing business risks at the corporate level and strong financial footing achieved through various preventing risks at the process level. The Risk initiatives implemented in recent years. These Solutions Department will primarily focus on devising include enhancement of our earning capacity, for solutions and supporting settlements after serious example, and a transition to cash flow management. risk incidents have occurred. Had we been unable to cope in this way, the impact The reason the new Business Risk Management of the cruise ship issue on the MHI Group could Division was placed under the direct oversight of the have been extremely negative. We must therefore CEO is because risk judgments are an inseparable reflect closely on this incident as well as other component of our aspiration to grow in business substantial loss-generating incidents in our past and scale. Determining which risks to take on in order to apply lessons learned to the creation of a new, more achieve growth is the very essence of business decision risk-resilient organization. Regarding our cruise ship making, and this is an issue that should be decided by construction business, we established a business top management. In the days when the business evaluation committee in April 2016. The committee environment offered robust growth opportunities in is now undertaking discussions on overall strategies Japan, perhaps it was not necessary to take on such for our commercial ship business, including significant risks. Today, however, if the MHI Group is determination of whether or not we should continue to thrive in the future, it is inevitable that we must take our cruise ship construction operations. up new challenges, such as creating new businesses New Risk Management Structure (As of June 2016) CEO Business Risk Management Division Risk Management Department Risk Solutions Department Credit Analysis Group Group of troubleshooting experts Project Risk Management Group Business Risk Management Group Currently 19 employees Currently 5 employees (senior management rank and higher) 11 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation directors. Most recently, at our general shareholders meeting in June we decided to release the CEOs of the various domains from their appointments as directors so that they could devote themselves exclusively to business management as executives. As a result, the internal members of the Board of Directors now consist of the chairman, two members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, and, from the executive side, the CEO, CFO, and CTO—six in total. The number of outside directors now stands at five, close to half the entire Board membership. The number serving in a supervisory role is eight, well above the three members from the executive side. In this way, our management supervisory functions have been strengthened further. I believe governance is something that must change continuously, to be in step with the changing demands society makes of companies and their purpose. At MHI, we have a responsibility to develop technologies critical to many industries. However, as our business operations expand Accountability Is Fundamental to globally, we shoulder responsibilities that are Good Governance increasing in breadth and complexity. To fulfill these responsibilities in a manner that befits a global corporation, we are putting into practice the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact relating to Regarding risk response and business decisions, the human rights, labor, the environment, and antifunctions of the Board of Directors meetings have corruption. Above all, I believe that the foundation of changed considerably during the past few years. good governance exists in providing honest, Previously, discussions made prior to voting tended sincere, and convincing explanations of our to be somewhat lacking in substance. Now, more business processes, their results, and their impact time is allotted to actively explaining and debating across the full spectrum of our stakeholders— management policy. This includes our strategies, our including shareholders, customers, business approach to given issues, the criteria on which partners, affiliates, and suppliers. To achieve such decisions have been reached, our business status, good governance, our aim is to solicit a wide range objective analysis, and so on. What I would like is for of opinions at Board of Directors meetings our outside directors, who serve in a supervisory concerning the MHI Group’s role in society and role, along with our own members of the Audit and social values. We will then share the views debated Supervisory Committee, to be informed of with all employees and convey this information to management’s views earlier on and to be able to our external stakeholders. These efforts toward engage in dynamic discussions from a variety of greater transparency will surely also lead to stronger perspectives. My hope is for discussions and risk management. decisions of a more substantial nature and not mere perfunctory proceedings. For details about MHI’s efforts to enhance transparency in corporate governance and reinforce risk management, please Regarding the makeup of the Board of Directors, see the roundtable discussion with the Company’s president we have already reduced the number of internal and outside directors on page 42. directors and increased the number of outside 12 MHI REPORT 2016 may also lack the ability to independently make appropriate strategy decisions. For these reasons, Competing Globally Requires Us we will need to seek out the best partners to achieve our goals and make active use of their expertise. to Utilize Partnerships and M&A as Second, we will need to make use of strengths well as Our Own Unique Strengths that will enable differentiation from our competitors. Given that our major competitors are of a very large scale, there can be no denying that if we attempt to Taking firm action to strengthen our risk compete against them directly in the same arena, management does not mean we are shunning an we will experience difficulties. What we must aggressive business stance. We are vigorously therefore do is arm ourselves with unique business driving our growth strategies forward. We currently capabilities—advantages that we possess and our have a robust backlog of orders and expect more to competitors lack—namely, engineering or come, so we are confident that by strengthening our engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) risk management and steadily accelerating PMI (as I encompassing diverse technologies and products. will discuss below), we should still be able to achieve Growing our engineering and EPC functions further, the results targeted in our 2015 Medium-Term and applying our strength in integrating them in line Business Plan, even if some changes occur in the with the diverse needs of each region or market will business environment. We are setting our sights on be vital to our future development. Our basic the years beyond that. Our main pillar of growth will strategy will be to strengthen the MHI Group’s be the subsequent business plan, and our Mitsubishi unique capabilities in engineering, build alliances and Regional Jet (MRJ) business is making steady pursue M&A, and strive for global expansion that is progress in terms of both development and highly attuned to local needs. preparation for mass production, with delivery of the To put these plans into practice, we will need to first aircraft expected in 2018. develop the human resources capable of forming Once that is accomplished, in order to achieve fruitful partnerships in new markets around the world. further growth we must then strengthen business Also, to bolster the risk management capabilities areas in which we excel, boost our presence in throughout the Company, it will be vital to have our already active regions, and consider new businesses employees gain extensive experience, starting early to add to our portfolio after the MRJ. Two factors will in their careers. Traditionally, MHI has focused on be important in that pursuit. human resource development through on-the-job First, instead of holding resolutely to the training, but to foster employees who can work at a determination to do everything ourselves, we must global level, we must also consider adopting a more pursue business partnerships and M&A, methodical approach to this process. implementing strategies tailored to the parameters To follow progress on the MRJ business, please see the of each region or business area. In seeking to enter ­business segment overview portion of our explanation of the new realms, there are limits to how well we can Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems Domain on compete relying on our own capability alone. We page 36. Technologies, Ltd., and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Forklift, Engine & Turbocharger Holdings, Ltd. (M-FET). We view these three JVs as vital elements Growth Will Be Driven by Three to the MHI Group’s business scale and earnings. Major Joint Ventures (JVs) Currently, we are promoting their swift and independent management, in line with their business characteristics. All three JVs already occupy leading market positions globally in their respective business We are now placing particular focus on accelerating areas. We anticipate that by further boosting PMI at our three core JV operations: Mitsubishi efficiency through organizational restructuring, and Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. (MHPS), Primetals through generating synergies in technology and 13 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation expertise, they will drive the MHI Group’s future headwinds. By responding effectively and swiftly to growth. In the final year of the 2015 Medium-Term such changes, and by building up a position of Business Plan, we are projecting that collectively superiority over our competitors, we can survive amid these three companies will account for roughly 60% global competition. I believe we need to view these of our consolidated net sales and operating income. changes not as a threat but as an opportunity—an Reflecting the economic slowdown in China, the opportunity that compels us to devise flexible resulting economic stagnation in resource-rich measures for dealing with these events. countries and Japan and Europe, and the United MHPS’ strategies are described in the business segment Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union, the overview section for the Energy & Environment domain on global economic picture today is becoming page 34. On page 40, the business segment overview for the increasingly opaque, and the business environment Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure domain offers an surrounding the MHI Group is becoming more explanation of strategies for Primetals Technologies and M-FET. severe. As a business, we must nonetheless seek sustained growth and expansion in the face of these Promoting Growth at Three Independently Managed JVs Business domains Wholly owned Group companies and consolidated subsidiaries Independently managed JVs Net Sales Operating Income Billions of yen Billions of yen 1,300 1,500 140 170 FY2017 FY2017 FY2014 FY2014 (Targets) (Targets) 1,800 150 670 2,700 980 30 270 20 of the MHI Group and explained the social contributions we have made, their response was quite Making a Social Contribution favorable. Going forward, I will continue visiting other parts of the world to make our name and activities through Business to more widely known. “MOVE THE WORLD FORWARD” Throughout the years, we have continued to hone our technology—the foundation on which social infrastructure is built—in accordance with the shifting In our drive toward becoming a fully global company, needs of the times. I am proud to say that through a and in our efforts to compete with overseas rivals, I deep understanding of the demands of our customers have come to keenly sense the need for greater name and stakeholders, we have consistently and recognition. Although we are known to a significant seamlessly integrated our technologies, enabling us to extent within the domestic market, the name “MHI create practical solutions that contribute to social Group” is relatively unfamiliar internationally—a fact progress. Our Group Statement defines the role we that must surely disadvantage our sales initiatives. We should play and the values that we provide to need to win a greater understanding overseas of what customers the world over. Our tagline, “MOVE THE the MHI Group does and what our management WORLD FORWARD” encapsulates what we do: stance is, and thereby attract new customers from provide value and spur progress in the world. As a these overseas markets. In May 2016, we created a key principle of our corporate aspiration, the MHI new Group Statement and tagline that we are now Group’s raison d’être is to contribute to global using in our overseas advertising campaigns and development and to keep growing together. Looking communications activities. I recently had the occasion ahead, we will continue to ensure that our business is to visit New York, where I met with many leading helping move the world forward into a safe, secure, journalists. When I talked to them about the strengths and prosperous future. 14 MHI REPORT 2016 Board of Directors (As of July 1, 2016) Director Director Director, Audit and Supervisory Committee Member Ken Kobayashi Naoyuki Shinohara (Chairman of the Board, (Professor, The University of Tokyo, Shinichiro Ito Mitsubishi Corporation) Policy Alternatives Research Institute) (Chairman of the Board, ANA Holdings Inc.) Director, Executive Vice President Director, Executive Vice President President and CEO*1 (CTO*3, President and CEO, (CFO*2, Head of Business Strategy Office) Energy & Environment, Shunichi Miyanaga Head of Value Chain Headquarters) Masanori Koguchi Michisuke Nayama 15 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Director, Director, Director, Audit and Supervisory Full-time Audit and Supervisory Full-time Audit and Supervisory Committee Member Committee Member Committee Member Nobuo Kuroyanagi Eiji Isu Tatsuhiko Nojima (Senior Advisor, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.) *1. CEO: Chief Executive Officer *2. CFO: Chief Financial Officer *3. CTO: Chief Technology Officer Chairman of the Board Director, Audit and Supervisory Committee Member Hideaki Omiya Christina Ahmadjian (Professor, Hitotsubashi University Graduate School of Commerce and Management) 16 MHI REPORT 2016 CFO’s Message Strengthening Cash Flow and Securing Investment Capital for Growth in Preparation for Opportunities Ahead Masanori Koguchi Member of the Board, Executive Vice President and CFO FY2015 Cash Flow Low Business viability 高 High High Grow/ Growth investment plus Maintain Groupwide return of ¥157.2 billion in surplus Reinvestment of surplus funds returned to Group ¥72.7 billion Profitability and financial soundness While boosting Reform profitability, surplus Reinvestment of returned to the Group ¥152.7 billion ¥0.1 billion in surplus returned to Group Downscale/ Investment of funds to New grow next-generation Withdraw business drivers ¥53.9 billion invested Investment in growth of in structural reforms ¥122.5 billion Groupwide, etc. ¥26.6 billion in surplus returned to Free cash flow: ¥7.5 billion Group Shareholder returns (dividends, including Low Strengthening of financial base dividends to non-controlling shareholders) ¥–43.1 billion ¥50.6 billion 17 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Basic Financial Strategy Policy The MHI Group is implementing a raft of measures In order to drive growth forward—and to effecthrough its 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan to tively respond to risks—we must maintain and furremain ahead of the pack and sustain global growth. ther strengthen our current financial structure. We aim to become a highly profitable company with Maintaining sound finances through stable cash flow a business scale exceeding ¥5 trillion. To do this, we leads to greater efficiency across our business, need to define clear growth strategies while preparmeaning enhanced competitive strength. I believe ing the necessary resources to achieve them. At the improving our cash flow will bolster business prosame time, we must deal with ongoing risk and set cesses and ultimately become an important indicaaside funds to manage uncertainties related to tor of improvement in operating results. growth-oriented investments. In terms of financial Based on this approach, I am focusing on maxistrategy, our fundamental policy is to meet funding mizing cash flow while allocating management requirements using cash flow generated by our busiresources appropriately. ness activities. Business Portfolio Enhancement through Our Strategic Business Evaluation System Building an appropriate business portfolio is essensame time, ongoing efforts to optimize our business tial to the MHI Group’s steady and continuous portfolio mean that our business scale has been growth. To this end, we launched a strategic busiexpanding steadily toward our ¥5 trillion target. Our ness evaluation system in 2010, dividing our strateoperating margin has also been improving. We gic business units (SBUs) into four categories— anticipate that further improvement is possible if, “Grow/Maintain,” “Reform,” “Downscale/Withdraw,” through more effective post-merger integration (PMI) and “New”—based on an evaluation of their profitefforts, we can reduce our SG&A expenses, which ability, financial soundness, and business viability. temporarily increased with M&A activity. Meanwhile, We then allocate management resources based on for our “Downscale/Withdraw” businesses, we are the category. In fiscal 2015, ¥72.7 billion of cash flow taking steps to form joint ventures with other comgenerated by SBUs in the “Grow/Maintain” category panies or selling off such businesses completely. A was reinvested to achieve further growth. At the same review of activity over the past four years shows that time, ¥157.2 billion was returned to the Company. redistribution of capital has made progress, with the In the six years since this system was introratio increasing in the “Grow/Maintain” and “New duced, management resources have been heavily business/Risk” areas and decreasing in the “Reform” allocated toward ‘Grow/Maintain’ businesses. At the and “Others” categories. Expansion of Business Scale and Increase in Profitability Capital Allocation for Becoming a Highly Profitable ¥5 Trillion Enterprise Billions of yen % Grow/Maintain Reform Existing / Others*2 New business / Risk*3 5,000 13.4 13.4 13.7 15  wners’ equity = net assets – non-controlling interests – *1. O 12.7 share subscription rights 11.8 3,992.1 4,046.8 *2. C  apital for SBUs in the “Downscale/Withdraw” category 24% 4,000 12 and the “Groupwide” category (¥412.3 billion) 3,349.5 *3. C  apital for the existing SBUs in the “New” category as well 2,820.9 2,817.8 as seed money (growth investments) and capital required 34% 3,000 9 as a buffer for unexpected risk (¥570.0 billion) 7.4 7.6 2,000 6.2 6 5.8 17% 28% As of March 31, 2016 (¥214.2 billion) (¥353.4 billion) Owners’ equity*1 4.0 1,000 3 ¥1.7 trillion As of April 1, 2012 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY）0 Owners’ equity*1 Net sales Operating income (right scale) ¥1.2 trillion 27% SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales (right scale) 28% 22% (¥346.9 billion) (¥340.5 billion) (¥368.6 billion) 20% (¥328.8 billion) 18 MHI REPORT 2016 Cash Flow Improvement The optimization of our business portfolio, achieved further improve as we set cash conversion cycle tarthrough redistributing management resources, is gets for each SBU. The cycle was already shortened enabling a steady expansion of cash flow generated from 143 days in fiscal 2012 to 97 days in fiscal from profits. In addition, cash flow is now being 2015. We are currently striving for further improvegenerated through greater balance sheet efficiency, ment, setting a new target of 70 days. I believe that primarily through the reduction of working capital, through these various measures we will be able to but also by the liquidation of idle assets and securiincrease our business scale, generating a stable ties. With respect to working capital, the situation will cash flow without expanding the balance sheet. Results Achieved in FY2015 On a cash basis, fiscal 2015 was a challenging significant way to these monetary requirements— period, owing to growth investments such as the providing more than ¥300 billion in total—ultimately, MRJ and the acquisition of UniCarriers Holdings, as we were able to keep free cash flow positive well as the need to allocate funding for losses throughout the year. This is indicated by the fact that incurred in the cruise ship construction business. EBITDA has reached the level of ¥500 billion. In my Financial stability is closely monitored at all times, as view, our initiatives have enabled MHI to generate any deterioration can have an adverse impact on and secure the cash it requires. future growth potential. Although we responded in a Free Cash Flow 400 296.2 212.8 270.0 288.3 FY2011 – FY2015 200.3 Billions of yen 200 Cash flow from operating activities 0 –200 (FY) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Free cash flow –400 153.3 211.6 144.6 38.6 7.5 Cash flow from improvement in 36.1 70.7 46.6 –51.0 –20.6 operating capital efficiency Cash flow margin 164.2 217.6 249.6 263.8 290.6 Cash flow from investing activities – 47.0 –76.7 –151.5 –174.1 –262.4 Asset liquidation 70.5 53.3 68.6 46.7 17.2 Return on invested capital (times) 1.11 1.14 1.29 1.37 1.32 EBITDA 238.2 283.0 346.8 465.0 479.6 EBITDA margin (%) 8.4 10.0 10.4 11.7 11.9 Interest-bearing debt 1,157.1 1,031.2 957.4 975.5 1,052.1 D/E ratio (times) 0.89 0.72 0.54 0.46 0.53 Mission of the CFO Going Forward In the past year or two, we have seen an end to the exit from the European Union—could continue period of over-reliance on the Chinese economy, throughout this period. accompanied by falling resource prices, economic In this challenging environment, it might be slowdowns in emerging countries, and industrial thought that some curtailment is to be expected. structural changes in developed countries. This has However, if a company is able to successfully ushered in a phase of global oversupply in the weather these difficult times, large growth opportunimedium term, which is gradually being felt by the ties await. Put another way, I believe that the extent MHI Group and its competitors. Instability in the to which companies prepare for future growth global economy and upsets in political and ecotoday—formulating business plans, investing in nomic frameworks—such as the United Kingdom’s products and technologies that will drive growth, 19 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation taking the right financial steps to support such initiafinancial soundness even when we make major tives, among other measures—determines who will short-term, opportunistic growth investments, such be tomorrow’s winners and losers. This is especially as M&A. Risks are also expanding as we make more true of MHI, where we have a significant gap in busimoves into overseas markets and increase largeness scale compared with our overseas competiscale businesses. It is essential that we build a tors. We must hone our competitiveness using, for buffer against such risks. example, differentiated strategies, such as strengthTo that end, we will further accelerate the initiaening our engineering base through the harmonizatives we have taken to date: for example, optimizing tion of technologies. our business portfolio and improving our balance In the coming years, I believe my foremost sheets. Furthermore, by undertaking asset manageresponsibility as CFO will be to consider how we can ment and pursuing asset liquidation, we will target a secure funds for growth investments while simultacash flow of ¥200 billion within the framework of neously strengthening our financial structure. We our 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan. Through estimate that the cash flow required for large-scale these measures, I aim to increase our owners’ investments in the MRJ will peak out around fiscal equity to ¥2 trillion, build up a risk buffer, and 2018, but even after then we intend to set aside improve our financial soundness, while preparing some 20% of our total investment capital for new flexibly to meet our increasing capital demands. businesses capable of becoming future pillars of These activities will ready us for the great growth growth. In addition, we have to build up a solid opportunities that lie ahead. financial structure that will allow us to maintain ROE Improvement As explained above, the MHI Group today remains words, we must invest management resources in a growth phase. For that reason, I believe we will heavily into those businesses we expect to be highly continue to increase our owners’ equity while securprofitable, while simultaneously cutting back on ing seed money to pursue aggressive growth investresource investments in areas that offer meager ments and build risk buffers. At the same time, I fully profitability or involve more risk than is worth taking. recognize that enhancing our capital efficiency will Compared with our overseas competitors, our be indispensable to maximizing shareholder value, earning capacity lags sorely. This is reflected in the so in our 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan we set evaluations we receive from the market. While our a target of 10.2% for ROE in fiscal 2017. competitors have an aggregate market value In brief, I believe that MHI is today at a stage exceeding the scale of their net sales, in our case where we are simultaneously seeking to improve our our aggregate market value is less than half of our profitability and raise ROE while building up our scale of sales. Unless we improve our profitability, owners’ equity. To achieve those aims, it will be vital we will be unable to compete on a level playing field to concentrate on our core competencies; in other with our overseas competitors. Dividend Policy During the period of the 2015 Medium-Term substantially as a result of the losses booked against Business Plan, our intention is to carry out shareour cruise ship construction business, but business holder returns through a targeted consolidated divias a whole was able to sustain solid results. Based dend payout ratio of 30%. At the same time, we will on that assessment, we paid out an annual dividend keep a close watch on the three points discussed of ¥12 per share, up ¥1 from the preceding year. above: investments in future businesses, strengthWe ask for the continued understanding and ening our owners’ equity to ¥2 trillion, and improving support of our shareholders and investors in the ROE. In fiscal 2015, our net income declined years ahead. 20 MHI REPORT 2016 CTO Message Applying our strengths in engineering spanning across a broad array of business areas, we will overcome current issues and promote differentiation from our competitors. Michisuke Nayama Executive Vice President and CTO Core Functions of the Chief Technology Officer (CTO) In recent years the MHI Group has progressively The core function performed by the CTO is to spun off its various businesses to enable them to serve as leader in gathering together the technological operate autonomously and resiliently with full strengths of these various businesses and directing authority and responsibility. The business corporations the transfer or provision of their technologies and independently managed joint ventures (JVs) that throughout the MHI Group. Another important have evolved out of this initiative have each devised function is to allocate resources into technology their own growth strategies and are pursuing scale development from a groupwide perspective. In April expansion, and as a result their autonomy from MHI 2016, the authority and scope of responsibility held —the parent company—has steadily grown. by the CTO were expanded with the inauguration of Inherently, having a business scale of a certain size a shared technology framework under the CTO’s is of significance to the MHI Group as a whole in direct oversight. The launch of this framework has several ways, not only in terms of corporate enabled expanded support of fundamental core trustworthiness and financial clout but also, above technologies and further advancement of our all, with respect to comprehensive technological corporate aspiration to become “an innovative and capability. For this reason, as a countermeasure to agile organization that leverages our dedication to the spin-off trend, it is imperative for MHI to technological advancement and engineering strengthen its unifying force and share a wide excellence.” spectrum of technologies throughout the entire Group, including independently managed JVs. 21 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Need for Full Cognizance of All Risks In recent years a number of issues have arisen issues different from those relating to the Himeji No. relating to our power plant and cruise ship 2 Power Station’s turbines. The cruise ships on construction projects, but in my view these issues order demanded construction on an extremely high, are by no means an indication of deterioration in our cutting-edge technological level with respect to fuel technologies themselves. In the case of the efficiency, speed and other parameters of their basic damaged steam turbines at units 3 and 5 of The performance, and from the outset we were fully Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc.’s Himeji No. 2 Power aware of the potential risks and managed them. Station, glitches occurred in steam turbines Ultimately, however, we failed to recognize fully incorporating state-of-the-art technology. We deeply perhaps the most crucial risk of all: whether we regret the significant inconvenience those problems would be able, based on our previous experience in caused for the utility itself and all other affected standard shipbuilding, to successfully carry out a parties, but these incidents must not keep us from project to build large-scale cruise ships—a product continuing to pursue the development of new incorporating myriad types of equipment and heavily products at the technological forefront in order to weighted toward engineering elements. In retrospect, grow globally. We firmly believe we were not we must reflect seriously on our failure to judge in mistaken in taking up such a challenge in the case full what risks we might have incurred and the of our advanced steam turbines. importance of devising measures to deal with such The case of the delays in constructing the two risks when taking on a new challenge of such large cruise ships ordered by AIDA Cruises, a unit of dimension. the U.S.-based Carnival Corporation & plc, involves Targeting Strong Engineering Capabilities as a Risk-Reducing Method and Differentiation Strategy In the case of the cruise ship problems, I acknowledge project execution requires a quantitative grasp of that there were also issues with project management. quality, cost, delivery (QCD); in the cruise ship The management demanded in this instance essentially project, this engineering approach was inadequately equates to engineering capabilities of the type called applied, and project execution management matching for in engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) the needs of cruise ship construction was lacking. when constructing a plant. With plant engineering, At MHI, engineering strengths vary between our Strengthen engineering capabilities throughout the MHI Group, centered on Engineering Headquarters Engineering Headquarters Transportation Chemical plants systems  utually share human M resources Nuclear Energy E  xchange knowledge of Systems Division advanced cases F  orge an engineering foundation Liaison between shared technology divisions Marketing & Innovation Headquarters, Value Chain Headquarters, Research & Innovation Center, ICT Solution Headquarters Provide EPC know-how and Groupwide support 22 MHI REPORT 2016 various business operations while on the one hand project risks but also drive profit growth in all we possess highly advanced, comprehensive businesses. engineering capabilities in areas such as the Energy Through the years, in its diverse engineering & Environment domain, on the other hand we carry operations the MHI Group has not only delivered out business in the manufacture of individual equipment to customers; we have also been products. To close the gap between these two involved in related construction work. Among our levels, we launched an Engineering Headquarters. major overseas competitors there are companies The Engineering Headquarters integrates the that are striving to shift to a business model in which EPC execution functions of the Energy & they supply the same type of system to customers Environment domain’s businesses in chemical plants of all business formats and make a selling point not and social infrastructure and those of the Commercial of hardware but of information processing itself. We, Aviation & Transportation Systems domain’s by contrast, have consistently stressed EPC as one engineering operations. The underlying notion here of our core business areas. Listening to the is that, by sharing the methodologies and resources requirements of our customers and the views of our cultivated in a wide array of business areas— business partners, and then overseeing and chemical plants and transportation systems, etc.— coordinating an entire project, has become firmly project management capabilities can be elevated to rooted as the very essence of our business. Going new levels of sophistication and efficiency. Raising forward, further honing and strengthening of this the level of our strengths in engineering throughout special capability will be an important strategy. the Company will, I believe, not only reduce overall Shared Technology Framework Vision Our shared technology framework encompasses the framework, in addition to such technological support, Engineering Headquarters, the newly introduced the objective is to raise the level of the value chain as Marketing & Innovation Headquarters and Value a whole, including productivity enhancement and the Chain Headquarters, and the pre-existing ICT optimization of supply chain management. Particularly Solution Headquarters and Research & Innovation in the Marketing & Innovation Headquarters, through Center. Previously, only the Technology & Innovation customer account management, market trends are Headquarters—which had oversight of the Intellectual monitored from a companywide perspective, based Property Department and the Monozukuri Innovation on which the headquarters considers, what types of Planning Department, etc. – was in a position to technologies should be developed going forward, apply resources common to the Company’s various what enterprises possessing what kind of technologies businesses. Now, under the shared technology should be chosen as future partners in collaboration, etc. Then, within the shared technology framework as a whole, planning is undertaken of new business frameworks and product/service frameworks—the latter including design work, procurement, development, information and communication technology (ICT)—and leadership in technological aspects is provided to the entire Group. This is our vision for the shared technology framework. Given that have made our Group companies independent in order to promote their autonomous management, corporate functions of this nature may perhaps seem unnecessary. But it is precisely for that reason that the shared technology framework must create value in the various business segments, providing information or services, etc. based on integrated knowledge and resources. Since the ability of the MHI Group as a whole to manifest its 23 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation comprehensive strengths depends on how well the the workforce, if orders flag due to poor quality of proshared technology framework functions, sharing the vided services or research results, improvements are approaches devised not only by me as CTO but by spontaneously carried out. Of course, since proactive the rotating ranks of employees transferred from the upfront investments are needed in R&D, approximately various segments, I am addressing this task with a 20% of the budget is furnished from the corporate strong sense of mission. divisions in order to keep a proper balance. I aim to In this context, I wish to refer to the Research & implement this same type of management scheme Innovation Center. More than 80% of the Center’s within our shared technology framework. budget derives from orders received from the variFor details about the Engineering Headquarters and shared ous business segments, i.e, this is an organization technology framework, please see the Technological Base conducting “virtual management.” Because it becomes section on page 52. necessary to reduce costs, for example, by trimming Active Use of AI and Global Technology Sharing Are Issues for the Longer Term Looking toward future growth beyond the near term, worksites, and MHI is undertaking research into how artificial intelligence (AI) in particular is a disruptive to apply AI. In the future we hope to introduce AI technology that can engender huge breakthroughs, into engineering, the realm in which we excel, and and we cannot ignore it. However, AI is a topic of by seeking to further raise productivity and reduce research conducted all over the world , and rather risks, we aim to boost our competitive strength. than giving birth to new technologies through in-house Compared to companies whose business is development, our intention is to incorporate, ahead focused on the domestic market, companies doing of other companies, new technologies developed business primarily overseas typically lag in sharing externally and put them to use at MHI. In the area of technology, and here I feel there is great room for us AI technologies, we are focusing not only on applying to improve going forward. As open innovation in tiesuch technologies to the “control systems” incorporated ups with overseas universities is steadily increasing, into products but also expanded applications in the promoting active sharing of domestic and overseas business process. It is conceivable that AI may technology resources within the MHI Group is a come to serve not only in the back office but also topic we will clearly address as we move forward. replace work performed at design and manufacturing Leveraging the Internet of Things (IoT) and AI Internal business processes * O&M: Operations and maintenance Utilizing AI to enhance productivity and lower risk After-sales Production servicing Boost product quality IoT Provide new services Reduce manufacturing costs and lead times IoT IoT Transform the business model Core Production system O&M* Plants Customers information information Design Procurement Procurement IoT information Raise the quality of procured items Ensure and shorten delivery periods Materials/Parts A Materials/Parts B Materials/Parts C Production process Supply chain O&M process 24 MHI REPORT 2016 Initiatives Related to Material ESG Issues Augment corporate value The MHI Group’s 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan defines its target corporate image as “A global group with the vision 2015 MediumCorporate Aspiration Term Business to mold an innovative and agile organization that leverages Plan A global group with the vision to mold an innovative and agile organization that leverages our dedication to technoour dedication to technological advancement and engineerlogical advancement and engineering excellence in order ing excellence in order to deliver solid growth amid constant to deliver solid growth amid constant changes and make a lasting difference in the communities we serve changes and make a lasting difference in the communities we serve.” To achieve that goal, in addition to honing its competitiveness and enhancing its economic value, the Key Initiatives Group recognizes the need to augment social value by taking (1) E xpand business scale: Enhance global competitiveness through accelerated expansion to achieve a scale into consideration the environment, society, and governance exceeding ¥5 trillion as soon as possible (2) Strengthen finances and profitability: Further bolster (ESG). Such considerations include resolving social issues financial strength and pursue high profitability; increase through the Group’s business activities, such as developing both owners’ equity and ROE (3) Evolve global Group structure: Promote global-standard products that are effective in reducing greenhouse gases and corporate governance and management processes providing infrastructure equipment that contributes to development in emerging countries, as well as creating supply MHI Group chains that respect the environment and human rights, and CSR Consideration for ESG, cleanliness, and establishing a corporate culture and code of conduct that fairness (License to Operate) earn the trust of international society and stakeholders. Material Issues 1 Objective Ensure an organizational culture in which values are shared globally and universally An Optimal Governance Structure Based on Our Corporate Culture Strategic KPIs • Instill globally consistent policies that conform with the ‌ optimized organization to continually contribute An international code of conduct (establish universality) to society through business • Enhance transparency (assure universality) ‌The assurance of fair operating practices and Enhance disclosure and stakeholder engagement appropriate labor practices 2 Objective Be an organization that embraces diversity (Ensure that barriers to diversity are removed) The Use of Global Human Resources Strategic KPIs ‌ The attraction and development of human resources with the ability to respond to globalization Improvement in diversity-related indicators Diversity ‌ and equal opportunity, including the empowerment of female employees 3 Objective Enact strategic measures and business operations that meet the needs of global Response to Mega Trends society Innovation and quality control to meet global needs Strategic KPIs E  nhanced safety and security, including improved Improvement in stakeholder evaluations information disclosure and transparency (SRI surveys, customer satisfaction surveys, etc.) 25 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Identifying the Three Material Issues Fiscal 2015 Initiatives In fiscal 2014, the MHI Group identified three material In fiscal 2015, we established objectives and strategies for ESG issues that significantly affect both society and corresolving individual issues, making the items concrete. We porate value, taking into account the current external announced the status of initiatives for items that are curenvironment and the Group’s own situation with regard to rently measurable—the number of whistleblowing cases, business execution and progress on globalization. From corrections, and improvements and female managers— the viewpoint of society, this process incorporates various according to KPIs set in advance. international standards, including ISO 26000 and the In September 2015, we underwent a review by overGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI), as well as stakeholder seas experts* on the content of the material issues and opinions and mega trends. At the same time, from a busifuture initiatives, centering on a global discussion format ness viewpoint we have conducted hearings of individual pertaining to business and human rights. We also heard divisions, performed risk analysis from a business peropinions regarding the need to take into consideration the spective, and obtained management approval as one impact on the human rights of stakeholders in the supply aspect of the formulation of business strategies. chain and the overall product life cycle, including the The MHI Group positions initiatives involving these response to changes in the Company’s business model, three material issues as creating the foundations for realizsuch as the overseas development of the defense busiing the vision of the group it wishes to be and achieving ness and operations as a project owner. ongoing increases in corporate value. (FY) KPI Number of Whistleblowing 2013 2014 2015 Cases, by Type Number of Labor and the work environment 76 48 39 whistleblowing cases Overall discipline and breaches 52 49 24 We have established the MHI of manners Whistleblowing Hotline, which is available to all employees, Transaction-related laws 8 14 8  ront row, from left: Motoko Aizawa (Managing Director and Chair, IHRB US Board, *F including those of Group comConsultations and opinions 49 26 11 Institute for Human Rights and Business), Amol Mehra (Director, International Corporate panies, and the MHI External Accountability Roundtable), Christopher Schuller (Legal Adviser on Business and Human Other 55 48 49 Whistleblower Hotline. The Rights, German Institute for Human Rights), Allan Lerberg Jørgensen (Department Total (number of corrections and 240 185 131 Director of Human Rights and Development, Danish Institute for Human Rights) Compliance Committee secreimprovements) (150) (110) (85)* tariat promptly investigates and responds appropriately to all *1  7 cases out of 131 are still under investigation (as of reports made to these hotlines. June 2016) Future Promotion Policy KPI At present, the scope of initiatives centers on MHI on Number of female managers a stand-alone basis. However, during the period of the In July 2014, MHI set a target to increase the number of the Company’s female managers (in positions of section manager and higher) threefold from the current level by 2020, 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan—by fiscal 2017—we and is promoting the active participation of women in the workplace in conjunction with aim to expand the scope of activities to include Group its pursuit of diversity management. (FY) companies. With the CSR Committee* as the control 2014 2015 tower, we will disseminate information related to consid85 104 eration for ESG according to global standards in each *T  he values given are the numbers reported by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd., in principle. location, promoting activities throughout the MHI Group, as we progress steadily toward our corporate aspiration. *C  haired by the head of the Business Strategy Office (the executive officer in charge of CSR), the CSR Committee includes the GC (general counsel), CFO, CTO, and the officer in charge of Human Resources. The following sections of this report introduce initiatives related to the material issues we have identified. Page 46 MATERIAL ISSUE 1 Strengthen the dissemination of information Corporate Governance An Optimal Governance Structure Based on Our related to consideration for ESG according Corporate Culture to global standards Page 51 MATERIAL ISSUE 2 Human Resources The Use of Global Human Resources CSR Committee Communication Stakeholders Page 52 MATERIAL ISSUE 3 Response to Mega Trends Make global policy widely known, and promote Technological Base and manage activities at each location Please see our website for information on CSR initiatives and detailed data on the environment, society, and governance (ESG). This site contains information on our policies and strategies for CSR and ESG, various initiatives, and ESG data related to socially responsible investment. Each location Communication CSR site http://www.mhi-global.com/company/csr/policy/index.html 26 MHI REPORT 2016 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights INPUT ACTIVITIES As of March 31, 2015 Year-on-year change Total assets Research and development expenses Pursuit of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan ¥5,520.3 billion ¥150.6 billion 3.5% UP Expand business scale: Enhance global competitiveness through accelerated Net assets Capital investment expansion to achieve a scale exceeding ¥5 trillion as soon as possible ¥2,120.0 billion ¥175.5 billion 12.4% UP Strengthen finances and profitability: Further bolster financial strength and pursue Interest-bearing debt Energy input*1 high profitability; increase both ownersʼ equity and ROE ¥975.5 billion 7,389 TJ 25.3% DOWN • •  quity buffer greater than ¥250 billion E Borrowing capacity above ¥600 billion • Earning S&P “A” rating Number of employees Investment and costs for environmental • ROE above 10% • EBITDA margin above 12% preservation*2 81,845 people  Evolve global Group structure: Promote ¥17.3 billion 22.7% UP global-standard corporate governance and Number of patents held management processes •T  ransition to a company with an Audit and Training and development inputs*2 14,045 Supervisory Committee ¥1.1 billion • Capital policy clarification 1.9% UP Total Assets Net Assets / Equity Ratio Number of Employees / Number of Patents Held in Ratio of Overseas Employees Japan and Overseas Billions of yen Billions of yen % %  5,520.3 5,491.7 2,120.0 7,412 7,380 6,000 4,886.0 2,400 35.0 1,998.0 45 120,000 60 8,000 6,452 7,023 6,633 6,676 1,774.2 83,932 6,090 3,935.1 80,583 81,845 6,000 5,349 1,430.2 32.3 68,213 4,000 1,600 31.6 30 80,000 40 30.6 33.6 34.5 4,000 2,000 800 15 40,000 24.7 20 20.7 2,000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） Net assets Number of employees Domestic Equity ratio (right scale) Ratio of overseas employees (right scale) Overseas Research and Development Capital Investment Depreciation Investment and Costs for Expenses / Environmental Preservation*2 As a Percentage of Net Sales Billions of yen % Billions of yen Billions of yen Billions of yen 180 150.6 7.5 200 175.5 180 157.0 158.7 30 138.5 145.5 156.1 23.3 148.6 134.9 21.6 120.0 119.4 120 5.0 150 118.8 120 20 17.3 14.1 4.3 4.1 100 3.6 3.7 60 2.5 60 10 50 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） Research and development expenses （年度） As a percentage of net sales (right scale) Although having trended upward in recent years due to M&A activity, total Meanwhile, aggressive investment in growth prompted increases in assets declined slightly in fiscal 2015. Total net assets decreased, owing to research and development expenditures, capital investment, and depreciation. a fall in total accumulated other ­comprehensive income that was brought about At the same time, the ratio of overseas employees grew, affected by a rise in primarily by lower translation adjustments and unrealized holding gain on the number of employees stemming from M&A activities, as well as global busiinvestment securities. ness development. *1. In principle, MHI on a non-consolidated basis (production plants and offices). However, figures for fiscal 2014 include the Nagasaki, Takasago, and Yokohama plants of Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. *2. In principle, MHI on a non-consolidated basis. *3. Non-consolidated basis refers to figures for the production plants of MHI on a non-consolidated basis. However, figures for fiscal 2014 include the Nagasaki, Takasago, and Yokohama plants of Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. Consolidated basis refers to figures for MHI on a non-consolidated basis as well as those for 70 Group companies. 27 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Eleven-year financial data Page 28 Business Segment Highlights Page 30 OUTPUT OUTCOME As of March 31, 2016 Orders received Profit attributable to owners of parent Total assets ¥4,485.5 billion  4.5% DOWN ¥63.8 billion 42.2% DOWN ¥5,491.7 billion  0.5% DOWN Net sales Dividend payments (for FY2015) Net assets ¥4,046.8 billion  1.4% UP ¥40.2 billion  33.6% UP ¥1,998.0 billion  5.8% DOWN Operating income EBITDA Interest-bearing debt ¥309.5 billion  4.5% UP ¥479.6 billion 3.1% UP ¥1,052.1 billion  7.9% UP Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions*3 Reduction in CO2 from using MHI’s products Number of employees (Compared with fiscal 1990 levels) 406 kilotons 83,932 people  46,067 kilotons 26.0% DOWN 2.5% UP 7.7% UP Number of patents held EBITDA margin ROE 14,056  11.9%  3.7% 0.1% UP 0.2 POINTS UP  2.8 POINTS DOWN  (Compared with fiscal 2014) Orders Received Net Sales / Operating Income / EBITDA / EBITDA Margin Overseas Sales Ratio Operating Income Ratio Billions of yen Billions of yen % Billions of yen % Billions of yen % 53.4 55.3 6,000 6,000 49.3 60 400 16 600 30 4,699.1 4,485.5 44.8 309.5 465.0 479.6 296.1 3,992.1 4,046.8 300 12 4,000 3,420.0 4,000 3,349.5 40 400 346.8 20 3,032.2 206.1 283.0 2,817.8 200 163.5 8 7.4 7.6 2,000 2,000 20 100 5.8 6.2 200 10.0 10.4 11.7 11.9 10 4 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 Net sales Operating income EBITDA Overseas sales ratio (right scale) Operating income ratio (right scale) EBITDA margin (right scale) Total Income Taxes / Return on Assets (ROA) / Cash Dividends / Greenhouse Gas (CO2) Profit Attributable to Owners Return on Equity (ROE) Dividend Payout Ratio Emissions*3 of Parent Billions of yen % Yen% Kilotons 200 12 15 90 900 792 30 160.4 12.00 11.0 11.00 100 63.1 533 538 548 101.1 110.4 8 6.5 10 8.00 8.00 60 600 20 97.3 7.4 406 3.7 56.0 63.8 100 59.1 49.4 4 5 33.4 30 300 10 50 3.6 27.6 2.5 2.1 1.2 16.7 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015（FY） Total income taxes ROA Cash dividends  reenhouse gas (CO2) emissions: G Profit attributable to owners of parent ROE Dividend payout ratio (right scale) non-consolidated Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions: consolidated Progress was generally favorable in terms of our 2015 Medium-Term Business business reserve and business structure improvement expenses. However, Plan; we increased our scale of business and profitability improved. In addition, cash dividends per share increased. Although our greenhouse gas emissions our overseas sales ratio moved steadily upward, thanks to the acceleration of are rising as our scale of business expands, we are steadily contributing to global expansion. Profit attributable to owners of parent was down year on reductions in CO2 from using MHI’s products. year because of an extraordinary loss on passenger vessel construction 28 MHI REPORT 2016 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES, LTD. and its subsidiaries Years ended March 31 160 120 Net income (billions of yen) ROE*3 (%) (right scale) 80 61.3 48.8 40 29.8 4.3 24.2 3.5 14.1 2.2 1.8 0 1.1 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Years ended March 31 or 2004 Medium-Term 2006 Medium-Term Business Plan 2008 Medium-Term Business Plan as of March 31 Business Plan Billions of yen Orders received ¥2,942.0 ¥3,274.7 ¥3,715.2 ¥3,268.7 ¥2,476.2 Net sales 2,792.1 3,068.5 3,203.0 3,375.6 2,940.8 Operating income 70.9 108.9 136.0 105.8 65.6 Income before income taxes and 52.3 83.7 101.3 64.9 28.1 minority interests Profit attributable to owners of parent 29.8 48.8 61.3 24.2 14.1 Research and development expenses ¥ 100.7 ¥ 106.3 ¥ 107.9 ¥ 101.3 ¥ 129.2 Capital investment 140.5 175.9 191.4 196.6 177.1 Depreciation 100.8 106.7 129.2 153.8 140.4 Total assets ¥4,047.1 ¥4,391.8 ¥4,517.1 ¥4,526.2 ¥4,262.8 Net assets*2 1,376.2 1,446.4 1,440.4 1,283.2 1,328.7 Interest-bearing debt 1,198.6 1,273.5 1,365.3 1,612.8 1,495.3 Cash flows from operating activities ¥ 73.9 ¥ 158.7 ¥ 161.8 ¥ 79.5 ¥ 117.9 Cash flows from investing activities (104.0) (158.6) (193.0) (156.5) (180.7) Free cash flows (30.1) 0 (31.2) (77.0) (62.7) Cash flows from financing activities 7.9 48.7 71.2 262.0 (105.2) Per share information of common stock Yen Net income–basic ¥ 8.85 ¥ 14.56 ¥ 18.28 ¥ 7.22 ¥ 4.22 Net assets 410.15 425.54 423.17 369.94 380.80 Cash dividends 4.00 6.00 6.00 6.00 4.00 Ratios Overseas sales ratio 43.9% 47.7% 48.7% 48.9% 50.3% Operating income ratio 2.5% 3.5% 4.2% 3.1% 2.2% Return on equity*3 2.2% 3.5% 4.3% 1.8% 1.1% Return on assets*4 0.8% 1.2% 1.4% 0.5% 0.3% Current ratio 156.4% 154.2% 160.9% 158.7% 181.7% D/E ratio*5 86% 88% 95% 126% 113% Equity ratio*6 34.0% 32.5% 31.4% 27.4% 30.0% Dividend payout ratio*7 45.1% 41.2% 32.8% 83.2% 94.8% Notes: *1. U.S. dollar amounts in this report are translated from yen, for convenience only, at the rate of ¥112.68 = U.S. $1, the exchange rate prevailing at March 31, 2016. Non-financial indexes *2. In calculating the net assets, MHI and its consolidated subsidiaries have applied the “Accounting Standard for Presentation of Net Assets in the Balance Sheet” (Accounting Standards Board of Number of employees Japan (ASBJ) Statement No. 5) and the “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Presentation of Number of overseas employees Net Assets in the Balance Sheet” (ASBJ Guidance No. 8) since the year ended March 31, 2007. *3. Return on equity = profit attributable to owners of parent income / (net assets – Number of female managers*8 share subscription rights – non-controlling interests) *4. Return on assets = profit attributable to owners of parent income / total assets Industrial accident frequency rate*9 (%) *5. D/E ratio = interest-bearing debt / net assets Energy input*11 (TJ) *6. Equity ratio = (net assets – share subscription rights – non-controlling interests) / total assets *7. Dividend payout ratio = dividends / profit attributable to owners of parent Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions*13 (kilotons) *8. Number of section managers or above, excluding medical staff, as of April 1. Water usage*13 (million cubic meters) In principle, MHI on a non-consolidated basis. *9. In principle, MHI on a non-consolidated basis. Investment and costs for environmental preservation*9 (billions of yen) *10. Includes MHI on a non-consolidated basis and 19 Group companies. *11. MHI on a non-consolidated basis (production plants and offices). However, the figure Social contribution expenses (billions of yen) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, includes the Nagasaki, Takasago, and Yokohama plants of Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. *12. Includes MHI on a non-consolidated basis and 70 Group companies. *13. Data is for production sites of MHI on a non-consolidated basis. However, figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, include the Nagasaki, Takasago, and Yokohama plants of Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. 29 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation 160.4 16 12 110.4 97.3 11.0 8 63.8 7.4 6.5 4 30.1 24.5 3.7 2.4 1.9 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2015 Medium-Term 2010 Medium-Term Business Plan 2012 Medium-Term Business Plan Business Plan Millions of U.S. dollars*1 ¥2,995.4 ¥3,188.8 ¥3,032.2 ¥3,420.0 ¥4,699.1 ¥4,485.5 $39,807 2,903.7 2,820.9 2,817.8 3,349.5 3,992.1 4,046.8 35,914 101.2 111.9 163.5 206.1 296.1 309.5 2,746 39.4 69.8 155.4 214.4 232.6 132.6 1,176 30.1 24.5 97.3 160.4 110.4 63.8 566 ¥ 123.2 ¥ 121.4 ¥ 120.0 ¥ 138.5 ¥ 145.5 ¥ 150.6 $ 1,336 126.6 120.7 118.8 148.6 156.1 175.5 1,557 134.4 126.2 119.4 134.9 157.0 158.7 1,408 ¥3,989.0 ¥3,963.9 ¥3,935.1 ¥4,886.0 ¥5,520.3 ¥5,491.7 $48,737 1,312.6 1,306.3 1,430.2 1,774.2 2,120.0 1,998.0 17,731 1,325.6 1,157.1 1,031.2 957.4 975.5 1,052.1 9,337 ¥ 337.8 ¥ 200.3 ¥ 288.3 ¥ 296.2 ¥ 212.8 ¥ 270.0 $ 2,396 (137.2) (47.0) (76.7) (151.5) (174.1) (262.4) (2,328) 200.5 153.3 211.6 144.6 38.6 7.5 66 (169.7) (183.6) (154.2) (136.6) (45.8) (23.1) (205) U.S. dollars ¥ 8.97 ¥ 7.31 ¥ 29.01 ¥ 47.81 ¥ 32.90 ¥ 19.02 $ 0.169 376.17 374.08 410.90 459.99 530.65 500.30 4.440 4.00 6.00 8.00 8.00 11.00 12.00 0.106 49.0% 41.9% 44.8% 49.3% 53.4% 55.3% 3.5% 4.0% 5.8% 6.2% 7.4% 7.6% 2.4% 1.9% 7.4% 11.0% 6.5% 3.7% 0.7% 0.6% 2.5% 3.6% 2.1% 1.2% 167.9% 153.9% 155.0% 139.2% 146.2% 135.7% 101% 89% 72% 54% 46% 53% 31.6% 31.7% 35.0% 31.6% 32.3% 30.6% 44.6% 82.0% 27.6% 16.7% 33.4% 63.1% 68,816 68,887 68,213 80,583 81,845 83,932 12,001 13,036 14,129 19,909 27,489 28,941 266 288 293 256 262 284 Consolidated 0.29 0.27 0.11 0.23 0.15 0.20 0.28 *10 10,621 10,346 10,303 9,796 9,885 7,389 15,341 *12 482 474 533 538 548 406 792 *12 7.66 7.22 7.02 6.82 6.23 5.08 8.46 *12 25.1 20.6 23.3 21.6 14.1 17.3 1.6 2.0 1.4 1.4 1.9 2.1 30 MHI REPORT 2016 Business Segment Highlights Main Businesses Thermal Power Systems Energy & Environment Nuclear Energy Systems Chemical Plants & Infrastructure We offer optimal solutions in the energy-related fields of thermal power, nuclear power, and renewRenewable Energy able energy, in such environmental areas as water Marine Machinery & Engines and flue gas treatment, and for chemical plants and other industrial infrastructure elements. Shipbuilding & Ocean Development Commercial Aviation & Land Transportation Systems Transportation Systems Commercial Aircraft We deliver advanced land, sea, and air transportation systems, including commercial aircraft and ships, and transit networks, all offering superior safety, guaranteed quality, and reliability. Defense Integrated Defense & Space Space Systems We provide integrated land, sea, air, and space defense systems, including naval ships, military aircraft and helicopters, missile systems, torpedoes, rockets, and armored combat vehicles, as well as space-related services.  aterial Handling M Mechatronics Systems Equipment Machinery, Equipment & Compressors Engine and Energy Infrastructure Turbochargers Environmental Systems Machine Tool We provide a wide range of solutions—including Metals Machinery machinery, industrial plants, and social infrastructure— Other Businesses that support people’s lives, industry, and society. A  ir-Conditioning and Refrigeration Systems Total Assets (Billions of yen) Number of Employees (People) R&D Expenses (Billions of yen) Capital Investment (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2016 FY2015 FY2015 369.6 8,092 9.2 11.3 2,211.3 25,887 53.4 33.7 26.0 1,468.7 43.5 ¥5,491.7 83,932 ¥150.6 ¥166.5 billion 36,244 people billion billion 43.2 7,428 35.3 401.4 1,040.6 6,281 26.5 34.6 Energy & Environment Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems * Includes ¥61.6 billion in expenses * Based on reported figures for property, Integrated Defense & Space Systems Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure related to R&D under contract plant and equipment Others, eliminations or corporate 31 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Sample Business Model Thermal Power Generation Key Capital Value Created Business Activities MHI Technological expertise in large-scale equipment Sales networks in Southeast Asia and the Middle East Curtailed operating costs for customers Highly Manufacturing equipment Logistics Development efficient Procurement network for parts and Design Manufacture Delivery Customers materials O&M* power Reduced CO2 generation emissions Technological ‌ expertise in small and medium-sized equipment Environmental ‌Sales networks in Europe and Africa HITACHI improvements * O&M: Operations and maintenance Transportation Systems Key Capital Business Activities Value Created ‌Extensive experience in Facilitation of smooth delivering systems around urban movement the world Cities in Construction Urban ‌Sophisticated system Development regions Alleviation of traffic integration and project Design Rolling stock Delivery O&M* transport throughout congestion management capabilities production improvements the world ‌Ability to make proposals to Reduction in realize a lifecycle business environmental impact System integration Lifecycle management Satellite Launch Services Key Capital Value Created Business Activities Society Enhance the quality of people’s lives ‌ Technical ability to handle Research Maintain Japan’s industrial base in all activities from Development Manufacture Launch Provision of space development manufacture to launch of Design various rockets services that MHI ‌ Expertise in successfully utilize Apply accumulated technologies adhering to launch Order of satellite launch satellites toward the development of a new schedules flagship launch vehicle JAXA Satellite operators Competitiveness in international markets Turbochargers Key Capital Value Created Business Activities Society Worldwide automakers Reduced CO2 emissions ‌ Ability to develop highAccelerated Low-carbon societies performance Increasing response to turbochargers Development Logistics increasingly prevalence of Manufacture MHI Global ‌ production / Design Delivery stringent and fuel-efficient sales network more broadly gasoline vehicles Holds a leading share applied fuelof the world market efficiency regulations for automobile turbochargers Investment Orders Received (Billions of yen) Order Backlog (Billions of yen) Net Sales (Billions of yen) Operating Income (Billions of yen) FY2015 As of March 31, 2016 FY2015 FY2015 33.0 655.8 10.9 38.0 80.0 1,392.5 777.6 1,432.3 1,542.7 ¥4,485.5 2,005.0 ¥6,895.1 ¥4,046.8 ¥309.5 154.6 billion billion 3,804.3 billion billion 25.7 1,646.3 447.7 607.1 485.0 548.5 54.5 * Others, eliminations, or corporate: ¥–5.5 billion 32 MHI REPORT 2016 Business Segment Highlights Orders Received / Net Sales / Overview of Fiscal 2015 Operating Income Energy & Environment Billions of yen Billions of yen 2,400 240 Consolidated orders received rose year on year, to ¥2,005.0 billion, due to 2,005.0 1,923.6 higher orders for thermal power generation systems and large-scale orders for 1,800 1,599.5 1,542.7 180 chemical plants. Consolidated net sales decreased, to ¥1,542.7 billion, due in part to a decline in sales of thermal power generation systems. Operating 1,339.2 1,253.9 162.6 154.6 income also fell, to ¥154.6 billion, despite the improvement in profit for the 1,200 937.6 1,042.1 120 after-sales servicing business in thermal power generation systems, mainly 112.3 89.9 due to lower net sales and expenses related to the Himeji No. 2 Power Station 600 60 of the Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY） 0 Orders received Net sales Operating income (right scale) Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems Billions of yen Billions of yen 1,200 54.5 60 Demand remained strong for LNG and LPG carriers on the back of the shale gas rev999.2 olution in the United States, and in the transportation systems business, demand for 900 45 railway construction was robust, particularly in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. 755.8 However, the total value of consolidated orders decreased from fiscal 2014, when 607.1 MHI won major deals in transportation systems and for the MRJ, to ¥607.1 billion. 600 30 393.1 360.3 463.6 529.5 548.5 Consolidated net sales increased to ¥548.5 billion, due to higher sales in the 23.4 commercial aircraft business, and operating income rose to ¥54.5 billion, thanks in 21.4 300 18.3 15 part to higher sales and the effect of the weaker yen. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY） 0 Orders received Net sales Operating income (right scale) Integrated Defense & Space Systems Billions of yen Billions of yen 600 547.3 60 The total value of consolidated orders increased from the previous fiscal year, to 483.9 485.0 469.4 447.7 ¥447.7 billion. The space systems-related business benefited from an order for 417.4 450 405.9 391.6 45 launch services from a government space agency in Dubai to launch a Mars mission spacecraft. Orders also increased in the defense-related business for items such as defense aircraft. Consolidated net sales remained flat compared with fiscal 300 30 27.6 28.5 2014, at ¥485.0 billion. Although sales in the space systems-related business 25.7 21.9 declined due to the decrease in the number of H-IIA/H-IIB launches from five in 150 15 fiscal 2014, to three in fiscal 2015, sales rose in the defense-related business, particularly for naval ships. Consolidated operating income fell to ¥25.7 billion, due to a decrease in sales in the space systems-related business and other factors. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY） 0（年度） Orders received Net sales Operating income (right scale) Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure Billions of yen Billions of yen 1,600 1,392.5 120 Consolidated orders received increased, to ¥1,392.5 billion, and consolidated net 1,344.7 1,347.4 1,432.3 sales rose, to ¥1,432.3 billion. This growth was due to the effect of business integra1,200 1,106.5 1,096.3 90 tion in metals machinery through the establishment of a joint venture company in 87.7 January 2015 and the expanded scale of business in turbochargers, air-conditioning 877.1 925.2 80.0 and refrigeration systems, and forklift trucks, supported by the strengthening of busi800 60 ness in the areas of mechatronics systems and intelligent transport systems (ITS), as 51.6 well as the receipt of orders for major refurbishment work for environmental systems. 36.5 400 30 Operating income was down, to ¥80.0 billion, due to a decrease in sales of compressors, which were highly profitable in the previous fiscal year, as well as to lower profitability in metals machinery due to the need for further post-merger integration (PMI). 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY） 0 Orders received Net sales Operating income (right scale) • Owing to business restructuring, some businesses have been reassigned from “Others” to “Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure.” (Results for fiscal 2014 reflect the new business domains.) Composition of Overseas Net Sales by Geographic Distribution Japan North America Latin America Asia FY2015 2% FY2015 0FY2015 0FY2015 0 24% 29% 29% 37% 43% 43% ¥1,804.9 1% ¥786.1 ¥126.9 52% ¥721.9 54% billion billion billion billion 6% 26% 46% 3% 5% Energy & Environment Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems Integrated Defense & Space Systems Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure Others 33 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Orders and Development Projects in Fiscal 2015 Announcement Delivery Project Announcement Delivery Project MHPS receives order for gas-fired GTCC power Order received for two M501J gas turbines and a October 2015 2018 January 2016 2020 generation equipment for the Hongkong Electric steam turbine for project in Mexico Co., Ltd. Order received for large-scale fertilizer plant in MHI Vestas receives order for 40 turbines for July 2015 – Uzbekistan V164-8.0 MW commercial offshore wind power December 2015 – MHPS receives order for two M501J gas turbines generation facility, the world’s largest in terms of output May 2015 2019 and a steam turbine at New Pyeongtaek GTCC Power Plant in South Korea MHPS receives order for boiler, steam turbine, and December 2015 2019 generator for the Philippines’ first ultra-supercriticalOrder received for 116 turbines for V112-3.45 MW May 2015 2018 pressure coal-fired power plant offshore wind power generation facility MHI develops power assist suit (PAS) for nuclear Order received for the construction of a methanol December 2015 – April 2015 2018 disaster response and dimethyl ether plant in Trinidad and Tobago Announcement Delivery Project Announcement Delivery Project MHI, Hitachi, Ltd., and Sumitomo Corporation win September MHI receives orders for two Sayaringo STaGE March 2016 2020 2018 contract for Red Line construction project in Thailand 2015 next-generation LNG carriers MHI receives order for Automated People Mover Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Aero Engine to participate June 2015 2017 March 2016 2019 (APM) cars and APM system capacity expansion at in Rolls-Royce plc’s new aero engine Singapore’s Changi Airport MHI receives order for two Sayaringo STaGE May 2015 2018 Aerolease Aviation, LLC, signs letter of intent with next-generation LNG carriers February 2016 2018 Mitsubishi Aircraft for purchase of up to 20 MRJ aircraft November Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Shipbuilding receives order 2019 2015 for very large LPG carrier for Astomos Energy Corporation Announcement Delivery Project Announcement Delivery Project MHI receives a new order for H-IIA launch services MHI successfully launches the Telesat’s Telstar 12 March 2016 2020 for UAE’s Emirates Mars Mission November 2015 – VANTAGE satellite on the H-IIA launch vehicle F29 (first dedicated commercial launch of the H-IIA) MHI signs a joint development agreement with NTT March 2016 – related to security technology MHI to reorganize a manufacturing plant in Nagasaki July 2015 – handling Integrated Defense & Space Systems MHI delivers the Jinryu submarine at the MHI Kobe March 2016 – Shipyard & Machinery Works Announcement Delivery Project Announcement Delivery Project MHI Group and NCS Pte. Ltd. win Singapore’s nextMHI receives order for 80 large-scale centrifugal March 2016 – July 2015 2015 generation electronic road pricing system project chillers from Saudi Arabia MHI Group receives order to refurbish core compoMHI Group receives order from Kouza Clean January 2016 2019 nents of municipal solid waste incineration plant in Association in Kanagawa Prefecture for municipal July 2015 2019 Iwaki, Fukushima Prefecture solid waste incineration plant with capacity of 245 tons/day MHI Group receives order for two continuous galvanizing October 2015 2017 lines from Tangshan Iron and Steel Group Co. Ltd. Development of a gas engine cogeneration system May 2015 – with high-efficiency steam recovery from hot MHI Group to participate in waste-to-energy wastewater October 2015 2019 business in Singapore MHI Group develops “Dokodemo Door®”—improved September MHI Group receives order from Turkish steel producer April 2015 – platform doors accommodating railway cars with 2018 varying numbers of doors and door locations 2015 Erdemir to supply a continuous galvanizing line Middle East Europe Africa Oceania FY2015 0FY2015 0FY2015 7% 0FY2015 0 16% 37% 39% 50% ¥115.7 50% ¥352.7 ¥110.6 ¥27.7 billion billion billion billion 57% 61% 6% 77% 34 MHI REPORT 2016 Business Segment Overview Energy & Environment Viewing changes in society as opportunities to expand our scale of business, we are building up our financial and technological base and preparing to progress toward our next business plan. Michisuke Nayama Domain CEO, Energy & Environment ‌Accommodate almost all methods of power generation ‌ Thermal S  ervicing business accounts for a low percentage of sales rela‌ Thermal Possess high-efficiency, high-output, and energy-saving hightive to major global competitors, as our base of installed plants performance models is lower Broad-ranging product lineup, encompassing small, medium-sized, and large ‌ Nuclear Little experience in constructing new plants overseas ‌ Nuclear Highest levels in the world in safety technologies and product quality ‌ Chemical plants No proprietary licenses ‌ Chemical plants Engineering prowess accumulated in diverse plant businesses, etc. ‌ Renewable energy A narrower range of products than competitors ‌ Renewable energy MHI Vestas Offshore Wind A/S (MVOW), the secondincluding Siemens, which provides substations and largest company in the offshore wind power market other items Strengths Weaknesses ‌ Thermal Expanding demand due to low and stable natural gas prices ‌ Large-scale M&A activity by major global competitors with an overwhelming ‌‌ Nuclear Increase in new construction projects and capacity upgrades, presence ­centered on emerging markets ‌ Thermal Slowdown in emerging markets in line with falling resource prices ‌‌ Chemical plants Growing demand for investment to add high value to gas in Aggressive measures by major overseas competitors to utilize IoT gas-producing countries ‌ Nuclear Decrease in number of plants being brought back on line in Japan, ‌ Renewable energy Growing demand for renewable energy, such as offshore so lower demand for after-sales services wind power, due to rising concern about global warming ‌ Chemical plants Geopolitical risk in gas-producing countries ‌ Renewable energy Market susceptible to policy-driven subsidy trends Opportunities Threats Targets of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Billions of yen 240.0 Operating income Independently managed 185.0 joint venture (Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems) 154.6 D  ivisions in the Energy & 2,300.0 Environment domain 2,100.0 2,005.0 2,000.0 1,650.0 1,542.7 Orders Net Orders Net Orders Net received sales received sales received sales FY2015 (actual) FY2016 (forecast) FY2017 (target) Operating Environment While the global energy situation is experiencing falling crude wind power plants that do not emit CO2 during generation as oil prices, advanced countries, in particular, are increasing well as the use of carbon capture and storage (CCS) systems. their introduction of renewable energy. Decisions reached in One of MHI’s strengths lies in the construction of November at the 2015 United Nations Climate Change high-efficiency coal-fired power plants that feature low CO2 Conference (COP21) are expected to substantially increase emissions and gas turbine combined-cycle (GTCC) power the ratio of non-fossil fuels in the global energy mix. Calls are plants. Demand remains robust for these systems, notably in growing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through emerging markets. Nevertheless, the operating environment anti-warming measures that include the introduction of highremains challenging in this field, with MHI facing intensified efficiency thermal power generation systems and nuclear and competition from large companies, known as “megaplayers.” 35 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Policies of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan worldwide, we aim to make progress in reducing operating Build a strong financial foundation capital and shrinking total assets. Reinforce resilience to technological and Our second measure is to reinforce our resilience to business risks technological and business risks. We will strengthen our Enhance services that utilize IoT development and design structures and reduce technical  risk by reinforcing progress management and gate control. Viewing the changes taking place in the global energy situaAt the same time, we will strive to prevent problems from tion as an opportunity to expand our business scale, we are occurring by liaising with the newly established Business building up strong financial and technological bases and purRisk Management Division and Engineering Headquarters suing three measures to progress. and augment our ability to resolve problems that occur by For our first measure, building a strong financial base, consolidating our engineering, procurement, and construcwe are accelerating PMI* at Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems tion (EPC) expertise. (MHPS), reinforcing the servicing business, and enhancing Third, we will enhance services that utilize IoT. We have profitability. Specifically, we are optimizing operations on established a remote monitoring center, which supervises the a global scale by consolidating and right-sizing production operational status of thermal power plants. Located in the bases and integrating core systems, etc. In the servicing Philippines, this facility is our third, following centers in the business, we are shifting personnel from other divisions and city of Takasago, Hyogo Prefecture, and Orlando, Florida, in deploying servicing menus horizontally to expand existing the United States. The new center will conduct overall monibusiness. In addition, we are developing new businesses, toring of coal-fired and GTCC power plants in Asia and the such as industrial facility relocation. We are also identifying Middle East, providing sophisticated support and services to businesses that we need to sustain going forward as well as customers based on its analysis of big data. Links with a engaging in business selection and focus to make effective boiler factory in the Philippines are also adding functionality to use of limited resources. the global service center. Furthermore, by shortening production lead times and *PMI: Post-merger integration creating a unified inventory management system for all bases R&D Case Study: Key Technologies for Ultrahigh-Temperature Gas Turbines The research on technologies for 1,700˚C-class gas turbines practical application. The third step, now under way, includes is moving forward as a national project, aiming at the practimore than 10 items targeting the development, manufacturing, cal application of highly efficient thermal power generation and test runs of practical equipment. Furthermore, the Company technology using ultrahigh-temperature gas turbines. The first has applied to its 1,600˚C-class J-series gas turbines some of step in this project was to develop element technologies the leading-edge technologies for which performance and (shielding coatings, cooling technology, combustors, turbines, reliability improvements were confirmed during the technological compressors, and heat-resistant materials) for gas turbines. development of 1,700˚C-class gas turbines. The second step was to pursue development with the aim of HIGHLIGHT MHI Developing Robots to Support Work Surrounding Nuclear Disasters We are developing robots that can support work in areas with cooperation agreement with the Chiba Institute of Technology high levels of radiation or that have been devastated by disasters. involving the manufacture and sale of the Sakura II mobile robot, In fiscal 2012, MHI participated in the Unmanned Anti-disaster as well as the development of another mobile robot, the System R&D Project of the New Energy and Industrial MHI-HERCULeS*2. Technology Development Organization (NEDO). As part of this Meanwhile, as part of preparations for putting these robots project, we developed the Super Giraffe, a mobile robot with a to use, in collaboration with the Japan Atomic Power Company manipulator capable of performing work at heights of up to eight (JAPC) MHI has developed a power assist suit (PAS). This suit, meters. Developed with a modular design to allow for a high which aims to leverage the combination of robot power and degree of expandability, the Super Giraffe was envisioned for use human capabilities, will facilitate diverse operations. Going forward, at the site of the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant disaster. we plan to enhance the performance of the PAS and propose To this end, the robot has undergone repeated verification tests solutions for making use of this technology. in SBO*1 environments and is expected to handle operations at *1. SBO: Station Blackout *2. HERCULeS: HEx crawler ResCUe robot with Lighting and Exploring System disaster sites. In addition, the Company has signed a technical 36 MHI REPORT 2016 Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems We are moving forward with MRJ business development plans and reinforcing the comprehensive engineering business within transportation systems. As a result, we are working to create a growth foundation with a view to a business scale of ¥1 trillion. Yoichi Kujirai Domain CEO, Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems ‌ Commercial aircraft C  ompetitiveness through production innovations and ‌ Commercial aircraft C  omprehensive strength in complex SCM for aircraft supply chain management (SCM) reforms parts, limited experience in the development of comDesign and manufacturing technologies for large composite plete aircraft main wings and other structural components ‌ Transportation systems Shortage of engineering resources in response to Complete aircraft (MRJ) offering high levels of efficiency and business expansion reliability and outstanding economy ‌ Commercial ships Cost competitiveness in comparison with specialized ‌ Transportation systems Strong system integration and project management capabilities domestic companies filling multiple orders for ships ‌ Commercial ships Superiority over competitors in environmental and energybuilt to the same specifications Strengths saving technologies Weaknesses ‌ Commercial aircraft N  ew demand for nearly 40,000 aircraft over the next 20 ‌ Commercial aircraft C  ompetition for orders and on prices heating up with years Boeing and Airbus; increasingly severe competition in Expected market scale over the next 20 years of around the market for regional jets 3,500 aircraft with 70–90 seats ‌ Transportation systems Competition from China and the Big Three ‌ Transportation systems Numerous infrastructure plans, including in urban transport ‌ Commercial ships Slowdown in logistics, particularly for resources, due to ‌ Commercial ships Growing demand for gas carriers, passenger and cargo falling crude oil prices ships, and roll-on roll-off passenger ships/ferries (ROPAXs) Opportunities Threats Targets of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Billions of yen Operating income 54.5 Commercial ships Transportation systems 40.0 Commercial aircraft 20.0 900.0 700.0 700.0 607.1 548.5 550.0 Orders Net Orders Net Orders Net received sales received sales received sales FY2015 (actual) FY2016 (forecast) FY2017 (target) Courtesy of Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation Operating Environment Due to the combination of replacement and new demand, The transportation systems business is estimated to have during the next 20 years the size of the commercial aircraft a current market scale of around ¥22 trillion, expanding at an market is forecast to double, growing to nearly 40,000 annual rate of 2% to 3%. Infrastructure demand is particularly aircraft and reaching a scale of US$5 trillion. Against this firm in such regions as South America, the Middle East, and backdrop, competition for orders and on prices is heating up Southeast Asia, and we anticipate solid market growth. with the two major overseas original equipment manufacturers In the commercial ships business, the market is forecast (OEMs) of airframes. At the same time, new demand is to remain oversupplied for the foreseeable future, but shale anticipated for regional jets with 70–90 seats, with the market gas development projects are engendering demand for gas growing in scale to around 3,500 aircraft over the next 20 carriers, an area where MHI excels. After meeting this demand, years. Although one leading airframer plans to launch we expect steady growth from projects in East Africa and a next-generation aircraft in the 90-seat class in 2020—a other areas, as well as for replacement demand for LNG head-to-head competitor with the MRJ—the MRJ is the only carriers. We also anticipate steady growth in the ROPAX and next-generation aircraft in the 70-seat class. passenger ship markets. 37 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Policies of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan market for regional jets. To achieve this aim, we are moving Promote production system reforms in the forward with the development of a three-base structure in Japan commercial aircraft business and the United States. In addition to Aichi Prefecture, which is In the MRJ business, move forward with the development of three bases in Japan and the United home to Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation and the final assembly States, and put mass-production structures in place hangar at the Komaki-Minami Plant, we are launching the Seattle In the transportation systems business, strengthen Engineering Center and the Moses Lake Flight Test Center. We engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) are simultaneously putting in place a mass-production structure execution capabilities and reinforce the operations to step up the rate of production once sales have commenced, management and maintenance (O&M) business enabling us to catch up on development schedule delays. In the commercial ships business, pursue structural In the transportation systems business, to ensure we win reforms and engage in initiatives in the markets for large-scale projects in the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and other passenger and cargo ships and ROPAXs regions, we will strengthen our EPC execution capabilities. To  enhance our overall capabilities in this area, we will consolidate at While boosting profitability centered on the commercial aircraft the Engineering Headquarters the experience, expertise, and business, we are building the foundations for our next business plan in human resources currently spread throughout the Company and the MRJ, transportation systems, and commercial ships businesses. enhance relations with this headquarters. We also intend to win In the commercial aircraft business, we will respond to O&M orders for existing and planned projects. With this objective, growing competition in commercial aircraft by pursuing production we are moving human resources and other key supplies of system reforms aimed at augmenting production elasticity, resources from overseas Group O&M companies and setting up shortening lead times, and reducing production losses. As part of the MIHARA Test Center as a base for human resource training. these efforts, we will engage in the introduction of new equipment In the commercial ships business, we are accelerating and development to automate our factories. We have set up an structural reforms under a new organization with two affiliated industrial cluster in Matsusaka city intended to radically improve companies established in October 2015: Mitsubishi Heavy lead times and logistics by eliminating outsourcing that spans Industries Shipbuilding Co., Ltd., and Mitsubishi Heavy multiple processes. In the commercial aero engines business, we Industries Hull Production Co., Ltd. Furthermore, we will will strengthen our production foundation with a view to full-scale expand our passenger and cargo ships business by leveraging production expansion and better cost competitiveness. design and construction capabilities cultivated through the In the MRJ business, we aim to establish a firm position in the construction of cruise ships and domestic ferries. R  &D Case Study: Development of the Sayaringo STaGE, a Next-Generation LNG Carrier Given the growing demand for LNG in recent years, we have capacity from 155,000m3 to 180,000m3. The carrier also includes a developed a new LNG carrier that has better volumetric efficiency newly conceptualized hybrid propulsion plant dubbed STaGE, for than conventional LNG carriers as well as improved environmental “Steam Turbine and Gas Engine,” and a continuous tank cover that friendliness. To maximize cargo capacity while taking into lowers wind resistance. This combination reduces environmental consideration the New Panamax limits and compatibility with more impact substantially. Currently being built at the Nagasaki Shipyard than 100 LNG terminals worldwide, the carrier features a newly & Machinery Works, sequential deliveries of the Sayaringo STaGE developed tank design. Ordinary LNG tanks consist of semispheres are planned from 2018. Going forward, we will continue to promote and a cylinder; by adjusting the balance between these shapes and the development of new products and technologies to meet the adding a torus, we have succeeded in increasing total tank diverse needs of customers and society. HIGHLIGHT Progress on Development and Setting Up a Mass-Production Structure in the MRJ Business (As of August 31, 2016) MHI is positioning the MRJ business as a pillar of next-generation are working to shorten the flight testing period, and reflect these growth. Following the successful first flight of our first jet in flight test results securely and swiftly into MRJ design and proNovember 2015, our second jet made its first flight successfully duction processes. on May 31, 2016. Since June, we have been conducting two-jet We are simultaneously making inroads on setting up our flight tests. We will move the aircraft to Grant County International mass-production system. In July 2016, a new plant began Airport, at Moses Lake, in the United States, and begin further assembling airframes produced at our new plant. Engine assemflight testing there. Ultimately, we will gather test data on five jets bly will start in fall 2016, and we plan to commence production at as we work to satisfy type certification requirements. By moving a rate of around one jet per month from 2017. We aim to deliver forward with a three-base development structure in Japan (Aichi the first mass-produced aircraft in mid-2018 and ramp up proPrefecture) and the United States (Moses Lake and Seattle), we duction to 10 aircraft per month by around 2020. 38 MHI REPORT 2016 Integrated Defense & Space Systems While continuing to strengthen our existing businesses, we are preparing to expand our business scale by commercializing new projects for overseas markets. Hisakazu Mizutani Domain CEO, Integrated Defense & Space Systems ‌‌Leading-edge technologies fostered through the development of defense ‌‌ Defense Limited experience in pursuing and leading in projects overseas and space products ‌‌‌ Space Inadequate cost and competitive pricing ‌‌ Defense Ability to make proposals for integrated defense systems ‌Expertise and channels cultivated through Japan–U.S. joint development of the SM-3 missile ‌‌‌ Space Developing capabilities in rockets and rocket engines Maintaining world-leading product reliability and quality control Strengths Weaknesses ‌‌ Defense G rowing overseas demand for defense equipment ‌‌ Defense S evere competition with domestic and overseas manufacturers Accelerating development and procurement of new products in line ‌‌‌ Space Concern regarding price competition as new U.S. ­companies with the formulation of Japan’s Medium-Term Defense Program enter the market for overseas satellite launch services ‌‌‌ Space Increasing need for satellite launches by emerging countries Under Japan’s New Basic Plan on Space Policy, domestic market scale expected to grow to ¥5 trillion over the next 10 years Opportunities Threats Targets of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Billions of yen Operating income Space 25.7 26.0 25.0 Defense 485.0 447.7 400.0 400.0 400.0 400.0 Orders Net Orders Net Orders Net received sales received sales received sales FY2015 (actual) FY2016 (forecast) FY2017 (target) Operating Environment The Integrated Defense & Space Systems business is perinternational development. forming steadily, but its operating environment is changing. In space systems, the formulation of the new Basic Plan In defense, the Ministry of Defense’s Medium-Term on Space Policy in January 2015 and the work schedule for Defense Program formulated in 2013 indicated the Japanese this plan, revised in December 2015, clarified the vision for government’s intent to build a “Dynamic Joint Defense the future, thereby facilitating investment forecasts. The scale Force,” and new defense equipment development and of the domestic market is expected to grow to ¥5 trillion over procurement is expanding. Furthermore, the 2014 Cabinet the next decade. Demand is also increasing in relation to decision adopting the Three Principles on Transfer of Defense gathering and analyzing information, determining conditions Equipment and Technology established clear principles for overseas, and providing resulting products and services transferring defense equipment overseas. As a result, we related to the space systems market. anticipate an increase in overseas projects, centering on joint 39 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Policies of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan promote projects in the private sector. Through joint developDevelop business overseas, taking the Three ment with Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation (NTT), Principles on Transfer of Defense Equipment and which possesses cutting-edge security technologies, we will Technology to locations where opportunities for develop cybersecurity technologies for key infrastructure connew markets exist trol systems. We will develop cybersecurity-related products Promote private-sector projects, leveraging the and services, giving shape to technologies that detect and cutting-edge technologies cultivated through the defense and space business respond in real time to unknown threats. In space systems, we Take advantage of land, sea, air, and space synergies will promote H-IIA rocket launch services to countries new to to expand domestic business space exploration and accelerate activities to attract orders for  H-IIA and H3 launch services from leading global satellite operators. We are also considering commercialization in areas We are implementing three growth strategies as we continue to related to the development, launch, and operation of small satprepare for expansion during the period of the next business plan. ellites, based on the expertise and knowledge gained through First, we will develop business overseas that takes advanthe operational testing of our own small satellites commencing tage of opportunities provided by the Three Principles on in fiscal 2015. Transfer of Defense Equipment and Technology. Through the Third, we will take advantage of land, sea, air, and space Japan–U.S. joint development and production of the SM-3 missynergies to expand orders in domestic areas of business. In sile, we will gain expertise in joint international development. We defense, we will incorporate the elemental technologies relating expect to apply this expertise toward commercial development to jet fighters that we have accumulated and advanced to date in fields that match MHI’s technological expertise. We also aim into future jet fighters. We will also apply cutting-edge technoloto utilize our advanced technologies and channels with U.S. gies cultivated through defense equipment to the development and European business partners to participate in new internaof new naval ships and mass-production projects. Meanwhile, tional joint development projects. Furthermore, we will build in space systems we will carry out our duty to secure Japan’s upon a track record of conducting final assembly and functional autonomous national launch capacity through the development tests of F-35 fighters on schedule, and we will consider particiof the H3 rocket. At the same time, we will strengthen global pating in areas providing back-up support. competitiveness through cost reductions to expand launch Second, we will leverage the leading-edge technologies vehicle services in the global market. we have cultivated through the defense and space business to R&D Case Study: X-2 Advanced Technology Demonstrator In April 2016, MHI successfully completed the maiden flight project, MHI began developing the aircraft’s airframe in 2009 of the X-2, an advanced technology demonstrator jet, from with cooperation provided by 220 domestic companies and Nagoya Airport in Aichi Prefecture to the Japan Self-Defense guidance from Japan’s Acquisition, Technology & Logistics Force’s Gifu Air Base. Agency (ATLA). We completed the airframe assembly in fiscal The X-2 is a prototype stealth aircraft for Japan’s Ministry of 2014. After engine testing, we completed taxiing tests Defense. It is the first in Japan to feature technology impeding at Nagoya Airport before moving on to the maiden voyage. its detection by radar and engineered for extremely high maneuGoing forward, the aircraft will be subjected to repeated verability. The prototype integrates an airframe, engines, and flight tests at the Gifu Air Base with a view to enhancing other advanced systems and equipment all adaptable to future performance and technological effectiveness. fighters. As the coordinating company of the X-2 development HIGHLIGHT MHI Successfully Launches Telesat’s Telstar 12 VANTAGE Satellite On November 24, 2015, MHI successfully delivered Telesat’s stage, and MHI has been implementing these improvements Telstar 12 VANTAGE satellite into planned orbit on the H-IIA with strong support and oversight from the Japan Aerospace launch vehicle F29. Exploration Agency (JAXA). These efforts led to the launch vehiThe H-IIA launch vehicle F29 lifted off from the Yoshinobu cle’s success in bringing the satellite near geostationary orbit. launch pad at the Tanegashima Space Center at 15:50 local time Including the H-II rocket’s F30 vehicle, launched on February 17, (6:50 GMT and 01:50 EST). The launch vehicle flew as planned 2016, H-IIA/H-IIB launch vehicles have been successful 29 conand, at about four hours and 27 minutes after liftoff, the separasecutive times, resulting in a success rate of 97.1%. tion of the Telstar 12 VANTAGE satellite was confirmed. H-IIA MHI intends to market more proactively its H-IIA satellite F29 incorporates the enhancements of the H-IIA upgrade. The launch services both in Japan and abroad, continuing to play a upgrade relates to improvements in the launch vehicle’s upper key role in the Japanese space industry. 40 MHI REPORT 2016 Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure By accelerating PMI on independently managed joint ventures and focusing resources on growth businesses, we will expand business scale and profits, achieving a highly profitable structure. Kazuaki Kimura Domain CEO, Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure ‌Expertise cultivated in a wide range of product fields and extensive resources ‌ Tends to be affected by short-term economic fluctuations ‌ Metals machinery Meet market needs with a full product lineup and global ‌Overlaps in functions and bases after integration presence ‌ Turbochargers D  evelopment of sophisticated products leveraging high-speed rotational technologies ‌ Forklift trucks Third in the world by business scale ‌ Air-conditioning and refrigeration Extensive product lineup Strengths Weaknesses ‌ Compressors L  ong-term expansion in the oil and gas business due to Rise of manufacturers in emerging countries increasing global population and economic expansion in develSense of uncertainty in the global economy oping countries Ongoing commoditization ‌ Turbochargers Expanding Chinese and North American markets  Compressors Slowing demand due to slumping crude oil prices Growing trend toward the use of turbochargers on Metals machinery Global gap between steel supply and demand causing the downsized engines in response to environmental and market to shrink fuel performance regulations ‌ Engines Growing power generation market in line with increases in Opportunities distributed power systems Threats Targets of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Billions of yen 160.0 Operating income  aterial handling M equipment 105.0 Turbochargers 80.0 Engine and energy 1,800.0 1,800.0 1,700.0 1,650.0 Metals machinery  ir-conditioning and A 1,392.5 1,432.3 refrigeration Mechatronics, ITS Compressors Environmental systems Machine tool Others Orders Net Orders Net Orders Net received sales received sales received sales FY2015 (actual) FY2016 (forecast) FY2017 (target) Operating Environment As of March 2016, 13 strategic business units (SBU), which Meanwhile, in metals machinery a gap between the were streamlined from the original 26, continued to handle a global supply and demand for steel is causing a market wide-ranging variety of businesses. Turbocharger demand is slump. As a result, the market scale in the metals machinery expanding robustly, benefiting from tax reductions on small business shrank from around ¥2.4 trillion in fiscal 2014, to cars in China and in response to more stringent fuel stanapproximately ¥2.0 trillion in fiscal 2015, and we think a dards in the North American market. Demand is also growing recovery will take time. Although demand for compressors is for businesses that require high environmental performance, likely to grow over the long term in line with market expansion such as engines, environmental systems, and air-conditioning in the oil and gas fields, we anticipate demand will remain and refrigeration systems, due to global trends toward energy lackluster for the foreseeable future due to the impact of fallsavings and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Global ing crude oil prices. demand for forklift trucks is generally holding steady, with some disparities among regions. 41 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Policies our service businesses and ensure profitability. In environAccelerate PMI in independently managed joint mental systems, we will expand overseas businesses includventures M-FET and Primetals Technologies ing EPC and so on. In air-conditioning and refrigeration Expand business scale in growth businesses: compressors, environmental systems, air-conditioning systems, we will further develop the thermal solutions busiand refrigeration systems, mechatronics, and nesses to save energy, reduce CO2 emissions, and make use intelligent transport systems (ITS) of unutilized energy. Furthermore, in mechatronics and ITS Enhance business and earning capacity in small we will make full use of workforce synergies through a wideand medium-scale businesses, through measures ranging product mix. including M&A In small and medium-scale businesses, we will  strengthen business activity and earning capacity through Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Forklift, Engine & Turbocharger various methods, including M&A. In agricultural machinery, Holdings, Ltd. (M-FET), launched in March 2016, will expand we are reinforcing globalization through synergies with M-FET’s business scale to a target sales level of ¥1 trillion by Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., in India, through a capital tie-up ensuring economies of scale; leveraging integration synergies we entered in October 2015. In April 2015, we partnered with at procurement, development, manufacturing, and sales Miyaji Engineering Group, Inc., in bridges, and we look forbases; and integrating product technologies and mass proward to improved profitability and increased orders. We duction technologies. In metals machinery, we foresee the transferred our industrial cranes business to Sumitomo Heavy market environment to remain challenging for the foreseeable Industries Material Handling Systems Co., Ltd. in October future. In this area, we will accelerate post-merger integration 2015, and this operation is expanding. (PMI) at Primetals Technologies, a joint venture with Siemens Through these initiatives, we aim to create leading busiAG, striving to reduce costs and reinforce the sales structure. nesses in global niche markets, expand business scale, and In primary growth businesses, we are implementing the improve earning capacity. following key measures. In compressors, we will strengthen  &D Example: MHI Develops Compact Energy-Efficient Centrifugal Chillers R Using New Environmentally Friendly Refrigerant In September 2015, MHI launched the ETI-Z series of nextexchangers—potentially affecting overall size. generation centrifugal chillers, the first in the world to use the To achieve compactness, the ETI-Z series uses a new new environmentally friendly HFO-1233zd(E) refrigerant. This new shape of blade, faster motor speeds, and high-performance refrigerant produces minimal greenhouse gas emissions, has no tubes, arranged to optimize space. This new design also impact on ozone depletion, and is not subject to Japan’s Freon enables best-in-class energy efficiency through the use of a Emissions Control Law and its regulations for emissions, leaks, compressor with a high-speed direct motor drive, reducing recovery, and disposal. However, the refrigerant gas has about motor drive energy loss. Through this innovation, the ETI-Z five times the volume of MHI’s current refrigerant, so achieving series is able to achieve significant reductions in emissions the same capacity means using larger compressors and heat without compromising on compact size. HIGHLIGHT MHI, MCO, and MHPS to Collaborate with ExxonMobil in Advanced Gas Turbine Technology In April 2016, MHI, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Compressor costs. Specifically, H-100 gas turbines offer LNG mechanical (MCO), and Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems (MHPS) drives the benefits of space savings, broad variable-speed announced their collaboration with Exxon Mobil Corporation in ­operation, and full-pressure start-up. the liquefied natural gas (LNG) field. This development of main LNG refrigeration packages by MCO’s compressors and turbines account for around half MCO and MHPS is a good example of efforts to integrate the the world market in the ethylene plant field, and the company MHI Group’s product lineup and create business across has delivered plants in 62 countries around the world. By devel­multiple domains. oping new applications for the latest MHPS H100 gas turbines, Note: T  he photo in the center of the left-hand page shows a pyrolysis gasification compressor and steam turbine for an ethylene plant. as well as MCO’s state-of-the-art compressor technologies, we aim to reduce the complexity of LNG plants and lower life-cycle 42 MHI REPORT 2016 ROUNDTABLE DEFINING RISK MANAGEMENT FOR GLOBAL GROWTH For MHI to grow into a truly global company, worldclass risk management is absolutely essential. Here, CEO Shunichi Miyanaga exchanged views on this issue with two of the Company’s outside directors: Naoyuki Shinohara and Christina Ahmadjian. Impressions of Current Board of Directors Meetings Christina Ahmadjian When I took up my post as an outside director at MHI four years ago, risk issues were never discussed at Board of Directors meetNaoyuki Shinohara ings. Now, substantial discussions are held Outside Director ­concerning incidents that have occurred, including Professor, The University of Tokyo, Policy Alternatives Research Institute analysis of their causes, consideration of methods Joined the Ministry of Finance in 1975, where he served as for dealing with their consequences, and measures Director-General of the International Bureau and Vice Minister of Finance for International Affairs. Between 2010 and 2015, to prevent their recurrence in the future. In this he served as Special Advisor and then Deputy Managing Director at the International Monetary Fund (IMF). He took respect, the agenda and discussions at Board of up his current academic position in July 2015 and has been Directors ­meetings have changed drastically, and as an outside director at MHI since June 2015. a result I think the handling of risk issues today has matured greatly. Another significant development has been the transition to an Audit and Supervisory Committee in Shunichi Miyanaga In the past, at Company 2015. Since the committee got under way, highly Board of Directors meetings and executive commitmeaningful discussions about risk and such matters tee meetings we didn’t hold detailed discussions on have become possible among just a small number the nature of the risks involved in our various busiof members. nesses. This was because, to a large extent, our business developments were primarily confined Naoyuki Shinohara In my case, I became an within the limits of the specific markets in which we outside director at MHI in 2015. My initial impression have had a prominent presence: the domestic of the Company is that it takes a serious and dedimarket, for example, or the markets of Southeast cated approach to manufacturing. As an example, Asia. Judgments as to when to withdraw from a I had occasion to visit the Nagasaki Shipyard & particular business were therefore made by the Machinery Works, and I was struck by how whole­individuals in charge of the particular business, and heartedly the employees there approach their work. they typically took the withdrawal option when a I also came away with a strong sense of how hard business or product had completed its productive those in charge of business execution are striving, in lifespan: for example when demand for it had diminvarious ways, to strengthen MHI’s global competitiveished structurally or it was no longer cost-competitive. ness. Acquiring globally competitive strength More recently, however, as we have pursued demands taking up new challenges, and this inevitably full-scale entry into the global market, the greater harbors an element of risk. In the year since I became competition and forays into new businesses have a director, a great amount of time has been spent made it necessary for us to make comprehensive debating projects in which risk has become manifest. business risk evaluations at the management level. 43 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Shunichi Miyanaga President and CEO Christina Ahmadjian Outside Director and Audit and Supervisory Committee Member Professor, Hitotsubashi University, Graduate School of Commerce and Management Joined Hitotsubashi University in 2001, after serving as Assistant Professor at Columbia Business School. Her research focuses on corporate governance, global strategy and human resource management, and comparative systems of capitalism. She was appointed a director of MHI in June 2012 and became a member of the Company’s Audit and Supervisory Committee in June 2015. I try to talk as openly as possible at our Board disclosure could conceivably give people the of Directors meetings about any apparent risks or impression that the Company has a relatively large issues that may be occurring within the Company. I number of risks and problems. also strive to maintain full transparency outside the Company, for example, by providing explanations of Miyanaga In managing a company, there are risks or issues of concern to our shareholders and times when you later come to realize that decisions investors, and to analysts. you made in the past were ultimately wrong; and personally I believe that as a CEO, rather than trying to conceal or misrepresent what took place, it’s my Improving Risk Management by duty to clearly and accurately explain what criteria or Upholding Transparency reasons led to a particular decision—what policies Ahmadjian I agree that MHI has become very or strategies were behind it at the given point in open, in the last year especially. A good illustration is time—and to explain what happened as a result of the way the Company’s situation was explained at that decision. Of course, it’s better when you’re in a the 2015 General Meeting of Shareholders. Virtually position to offer assurance that such-and-such no information was kept from the participants, and I preparations were made to deal with any adverse really got the feeling that MHI is undergoing a culoutcome. I believe that maintaining transparency in tural transformation from the way it was in the past. this way and always being prepared to give clear That said, since most companies in Japan aren’t and forthright explanations are essential to good very forthcoming when it comes to disclosing risk management. ­information on their circumstances, MHI’s candid 44 MHI REPORT 2016 Shinohara Over the course of the past year I action. If we don’t withdraw when circumstances warcame to understand just how much more proactive rant, we can never achieve any improvements. MHI is than most companies in Japan in terms of Instead, we need to make quantitative calculations upholding transparency and explaining any issues of and examine specific hypothetical solutions: for examconcern to those outside the Company. ple, taking the unique nature of our business into conStill, there’s no denying that, as the substantial sideration, evaluating to what extent we can calculate loss booked on the Company’s cruise ship construcour risks, or considering what’s necessary in order to tion business indicates, there have been serious play on a level field against overseas competitors, issues surrounding the Company’s risk managewhose best practices have been established within ment, and MHI must reflect sincerely on where the their particular historical contexts and financial founfault lies. I am sure that heated debate over the dations. If we can then explain these risks both intermatter is already taking place within the Company, nally and externally, it should be possible to perform to pinpoint where the management system went more advanced risk management. wrong, determine what improvements need to be made to the system going forward, and to identify Development of Risk-Taking what lessons need to be learned from this experiHuman Resources ence. I firmly believe the whole matter needs to be examined closely and thoroughly. Shinohara Where misunderstanding needs to be avoided is in the notion that risk is invariably negative Miyanaga Up till now, we have always taken in nature. As one of Japan’s leading manufacturers, pride in the conviction that MHI is Japan’s top comMHI must continuously take up new challenges while pany in terms of advanced technology, and this may accepting a given level of risks. What’s important is have made us overly self-confident that our risk defining what those risks are, and knowing how to management methods are correct, too. In reality, manage them. The Company should never fear, or though, owing to the unique nature of our business, retreat from, taking on risks per se. formulating optimal management methods is no simple matter. In the automobile Ahmadjian If MHI aims to become No.1 in the industry, for instance, risk resilience world, it has to take on risks. Risk management standards were established within doesn’t equate to risk avoidance. Taking on sound the context of the history of the global risks, I believe, is a truly vital issue. auto industry, and they continue to evolve in response to environmental Miyanaga In that respect, in order to continuand consumer protection issues. ously improve our risk management I believe that But in cases like ours, as a B2B rather than evaluating personnel based solely on company that handles orders of their record of demerit points, we need to promote extremely large scale, we rely heavily people who have a record of having already taken up on the individual contract agreea host of new challenges, sometimes with success ments concluded between us, as and sometimes with failure. We also need human the supplier, and our customer. resources capable of resolving both issues that With business operations of this involve technological difficulties as well as those that kind, very little exists in the way of present difficulties from a business perspective. As a clear risk management standards. business enterprise, we have to seek out human In the case of companies in resources possessing both cautious prudence and Europe or the United States, bold confidence, and give our employees opportunitypically, if it becomes clear that ties to take up challenges early on, to build up their a particular business or project experience and enable them to grow as managers. entails a certain level of risk, in most instances a rational decision will be made—to withdraw altogether, The Quest for Diversity in Human Resources for instance. But here in Japan, it’s more difficult to make an immediate decision to withdraw, because Shinohara On the subject of human resources, of concerns relating to organizational morale, I find the exchange of people and ideas at Primetals employment responsibility, passing down technology, Technologies especially interesting. Here, the and so forth. The costs, both within the organization merger partner was Siemens—a company that is and in the broader social context, are considerable. both MHI’s competitor and a company that MHI Still, simply because withdrawing presents certain should emulate. The situation at Primetals presents difficulties, we can’t just abandon that course of opportunities for learning a wealth of business 45 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation practices from Siemens, not the least being risk Italy—and it also has engineering staff working at its management. At the same time, Primetals also bases in China and India. In this respect, Primetals stands to learn in various ways from MHI. The result is a paragon of diversity, and we assign our young will surely be exponential growth in the capabilities corporate employees there to give them the greatest of the company’s personnel. learning opportunities, including the opportunity to MHI perhaps suffers from a tendency to focus acquire expertise in risk management. We have high too much on a given project; and for that reason I hopes they will apply their experience there as manthink putting in place the mechanisms to enable agers in the future. more objective input from outside would be highly effective. What I’m referring to here is diversity of the Hopes and Expectations for Company’s human resources. Shifting personnel within Outside Directors the Company may be one way of guaranteeing the objective standpoint from outside needed for the Miyanaga What I hope for most from our outside success of a project, but I think it’s even more directors is that they will ask frank and candid quesimportant to input the knowledge of tieup partners tions, without hesitation. Although we believe we are like Siemens and boost diversity. doing our utmost to provide information, I hope that our outside directors will indicate points that they nevertheless have difficulty either understanding or accepting, and tell us what points seem odd to them from their perspective. If there are things that we have trouble explaining, this means we ourselves have inadequate understanding of them, and making us aware of those points will be very valuable. Ahmadjian-san, sometimes you point out aspects that you believe to be highly unusual, and in response I have merely said it’s a matter of cultural differences. But offering an “explanation” like that doesn’t make for a fruitful discussion. Only when we are able to offer clear reasons for something can a discussion get under way and give birth to new ideas. Ahmadjian I agree, what’s most important is to convey our respective views. Today, a great deal of time is allocated at Board of Directors meetings to Q&A sessions and reports. Going forward I would Ahmadjian I visited Primetals Technologies this like to see a further increase in disMarch, and as you might expect from its being a cussion time. joint venture with Siemens—a company that has pursued a string of international M&As until now— Shinohara One of the roles of people of many different nationalities—Japanese, outside directors, I believe, is to Germans, Austrians, British and so on—serve on its monitor whether steady progress is management team. I really got a sense of the company’s being made in implementing initiadiversity. My visit provided me with a wonderful chance tives targeting improvements—in the to debate the strengths and weaknesses of how way risk management is handled, for Japanese companies operate, and I came away with example. Personally, I still have the hope that MHI will become a truly diverse com­relatively little experience serving as pany like Primetals in the future. an outside director, so I am always asking myself how to discuss Miyanaga Primetals Technologies is one of the ­matters in such a way that I might various companies that have consolidated as the make positive contributions to MHI. metals industry has matured and manufacturers of Looking forward, while continuing to metals machinery around the world have downpose that question of myself, I intend scaled. The company represents the amalgamation to participate in discussions with the of the wisdom of six countries—Japan, the United interests of the Company’s stakeStates, the United Kingdom, Germany, Austria and holders always fully in mind. 46 MHI REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Basic Approach As a company responsible for developing the infrastrucmanagement system, such as by enhancing its manture that forms the foundation of society, MHI’s basic agement oversight function through the separation of policy is to execute management in consideration of all management oversight and execution and the inclusion stakeholders and strive to enhance corporate goverof outside directors, and develop “Japanese-style nance on an ongoing basis in pursuit of sustained global management,” focusing on the improvement of growth of the MHI Group and improvement of its corpothe soundness and transparency of its management as rate value in the medium and long terms. In accordance well as on diversity and harmony. with this basic policy, MHI endeavors to improve its MHI’s Corporate Governance Characteristics 1. Swift Decision Making 2. Sound Supervisory Function Company with an Audit and Management Supervision Centered on Supervisory Committee  Outside Directors  MHI has adopted the form of a company with an Audit Of the 11 directors (five of whom are Audit and and Supervisory Committee as its corporate structure Supervisory Committee members), five (of whom three under the Companies Act. As provided in the Company’s are Audit and Supervisory Committee members) are Articles of Incorporation, in accordance with a resoluappointed from outside the Company. Accordingly, tion by the Board of Directors, the Company delegates outside directors account for 45% of all directors. MHI important decisions on business execution to the presistrives to enhance management oversight by seeking dent and CEO. In addition to facilitating swift ­decision useful advice and objective criticism concerning the making and flexible business execution, this arrangeCompany’s management from its outside directors. ment promotes the separation of management superviNomination and Remuneration Meeting  sion and business execution while also strengthening The Nomination and Remuneration Meeting is comthe Board of Directors’ oversight of business execution. posed solely of all outside directors and the president Chief Officer System  and CEO. Prior to deliberation by the Board of Under this system, the CEO*1 (president and CEO) deleDirectors, this meeting serves as a forum for eliciting gates part of his authority and responsibilities to various the opinions and advice of outside directors on the chief officers, including the domain CEOs (president and nomination of director candidates, the dismissal of CEO for each of the domains), the CFO,*2 and the CTO.*3 directors, the appointment and dismissal of other execThe GC*4 and the standing executive in charge of HR*5 utive officers, and matters related to remuneration.*6 assist the CEO with his duties. Our aim in establishing this meeting is to further aug*1. CEO: Chief Executive Officer ment transparency and fairness. In fiscal 2015, the *2. CFO: Chief Financial Officer *3. CTO: Chief Technology Officer Nomination and Remuneration Meeting met twice. *4. GC: General Counsel *5. HR: Human Resources *6. E  xcluding directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members Corporate Governance Guidelines of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., are provided on our website. ‌http://www.mhi-global.com/company/aboutmhi/governance/pdf/corporate_governance.pdf 47 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Recent Corporate Governance Reforms 2005 2014 • Introduced the Chief Officer System • Shortened the term of office for directors from two years to one • Reduced the number of representative directors from 12 to six • Introduced an executive officer system • Decreased the number of directors from 17 to 12 • Increased the number of outside directors from one to two and outside statutory auditors from two to three • MHI transitioned to a company with an Audit and Supervisory 2015 • Reduced the number of directors from 28 to 17 Committee. The number of directors was reduced to 14, including five Audit and Supervisory Committee members. 2006 • Abolished the system of director retirement allowances and (Prior to the transition, the Board of Directors comprised 17 bonuses, switching to system of monthly remuneration and members, including the statutory auditors.) The number of performance-linked remuneration outside directors was set at five, including three Audit and • Introduced a stock option system for directors, except outSupervisory Committee members. side directors • Abolished stock options and introduced a new stock remuneration system for directors (excluding outside directors 2007 and directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory • Increased the number of outside directors from two to three Committee members) and executive officers. (Directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members receive base 2011 • Integrated a matrix structure of Business Headquarters and remuneration only.) Works into the Business Headquarters Structure • Formulated the Corporate Governance Guidelines of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. 2013 • Consolidated and restructured the nine Business 2016 • Established the Nomination and Remuneration Meeting Headquarters, transitioning to the Business Domain Structure • Reduced the number of directors from 14 to 11 (with the (full transition by April 2014) number of outside directors remaining constant at five) Outside Directors The Company has five outside directors (of whom three management and supervise or audit management. At are Audit and Supervisory Committee members). Outside meetings of the Board of Directors, they receive reports on directors are expected to enhance the soundness and the status of the establishment and operation of internal transparency of the Company’s management decision control systems, including compliance, risk management, making by providing beneficial views and candid assessand other activities, and the results of internal audits, and ments on the Company’s management from an objective they state their opinions when appropriate. The Audit and standpoint that is not biased by an internal company Supervisory Committee, a majority of whose members are perspective. Each of the outside directors meets MHI’s outside directors, also conducts audits in collaboration with independence criteria for outside directors.*7 Accordingly, the Internal Audit Department, Management Audit the Company judges all outside directors to be indepenDepartment, and accounting auditor. In addition, the Audit dent from its management team and has reported them and Supervisory Committee shares information about the as independent directors to the Tokyo Stock Exchange status of audits with outside directors who are not serving and other financial instruments exchanges in Japan. as Audit and Supervisory Committee members. All the outside directors are independent from *7. Indicated in the Corporate Governance Guidelines of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Outside Directors  Naoyuki Shinohara Ken Kobayashi Professor, The University of Tokyo, Chairman of the Board, Policy Alternatives Research Institute Mitsubishi Corporation (Former Deputy Managing Director of the Appointed director in June 2016 International Monetary Fund (IMF)) Appointed director in June 2015 Reason for appointment Reason for appointment A wide range of insights related to financial policy Extensive knowledge and experience of top gained as a regulator and a global perspective management active in global markets gained as an executive of an international institution Newly appointed in fiscal 2016 Attendance Attended 10 of 10 meetings of the Board of Directors in fiscal 2015 Outside Audit and Supervisory Committee Members  Nobuo Kuroyanagi Christina Ahmadjian Shinichiro Ito Senior Advisor, Professor, Hitotsubashi University Graduate Chairman of the Board, ANA Holdings Inc. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. School of Commerce and Management Appointed statutory auditor of MHI in June Appointed statutory auditor of MHI in June Appointed director of MHI in June 2012, 2013, and director and Audit and Supervisory 2009, and director and Audit and Supervisory and director and Audit and Supervisory Committee member in June 2015 Committee member in June 2015 Committee member in June 2015 Reason for appointment Reason for appointment Reason for appointment Extensive experience as a business manager Extensive knowledge and global viewpoint Extensive experience as a business manager Attendance regarding the field of corporate governance and Attendance 12 of 14 meetings of the Board of Directors in management acquired through her experience 14 of 14 meetings of the Board of Directors in fiscal 2015 as a researcher fiscal 2015 11 of 11 meetings of the Audit and Attendance 11 of 11 meetings of the Audit and Supervisory Committee in fiscal 2015 14 of 14 meetings of the Board of Directors in Supervisory Committee in fiscal 2015 fiscal 2015 11 of 11 meetings of the Audit and Supervisory Committee in fiscal 2015 48 MHI REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Structure and Roles (Including Internal Control Systems) (As of June 23, 2016) 1 Directors  Of the Company’s 11 directors (of whom five General Meeting of Shareholders are Audit and Supervisory Committee members), five (of whom three are Audit and Election / Dismissal Proposal / Report Election / Dismissal Report / Provide opinions Supervisory Committee members) are elected from outside the Company. In addi1 5 Directors Audit / Report Audit and tion, the Company delegates decisions on (Board of Directors) Supervisory Committee the execution of important operations to the president and CEO. This approach enables swifter decision making and enhances the Report on accounting audit Two Three flexibility of business execution while also Six Five internal outside strengthening the Board of Directors’ oversight internal outside (All five directors) of business execution. Nomination / Proposal / 2 Oversight Report 2 Delegation of Nomination and Audit Nomination and important decisions Remuneration Meeting Remuneration Meeting  on business execution This meeting comprises six members, including all outside directors and Consult Opinions / Advice Report the president and CEO. Consult (Please see page 46 for information on 3 specific functions.) President and CEO Recommendation Coordination 3 Deliberate Chief Officers and Standing Partial delegation of Directions / Executives in Charge 4 authority and responsibility Orders Executive of Operations  Committee The CEO takes charge of overall business 3 strategies and issue-response initiatives, and 3 CFO Domain CEOs the domain CEOs take control of executing (Presidents and CEOs businesses within their individual domains for all four domains) 3 based on overall Group strategies. The CFO GC takes charge of finance, accounting, and including management planning. The CTO Directions and is in charge of the supervision and execution orders on Directions / of overall operations related to technology business Orders Management Audit execution Directions / Department strategies, research and development of in domains Orders Internal auditing / products and new technologies, ICT, value Directions / Orders Supervision chain, marketing, innovation, and engineering in general. In addition, the CFO and CTO have companywide authority to give Senior Vice Presidents Senior Vice Presidents Management / instructions and commands and provide Business departments Control Support Corporate Departments support to business domains. (Domains, etc.) The GC and standing executive in charge of HR assist the CEO with his duties by supervising and executing activities in line with the CEO’s mission. The GC takes overall Management / Control Internal auditing / Internal auditing / Supervision Supervision control of management audits, general administration, legal affairs, and global base Group Companies support. The standing executive in charge of HR takes overall responsibility for human resources and labor relations. 49 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation 4 Executive Committee  The Executive Committee has been estabto discussion as part of the operational lished as a forum for discussing important execution framework and consequently matters related to business execution. This leads to more appropriate management Election / Dismissal move allows for a more cohesive approach decisions and business execution. 6 Coordination Accounting Auditor 5 Audit and Supervisory Committee  To ensure the effectiveness of the Audit and control systems, including those in relation Audit and Supervisory Supervisory Committee’s activities, the to financial reporting. Furthermore, one Support Committee’s Office Company’s Articles of Incorporation stipulate member of the Audit and Supervisory the selection of full-time members of the Audit Committee has extensive knowledge of Accounting Audit and Supervisory Committee. Accordingly, finance and accounting from many years of two full-time members of the Audit and business experience in the accounting and Supervisory Committee are mutually finance departments. selected by the committee’s members. The Audit and Supervisory Committee The full-time members of the Audit periodically exchanges information and and Supervisory Committee attend meetopinions with the Management Audit ings of the Executive Committee and other Department and accounting auditors, and it 7 key meetings related to business planning, collaborates closely with them in other • CSR Committee enabling them to accurately assess and ways, including receiving audit results and • Compliance Committee monitor the status of management in a attending accounting audits. Audit and • International Trade Control Committee timely manner. As part of the audit, Audit Supervisory Committee members also • Environment Committee, etc. and Supervisory Committee members receive reports from the internal control make sure the execution of directors’ duties department and other departments concomply with laws and regulations and the cerning the status of compliance, risk manArticles of Incorporation and ascertain agement, and other activities on both a whether or not business operations of the regular and an individual basis. To support 3 Company are being executed appropriately auditing activities, an Audit and Supervisory CTO by conducting spot checks and verifying Committee’s Office has been set up with its compliance with relevant laws and regulaown dedicated staff of six to facilitate the 3 tions, and by monitoring the status of the work carried out by the Audit and Standing Executive in charge of HR establishment and operation of internal Supervisory Committee. Directions / 6 Orders Auditing Certified Public Accountant Compensation  Report / Directions / Survey Audit attestation duty-based Non-audit-based compensation Consult Orders Category compensation (millions of yen) (millions of yen) MHI 212 59 Consolidated subsidiaries 204 3 Total 416 63 Note: In fiscal 2015, the Company’s overseas subsidiaries delegated audit attestation duties to the Ernst & Young Group, which belongs to the same network as the Company’s accounting auditor, paying ¥1,241 million for fiscal 2015 audit attestation duty-based compensation and non-audit-based compensation. 7 Compliance Committee  This committee meets twice annually to each department. At the same time, draw up companywide compliance promoCompliance Liaison conferences are in place tion plans, confirm progress, and engage in for regularly exchanging compliance inforother activities. Compliance Committees mation with Group companies. Through have been established in all departments of these two types of organizations, each the Company to strengthen compliance department works to consistently implemeasures for each respective department. ment its own compliance and to act indeThese committees are chaired by the pendently and responsibly in carrying out member of the Compliance Committee in compliance activities. 50 MHI REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Officers’ Remuneration Structure The remuneration of directors (excluding Audit and granted in accordance with return on equity (ROE) and Supervisory Committee members and outside directors) other such indicators linked to MHI’s medium/long-term consists of base remuneration, performance-linked remuearnings and stock price. neration, and stock remuneration from the viewpoint of The remuneration of directors who are serving as reflecting earnings and sharing values with shareholders. Audit and Supervisory Committee members consists Performance-linked remuneration is determined exclusively of base remuneration from the viewpoint of based on consolidated earnings while also taking into ensuring duties such as audit work and supervision of account the roles of each director and the earnings and execution of operations are conducted appropriately. accomplishments of the business of which he or she is in The remuneration of chief officers and administrative charge, etc. executive officers who are not directors is in accordance For stock remuneration, the Board Incentive Plan with the foregoing. Trust structure is used. MHI shares are issued, and remuneration is paid based on stock award points that are Director and Statutory Auditor Remuneration (FY2015)  1. Before the shift to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee (From April 1, 2015, to the close of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015) Amount of remuneration by category (millions of yen) Total amount of Base Performance-linked remuneration Position No. of recipients remuneration remuneration Stock options (millions of yen) Directors (excluding outside directors) 8 111 55 — 167 Statutory auditors (excluding outside statutory auditors) 2 17 55 — 17 Outside directors and statutory auditors 6 18 — — 18 2. After the shift to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee (From the close of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015, until March 31, 2016) Amount of remuneration by category (millions of yen) Total amount of Base Performance-linked remuneration Position No. of recipients remuneration remuneration Stock remuneration (millions of yen) Directors who are not serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members 7 295 164 182 642 (excluding outside directors) Directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory 2 128 — — 128 Committee members (excluding outside directors) Outside directors 5 57 — — 57 Notes: 1. The recipients in note 2 above include one director who is not an Audit and Supervisory Committee member who retired in fiscal 2015 and who is stated under “directors who are not serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members (excluding outside directors).” 2. The maximum permitted monetary remuneration amount for directors who are not serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members is ¥1,200 million per year, applied retroactively to April 2015 (resolution of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015). 3. The total amount of stock remuneration is the amount of expenses recognized for the 337,000 stock award points granted in total during fiscal 2015 (equivalent to 337,000 shares of MHI) concerning the Board Incentive Plan Trust, which is a stock remuneration system that delivers or provides shares of MHI and money in the amount equivalent to the liquidation value of shares of MHI based on stock award points granted to directors (excluding outside directors and directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members) in accordance with, among other factors, the rank of the position of each director and the financial results of MHI. The maximum permitted amount of stock award points is 500,000 points (resolution of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015) per fiscal year for directors (excluding outside directors and directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members). 4. The maximum permitted monetary remuneration amount for statutory auditors is ¥160 million per fiscal year (resolution of the 81st Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 28, 2006). 5. The maximum permitted monetary remuneration amount is ¥300 million (resolution of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015) per fiscal year for directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members. 51 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation HUMAN RESOURCES Essentials of Human Resource Development MHI considers diversity management as essential for MHI Group employees, and affirmative action for female human resource development to adapt to various busiemployees as the necessary components of human ness environments. We focus on the three areas of resource development. enhancing readiness for global business, developing Enhancing Readiness for Global Business MHI categorizes its Japanese employees according to managers” are successful in managing in cross-cultural three levels. “Global candidates” show an aptitude to situations. We have prepared and organized training adapt to global environments, “global players” have the programs for each level. ability to carry out global business, and “global Developing MHI Group Employees MHI considers that enhancing the capabilities and skills for management, and promoting leadership awareness of all employees of the MHI Group around the world is through discussions and case studies. necessary to achieving globalization and accelerating diversity. In order to elevate staff to the management level at overseas Group companies, we are expanding our training programs. In fiscal 2015, we carried out selective training for officer candidates in Singapore, India, and other locations with business schools. Training lasts around one week and contributes to enhancing the candidates’ understanding of regional business environments, acquiring knowledge necessary Affirmative Action for Female Employees MHI is encouraging female employees for promotion employees in managerial positions; and fostering a corthrough the activities described below as part of its porate culture that supports an active role for female diversity management. employees. Moreover, we are considering flexible workIn July 2014, we set a target to increase the ing styles that facilitate a quick return to work after number of female managers in positions of section childbirth or raising children, and creating a framework manager and higher in the Company threefold by 2020, and an environment to further promote the careers of compared with the level in 2014. female employees. Our current phase of activity addresses four As a result of these initiatives, the number of themes: expanding the number of female employees; female managers rose from 85 in fiscal 2014 to 102 in offering career support for employees raising children or fiscal 2015.* providing nursing care by setting up a system that does * In principle, this figure includes Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., and Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. not interrupt careers; systematically developing female 52 MHI REPORT 2016 TECHNOLOGICAL BASE Leveraging Comprehensive Strengths by Building a Companywide Horizontally Based Organization In April 2016, MHI launched a new shared technology established the Technology Strategy Office to promote the framework consolidating the Company’s technologies integrated management of this framework and conduct as well as marketing, procurement, and other functions. technology management to realize the “conglomerate The new framework, overseen by the chief technology premium” (strength that derives from involvement in officer (CTO), encompasses three new entities—the diverse businesses), a centripetal force for the MHI Engineering Headquarters, the Marketing & Innovation Group. By creating this framework, headed by the CTO, Headquarters, and the Value Chain Headquarters—and we aim to maximize the MHI Group’s comprehensive the existing ICT Solution Headquarters and Research & technological strength to bolster competitiveness over Innovation Center. At the same time, we have the medium-to-long term. Overview of the Shared Technology Framework CTO Shared Technology Framework* (Technology Strategy Office) Business Business + Technology Technology 1 Engineering Headquarters* Research & Innovation Center 2 ICT Solution Headquarters 3 Value Chain Headquarters* 4 Marketing & Innovation Headquarters* * Established in April 2016 1 Engineering Headquarters  2 ICT Solution Headquarters  This entity brings together a broad array of business areas, includThe ICT Solution Headquarters drafts, prepares, and puts into ing chemical plants, transportation systems, and cruise ships, action strategies related to IT infrastructure. By leveraging human consolidating the Group’s expertise in engineering, procurement, and technological resources in information processing; telecomand construction (EPC) execution, standardizing and promoting munications; and electricity, instrumentation, and controls, the the use of information technology in business processes. As a headquarters also develops and implements advanced practices result, we intend to increase the number of areas employing the involving IoT and AI systems and enhances operating processes Group’s engineering expertise and engage in initiatives to supply by introducing best practices from within and outside the Company. know-how and provide support throughout the Company. In this manner, the headquarters strives to strengthen the Group’s products, technologies, and businesses. 3 Value Chain Headquarters  4 Marketing & Innovation Headquarters  Across the value chain, spanning design, manufacturing, quality Activities of the Marketing & Innovation Headquarters include preassurance, procurement, and after-sales services, the Value Chain paring business models, business and technology strategies, and Headquarters works to promote high-value-added technologies, product and service plans. The headquarters creates cross-product enhance global competitiveness, and transform and strengthen and medium-to-long-term relationships to determine needs and supply chain management. verify the hypotheses it creates. 53 Our Path to Sustainable Growth Management Strategies Achievements and Strategies for Building a Framework for Value Creation through Our Business Value Creation Research and Development The MHI Group maintains close ties between its shared R&D Expenses and Share of Net Sales technology framework and its business domains. This Billions of yen % 160 145.5 150.6 150.0 8 focus enables us to enhance competitiveness in various 138.5 products as well as intensify R&D with a view to future 120.0 business expansion. In line with our transition from a 120 6 works-based structure to a system of business domains, in 2015 we established a comprehensive Research & 80 4.3 4 4.1 Development Center, consolidating five domestic R&D 3.6 3.7 3.5 centers and transitioning to cross-organizational man40 2 agement in our R&D structure. Through this approach, we anticipate new technological synergies, enhanced human resource development, and greater efficiency in 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 （FY） 0 (Forecast) work performance and facility utilization. R&D expenses Share of net sales (right scale) We are globalizing our R&D structure, and as part * The figures above for R&D expenditures include expenses related to R&D under contact. of these efforts we are dispatching specialist engineers from research centers in Japan to our bases in the United Kingdom, Singapore, the United States, and China. We are making efforts to secure leading global technologies, information, and human resources, while conducting research and providing technological support that is closely aligned with market needs. Intellectual Property The MHI Group maintains close relations between its Specifically, we position the use of intellectual property shared technology framework and individual business as the main thrust of our intellectual property activities, domains, developing intellectual property strategies that pursuing strategic use of intellectual properties tailored combine the Group’s business and technology strategies. to our business portfolio. We are also increasing our By having the intellectual property division coordinate number of overseas patent applications as our business the intellectual property strategies of each domain, we grows more global, and we will drive the centralization work to realize intellectual property strategies for the of intellectual property rights to play a key role in augGroup as a whole and further enhance corporate value. menting business earnings. Number of Domestic and Overseas Patents Number of Patents Held by Region 15,000 14,045 14,056 2,500 +44% 13,113 Canada +55% 11,801 11,367 2,000 Other Asian 6,633 6,676 countries 10,000 6,090 5,197 5,349 1,500 +14% South Korea France U.S. 1,000 5,000 U.K. China 6,452 7,023 7,412 7,380 6,170 500 Germany 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY） 0 2011 2015 2011 2015 2011 2015 （FY） Domestic Overseas Three Major North Asia European America Countries 54 MHI REPORT 2016 Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2016) Head Office: 16-5, Konan 2-chome, Minato-ku, Stock Listings: Tokyo, Nagoya, Fukuoka, and Sapporo Tokyo 108-8215, Japan Stock Exchanges Phone: +81-3-6716-3111 Ticker Code: 7011 Fax: +81-3-6716-5800 Manager of the Register Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Established: January 11, 1950 of Shareholders: Corporation Paid-in Capital: ¥265.6 billion 4-5, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Total Number of 6,000,000,000 100-8212, Japan Issuable Shares: Independent Auditors: Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Total Number of Shares 3,373,647,813 Hibiya Kokusai Bldg., 2-3, Uchisaiwai-cho Issued: 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0011, Japan Number of Shareholders: 293,160 Number of Employees: 83,932 (Consolidated) 19,357 (Non-consolidated) Major Shareholders Number of shares owned by % of total shares major shareholders Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 158,176,900 4.68% The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 130,715,000 3.87% The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. 125,666,000 3.72% (Retirement Benefit Trust Account for The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.) Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 80,022,741 2.37% The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV 10 67,278,449 1.99% State Street Bank West Client-Treaty 505234 46,249,260 1.37% The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. 45,934,000 1.36% (Retirement Benefit Trust Account for Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 44,177,000 1.30% Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. 37,800,000 1.12% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 6) 36,503,000 1.08% Classified by Type of Shareholder Classified by Number of Holdings 1,000 shares and above Less than 1,000 shares (226,127 persons) (14,513 persons) Financial Individuals institutions 11.27% 0.08% and others 5,000 shares and above 32.39% 28.70% (31,453 persons) 5.58% Securities companies 2.24% 10,000 shares 100,000 and above shares Foreign (19,355 persons) and above institutions 8.56% (946 persons) Other and 73.06% corporations individuals 50,000 shares andabove 28.10% 8.57% (766 persons) 1.45% Stock Price Range and Trading Volume (Tokyo Stock Exchange) YenTOPIX 800 2,000 MHI common stock price range TOPIX 600 1,500 400 1,000 200 500 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY） 0 Thousands of shares 1,200,000 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY） 55 Overseas Head Offices and Networks / Overseas Offices 5 6 17 4 18 8 9 1 7 19 11 15 20 21 23 3 10 24 14 13 25 26 12 27 2 22 16 Overseas Head Offices and Networks Overseas Offices North America  Europe  1 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. 17 Kiev Liaison Office 18 Turkey Liaison Office Latin America  2 Mitsubishi Industrias Pesadas do Brasil Ltda. Middle East  3 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. 19 Basra Liaison Office 20 Abu Dhabi Office Europe  21 Dubai Office 4 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries France S.A.S. 5 MHI Russia LLC Africa  6 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Europe, Ltd. 22 Johannesburg Office Africa  Asia  7 MHI Technologies S.A.E 23 Taipei Office 24 Hanoi Liaison Office Asia and Oceania  25 Ho Chi Minh City Liaison Office 8 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (China) Co., Ltd. 26 Kuala Lumpur Office 9 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 27 Jakarta Liaison Office 10 ‌ M itsubishi Heavy Industries, (Hong Kong) Ltd. 11 MHI KOREA, Ltd. 12 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 13 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Philippines, Inc. 1 4 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) Ltd. 15 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Private Ltd. 16 MHI Australia, Pty. Ltd. For information on overseas Group companies not provided above, please refer to the “Global Network” section of our website. http://www.mhi-global.com/network/index.html This report has been printed on environmentally considerate FSC® certified paper, using VOC (volatile organic compound) free ink. A waterless printing process was employed, which eliminates the use of alkaline developing solutions and elements such as isopropyl alcohol in the damping water. K130-MHIR16E1-A-0, (10.0)16-10, F Printed in Japan
