2016 Daewoo E&C Sustainability Report For the People & Better Tomorrow CONTENTS 2016 Introduction 06 CEO Message Daewoo E&C 08 CFO Message 10 Re-viewing Daewoo E&C Sustainability 12 Company Overview Report Materiality 24 Sustainability Management 26 Materiality Assessment & Stakeholder Engagement Managing 30 Global E&C Leader Business Performance Sustainability Enhancement of Global Business Operations Issues New Business and Future Growth at Daewoo E&C 52 Compliance and Ethical Management Compliance Ethical Management 58 Health and Safety Health and Safety 68 Eco-Friendly Construction Environmental Management Key Environmental Performance Climate Change Eco-Friendly Business 82 Customer Satisfaction Quality Management Customer Satisfaction Information Protection Sustainability 98 Economy Risk Management Performance Innovative Technology 108 Environment Energy, Air Pollutants, Waste Products Biodiversity, Harmful Chemical Substances Environmental Campaign, Investment on Environment, Eco-Friendly Procurement, Awards and Achievements 112 Society Employee Supplier Local Community Future Society Appendix 130 Sustainable Management Performance (Economic/Environmental/Social) 132 Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement 134 Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions 135 GRI G4 Content Index 137 United Nations Global Compact 138 ISO 26000 139 Membership 139 Consolidated Subsidiary List 140 About This Report Introduction 06 _ CEO Message 08 _ CFO Message 10 _ Re-Viewing Daewoo E&C CEO Message I n t ro d u c t i o n CEO Message In 2015, despite the intense competition domestically within growth engine. Daewoo E&C will focus on implementing the construction market in Korea and the decline of overseas substantial management for stabilizing financial stability construction markets due to low oil prices, Daewoo E&C through innovative cost reduction, profit-oriented order review, achieved considerably satisfactory performance compared to cash flow-based target management, and reinforcement of risk our industry peers thanks to the rapid reorganization of our management systems. business portfolio in advance. By winning the S-Oil RUC and Kuwait Al-Zour Refinery construction, we were able to line up a Second is strengthening the efficiency and productivity of the system of all business types with engineering and construction. organizational operation. Also, the Compliance Program was implemented to enable all This means eliminating the inefficiencies accumulated within employees to have law-abiding consciousness in performing the company to improve the productivity through organizational their work, and these efforts were acknowledged internally innovation and efficiency in manpower operation. By and externally by being the only Korean construction company aggressively rearranging similar businesses and overlapping ranked at 19th place within the ‘2015 Asia Sustainability divisions, the portion of overlapping management tasks will be Ranking’ that announced the sustainability performance of reduced, and efficiency and speediness in decision making will companies in the Asian Region. be strengthened to become a slim and healthy organization. Through continuous sales growth and efforts to reduce the Third is establishing trust based on ethics. overall cost in the first half of 2016, Daewoo E&C was able The fundamentals of a company must be based on truthfulness. to improve its financial structure. However, the uncertain Daewoo E&C will secure transparency in all fields, and operate internal and external business environment is expected to be under the principles of the law and morals to enable sustainable unfavorable regardless of the business area or type. Along with growth and development. the unstable macroeconomics, such as Brexit and the possibility of the US raising the interest rate, the continuous low oil price Fourth is practicing true talent management. is expected to result in the decrease in the order from oilTalents are always included as the key success factor of great producing countries in the Middle East and Africa, restructuring companies. We will introduce new recruitment system for of construction companies by the government, and decrease in training and developing excellent talents without the prejudice the housing business to continue the phase of low-growth. of major, school relations nor regionalism, and we will continue our efforts to build better and fresh future for our company. The unfavorable domestic and foreign environment mentioned above are requiring tough challenges, but Daewoo E&C, which Dear respected stakeholders of Daewoo E&C, is aiming for the people & better tomorrow, will pursue the Thank you for your warm support for Daewoo E&C, and we ask ‘Global Infra & Energy Developer’ by 2025 based on our DNA cordially for your continuous interest and support. of successfully overcoming the past crisis and challenges, and the experience of being Korea’s No. 1 construction company. Thank you. To fulfill this goal, Daewoo E&C will improve its financial stability by reinforcing business profitability, strengthening the efficiency and productivity of the organizational operation, September 2016 establishing trust based on ethics, and practicing true talent Daewoo E&C Co., Ltd. Dear respected stakeholders of Daewoo E&C, management. I am Chang-min Park, CEO of Daewoo First is the improvement of the financial stability by reinforcing CEO Chang-min Park business profitability. Engineering & Construction. Rather than the practice of simple construction, we will focus on improving the profitability by creating the high value-added 06 07 CFO Message I n t ro d u c t i o n CFO Message 2015 was not the greatest year for the construction market with 2016 will be a year for Daewoo E&C to regain the trust of the the plummet of international oil prices within the prolonged market. Throughout all our business divisions whether it be civil, low growth economy since the global financial crises. building works, plant or others, Daewoo E&C will selectively pursue profitable new orders and control site costs efficiently. Daewoo E&C, however, managed to secure KRW 13 trillion This shall enable us to not only accomplish KRW 12.2 trillion in new orders, KRW 9.9 trillion in sales revenue and KRW 3.3 in new orders but also break through KRW 10 trillion in sales billion in operating profit as a result of outstanding housing revenue. Such performance shall become the foundation of our supply performances, diversification of overseas markets and goal to achieve KRW 25 trillion in sales revenue and KRW 2 our differentiation strategies. Such achievement was only trillion in operating profit by 2025. possible thanks to the efforts of all our employees and the faith our stakeholders placed in us throughout the whole adventure. 2016 holds both risks and opportunities for Daewoo E&C and will be a significant year for our new growth. We pledge to put The global construction market is opening up and the our best and collective efforts forward to achieve our 2016 goal competition is becoming fiercer by the minute. and 2025 vision. We cannot entrust the profitability of our company through Looking into the future, we anticipate your continuous support conventional construction and EPC projects alone, and this for Daewoo E&C. is why Daewoo E&C has established ‘Global Infra & Energy Developer’ as our midand long-term strategic goal. In line Thank you. with the goal, we are focused on strengthening core capacities, expanding business to incorporate investment, development and management, globalization, settling a corporate culture of creativity and managing our human resources ever more September 2016 efficiently. Daewoo E&C Co., Ltd. In addition, we have created a division primarily and solely in CFO Kyung-taek Lim charge of efficient risk management and are now running an Integrated Project Management System that manages a project from kick-off to close-out in six stages. We also reinforced monitoring on the estimated costs at all our domestic and overseas sites in order to ensure accounting transparency for our investors. Dear beloved stakeholders of Daewoo E&C, This is Kyungtaek Lim, Chief Financial Officer of Daewoo E&C. It is a great pleasure and honor to meet you through the 2016 sustainability report. 08 09 Re-viewing Daewoo E&C How well would you say you know about Daewoo E&C? Daewoo E&C has been achieving steady but meaningful growth while undertaking strenuous efforts to lead the development of sustainable business practice in the industry. In this report, we would like to shed light on some of the major achievements and strengths of Daewoo E&C by ‘Re-viewing Daewoo E&C.’ 10 Daewoo E&C has an R&D center that leads technological innovation Daewoo E&C has outstanding risk management skills In 1983, Daewoo E&C opened Daewoo E&C Institute of Construction Technology (DICT), which is the first in the industry to align research and In a period of global low-growth and increasing economic uncertainties, more deliberate and preemptive risk management is required experiments. Since then, we have devoted constant efforts to the innovation of construction technology. As a recognition for such endeavors, to prevent significant loss while selecting and undertaking projects. In July 2015, Daewoo E&C developed and newly established an the Order of Science and Technology Merit, the Presidential Award on Construction Technology’s Day, and the President’s Award for the Best Integrated Project Management System in order to monitor and keep track of step-by-step project risks while integrally monitoring project Corporate Research Institute were granted among others. Our portfolio differentiates itself from that of other R&D centers, which focus only on information scattered in different systems. In 2016, based on the shared information of the risk management, we plan to strengthen our technology development and technological support. Being the first in the industry to establish a division for technology business, we not only risk management system through RM (Risk Management) 2.0, a new risk managing paradigm supporting substantial management through profit through our technology but also prepare for new businesses by anticipating future engineering and construction trends. preemptive communication and collaboration among divisions. Through the establishment of a package system for technological support, the DICT provides systematic technological support that covers the Moreover, on October 15, 2015, Daewoo E&C upgraded our risk management by obtaining the ISO 22301 certification for the first time entire construction process and this has contributed in improving our management indicators to KRW 62.7 billion in 2014 and KRW 68.8 billion in the domestic construction industry. ISO 22301 is an international standard to ensure the continuity of companies’ key businesses in 2015. With such performance being recognized both internally and externally, we received the IR52 Jang Youngshil Award (The Minister by helping companies recover back to normal from crises such as disasters, terrorism and conflicts as quickly as possible, utilizing of Science, ICT and Future Planning Award) and the Entrepreneur for Construction Technology R&D Award (The Chairman of the National the available resources in full. By acquiring the certification, we expect to not only enhance our credibility from clients and government Assembly Award) in 2015. The DICT aims to make fruitful contributions for a brighter construction industry via three key businesses: 1) saving organizations in the stage of bidding and construction, but also secure global competitiveness by strengthening risk management skills. project costs through our technology; 2) supporting bidding processes by applying specialized technologies to raise the price competitiveness; and 3) creating future income sources through future forecasting and technology sensing. RM 2.0 Strategy ‘By sharing information on risk management, we are building a new paradigm that supports substantial management through preemptive communication and collaboration between business and supporting divisions’ Awareness Raising 2. Strengthen management and support for overseas Internal operation sites Development/ Expertise Increase Profitability Increase 1. 3. Internalize substantial Improve managerial RM system based on competence through collaboration and system sharing Establishment of integrated RM system through risk communication Daewoo E&C recognizes the value of the environment, technology, and design Daewoo E&C is the cradle of future construction leaders In October 2015, Korea Electric Power Corporation (KPECO)’s new company building construction site by Daewoo E&C’s Building Daewoo E&C is regarded as the place of opportunity for new employees to rise through the ranks to eventually become CEO. Works Division was awarded the grand prize in the ‘2015 Korea Green Building Competition’ organized held by Presidential According to the analysis of Jobplanet, a social media known for company evaluations, Daewoo E&C received the highest score Commission on Architecture Policy (PCAP). This accomplishment was followed by acquiring LEED (Leadership in Energy and on most of the criteria based on the assessment of 20,000 reviews from the employees regarding opportunity and/or possibility Environmental Design) Platinum certification from US Green Building Council (USGBC) in July and winning the Minister Award in the of promotion, salary and benefits, corporate culture, work-life balance and executives, especially on promotion opportunities and ‘2015 Korea Public Building Prize’ from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport (MOLIT) in September. Recognizing the possibility and corporate culture. Daewoo E&C won 4th place in the ranking of the ’25 Best Korean Conglomerates to Work For’, value of the environment, Daewoo E&C has become the leading company in the eco-friendly construction in the market. jointly selected by Fortune Korea and Jobplanet. We believe that this is the fruit of our efforts to focus on human resources and In November 2015, the Gwanggyo Complex construction site by our Building Works Division has also won the grand prize (The foster future construction leaders by pursuing our core values, ‘Challenge and Passion’ and ‘Autonomy and Accountability’. Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Award) in the ‘11th Korea Civil and Building Technology Competition’. The Gwanggyo Complex was highly praised of its outstanding design, planning for the line of flow and connectivity among internal communities. The line of flow of residents and commercial area visitors could have overlapped around the clock tower but the critics’ evaluation was that it was adequately separated. Furthermore, its fine exterior and landscape were assessed to be harmonious with the Gwanggyo Mountain nearby. Moreover, also in November, the construction site for Seoul National University’s Kwanjeong Library received the grand prize in the public sector of the ‘2015 Korea Construction Culture Competition’. The library not only proved its fine interior and exterior, but also verified Daewoo E&C’s excellent technologies through the application of a special construction technology called ‘Nonsupporting Steel Mega-Truss Lifting & Sliding’. Overall Score of Score by Criteria Opportunity and/or Daewoo E&C in Opportunity and/or possibility possibility of promotion the ‘Best Korean of promotion 3.6 Company to Work Salary and benefits 3.8 For’ Executives Salary and benefits Work-life balance 3.3 Corporate culture 3.9 Executives 3.1 Corporate culture Work and life balance Overall score Company with the opportunity to become CEO starting as an ordinary employee Daewoo E&C is a great place to work for women Daewoo E&C is recognized around the world for its sustainable management Considering the difficulties in construction industry for women, Daewoo E&C has made strenuous efforts to create a better work On December 1, 2015, at the UNESCO meeting in Paris, ‘Business and Climate – a positive revolution for companies’, Daewoo environment for women. We proactively promote family-friendly management, implementing supporting systems for childbirth, E&C’s climate change risks and opportunities, greenhouse gas inventory management and carbon disclosure were introduced as childcare, education, etc. In 2013, we obtained—and are still maintaining—family-friendly certification given by the Ministry of one of the best practices. Co-hosted by Positive Economy Forum and KPMG, this meeting was held during the period of the United Gender Equality and Family (MOGEF) and became the first in the industry to be chosen as the ‘Excellent Family-Friendly Company.’ Nations 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21) with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of France, UNESCO Secretary General, around Furthermore, on October 30, 2015, Daewoo E&C won the grand prize in the Apartment section of the ‘18th Best Company Award 200 CEOs and sustainability experts, gathered to discuss business and climate change. Chosen by Female Consumers’ sponsored by MOGEF and Korean Women Entrepreneurs Association. This prize is granted for not In addition, Daewoo E&C ranked 19th among 100 companies in the ‘2015 Channel News Asia Sustainability Ranking,’ jointly only the quality of company’s products and services, but also the level of female-friendly management, ethical management and conducted by Sustainalytics, Channel News Asia and CSR Asia from July to October. We were the only Korean construction social contribution, evaluated on women’s perspective. Winning this award means that our endeavors in gender equality has gained company listed on the ranking. This serves as a momentum to let the world know about our arduous efforts such as introducing recognition from the female consumers. Compliance Program (CP), implementing consistent CSR activities and announcing midand long-term strategy, Vision 2025. Daewoo E&C aspires not to merely rest on our accomplishments, but to become a companion of our country and society. Family-Friendly Management Target Differentiated Aspects Content of the • Climate Change Risks and Opportunities Support of Support Support of marriage Annually monitors risks and opportunities according leisure time of family encouragement Book ‘Inspire to changes in regulations, physicality, brand with family healthcare & family events Change’ reputation, and customer behavior, and examines response measures Holds events for employee’s Provides medical checkProvides expenditure family members, provides ups for employee’s spouse, for congratulations and • Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Management vacation, vacation bonus and medical expenses of family condolences, funeral services, System leisure facilities, supports inand of disabled family member, etc. All employees including both Establish and operate GHG inventory system within company leisure clubs, etc. healthcare education, leave of permanent and temporary absence (ex. family nursing, 'BAROCON', an integrated construction management position etc.) system since 2012. Sustainalytics/Channel News Asia Evaluation Framework Environmental Social Governance Operation Site Employee Business Ethics Supply Chain Supply Chain Corporate Governance Products & Services Customer Public Policy Community & Philanthropy 11 Company Overview I n t ro d u c t i o n G4-17 Company Overview Domestic & Overseas Subsidiaries (As of March 9, 2016) About Daewoo E&C 05 Domestic (8) 04 01 No Title Location Since the establishment in 1973, Daewoo E&C has relentlessly pursued change and innovation, adding new values to our 01 Daewoo Songdo Hotel Co., Incheon lives. Having created a wide variety of business opportunities by working closely with financial institutions such as Korea Ltd. 03 02 Development Bank (KDB) and a recently established Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), we are expanding our stage 06 02 Foodream Co., Ltd. to the world to gain a solid foothold in the global construction market. Based on the belief in the ‘power of construction to 03 PRUGIO Service Co., Ltd. Seoul change the world,’ we will open up a new and better future as the market-leading construction convergence innovator. 04 Kangdong Project Financing Vehicle Co., Ltd. Overview (As of December 31, 2015) 05 Daewoo Power Co., Ltd. Pocheon 1) Excludes offices Company Name DAEWOO Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. 06 Daewoo ST Co., Ltd. Jincheon 2) Excludes contract 08 workers and overseas Date of Establishment November 1, 1973 07 Korea Infra Management Busan site workers Co., Ltd. Address 75, Saemunan-ro (Sinmunno 1-ga), Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea 07 08 Busan High Tech Industrial CEO Youngsik Park Complex Co., Ltd. Branches and Affiliates 2 Domestic Branch, 22 Overseas Branches1), and 10 Overseas Subsidiaries Major Shareholder Korea Development Bank (KDB Value 6 Ltd.) Number of Employees 6,1742) Overseas (5) Website Korean) www.daewooenc.com / English) www.daewooenc.com/eng No Title Location 01 DW America Development, New York, U.S.A. Inc. 02 Daewoo Tripoli Investment & Tripoli, Libya Development Co., Ltd. Organizational Structure (As of March 9, 2016) 03 Daewoo E&C Nigeria Ltd. Abuja, Nigeria President & CEO 04 THT Development Co., Ltd. Hanoi, Vietnam Public Relations Management Review Division Division 05 Saipan Laulau Saipan, U.S.A. 01 Development, Inc. Plant & Power Corporate Management & Sector Service Sector 02 03 04 Civil Project Division Building Works Division Overseas Infra Project Division Housing Division Plant Business Division Power Plant Division Engineering & Procurement Strategic Planning Division Global Business Management Division Finance Division Risk Management Division Corporate Management & Procurement & Cost HSE-Q Division Institute of Construction MENA Regional Division 05 Management Division Technology Service Division Service Division 12 13 Company Overview I n t ro d u c t i o n Vision 2025 Core Value With a firm belief in change and innovation for our better future, Daewoo E&C announced the new vision ‘For the People & Daewoo E&C has declared its core value, ‘Challenge and Passion’ and ‘Autonomy and Accountability’ at the 42th anniversary Better Tomorrow’ in order to prepare for the paradigm shift in the construction industry and establish differentiated strategy in of its founding. This stipulates the value inherent in our employees through 42 years of history, which has empowered Daewoo response to the stagnant construction market in Korea and the excessive competition in overseas markets. This new vision E&C to lead the construction market in Korea and around the world, despite being a latecomer. Since 2015, we have launched will serve as a new motive for us to become the ‘Global Infra & Energy Developer,’ our 2025 midand long-term strategic a course called, ‘History of DAEWOO,’ for newcomers and included it in their core value performance. objective. Core value For the People • Company that grows with customers, partners, local and the World community, employees, shareholders • Company that communicates with customers and partners, Challenge and Autonomy and and fulfills customers’ values and dreams based on trust Passion Accountability • Company of which employees can be proud and enjoy working with the sense of responsibility and ownership Midand long-term strategy Strategic Global Infra & Energy Developer For the People & Objective KRW 25 trillion for 2025 Sales, Tomorrow Better Tomorrow People KRW 2 trillion (8%) for Operating Profit Core Strategy Strengthening core competency change together Extend investment/ Upgrade/Specialize Development/Operation business operations Internal Innovation Establishing creative corporate culture & For the Future • Company that prepares to become a global leading Boosting efficiency in human resource Diversification through company without being complacent management of business Change and • Company that evolves to become a comprehensive Innovation developer providing services at all phases through Glocalization enhanced planning and proposal skills • Company that contributes to society by leading the global Globalization+ infrastructure & energy market Localization 14 15 Company Overview I n t ro d u c t i o n Topic of the Year 2015, ‘PRO-Performer’ Topic of the Year 2016, ‘Ensuring Internal Stability’ The topic of the year 2015, ‘PRO-Performer,’ is composed of three pillars: (1) Profit Maximization, (2) Revenue Growth and (3) The business environment, locally and abroad, is deteriorating due to the prolonged low oil prices, excessive supply in Order Increase. In terms of profit maximization, Daewoo E&C aimed at innovating production cost and accomplishing a nohousing and increase in base interest rate. In 2016, despite these difficulties, Daewoo E&C promises to make progress by fault in Engineering and construction. In order to achieve revenue growth, we made an effort to maximize productivity and concentrating on internal growth. Therefore, the topic of the year 2016, ‘Ensuring Internal Stability,’ is composed of four pillars: strengthen our operation supporting process. Lastly, for the order increase, we strived to increase success rates for winning Internal Development, Profitability Increase, Awareness Raising, and Expertise Increase. an order and explore new growth engines. Daewoo E&C has created synergy through company-wide reformation to increase corporate value, a systematic response to the paradigm shift in the construction industry, and the internalization of our new corporate vision as well as our midand long-term strategies. Internal Profitability Development Increase Internal development through companyPrioritization of profitability at all phases wide reformation such as efficiency in including sales, order, engineering, PROProfit organization/process construction and operation Performer Maximization • Improve productivity and effectiveness through management innovation • Obtain stable business competence and enhance • Manage variability through enhanced risk analysis and management from the earlier stages of project • Increase profitability through V/O (Variation Order) and competitiveness through systematic cooperation between strengthening capacity in claiming business divisions and supporting teams • Become a Developer through accumulation of profit and utilize it as a source of new business Awareness Expertise Order Revenue Raising Increase Prevention of disaster/loss by reviewing and Increase expertise of all employees to Increase Growth improving existing business practices become Global Infra & Energy Developer • Implemented professional and sophisticated safety • Develops new growth engines including investment/ management through risk assessment development business • Occurrence of tangible and intangible loss due to • Expect expansion of Asian Infra market due to the launch of continuous serious incidents and violations AIIB (Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank) and increase our • Need to internalize employee safety and compliance role as Developer program • Increase expertise in EPC (Engineering Procurement Construction) and IPP (Independent Power Plant) • Need to improve language abilities and relevant specialties to develop global competitiveness in higher value-added areas such as planning, financing and operating 16 17 Business Portfolio I n t ro d u c t i o n Civil power plant Business housing Power business for Daewoo E&C has been promoted Portfolio With proven technology, high quality service, and strategically as its national export strategy, executing successful overseas experience, Daewoo E&C has public and private projects domestically while proving building contributed to Korea’s economic development by For the past six years, Daewoo E&C has secured building a series of major social infrastructures in the 1970s, including highways, railways, and harbors. its position as a forerunner in the housing business. This is the result of the detailed market analysis, plant its strong potential to grow in emerging markets such as Asia, Africa, and South America, where marketing strategies and outstanding product the demands for electricity is surging. In 2015, Especially in 2015, despite global economic Despite the stagnant construction market in Korea competitiveness in the housing market, where however, the overall business environment was rather depression, we secured our operating profit by Despite market decline due to low oil prices, the and overseas markets, Daewoo E&C’s Building catering to smart consumers’ needs is pivotal. tough regarding economic stagnation in domestic engaging in new projects based on profitability in amount of new orders secured by the Plant Division Works is securely diversifying its business with Daewoo E&C is continuously creating productive construction industry and has led to the decrease private contractors and Social Overhead Capital in 2015 increased substantially compared to the high-rise buildings and intelligent buildings. The changes that enrich the lives of its customers. In in the number of overseas projects due to the fall of (SOC) business in Korea. We are seeking to adopt previous year. However, new investments from oilsophisticated, yet comfortable, and safe, yet 2015, the Housing Division has strengthened its core oil prices. Going through such difficulties, we have diversification strategy to win overseas projects producing countries will decrease along with the pleasant designs and spaces provided by Daewoo competence and prepared for recovery in the housing continued to promote new Independent Power based on localization strategy and partnerships ever-declining oil prices and we expect the downfall E&C have now become the landmark of its own, market. Nevertheless, in 2016, expecting increase in Plant (IPP) projects and overseas EPC (Engineering in Asia and South Africa region. In 2016, in to be the lowest in the recent six years. Daewoo all over the world. We lead the industry with our uncertainties of financial regulations, concentration of Procurement Construction) projects. In 2016, we response to the deteriorating business environment E&C shall therefore focus on successfully managing smart and eco-friendly technologies and our housing supply, excessive competition in the industry, hope to take a leap forward based upon last year’s and excessive competition, we will select and and completing projects, especially our new largecompetencies in various fields such as houses, we shall strengthen our internal stability through efforts. concentrate on projects with high profitability and scale projects; establish business strategies based endeavor to accomplish substantial revenue growth offices, hotels, medical facilities, cultural facilities efficient operation and risk management on performance capacity; and reduce costs in order followed by diversifying business areas, maximizing and more. In 2015, with the steady recovery in the and increase housing market share to reinforce our competitiveness. operating profit and securing liquidity. real estate market, the Building Works Division has through expansion into new business efficiently managed and actively targeted housing and strengthened core competencies and office building markets. In 2016, keeping based on differentiated competitiveness. in mind the topic of the year, ‘Ensuring Internal Stability,’ we will strive to lay a cornerstone of future growth of Building Works through restructuring our business portfolio based on profitability and stability. 18 19 Corporate Governance I n t ro d u c t i o n Corporate Governance Annual BOD Operations Category Subcategory Unit 2013 2014 2015 BoD Occasions times 18 17 14 Shareholders and Investors Agenda number 66 48 56 Attendance rate % 97 92.9 98.1 Daewoo E&C preserves the right of shareholders to be informed by publicly disclosing management information, financial information, Investor Relations (IR) materials and stock information on the IR website (www.dwconstir.com). Material information, which Daewoo E&C is legally obliged to disclose, is available in Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) Data Analysis, BoD Committees Retrieval and Transfer System (DART) and Korea Investor’s Network for Disclosure System (KIND) of Korea Exchange (KRX). Outside directors are transparently nominated by the Outside Director Nomination Committee. Meanwhile the Audit Committee Major Shareholders (As of December 31, 2015) is in charge of overseeing business and accounting within Daewoo E&C in order to obtain transparency of accounting, legality Shareholder Percentage of shares (%) Business relations and fairness. Korea Development Bank (KDB Value 6 Ltd.) 50.8 None BoD Committee Operations SEBT Investment Ltd. 12.3 None Category Roles and Responsibilities Members Kumho Tires Co., Inc. 4.4 None Outside Director Nomination To recommend suitable candidates for non1 inside director, 3 outside directors, 1 nonKumho Petrochemical, Co., Ltd. 3.5 None Committee executive positions to the general meeting executive director Asiana Airlines, Inc. 2.2 None Audit Committee To oversee financial reporting and accounting 2 outside directors, 1 non-executive director BoD Evaluation and Remuneration BoD (Board of Directors) Organization and Operations Remuneration for the constituents of BoD is decided upon financial performance, the amount of which may not exceed the Daewoo E&C strives to establish a transparent corporate governance through effective monitoring and objective advice. The limit decided upon the General Meeting. Information on total executive remuneration, average remuneration per person and BoD consists of experts that discuss material issues with respect to business operations and ensure sustainable management individual remuneration figures (over KRW 500 million) is publicly disclosed in Daewoo E&C’s Annual Report and the IR website and growth in their respective fields. In 2015, BoD meetings were held on 14 occasions, resolving 56 agenda with the for transparent information disclosure. Retirement pay for executives is provided according to the Rules of the General Meeting attendance rate of 98%. As of 10 March 2016, 4 occasions were taken place in 2016. (with reference to Article 30, Articles of Incorporation). BoD Organization (As of December 31, 2015) Remuneration Status of BoD (Unit: KRW million) Category Name Date of Birth Background Rationale Title Number of persons Remuneration in total Average remuneration per person Inside Director Youngsik Park 1957.02 CEO of Daewoo E&C CEO Inside Director 2 1,231 616 Former Head of Planning/Sales Division Outside Director 2 117 59 Inside Director Kyungtaek Lim 1956.02 Chief Vice President of Daewoo E&C CFO Former Vice-Chairman of KDB Member of the Audit 3 118 39 Committee or Auditor Outside Director Sunjik Kwon 1950.03 Outside Director of NH FUTURES Marketing expert Outside Director Suntae Jeong 1956.10 Lawyer in Kim Chang & Lee Law Firm Legal expert Remuneration Status of the Chairman of BoD (Unit: KRW million) Director Title Remuneration in total Rationale Outside Director Khan Park 1949.04 Director of Haekwan Foundation Financial expert Youngsik Park President & CEO 732 Salaries: Divided payment of KRW 531 million during the disclosure Outside Director Hongkee Jee 1948.09 Former President of Korea Federation of Water Technical expert Science and Engineering Societies period, according to the rule of treatment of board members Bonus: Divided payment of 60% of salaries in Lunar New year and Non-Executive Jinkyo Oh 1962.07 Head of Private Equity Fund of KDB Preservation of Director shareholder rights Chuseok, according to the rule of treatment of board members 20 21 Materiality Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Management Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement G4-24, 25, 26 Sustainability Management Stakeholder Engagement The purpose of Daewoo E&C’s sustainability management is to achieve sustainable growth of the company by providing our Sustainability Management System stakeholders with differentiated values. Accordingly, we have defined the eight key stakeholders who have direct or indirect impact upon us and vice versa. We have various communication channels to listen to their opinions and thereby apply their In order to become a leading company in sustainable management that takes into account the economy, environment and expectations and interests into our overall business activities. society in an integrated and balanced way, Daewoo E&C established a sustainability management system in 2012. Business activities are largely based on Daewoo E&C’s core values, ‘Challenge and Passion,’ and ‘Autonomy and Accountability’ and vision, ‘For the People & Better Tomorrow’, in order to create stakeholder value and to fulfill our corporate social responsibility. 8 Key Stakeholders Definition Responsibility Communication Sustainability Management System Part of the Daewoo E&C’s family who creates True owner of Daewoo E&C who provides a future together; foothold of the company’s financial capital existence Shareholder & Customer Investor To disclose information in an accurate and To provide the best residential environment timely manner via transparent management and construction product service for customer satisfaction General Meeting of Shareholders, Annual Reports, Analyst Meetings, Investor Relations Integrated Contact Centers, the PRUGIO (IR) Conferences, etc. Website, Show Houses, Social Networking Sustainability Global E&C Services (SNS), etc. Management Leader The most valuable human resources that Partner who supports our operation by compose Daewoo E&C; a partner for supplying energy and resources sustainable management Employee Supplier To provide technological and administrative To improve employee satisfaction by support, establish a transparent, fair strengthening their capabilities and relationship for the supplier’s growth enhancing the quality of life Future Growth The Supplier Website (e-Cos), Partner Labor Unions, In-house Newspapers, Ethical Meetings, Co-Prosperity Workshops, etc. (Economy) management Help-Line, BARONET (Internal intranet), Monthly and Weekly Compliance Maximization of trend reports, etc. Corporate Value and Financial Performance Residents of our site’s surrounding Organizations with expert knowledge of the communities and where our housing construction industry; subject of continuous products are located; beneficiaries of Academia/ cooperation Local sustainability activities Association/ Community Organization To cooperate with academic community and To actively pursue philanthropic activities and pursue joint Research & Development (R&D) Green Growth Dominance in hub markets Shared Growth contribute to community development with various associations; remain active in (Environment) (Society) associations Community Service Clubs, Ethical Eco-friendly Entrance into new markets and businesses Commitment to Management Website, Monthly Volunteer Conferences, Seminars, Association Activities, Whitepaper on Philanthropic activities, etc. Construction Corporate Social Activities, etc. Management Responsibility Provider of a stepping stone for further Leaders of tomorrow; all entities that growth based on stable regulatory and social should not be neglected from a long-term environment Future perspective Government Generation Compliance to environmental laws and regulations Implementation of To create jobs, pay taxes, and abide by laws To contribute to economic growth and social and regulations; contribute to the sustainable stability & inclusion via waste treatment and reduction of noise and vibration compliance and ethical management development at the national level Job Fairs, Websites, Student Ambassadors, Government Committees, Participation in SNS, etc. Development of eco-friendly technologies Fulfillment of corporate social responsibility Policy Research, Joint Partnership Programs, and new renewable energy businesses through social contribution activities etc. 24 25 Materiality Assessment Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement G4-18, 20, 21, 27 G4-18, 19, 20, 21, 27 Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment Results Assessment Process A Since 2012, when the first Sustainability Report was published, Daewoo E&C has been conducting annual Materiality Assessment Surveys to identify material issues. We have systematized and elaborated the materiality assessment surveys every year. The Impact on Stakeholders' Decision-Making Process B Material Assessment Survey in this report was conducted among a range of internal and external stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, suppliers, and 20 divisions at Daewoo E&C that are closely engaged in sustainable management. C Survey Respondents Survey Period Assessment Criteria I D External: Customers, Shareholders External: External: The level of influence & Investors, Suppliers, Local Mar 7, 2016 ~ Mar 15, 2016 each issue has on one’s decisionJ K L M E F G H Communities, Academia/ making process Associations/Organizations, Government(s), Future Generations, etc. N O Internal: 20 divisions at Daewoo Internal: Internal: Business aspects such as E&C that are relevant to sustainable Feb 25, 2016 ~ Mar 4, 2016 the probability of occurrence, level management of risk, and relevance to business opportunities Average of External Stakeholders (4.10) Assessment Results The materiality assessment survey revealed 15 issues out of 50 to be material to Daewoo E&C. All 15 issues were promptly incorporated into our sustainable management plans. In comparison with the 2015 materiality assessment results, ‘Indirect Average of Relevant Division (3.59) Economic Effects’ and ‘Compliance with Environmental Regulations’ emerged as new material issues for Daewoo E&C. We strive to improve our sustainability management to ensure continuity by reflecting these 15 material issues in the management’s Impact on Daewoo E&C's Business decision-making and relevant divisions’ management plan. Table of Contents Corresponding to Material Issues A B C D E Table of Contents Material Issues Relevant Stakeholders Consumer Health and Business Performance New Business and Industrial Health and Compliance with Safety Future Growth Safety Environmental Regulations Global E&C Leader Business Performance, New business, and Future Growth, Customer, Shareholder and Investor, Indirect Economic Effects Employee, Government Compliance Legal Compliance, Anti-Corruption, and Fair Trade Shareholder and Investor, Employee, F G H I J Local Community Material Legal Compliance Fair Trade Anti-Corruption Compliance with Product Labor-Management issues from 2014 Health and Safety Industrial Health and Safety Customer, Shareholder and Investor, Regulations Relations Employee Eco-Friendly Construction Waste Product and Wastewater Treatment, Climate Change/Air Customer, Shareholder and Investor, Pollution Mitigation, Product Labelling, Eco-Friendly Products/ Academia/Association/Organization K L M N O Services and Compliance with Environmental Regulations Product Labelling Eco-friendly Products/ Waste Product and Climate Change/Air Indirect Economic Material Services Wastewater Treatment Pollution Mitigation Effects issues Customer Satisfaction Customer Health and Safety, Compliance with Product Customer, Shareholder and Investor, that newly Regulations Local Community emerged in 2015 26 27 Managing 30 _ Global E&C Leader 58 _ Health and Safety 82 _ Customer Satisfaction Sustainability Business Performance Health and Safety Quality Management Enhancement of Global Business Operations Customer Satisfaction New Business and Future Growth Information Protection Issues 52 _ 68 _ Compliance and Ethical Management Eco-Friendly Construction Compliance Environmental Management Ethical Management Key Environmental Performances at Climate Change Eco-Friendly Business Daewoo E&C Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C G4-27 Disclosure on Management Approach Global E&C leader Sales (Unit: KRW 10 billion) In 2015, despite the tough business environment due to the low-growth of world economy and volatile exchange 9,877.5 2015 rates and oil prices, Daewoo E&C has shown a solid growth in terms of new orders and sales. It is expected 9,853.1 2014 that many challenges from the world economic downturn and various management risks will continue. 8,417.1 2013 Nevertheless, Daewoo E&C has set the goal of KRW 25 trillion in sales and KRW 2 trillion in operating profit by 2025, and endeavors to achieve the midand long-term objective, ‘Global Infra & Energy Developer’ through the 1) Enhancement of global business operations and 2) Expansion into new businesses and emerging markets. Goals Activities and Achievements • E n h a n c e m e n t o f g l o b a l b u s i n e s s • E n h a n c e m e n t o f g l o b a l b u s i n e s s • E xpansion into new businesses and operations operations emerging markets Provide an appropriate amount of Strengthened global business operations Ventured into new businesses such as human resources in a timely manner, by launching Overseas Infra Project new renewable energy, green environment enhance efficiency, develop competence Division and Overseas Mobilization business, overseas town development of foreign employees, reinforce on-site Support team, diversified the nationality projects and company-led rental housing, management, upgrade mobile support of employees improved recruiting rates sealed the deal with the biggest S-Oil system and increase support for sites of foreign employees at overseas site RUC (Residue Upgrading Complex) compared to the required, enhanced onproject in the country, contracted with Al• E xpansion into new businesses and site management, developed on-site Zour Refinery project in Kuwait, promoted emerging markets mangers’ competence, and evaluated PPP (Public Private Partnership) and O&M Maintain and expand current market labor management risks (Operation and Maintenance) businesses shares, search for new markets and diversify market base, and screen orders according to profitability Plans for 2016 • Enhancement of global business operations • Expansion into new businesses and emerging markets Strengthen and focus on winning competence in hub markets, Promote eco-friendly business, develop competence in O&M diversify market base, upgrade efficiency of human resource businesses, search for PPP business opportunities, expand into management, positively redetermine labor terms and conditions, emerging markets such as Sub-Sahara, India, Iran, Myanmar, etc. conduct guided inspections to support labor management at overseas sites, and improve relevant systems Vice President Keeyoung Lim 30 31 Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Business Performance Order Backlogs (Yearly Trend/Breakdown by Segment, Unit: KRW billion) In 2015, Daewoo E&C showed a solid performance in spite of business divisions where all phases from winning an order Yearly Trend Breakdown by Segment the global economic slowdown. Our order amount and sales to completing construction are undertaken. We created a recorded KRW 13 trillion and KRW 9.88 trillion respectively new business division and supporting division to strengthen Domestic Overseas 2013 2014 2015 with an outstanding performance from the housing business. our competence in overseas business. This year we plan to Such impressive performance led us to a steadiness in obtain stable business competence and competitiveness by 41,709.8 40,292.9 operating profit of KRW 335 billion, maintaining in the black. upgrading our risk analysis and management and securing 39,600.8 11,670.7 31,049.7 10,660.1 10,532.2 We secured our position as a forerunner in the housing a robust financial structure via efficiency in organization 19,809.5 29,760.7 17,571.8 27,930.1 17,834.3 business and diversified the market bases by construction and process. In addition, we will maximize profitability 5,433.2 type and region for establishing stable portfolio via making by strategically selecting projects. Domestically, we plan Algeria as the hub market and entering Botswana for the first to strengthen our competence in reviewing businesses 4,689.0 4,667.7 4,737.9 4,124.5 4,905.4 2,615.8 1,069.2 1,282.3 time. With the 2016 orders targeted at KRW 12.2 trillion and and prioritize projects with high profitability by enhancing sales target set at KRW 11.17 trillion, Daewoo E&C will put competitiveness in winning biddings regarding alternative 10,660.1 11,670.7 10,532.2 on constant efforts in meeting the sales target of 10 KRW project delivery. In overseas operations, we will make a trillion for the first time ever with our top-notch innovation. strenuous effort to maximize profitability by mainly focusing 2013 2014 2015 Civil Building Housing Plant Overseas In order to achieve this, we specified a clear line of authority on promising large-scale projects with high profitability. and responsibility by reorganizing a general system for Sales Revenue and Sales Revenue Plan for 2016 (Yearly Trend, Unit: KRW billion) Domestic Overseas 11,170.0 9,853.1 9,877.5 8,417.1 7,101.0 6,699.8 6,770.7 5,504.9 Financial Performance New Orders (Yearly Trend/Breakdown by Segment, Unit: KRW billion) 3,106.8 4,069.0 Yearly Trend Breakdown by Segment 2,912.2 3,153.3 Domestic Overseas 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2016F 13,073.6 Cash and Cash Equivalents (Unit: KRW billion) 11,414.5 4,338.4 4,197.2 10,936.7 3,913.8 2013 2014 2015 10,016.6 3,789.9 3,843.3 7,217.3 3,057.0 7,093.4 2,681.6 1,959.3 1,882.1 1,793.2 Credit Ratings by Evaluating Agency Credit Ratings by Evaluating 1,114.5 Agency (Commercial Paper) Ratings 870.2 Evaluating Agency Category Commercial 640.1 801.8 4,197.2 Evaluation Date Paper 542.4 3,843.3 3,057.0 Korea Ratings A2 Dec 17, 2015 Regular evaluation NICE Investors Service A2 Dec 10, 2015 Regular evaluation Korea Investors Service A2 Dec 4, 2015 Regular evaluation 2013 2014 2015 Civil Building Housing Plant Overseas 32 33 Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Major Achievements by Business operation sites through efficient organizational operation. The [Building] First Export of High-Rise Building Construction Area Overseas Infra Project Division (overseas civil project and building Technology works) recorded KRW 1,160.4 billion. The Housing Division In May 2015, Daewoo E&C successfully exported the high-rise The construction market went through a challenging year in 2015 showed a leap in its revenue, recording KRW 3,177.6 billion. building construction technology for the first time in the country. under the worldwide economic recession and low oil price. Among This was due to the establishment of foundation for sustainable Building Movement Control (BMC), one of the technologies many difficulties, Daewoo E&C achieved major accomplishments growth through a business diversification strategy where we that Daewoo E&C independently developed, was applied to in the increase in revenue and winning orders compared to those mainly focused on general bidding form of business in response Vietin Bank Tower construction, the highest building in Vietnam, of last year and other companies in the same industry through the to the revitalization of the presale housing market, while expanding providing simulations for a precise construction and accurate reorganization of business portfolios in advance and united efforts our business to public private projects, which the profitability is sensor measurement and suggesting alternatives. We have of the entire business divisions. The Civil Project Division achieved guaranteed. The Plant Division achieved KRW 1,382.1 billion even proven the effect of this technology by applying it to Songdo sales of KRW 1,193.2 billion by identifying profitable projects and in the downsizing market due to the low oil price, and the Power North-Eastern Asia Trade Tower, Malaysia KLCC Tower and IB cutting out in advance the factors that might affect cost increase Business Division focused on enhancing the stability according Tower. As a result, in April 2015, it was chosen as ‘2014 Best by enhancing the risk management. With the solid turnaround in to the experiences in various project execution and accumulated Industrial Technology in Korea (arranged by National Academy the domestic construction market around the real estate sector, technologies, recording a satisfying amount of KRW 1,109 billion of Engineering of Korea),’ standing shoulder-to-shoulder the Building Works Division recorded sales of KRW 1,834.7 billion by promoting business diversification through operation projects in with other advanced technologies such as Kakao, a mobile through the active market penetration around profitable business overseas power plants and new renewable projects. platform, the world’s first 20-nano D-RAM and UHD OLED sites such as housing and office buildings while managing TV. The prospects for additional export potential of the BMC technology is bright, regarding its high value-added qualities of enhancing the safety by forecasting any changes in height or slope during the construction while shortening the construction [Civil] Order of a USD 82 million Meki-Zeway highway [Civil] Bohyunsan Dam, the winner of the golden award periods and reducing costs. Additionally, we are trying to export project in Ethiopia for Civil Engineering Project of the Year 2015 this technology to Mexico and Malaysia, which will help us In February 2016, Daewoo E&C alone won a USD 82 On March 30, 2015, Daewoo E&C won the golden strengthen the commercialization of our technology. million highway project in Ethiopia, located at the center award for Civil Engineering Project of the Year, organized of Eastern Africa. We are going to conduct engineering by Korean Society of Civil Engineers (KSCE), for its and construction of a 37km-long highway with four lanes construction of Bohyunsan Dam. Daewoo E&C was connecting the two regions of Meki and Zeway in Oromia, responsible for the engineering and construction of a state in central Ethiopia. The duration of the construction Bohyunsan Dam, the first arch-shaped concrete gravity Vietin Bank Tower is 40 months after the effective date on the contract. Once dam in the country, proving its competence in design and the Meki-Zeway highway is completed, a wide road network technique. The dam is expected to considerably contribute linking Ethiopia with Kenya as far as to Mombasa in the east to the local community by securing 22 million tons of water. coast, the biggest traffic hub in East Africa, will be created. It is likely to not only revive bilateral trade between the two East [Building] Construction of ‘IB Tower’ in Malaysia African countries, but also help the landlocked nation expand In July 2015, Daewoo E&C successfully constructed IB the marine logistical network and contribute to the growth Tower, known as the third tallest building in Malaysia. of the regional economy. This makes Daewoo E&C the first IB Tower is a 274m-high complex building with offices, Korean construction company that has won a contract in the service apartments, penthouses and residents' common African Continent this year. Besides our long history within space located in the center of the capital city of Malaysia, North African regions such as Nigeria, Algeria, and Morocco, Kuala Lumpur. We applied our best technologies available we have extended our business territory in South Africa to the construction of IB Tower. Based on our successful (Botswana) and East Africa (Ethiopia), thereby recovering experience with IB Tower, we are planning to be actively from our poor performance in overseas and proving Daewoo engaged in construction of high-rise buildings in overseas E&C’s dominance in the market. market. Bohyunsan Dam IB Tower 34 35 Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C [Housing] Preferential Provision of ‘Dongtan Happy [Plant] Won ‘S-Oil RUC Project’ Town PRUGIO’ In May 2015, Daewoo E&C won the S-Oil RUC project to Daewoo E&C opened a model house of ‘Dongtan Happy Town construct an upgraded facility for residue oil and a downstream PRUGIO,’ new-stay company-led rental housing. Dongtan Happy facility for olefin in the Onsan Industrial Complex, Ulsan. In 37 Town PRUGIO will foster a differentiated apartment culture from months, we will build facilities that make high added-value products such as propylene or gasoline with residue oil left over other new-stay businesses by incorporating a new concept of from the refinement process. This is by far the largest single village community based on the resident’s talent donations and plan construction project in Korea with Aramco, the Saudi systematic support from the company. The village community Arabia petroleum company, holding an additional stake in S-Oil. business that Daewoo E&C is working on plans to provide a The total construction cost is estimated to be KRW 3.5 jubilant residential space and apartment without having to make trillion. people worry about where to live, based on the residential philosophy of premium residential culture space where people and nature can coexist. Through a detailed field survey about village community business, we strive to create an attractive apartment where residents can communicate and share their various talents with neighbors. If successfully built, it is expected to become a joyful residential area with a sense of community, spirit of sharing and improved quality of life, overcoming the drawbacks of individualism and social exclusiveness of an apartment. Opening of Dongtan Happy Town PRUGIO model house S-Oil RUC PJ [Plant] Won ‘Al-Zour Refinery Project’ in Kuwait of USD 13 billion, which makes it the biggest among [Power Plant] Establishment of a power business In July 2015, Daewoo E&C won the second and third the overseas projects this year. The consortium includes Iraq Island wareuba subsidiary, ‘Daewoo Power’ package contracts of Al-Zour Refinery Project (AZRP), Daewoo E&C, Fluor and Hyundai Heavy Industries and all In spite of the economic crisis, by putting constant efforts to worth USD 5.76 billion. The AZRP, ordered by the Kuwait three will be in charge of engineering, procurement and create a new company and search for new growth engine in National Petroleum Company, is estimated to worth total construction. Daewoo E&C holds 35% stake of the payment, order to expand into a new business, Daewoo E&C established Bubiyan a subsidiary ‘Daewoo Power’ in July 2015. The establishment of approximately USD 2 billion (KRW 2.2 trillion). The AZRP is Island expected to be completed 41 to 45 months after the effective ‘Daewoo Power’ specializing in plant O&M will help secure allAzat Ur date. According to the contract, an incentive is also available Pailla kaseom around portfolio spanning planning, construction and operation for the reduction of the construction period, thereby making in the field of private power business. Kuwait Oh, no jaureu it possible for stable sales and profits expected in the future. Al abeurakeu The trust earned from the successful USD 3.4 billion Kuwait Issue waikeu [Power Plant] Completion of Shin-Wolsong nuclear Clean Fuel Project last February helped Daewoo E&C win the power plants Units 1 & 2 Al sallemi project and take charge in the largest scale packages. Al, says Khatemi took a In November 2015, the construction of Shin-Wolsong nuclear Sua, bar, S.A.C. power plants Units 1 & 2 were successfully completed and Because otherwise Particularly, we can benefit from the maximization of synergy began to operate in full. Shin-Wolsong nuclear power plants effect by working with the same companies from before such New Refinery Units 1 & 2 are two units of OPR-1000 (1,000MW, PWR) Project as Fluor, the global engineering company. Upon undertaking 1,000MW with the application of new technologies and the AZRP successfully, we will be able to make a leap Al wapeural Al KBS construction methods, improving safety, product quality and Nuwai sieve forward to become the world-class company known for both economic feasibility compared to the existing units. Upon Saudi Arabia upstream and downstream of petrochemical plant. this completion, Daewoo E&C further established itself in the Signing the contract for the Al-Zour industry as the only construction company that provides the Refinery Project in Kuwait Location of the operation total solutions for the overall areas of nuclear power. 36 37 Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C G4-22 Enhancement of Global G4-17 Business Operations Indirect Economic Effects Job Creation Effect1) Foreign Employees at Strategic Direction human resources via support for overseas on-site vacancy management and distribution of human resources. Overseas Operation Sites2) In 2015, Daewoo E&C underwent challenges from decrease in By creating job opportunities and placing procurements from local suppliers, Daewoo E&C actively engages in revitalizing 68,384 persons 4,998 persons orders due to the low oil prices and unstable political situation in the Middle East and decrease in sales due to projects with • Amplification of global infrastructure synergy Enhance Glocal (Global+Local) competitiveness: local communities. Having achieved the largest sales record yet Strengthen global network, increase dominance in hub low profitability. Despite this, Daewoo E&C established the with KRW 9.88 trillion in total and KRW 6.77 trillion domestically, markets, establish country-specific localization strategy Production Inducement Value-Added Inducement Overseas infra Project Division, which combined the Civil Project Diversify business portfolio: Search for new growth engine Daewoo E&C contributed significant indirect economic effects Effect*3) Effect**4) and Building Works divisions, to conduct every phase from and PPP business, expand into new markets, develop 15.2 4.8 in 2015 in terms of job creation, production inducement, local KRW KRW winning an overseas order to completing construction, in order technology-intensive business hires at overseas operation sites, and value-add. Using the Bank to become the ‘Infra Frontier’ based on increased dominance trillion trillion Develop substantial management: Order based on of Korea’s job creation coefficient, a total of 68,384 jobs were in hub markets and enhanced competitiveness in the global profitability, focus on on-site management, etc. created in Korea through Daewoo E&C’s business activities. business operations. We put emphasis on communication and * Production Inducement Effect: The level of directly and indirectly induced • Enhancement of competitiveness in global human resources production per unit increase in company demand harmony for the amplification of global infrastructure synergy Distribute human resources appropriately according to **  Value-Added Inducement Effect: Measures directly and indirectly induced and seek for strengthened glocal competitiveness, diversified added-value to the industry supply and demand business portfolio and strengthened substantial management. 1) Domestic Sales (KRW 6.8 trillion) × employment inducement coefficient (10.1) Manage resource with low-cost and high-efficiency Moreover, we strive to assure competitiveness in global 2) Foreign employees of the third world country nationals 3) Domestic Sales (KRW 6.8 trillion) x production inducement coefficient (2.244) 4) Domestic Sales (KRW 6.8 trillion) x value-added inducement coefficient (0.714) Distribution of Economic Values to Stakeholders (Unit: KRW million) Our Global Network 863,472 864,828 6,580,902 7,371,570 103,767 111,193 127,569 48,429 3,406 4,200 2013 2014 03 01 18 10 17 05 06 03 10 04 09 21 19 08 0706 05 02 08 11 12 09 04 01 07 15 22 13 14 20 1,001,181 16 7,558,376 89,498 29,083 1,540 Employee 02 (Labor and welfare expenses) Supplier Branch (22) Subsidiary (10) (Raw material costs, procurement expenses, and service costs) No. Name Location No. Name Location No. Name Location 2015 Shareholder & Investor (Interest payments) 01 02 Port Harcourt Branch Johannesburg Branch Nigeria South Africa 12 13 Hanoi Branch Kuala Lumpur Branch Vietnam Malaysia 01 02 Beijing Lufthansa Center Co., Ltd. Tay Ho Tay Development, Co., Ltd China Vietnam. Government 03 Tripoli Branch Libya 14 Singapore Branch Singapore 03 Daewoo America Development Inc. U.S.A. (Corporate tax) 04 Algeria Branch Algeria 15 Manila Branch Philippines 04 Saipan Laulau Development. Inc. U.S.A (Saipan) 05 Rabat Branch Morocco 16 Jakarta Branch Indonesia 05 Daewoo Power India Ltd. India Local Community Gulf company for Engineering, (Donations and social contributions) 5) 06 Abu Dhabi Branch UAE 17 Tokyo Branch Japan 06 Libya Construction and Contracting 07 Doha Branch Qatar 18 Beijing Branch China 07 Daewoo E&C Nigeria Limited (DECN) Nigeria 08 Al-Khoba Branch Saudi Arabia 19 Cairo Branch Egypt 08 Daewoo Arabia Ltd. Saudi Arabia 5) Figures were rectified since donations were double counted in 09 Kuwait Branch Kuwait 20 Bogota Branch Colombia 09 Megaworld-Daewoo Corporation (MDC) Philippines the 2015 report 10 Baghdad Branch Iraq 21 Tehran Branch Iran Daewoo Tripoli Investment & 11 Muscat Branch Oman 10 Libya 22 Caracas Branch Venezuela Development Co., Ltd. 38 39 Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Activities and Achievements Mobilization Support Team’ in order to form an integrated Global Talent Employment pool. We carried out 12 direct recruitment in operation support system of our new overseas operation sites. As the demand for experienced and capable global talents sites of the Morocco SAFI and Qatar highway project. By Strengthening the Global Management Structure In 2016, we established the ‘Overseas Infra Project grows, Daewoo E&C diversified the nationality of employees adding two more countries for alternative citizenships, 96 Daewoo E&C organized various divisions in pursuance of Division’ that combined overseas Civil Project and and hiring processes and improved HR management system. employees in Vietnam and 80 employees in Sri Lanka were successful global business operations. As we deal with Building Works divisions, in order to become the ‘Infra In 2015, we enhanced the efficiency of the employment newly recruited. Additionally, we increased 19 agencies’ newly-entering and remote countries more than that of other Frontier via strengthening Glocal competence.’ The management by allocating the workers of the third country competitiveness by improving performance assessment and companies in the industry, we have formed a company-wide Overseas Infra Project Division aims to create synergy by nationals in the right place at the right time and succeeded incentivized foreign employees to work longer by improving TFT (Task Force Team) since 2014 to activate the overseas strengthening Glocalization competitiveness integrating in rehiring 390 outstanding employees using the resource residential environment and reward system. mobilization support in management, construction, and global comprehensiveness and local distinctiveness as well technology at the early stage of opening up a new operation as enhancing combined competence in Civil Project and Timely Recruitment by Region (Unit: Persons) site. In 2015, the Overseas Mobilization Support TFT Building Works. organized and operated the Mobilization Support Council, in Furthermore, the Global HR Management Team, Global HSE Africa which each project team and related teams such as Labor Team, Global Security Team, Overseas Marketing Teams Middle East Management, Logistics, Heavy Machinery Procurement for each business division and the Contract Management and IT, participated. In 2016, we reorganized the ‘Overseas Team are supporting overseas business operations to deliver Mobilization Support TFT’ to newly establish ‘Overseas successful performance abroad. 2014 2,216 1,943 1,279 1,071 Mobilization Support Council Operations Period From successful bid to the initiation of construction (for about 6 months) Operating Organization 3,495 3,014 Vacancies Hires • HR • Visa/Deployment • Accounting/Taxation Overseas Project • Procurement/Material Related • Logistics/Customs clearance Mobilization Team Teams • Outsourcing/Construction Support Team • Legal affairs • Heavy equipment • IT • HSE/Security Constitution • Supervision: Overseas Mobilization Support Team • Attendance: Project Team and related teams 2015 3,935 3,654 Operation • Check 76 tasks in detail within the mobilization fields • Monitor mobilization progress and provide feedback 1,451 1,334 • Consider support plan for main issues by field Support for Overseas Business 5,386 4,998 Global HR Overseas Marketing Contract Vacancies Hires Global HSE Team Global Security Team Teams for each Management Team Management Team business division Preemptive labor Systematic Health, Safety, Site support in high-risk Cross-division Complaints and contracts management support: and Environment (HSE) countries: Inspect sites contracts (Civil Project/ management throughout Review and analyze labor management: Coordinate and dispatch safety Building Works/Plant/ projects (from the risks for newly entered overseas HSE system officials Power Business) conclusion of a contract markets and performance to the completion of Expand HSE support to Reinforcement of the management construction) Mobile support for overseas sites: Foster security management overseas sites: The and deploy overseas HSE system: Build an IT-based Mobile Support TFT for human resources management system new projects 40 41 Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Overseas-Site Labor Management Support First half year: Algeria CAFC (Central Area Field Community Work at Operation Site in Successful labor management is the key to successful Complex) and RDPP (Ras Djinet Combined Cycle Power After construction Nigeria overseas operations, as a labor is a fundamental part of the Plant) construction business. In 2015, Daewoo E&C supported Second half year: Saudi Arabia JAZAN (Jazan Refinery) During construction • Organize a layoff conference including labor management at overseas sites by performing local and Qatar Highway favorable local parties • Authorize local managers the power to guidance inspections, strengthening on-site managers’ Before construction • Constantly distribute materials and interests • Enhancement of site managers’ competence dismiss competence, assessing labor-management risks. • Monitor community-related problems in • Request police and client for help in the case Revised country-specific labor management manual advance of dismissal • Guidance checks at overseas operation sites Registered 5 cases of success and failure for each site • Understand traditional structure near operation site • Operate dialogue channel with local leaders within community • Indirectly exert influence on community via P e r f o r m e d g u i d a n c e c h e c k s f o r o v e r a l l l a b o r on BAROCON • Contact agencies related to construction government agencies (state/local, military/ management, including distribution of human resources, Conducted 8 intensive training sessions for newly appointed • Identify local characteristics and ethnic groups, police) management of on-site employees, resource pool and Converted returnee’s management knowhow into a database establish communication channel operations • Plan community affairs and identify opposing • Assessment of labor risk parties Conducted 32 assessments Visions and Objectives • Utilization of human resources Upgrade operation efficiency: Manage vacancies vs filling Daewoo E&C will continue to develop and diversify the by project, rehire employees with high performance, Community Involvement works according to each phase of the construction (before, market base in overseas markets in order to enhance the enhance labor management at overseas sites Daewoo E&C values local community’s engagement while during, and after) at Niger Delta site in Nigeria. global business operations. We will focus on strengthening E x p a n d re s o u rc e a n d i t s a p p l i c a b i l i t y : D e s i g n conducting global operations. Every companies operating competence in winning contracts in hub markets and human resource portfolio by country, find alternative in oil fields such as Nigeria, Algeria and Iraq, which are extend our business territory in Sub-Sahara, India, Iran, citizenships, expand the role of agency by exploring our major overseas markets, must engage in community Con sid er lo c Myanmar, etc. Moreover, we will search for new growth scarce resources and professionals works during a construction. CE (Community Engagement) al co u at e nd A ss engines, including global new town and O&M businesses to Global talent development: Actively rotate foreign refers to a comprehensive and continuous procedure e va l it and ess lo diversify our market base. We plan to explore more of the employees between divisionss and operation sites, io ly ze n occurring between a company and stakeholders from the na A PPP business in waterpower generation and environmental redesign working conditions to promote continuous ca l i m pa c t local community. It stems from the efforts to establish a projects and support ODA (Official Development Assistance) employment strategic and mutual model, recognizing that company’s Operation Cycle financing and MDB (Multilateral Development Bank). • Overseas-site labor management support growth comes with the local development. Based on three of Community In order to secure competitiveness in global human Continuous site-oriented guidance checks on new/peak major areas – communication, transparency and fairness, ent ot Engagement en tia D ocu m l im resources, Daewoo E&C aims to increase resource efficiency, sites: Kuwait, Morocco, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, etc. response to changes in the business environment – CE pa ct expand resource and its applicability, continue global talent Strengthen practical competence in labor management: supports effective decision-making for conducting business p ss development and improve guidance checks and system for Constantly update labor management manual, se operations by creating a communication in pursuit of trust ld As ho supporting on-site labor management. establish measures to utilize local employees with high from company and community, respect and legality and ke sta Ass performance preventing project delays by managing in advance, as well as fy ess nti management risk Ide er Improve BAROCON, publish country-specific visacreates a mutually beneficial future. In 2015, we successfully s related manual completed the construction by systematizing community 42 43 Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C New Business and Future Growth Strategic Direction Select and concentrate by region, select target market Activities and Achievements engines that reflects future trends. Future Strategy Promotion by business unit and amplify synergy Committee plans to actualize a midand long-term strategic In order to meet the goal of KRW 25 trillion in sales, KRW • Enhancement of core competence Future Strategy Promotion Committee master plan, prioritize tasks by material strategic objective, 2 trillion in operating profit by 2025 and achieve the midRationalize core business portfolio: Concentrate on In January 2016, Daewoo E&C launched Future Strategy examine ability to carry out action plan, organize bodies and long-term objective, ‘Global Infra & Energy Developer’ projects with profitability and market growth potential Promotion Committee in order to lead substantive changes for for market diversification and gradually implement feasible Daewoo E&C has chosen 1) glocalization; 2) strengthening sustainable growth of the company and secure new growth strategic items. • New market development for market diversification core competencies; and 3) diversification of business Grow as the Infrastructure Developer via expansion of portfolio as core strategies. We plan to increase our sales in value chain (IPP, PPP, O&M, development business, etc.) the overseas markets up to 70% of the total sales by 2025, Future Strategy Promotion Committee System Prepare for new business according to changes in the strengthen core competence based on profitability and domestic construction market: Extend O&M, rental market growth, and develop new growth engines such as Chair of the Committee: housing projects, development business IPP, PPP and O&M through market diversification expanding Head of Strategic Planning Division Promote an integrated business: Advance construction the fields of investment, development and operation. Assistant Administrator: technology with cutting edge techniques, high valueFuture Strategy Team • Glocalization added business based on technology Increase sales in the overseas markets up to more than Subcommittee Core Competence Enhancement Glocalization Organizational/ Unification Preparation /Market Diversification Cultural innovation 70% of the total sales by 2025, localize hub markets, Commissioner in Business Divisions, EP, Global Infrastructure, Global Corporate management & Global infrastructure, Civil authorize decision-making power to the local entities, Charge (Executive) R&D, IT, Finance, Strategic management, Strategic Service Division Executive project, Strategic Planning extend business territory Planning Division Executive Planning Division Executive Division Executive Working Strategic Planning, IR, Overseas Infra Planning & Human Resource, General Overseas Civil Project, Commissioner Finance, Business Divisions Coordination, Overseas Civil Affairs, Management Civil Development Project, (Team leader, Planning+Business EP Project, Global Business Innovation, Communication, Civil Engineering Business, (planning, engineering Planning, Finance, Hanoi IT Planning, Global HR Team Independent Power Plant, hands-on worker) management, power Branch, THT Development Building Works/Housing engineering), R&D, IT Planning Co., Ltd. Business Unit-Specific Strategies Supervision Management Innovation Future Strategy Team HR Development Team CR Team Team Public Sector Private Investment Sector ※ Possible to readjust Commissioner in Charge and Working Commissioner after consultation Analyze feasibility and optimize Lead large-scale BTO (Build-Transferbusiness processes in order to maximize Operate)/BTL (Build-Transfer-Lease) profitability business and increase business capacity Specify bidding strategies from the early such as a combination of BTO and BTL Objective and Tasks by Subcommittees project planning stages and increase Respond to market changes and secure new growth engines success rates for winning an order such as new renewable energy development business, wastewater and advanced water treatment Objective Secure future competitiveness through gradual implementation of Unification Core competence enhancement midand long-term strategy preparation Private Sector Overseas Market Readjustment of core business and intensive Substantial preparation for business entry in fostering North Korea Building Works: Proceed combined Explore new projects for diversifying development business through markets and construction types analyzing feasibility thoroughly, increase Increase order in oil & gas in cooperation Market Organizational/ the amount of project proposals in with professional engineering diversification Cultural innovation business activities, enhance synergy companies based on the collaboration of finance and construction Selection of new growth Glocalization Midand long-term Improve competence for large-scale EPC projects business and organizational design and Housing: Select target market and seek out outstanding Gradually expand new market base through focusing more implementation of Reinforcement of innovation of corporate businesses on the basis of accurate market analysis, promote on hub markets pilot project localization and culture new businesses and diversify business, examine lease/ realization of overseas operating lease businesses, renovations and others in light of Maximize business capacity in countries/sectors that we infrastructure the changing demographics and family structures in today’s already have competitive advantage in business world Expand into financing (IPP, PPP, etc.) 44 45 Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Major New Businesses and Emerging Markets basis of our new renewable and eco-friendly technologies, Overseas Infra Overseas New Township Development during the first half of 2016. Also, we plan on constructing Project but we also pursue PPP and O&M business by securing (Civil Project & Daewoo E&C is strengthening its the infrastructure and going through land clearance Civil Project Eco-Friendly Green Growth Business Building Works) competence in the value chain. capabilities as a Developer by conducting compensation and related approval. In order to quickly respond to the green • Eco-friendly business-related performance overseas new township development growth movements from the government Completed Sihwa Lake Tidal Power Station, the first business. ‘Starlake City’ development and civil society, and actively promote tidal power plant in Korea with the world’s largest project in Hanoi, Vietnam is a mega Status of Starlake City Development Business new growth engines, Daewoo E&C plans to strengthen ecocapacity (254MW) project worth USD 2.5 billion, which is Korea's first privatelyfriendly green growth business, thus selecting wind power, led overseas new township development business. This 1996 : Proposed initial business (Applied phase 1 Bundang solar power, tidal power and bioenergy as new renewable Constructed and now operating the food waste & Ilsan New Town business model) treatment facility in Daegu has a great historical significance in that it is the first project energy business. Furthermore, not only do we strenuously 2006 : Investment approved by Vietnam Ministry of Completed the Goyang biomass energy facility combining all phases of new township development from seek eco-friendly green growth business opportunities with Planning and Investment engineering, financing and construction to distribution with an overseas environment improvement master plan as the 2007 : Hanoi city master plan approved our own knowhow and technology. We established ‘THT 2012 : Initiated phase 1 operation with groundbreaking development Co., Ltd’ in Vietnam in order to carry out this ceremony Building Diversification of Business Portfolio increasing finance-inclusive contracted business and project and currently we are preparing the first lotting-out 2014 : Commenced infrastructure construction Works Despite low growth across the industries, participation in public offering proposals. Moreover, we the Building Works Division has secured a seek business opportunities by promptly responding to the stable income source through outstanding influx of Chinese capital in Korea and diversifying ordering business sites such as housing and organizations through projects such as Jeju Healthcare Town office buildings. We also diversified our business portfolio Wellness Mall and Bucheon Logistics Park. by developing capacity in public and private projects while Housing Portfolio Expansion In May 2016, planning on distributing 2,404 apartments Daewoo E&C Housing Division secured in a consortium with Hyundai Engineering & Construction stable profitability by strengthening its own and GS Engineering & Construction in Yulha, Gimhae Integrated Management based on Virtual Construction business, cooperation and management for the utilization of business operations through constantly • Extension of orders by diversifying buyers (Pre-con) Pre-con, the Building Works Division executed a consulting engaging with land purchases, extended Mokgam in Siheung, Yeokbuk in Yongin and Segy in Osan Pre-con is a project management technique applied based service for the transfer of technique of DPR in the US while orders through diversifying buyers, exploring public or new • Search for new business items on the virtual reality using BIM before the actual construction. implementing two operation site tests in 2015. We not only business items such as enterprise rental housing and publicCompany-led rental housing ‘Dongtan Happy Town It aims to create opportunities to obtain multiple orders by seek to build a Pre-con system by forming a co-op system private projects. PRUGIO’ maximizing the productivity increase and cost reduction through with the related divisions and establishing a Pre-con contract improvement in design and construction quality, reduction methods within project executions, but also aim to expand Public-private project ‘Seochang Central PRUGIO’ • Enhancement of own businesses by constant land in construction cost, shortening of construction period and this to a business model that leads to winning repeated orders Public-private package project ‘Dongtan A5, A6 block’ purchases enhancement in safety. In order to establish processes for accompanied by the satisfaction of the ordering organizations. In October 2015, distributed around 2,000 smalland medium-sized apartments of Paju Unjeong Central PRUGIO • Manager for BIM+Lean Building Works Building Works integrated management Engineering Team Estimation Team • Execute the BIM+Lean Building Works integrated management for pilot Division • Provide necessary data projects • Provide pilot project Introduction of the Concept of Village Community, for implementing village community business and strived Company-Led Rental Housing by ‘Dongtan Happy Town to create an attractive apartment where residents can One professional expert in construction management PRUGIO’ communicate and share their various talents with neighbors, International • Complete a manager course In 2015, applying the concept of village community for the not just a place to live. In addition, in order to successfully • Execute training for BIM+Lean Cooperative of BIM+Lean integrated first time in Korea, Daewoo E&C introduced companyintroduce the concept of village community, we plan to integrated management Research management • Foster professional, guide on• Support BIM+Lean integrated led rental housing ‘Dongtan Happy Town PRUGIO’ and implement ‘Let’s Program’ as follows. site application DPR from management of a pilot project R&D Center led private New-Stay business. Based on the belief of • Hold experience in training GS the US • Create a manual for project E&C on BIM+Lean integrated BIM+Lean integrated management ‘premium residential culture space where people and management nature can coexist,’ we conducted a detailed field survey 46 47 Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Operating Plan for Dongtan Happy Town PRUGIO Village Community ‘Lets Program’ Key Performance in the Power Sector Program Contents Power Plant Business Currently in the process of bidding multiple projects in Africa and Southeast Asia (beyond the Middle East market/ market diversification) Traditional culture lessons (go/calligraphy/Chinese character, etc.), language class, reading and Lets Study discussion, playing musical instruments, etc. Independent Power Daewoo Pocheon combined-cycle (Unit 1) plant business approval and engineering product supply contract Support community room, library, study room, traditional culture room inside the complex Plant (IPP) Business Daewoo Pocheon combined-cycle (Unit 1) plant business O&M and LTSA increased-value contract Attract national/public child care centers, operate infant care program I Love Mom café in Hwaseong Lets Care Support building play space, toy library and well-baby clinic Power business subsidiary Daewoo Power (July 2015) Arrange open kitchen where all can cook and eat together Promote overseas IPP business Lets Cook Hold events for kimchi-making, sharing foods from vegetable garden Vietnam Long An: Submitted our investment proposal (August 2015) – Under review by Prime Minister Participated in Botswana Morupule B Unit 5&6 bidding Organic farming in the joint vegetable garden inside the complex A ppoint landscaping-related talent donator and civil gardener among residents and encourage Promote domestic and overseas new renewable energy business Lets Garden participation in landscaping the complex Support vegetable gardening and landscaping programs and gardening school (flowerpots, vegetable Haenam wind power business: Obtained power business license (July 2015) garden, etc.) Nuclear Power Participate in nuclear power cooperation roundtable for expected countries of nuclear power plant project Apply the concept of sharing economy and support sharing center including camping gear, tool, toy, etc. Business Lets Share Participate in events held by government and promote business alliances by signing industrial MOUs Install storage only for shared bicycles, parking area only for shared cars Build camping ground only for residents Lets Play Install multipurpose gym and family room and support exercise program run by talent donator and professional instructor ICT Support of IoT Pilot Project and decrease in productivity with delays in construction period. Convergence Business Construction IT Convergence Business Therefore, Daewoo E&C has been active in innovating Considering that IT convergence services industry paradigm and securing new engine for growth that are already being commercialized for will provide added-value service by applying ICT technologies Plant Daewoo E&C Plant Division concentrates and the Al-Zour Refinery project in 2015, thereby expanding EPC facilities, housing, and building with Internet of Things (IoT). In 2015, we undertook IoT on developing a new business model as our business sector to new markets in the Middle East. operations, Information Technology (IT) development project, conducting location-based employee well as winning projects, in which it has a Moreover, in order to respond to the increasing trend of of the construction industry will become management, operation management based on augmented more advanced and systemized. A necessity of a scientific reality and safety monitoring. We plan to continue on competitive advantage. In 2015, with the module development and installations within projects due and objective integrated management is emerging due developing drones, 3D printing and service platform so as to advanced technology and know-how in oil & gas business to geographic restrictions or environmental issues, we have to factors such as enhancement of legal and systematic enhance our IT convergence competitiveness. accumulated through the years, Daewoo E&C extended its agreed upon an MOU with overseas module developers. safety management based on the rise in accident rate and domestic business portfolio by newly contracting the biggest We intend on using the synergy in the timely completion of S-Oil RUC project in the country. We also reinforced our projects and quality enhancement. market share in Kuwait through Clean Fuel project in 2014 Construction ICT Smart Construction (Construction+ICT) Core business areas Housing Civil Dashboard Visualization Power Business Daewoo E&C has completed construction strengthen our competence as a developer by investing in BigData in multiple sites and has been constructing overseas large-scale IPP and participating in O&M business Real Time combined cycle power plants, coalin the midand long-term. Furthermore, we are contributing Analysis fired power plants and nuclear power to the national green growth and greenhouse gas reduction Sensing Data Pre plants in the MENA region. Moreover, we policy and promoting to engage with world new renewable Building Plant Process Management are reinforcing our cooperative system energy projects through developing new renewable Works with domestic and overseas developers not just for mere energy business based on domestic solar and wind power Failure contracts, but for exploring and promoting domestic and businesses. Network Prediction Monitoring overseas independent power plant projects. We shall 48 49 Global E&C leader Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Visions and Objectives Visions by Business Unit Category 2016 Next 3-year Plan Future Strategy Implementation Committee has set core competence enhancement, market diversification and glocalization as core tasks in order to Civil • Promotion of eco-friendly businesses • Eco-friendly green growth business Project Jeju Environmental Resource Circulation Center Focus on domestic orders based on water treatment and biogas development systematically implement midand long-term strategies and to secure future Gunsan Sewage Treatment Facility technology and operation capability Hwaseong Food Waste Treatment Facility • Enhancement of O&M business competitiveness. The committee has established a master plan as follows to • Enhancement of competence in O&M business achieve ‘Global Infrastructure & Energy Developer’ by 2025. Strengthen business of Daewoo E&C’s subsidiary, Korea Infrastructure Management Co., Ltd Building • Increase in public contracts • Expansion of roles as a Developer Works Increase projects from the Ministry of National Defense and Public Procurement Large-scale complex development business, proposing projects, joint business Service with a holding company, etc. • Increase in private contracts Assess division performance and establish detailed implementation strategy Develop manpower specializing in contracts with financing Increase projects through proposals and contests Overseas • Diversification of market base • Reorganization of core business portfolio Core Market Glocalization Infra Project Explore new growth engines (Vietnam, new towns in Saudi Arabia, O&M Continue contracted projects business) and PPP business Focus on new markets competence diversification Expand into new markets such as Sub-Sahara, India, Iran, Myanmar, etc. Diversify new growth business enhancement Promote technology-intensive business 2016 Housing • Rental business • Rental business Specialize in Expand Secure Lead enterprise rental housing business and develop specialized expertise in Lay groundwork for rental management business our strengths real estate Asian hub engineering/product/service • Diversification of business types • Green remodeling business Increase market share by examining and exploring new business type developer markets Establish selection criteria for the responsible company • Diversification of buyers business • Renovation business Win projects from Military Mutual Aid Association, provincial public corporation Set business promotion direction based on the performance from pilot project and large developer Extend renovation business from individual houses to entire complex • Green remodeling business 2017 Continue to expand through selection of the responsible company • Renovation business Set business promotion direction in accordance with green remodeling Plant • An escape from competition • Concentrate on winning LNG project Business Strengthen strategic partnership • Diversify risk in new market Focus on projects according to our strengths Strengthen partnership with advanced construction companies such as Fluor, Internal • Identification of measures to promote investment development project with JGC, etc. development 2018 financing Enhance operation management competence • Entering into modularization market Overseas investment, development, operation Power Plant [Power] • USC (Ultra Super Critical) coal-power EPC competence [Power] • Exploration of new markets such as Iran and South upgrade America • Secure performance in Civil Project, Plant • Securitization of hub markets in Africa and Southeast Asia • Enhancement of local partnership by region and and Power business collaboration with the third world countries 2019 [IPP] • Preparation and examination of the 8th Basic Plan on • Expansion of new renewable energy business • Undertake overseas development project Electricity Demand and Supply in Korea (IPP, PPP) • Increase in business opportunity in Overseas IPP (Vietnam, [IPP] • Securitization of the business right for the 8th Basic Plan on • Overseas sales 50% Indonesia, Malaysia, etc.) Electricity Demand and Supply in Korea • Development and participatation in domestic and foreign • Participation as overseas IPP business Developer and new renewable energy business (Vietnam, Iran, etc.) securitization of business performance • Strengthening of technology competence of O&M • Securitization of performance in domestic and foreign new subsidiary (Daewoo Power) and diversification of market renewable energy (solar power, wind power, biomass, etc.) Secure business base • Strengthening of technology competence of O&M 2020 performance subsidiary (Daewoo Power) and securitization of domestic Expand overseas business [Nuclear Power] • Constant identification on trends in target countries and and foreign business performance enhancement in competitiveness • Overseas sales 70% [Nuclear Power] • Promotion of participation in overseas commercial atomic power plant constructor ICT • Promotion of the application of on-site construction IoT (MOU with a telecom • Development of on-site ICT convergence service model Convergence company) Explore service request area, secure and upgrade ICT platform that is Select and apply pilot site: (Civil) Seohaean Railway fourth zone, (Housing) applicable to operation sites (2017) Global Infra Wirye Unam Station Prugio Site, (Building) office sites Develop additional service model in the fields of construction/material/logistics & Energy Developer 2025 • Exploration and development of construction IoT convergence technology (2018) Develop service using new technologies such as drones, 3D printing, etc. • Development of construction/safety IoT platform Develop service platform, secure intellectual property right, participate in pilot project by public organization 50 51 Compliance and Ethical Management Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C G4-27 Disclosure on Management Approach Compliance and Ethical Management In today's business environment, compliance risks are increasingly integral and Declaration and CP System the ethical responsibilities of a company are now just as significant as fiduciary Disclosure of (Organization, duties and responsibilities. Anti-corruption policies are globally proliferating with countries increasing and intensifying penalties on breach and the EU has CP Regulation, passed a specific bill for mandatory disclosure of non-financial information Message Board) in the annual reports. Likewise, the Korean government has been putting in various efforts to stand against anti-corruption, initiating projects such as the ‘Four Vaccines to Prevent Anti-Corruption’ in January. Compliance risk is a Tailored CP CP Core must-prevent factor as one mistake can tear down the reputation and brand of Courses and CP Strategic Tasks an entire company at a moment's notice. Therefore, Daewoo E&C has taken the lead in ethical management by settling an autonomous compliance atmosphere Promotion as our inherent corporate culture. Daewoo E&C introduced the Compliance Program (CP) in February 2015 and has been striving for stronger establishment and improvement of the program ever since. Goals Activities and Achievements • S ecure transparency and fairness in • CP establishment Inspected CP status in 22 teams/sites management by strictly adhering to Operated CP deliberation/discussion Evaluated autonomous CP operation in laws and regulations organization (Sustainability Management each division and awarded outstanding • Prevent management loss by reviewing Committee, Compliance Council) compliance leaders ongoing practices and continuously Developed and rolled out internal compliance improving our working environment guidelines regarding key stakeholders • Consistent ethical management Conducted compliance training for all Conducted ethical management campaigns • Internalize the Compliance Program for (Clean Holidays Campaign, Healthy 119 all employees employees Drinking Culture, etc.) Appointed compliance leaders, analyzes and reports autonomous CP operation Participated in the Association of Compliance results on a monthly basis Organizations for Korea Development Bank (KDB) subsidiaries Established evaluation standards for autonomous CP operation in each division Fulfilled US Army Administrative Compliance Agreement (AA) which ended in October 2015 Plans for 2016 • Domestic and overseas compliance risk Produce audio-visual contents for on-line • I m p l e m e n t a t i o n o f c o m p l i a n c e i n review compliance training on a monthly basis subsidiaries D o m e s t i c : C o n s i s t e n t l y r e v i s e t h e Support subsidiaries to establish a CP compliance manual and guidelines • Internalization autonomous compliance system (appoint compliance leaders for culture subsidiaries, support development of Overseas: Develop and apply compliance guidelines for each phase in overseas Create an environment of compliance by internal CP regulations, etc.) business internalizing autonomous CP activities (talk, Instruct subsidiaries on Daewoo E&C’s CP message, training) in each division training program and CP operation cases • Promotion of awareness for compliance Have employees pledge to practice CP on through training an annual basis • Consistent ethical management Promote awareness through a compliance Promote engagement in compliance training program activities through campaigns and create an Provide customized training according to internal consensus on compliance trainee work details Manager Jiwoong Bae 52 53 Compliance and Ethical Management Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Compliance Strategic Direction Activities and Achievements Sustainability Management Committee Organization Daewoo E&C has paved our way to realize sustainability Formation and Operation of CP Organization Chairman CEO and internal growth by promoting autonomous compliance In order to raise awareness and encourage autonomous Chief Ethics and Compliance Assistant as well as fair and transparent business execution on every CP practice across the company, the Compliance Team, Officer (Head of Management Administrator Review Division) management activity. To instill employees’ awareness the Sustainability Management Committee in charge of on ethics and compliance, the current CP sets out with deliberating main CP operational issues, and the Compliance Members ‘Compliance Together’ as the slogan for 2016 and various Council which deals with specific compliance issues all work CFO / Head of Strategic Planning Division / Head of Civil Project Division / Head of Building Works Division / Head of Overseas Infra efforts have been placed to establish an ethics and together to promote systematic discussions and activities Project Division / Head of Housing Division / Head of Power Plant Division / Head of Global Business Management Division / Head of compliance culture while improving business practices. regarding compliance at Daewoo E&C. Furthermore, Engineering & Procurement Service Division / Head of Corporate Management & Service Division / Head of Finance Division / Head of Compliance Leaders and managers were appointed to Risk Management Division / Head of Procurement & Cost Management Division / Head of HSE-Q Division / Head of Public Relations • Prevent loss by reviewing existing customs and constantly Division / Head of Institute of Construction Technology promote autonomous CP activities. improving the business environment • Internalize the compliance program within all employees • Create an ethics and compliance culture for all employees to empathize and participate in CP System • CP Community Upon recognizing the need to clarify a certain criteria to Established a web page solely for contents on CP Organization and Roles systematically and consistently promote CP, Daewoo E&C compliance in the BARONET community has developed operational regulations, a manual, and Improved legibility and increased employees’ interest guidelines for CP. by constantly monitoring and providing information on Name of Organization Constituents Roles compliance standards, manual, trends, trainings, etc. • CP operational regulations Make decisions on significant issues CEO (Chairman), Contents include CP organization and task allocation, • Compliance guidelines Sustainability Management Committee regarding CP, ESG, and ethical CFO, and Executive management management as well as specific methods and procedures of training, Prevented operational compliance risks according to inspection, and evaluation stakeholder group Head of Management Review Division Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Oversee general CP operations (elected by the Board of Directors) • CP manual Developed in six core CP areas including fair trade, Support CP execution in charge of Head of Compliance Team and team domestic corruption prevention, foreign corruption Compliance Team training, promotion, inspection, and members assessment prevention, mutual cooperation, labeling/advertisement, Compliance administrator, Discuss CP activities in detail (share and IT/information security Compliance Council Head of Compliance Team, and performance, debate improvement Compliance Leaders points, etc.) Employees in leading teams within divisions and employees in teams Manage general CP activities within Compliance Leader (CL) of relevant expertise (human resources, legal, overseas contract division (spread, educate, and check) CP Training and Communication (Promotion) We provide financial information in accordance with management, etc.) Daewoo E&C has increased training effectiveness by accounting standards. developing various on/offline training programs to promote Oversee CP activities within teams/ CP Training Compliance Manager Employees in teams/sites employees’ understanding and rapport. Moreover, by sites publishing and distributing trend reports and posters, Activity Trainee/Detail Number of Participants the company supports the integration of compliance in Ethical compliance Team leader and above at 388 employees’ daily lives and encourages them to be fully training by a HQ, on-site managers in Sustainability Management Committee each year with November 2016 marking the third event. All informed of regulations by sharing cases of violation. professional Seoul-Incheon area First held in March 2015, the Sustainability Management members including the CEO participate in the Committee to outside lecturer Furthermore, Daewoo E&C is working on improving accounting Committee deliberates and decides on major issues report and discuss on CP operation results and plans for the Compliance training 1,721 transparency by enhancing internal processes, conducting infor all employees regarding the operational standards, plans, and results of following year, which contributes to more effective CP. house training on finance, and reinforcing monitoring on main Online CP training Created 12 types of training 6,062 CP as well as the results of ethical management and ESG on each core area video, conducted online financial indicators. training policies. The Committee takes place once or more times 54 55 Compliance and Ethical Management Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Ethical Management Autonomous CP Activities culture. The result of autonomous CP activities by divisions Strategic Direction structures within the company in accordance with ethical Daewoo E&C implements autonomous CP activities by is analyzed and reported to the Chief Ethics and Compliance standards and principles, and eventually increase the team/site. Through employees’ self-directed activities, we Officer. The reported results are then applied to the annual The importance of a company’s ability to generate profit, corporate value. In line with such vision, we are constantly aim to internalize ethical compliance within our corporate assessment of division performance. which was once believed to be the ultimate value of its spreading ethical management under the lead of our existence, has transformed along with the times and creating Compliance Team in ways such as promoting campaigns Category Supervisor Implementation Performance in 2015 (implementation/base) social value is no less important than generating revenue. so that employees can voluntarily participate in ethical Compliance Talk Team leader/ Monthly Implemented 3,271 times/3,939 Through compliance and ethical management, Daewoo management in all business activities with a high ethical Site manager (Implementation rate 83%) E&C plans to right potentially wrongful practices and cost standard. Compliance Message Executive in charge Quarterly Implemented 189 times/168 (Implementation rate 112.5%) Autonomous trainings by the Compliance leader Semiannually Implemented 29 times/18 Compliance Leader of each (Implementation rate 161.1%) Activities and Achievements Ethical Management Campaign division We have carried out various campaigns to improve To reinforce the practice of ethical management, Daewoo awareness of ethics on the grounds that each employee’s E&C focused on activities such as ethical management behavior becomes the entire corporate culture. We CP Inspection and Evaluation • Inspect CP status in 22 teams/sites in 2015 campaigns and the execution of the Ombudsperson system. conducted a clean corporate culture campaign that prohibits Daewoo E&C promotes the roll out and internalization • Evaluate autonomous CP operation in each division employees from giving or receiving money or valuables of CP within the whole company and therefore inspects and award outstanding compliance leaders Ethical Management Campaign Activities between suppliers and employees ‘119 campaign’ for and evaluates employee awareness regarding the matter. Category Details healthy drinking culture within the company to encourage Moreover, we quantify CP implementation results of employees a healthy lifestyle. each division, which is then incorporated into the annual Clean Holidays We strictly prohibit receiving gifts from performance review of the respected division. Through Campaign stakeholders such as subcontractors and suppliers especially during national holidays to Ombudsperson System such efforts, Daewoo E&C is moving closer to a more establish a clean corporate culture. Headquarters On October 26, 2010, Daewoo E&C completed a five-year spontaneous and proactive compliance culture. and site offices are constantly inspected in order to prevent bribery. Administrative Compliance Agreement (AA) with the US Army Suspension & Debarment Official (SDO). And having Appropriate For fair business transactions, we prohibit Notification of all employees from notifying our suppliers of executed the Ombudsperson system for the last five years Family Events personal or family events such as weddings, through the AA, we further enhanced the level of ethical as it may be construed as a request for gifts. In the case of immediate family members, management by operating ethics and compliance related Visions and Objectives Strengthen cooperation among professional compliance announcements are to be made internally. trainings and a website to gather anonymous reports. leaders on compliance overseas (International Legal In 2016, Daewoo E&C plans to realize internal growth Affairs Team), subcontract transaction (Business Healthy ‘119’ We promote a healthy drinking culture through by minimizing loss in midst of the demanding business Partnership Planning Team), etc. Drinking Culture ‘119 campaign’ which stands for ‘drinking 1 type of alcohol, for 1 round only, to be back environment. In order to achieve our objective, Daewoo • Maximization of efficiency in CP education/promotion home by 9 PM.’ E&C will review business practices and internalize employee Replace the two-week intensive online training with compliance by enhancing the domestic and overseas monthly five minute trainings compliance system, providing trainings on the internalization Utilize a variety of fun aspects such as audio-visual of autonomous compliance culture, and activating a contents or cartoons monitoring program. In addition, being fully aware of the • Spread of CP to subsidiaries Vision and Objectives • Constant implementation of ethical management influence of supply chain compliance issues on Daewoo Run campaigns such as Clean Holidays, Appropriate Appoint Compliance Leaders for each subsidiary E&C, we will expand our management scope to subsidiaries Notification of Family Events, and Healthy ‘119’ Drinking Spread core elements and cases of Daewoo E&C’s CP Daewoo E&C shall focus on stabilizing the ethics culture and suppliers. operation within the company and continue to carry out various Culture • CP system enhancement A s s i s t i n d e v e l o p i n g a u t o n o m o u s c o m p l i a n c e activities to uphold our reputation. Through the current • Maintenance of continuous partnership with KDB E x p a n d C P c o re a re a s ( d e v e l o p m a n u a l s f o r handbooks and establishing CP operational regulations partnership with KDB and various ethical management Participate in the Association of Compliance Officers for employment/labor and HSE-Q) Share Daewoo E&C’s compliance training program campaigns, we strive to sincerely carry out ethical KDB subsidiaries Vitalize whistle blowing system by actively operating Inspect subsidiaries’ CP operation practices and the ‘Ethics Help-Line,’ reinforcing protection of whistle Exchange information on ethics and compliance related evaluate results management. blowers, etc. subjects and establish partnerships 56 57 Health and Safety Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C G4-27 Disclosure on Management Approach Health and Safety Management of Accidents Rates In the field of the construction industry, on-site health and Domestic 2016 safety management is one of the most critical elements converted 0.15 Goals of our management. A defect in the health and safety accident rate1) management may result in a serious injury or even death as 2015 well as employees’ low morale and productivity. Daewoo 0.22 Performance E&C considers respect for life as a pivotal part of our operations and aims for zero accidents at all operation Overseas LTIR 2016 sites through creating a safe and sound workplace. We also (Lost Time 0.05 Goals announced Health and Safety Management Policy within Injury Rate) and outside of the company at the CEO level. We strive 2015 to establish a health and safety management system and 0.17 Performance infrastructure to foster a culture of health and safety and 1) 2015 domestic converted accident rate will be disclosed in June (by Korea increase expertise in the area on the basis of the three health Occupational Safety & Health Agency) and safety action plans 1) compliance with fundamental principles; 2) participation of all members; and 3) continuous Activities and Achievements improvements. We will continue to make progress as a company that leads the best safety management in the • Establishment of health and • Enhancement of the Security country with the aim of a zero accident rate. safety system System in overseas operation Acquired KOSHA 18001 site Developed One Touch HSE-Q Conducted regular security mobile application and carried guidance checks, training o u t re a l t i m e h e a l t h a n d simulation for safety and safety activities for preventing security accidents, close Goals support of operation sites accidents A c h i e v e d Z e r o S e c u r i t y • Establishment of health and • Management of accident rates • E nhancement of health and Incident for overseas safety system Domestic: Converted accident safety culture operation sites Establish and operate global rates: 0.18 (▽38% decrease L a u n c h e d a p r a c t i c a l standard level Health, Safety, compared to the previous • Management of accident rates learning program via handsand Environment (HSE) year) on activities, raised the Domestic: Converted accident system and real-time HSE Overseas: LTIR: 0.05 (▽30% completion rate of instructorrates 0.22 management infrastructure decrease compared to the led education by 63.8% Overseas LTIR: 0.17 previous year) compared to the previous year • E nhancement of health and safety culture UA (Unsafe Act), UC (Unsafe Condition) Observation I n c re a s e H S E e d u c a t i o n participation rate increased program by 18% compared to the previous year Plans for 2016 • Advancement in health and safety system • I n c r e a s e i n H S E a w a r e n e s s a n d S y s t e m i z e o v e r s e a s s i t e s c o m m u n i t y and infrastructure implementation of new safety culture management Post-authorize KOSHA 18001, OHSAS Implement Daewoo E&C’s own safety culture E n h a n c e c o m p e t e n c e i n e m e r g e n c y 18001, ISO 14001 HSE management system ‘Daewoo Clear Safety System’ response and network management One Touch HSE-Q and BAROCON Update Proceed on-site HSE Talk, implement Safe Act/Condition identification program • Management of accident rates Enhance accident prevention activities model Domestic: Converted accident rate: 0.15 Identify and respond to risks factors through • I mplementation of employee protection (▽32% in comparison to the previous year) HSE system audit for every construction system for overseas sites phases Overseas LTIR: 0.05 Expand application of ISO 22301 system (▽71% in comparison to the previous year) Staff Suyeon Ryu 58 59 Health and Safety Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Strategic Direction Health and Safety Management Policy Safety Management Promotion System Policy Lead culture of safety with respect for human life through change and Safety Management Promotion System innovation Daewoo E&C considers respect for life as a pivotal part of our business management and aims for zero accidents by Compliance with fundamental principles Action creating a safe and sound workplace. Plan • Comply with health and safety regulations • Promote in-advance risk assessments In fact, major safety-related businesses and trends are • Implement license system for major hazardous reported during our monthly business performance briefings. operations We endeavor to achieve zero accidents by pronouncing Health and Safety Management Policy within and outside of Participation of all members the company and implementing measures to prevent serious • Establish a good communication system • Allocate roles and responsibilities to all members incidents, all of which demonstrate the strong will of the without exception executives. Additionally, we strive to lead the culture of safety • Raise safety awareness through consistent education and training through engagement of all our members. In 2015, we are complying with fundamental principles of Consistent improvements safety and continuously improving safety activities, adhering • Eradicate similar and alike accidents • Prioritize health and safety when assessing Health and Safety Organizational Structure Through the Health and Safety Committee run by CEO, we to our safety motto handpicked by our employees, ‘Daewoo construction plans monitor the implementation of health and safety management From a bird’s eye’s view, the HSE-Q Division acts as a control E&C of change and innovation, the first step to the challenge • Establish advanced health and safety system through improvements tower, directing HSE issues across the company. Under the policies across the company and our performances, while is safety.’ HSE-Q Division, there are HSE-Q Planning and Coordination reviewing current status of incidents and discussing possible Team, Corporate HSE Team and Global HSE Team which are improvements. At the Health and Safety Committee held in responsible for establishing and operating health and safety 2015, the CEO specifically asked our employees to keep in management system and supporting operation on sites. The mind that safety is a must, not a choice and that prevention 2016 Health and Safety Promotion Direction Global Security Team protects employees while the Business of accidents by investing and thoroughly managing safety Division CM Team supports and manages health and safety is what helps us produce profits, while requesting to do our of each site of business divisions. best to achieve zero accidents at operation sites. Health and Safety Organizational Structure 2016 Established 2015 HSE-Q 2017 Lead the best HSE-Q in management basis Improve HSE-Q the country competitiveness CEO Health and Safety Committee Create safe and sound workplace Implement employee protection system HSE-Q Division Implement Expand/improve Implement Systemize new safety advanced HSE ISO 22301 system on-site community culture by raising activity and management HSE awareness infrastructure HSE-Q Planning & Global Security Operation Business Corporate HSE Team Gloabal HSE Team Coordination Team Team Division CM Team 60 61 Health and Safety Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Activities and Achievements Development of One Touch HSE-Q Mobile Safety Checks Types of Safety Checks Application In 2015, Daewoo E&C conducted several safety checks Health and Safety Management Certification Daewoo E&C developed the One Touch HSE-Q application conveying the executives’ firm will on operation site safety. • CEO inspection: Safety check by CEO, Heads of Daewoo E&C is the first construction company to implement in order to comprehensively manage health and safety and We put emphasis on the importance of safety management divisions and PMs, ‘Safety Check Day’ event Health and Safety Management System for the settlement revitalize real-time information sharing and communication. based on the ground rules and keep every on-site workers • Expert inspection: Checks safety of internal/external of self-regulated safety management system. In November Through the One Touch HSE-Q application, Daewoo E&C's systems and technology aware of safety issues. 2000, we also became the first in the industry to attain employees can check real-time notifications of potential risks, • Site support: HSE Helper, Starter, etc. OHSAS 18001 certification from British Standards Institution near miss, and accidents at operation sites and look for • Special inspection: Thaw season safety checks (BSI). In July 2015, we acquired KOSHA 18001 in order references, including guidelines on safety, site management, to secure the public confidence of our health and safety and best practices. With this, our employees are building management system and prevent serious incidents. KOSHA a culture of voluntary safety while leading by example in 18001 is developed by Korea Occupational Safety&Health preventing health and safety accidents. Agency and being given to the companies that contribute to the prevention of incidents by establishing health and Health and Safety Psychology Coaching Program safety management systems and promoting voluntary health Daewoo E&C initiated the Health and Safety Psychology activities. We have worked on this government certification Coaching Program in order to enhance employees’ stress since 2012. Starting with the KOSHA 18001 certification, we management capabilities by diagnosing their stress level and expect to increase efficiency of safety management system analyzing causes of anxiety. Therefore we have been executing through facilitating disaster prevention activities for avoiding Self-Care and Mind Care programs. The programs has led accidents and implementing safety culture. us to minimize the loss of work time by solving various issues Moreover, in 2015, Daewoo E&C obtained ISO 22301 regarding employees’ stress such as a decline in concentration certification for the first time in the construction industry and tardiness, while ultimately enhancing the safety level by and enhanced our risk response ability under securityhelping employees recover from psychological trauma such as threatening situations. ISO 22301 is an international standard post-traumatic stress after serious accidents. for ensuring business continuity and recovering to normal operation by mobilizing every resource, as quickly as Health and Safety Committee Meetings possible during times of crises such as disasters, terrorism, In 2015, Daewoo E&C held four Health and Safety Committee and conflicts. As a result, we expect to not only enhance Meetings with the CEO, discussing measures for health and our credibility from clients and government organizations in safety management across the company, reviewing current the stages of bidding and construction, but also secure our status of incidents, and identifying improvement plan. global competitiveness. Improvement of HSE Policy and Process Daewoo E&C improved HSE-related policy and process for Health and Safety Meeting Agenda of 2015 Health and Safety Trainings • HSE education performance more effective health and safety management as follows: In February 2015, Daewoo E&C opened ‘Safety Experience Instructor-led education: 3,890 participants (increased • Reinforced disciplinary standards for accidents and Reviewed 2015 Discussed methods by 63.8% compared to the previous year) Center,’ an actual and practice oriented training site inside health and safety to ensure stability of HSE-Q reward standards management temporary work the Daewoo E&C Institute of Construction Technology Experiencing education: 1,668 participants (launched in • Enhanced selection criteria for safety facilities and plans (DICT), and developed a differentiated training program. The 2015) suppliers program was comprised of several interesting simulation Consciousness diagnosis education: 1,005 participants • Verified safety monitoring personnel and reinforced experiencing education programs, including practices of (launched in 2015) operation standards cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), simulation on electricity • I m p ro v e d re g u l a r s a f e t y e x a m i n a t i o n p ro c e s s safety, equipment collision, trap/roll, safety belt, fallen object • Overseas HSE education performance Managed safety Implemented CLEAR US OSHA 30 Hours, UK NEBOSH ICC, US TapRooT, (Construction and Technology Promotion Law) and fire extinguisher. In 2015, 1,668 participants completed of construction program • Implemented construction safety briefings policy machinery the training. In terms of overseas HSE professional OHSAS 18001 (International OHSAS senior examinant education, 32 participants completed the advanced safety course), etc. education, including ‘NEBOSH ICC,’ ‘TapRooT’ and ‘OSHA 32 participants completed 30 Hours Construction’ in 2015. 62 63 Health and Safety Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Health and Safety Campaign Enhancement of Security System in Dangerous Establishment and Operation of Daewoo Security are operating 24-hour Hot-Line between the operation sites In Safety Cornerstone program, new on-site workers Countries Strategic Plan (SSP) and the headquarters, and an initial response supporting or common visitors receive trainings on attributes and In 2015, Daewoo E&C achieved Zero Security Incident Daewoo E&C strives to organically manage Security Rule, channel with National Intelligence Service, Ministry of Foreign emergency exit route of the operation site in order to at overseas sites. In order to achieve this, the Security Software, and Hardware in order to assure security of all Affairs, and International Contractors Association of Korea. familiarize the importance of safety. Other various activities, Team conducted a range of activities such as regular workers when carrying out projects in dangerous countries Furthermore, in order to identify security issues nearby such as Safety Traffic Light 365 Campaign which emphasizes security guidance check, conducted training simulation including Iraq. Additionally, we aim to achieve Zero Security operation sites and strengthen preventive measures, we compliance with legal regulations and Life Safety Campaign for emergencies, distribution of security equipment, Incident at operation sites by establishing support system of reinforced limited access to the congested area, minimizing which encourages wearing seat belts, are also provided. close support for overseas operation sites and security the headquarters. conflicts with the locals and strengthening the inspection of collaboration with government. Daewoo E&C is reinforcing security management around workers and vehicles accessing operation sites. Overseas Health and Safety Support operation sites with the recent increase in religious tension When bidding for projects, Daewoo E&C establishes • Regular security guidance check between Saudi Arabia and Iran, as well as IS terrorism. We countermeasures by specifically examining HSE risks in order Checked 5 countries, 21 operation sites Average score of guidance check increased by 20% to support overseas health and safety. In addition, we set compared to the previous year up a joint safety check standard with on-site managers in • Enhancement of response ability for emergencies 2015 while conducting education for improving executives’ Supported initial response training for emergencies at safety awareness, UA (Unsafe Act)/UC (Unsafe Condition) both headquarters and operation sites in DGS and Al Faw Rule Software Hardware Observation program and Safe Work Campaign. breakwater in Iraq Procedure guideline for security Diversify channels for collecting Strengthen protection ability for Supported initial response training for operation sites in of overseas operation site (initial information and establish a system operation sites through setting up • HSE-focused examination in bidding process Indorama, Nigeria and Jazan, Saudi Arabia response for emergencies, manual (internal and external network buildings Prepared 32 projects HSE risk evaluation sheet and for response to conflict, etc.) formation, response to government/ • Close support for operation sites established countermeasures Prepare site-specific security plan public) Secured 10% of allowance compared to the quota allowed • E d u c a t i o n o f m a n a g e m e n t ’s s a f e t y a w a r e n e s s for staying at the operation sites in Iraq improvement Distributed security equipment (satellite telephone, automatic 3 occasions, 75 participants completed vehicle location tracking system, etc.) • UA/UC Observation Distributed on-site security management manual in French Participation rate increased by 18% compared to the and Arabic previous year • Security-related collaboration with governmental organizations Performance on Safety Technology IoT Pilot Project • Facilitation of Safe Work Campaign Operated counter-terrorism council (National Intelligence Achieved 100% participation rate Service, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Land, Research In November 2015, Daewoo E&C established a virtual field Infrastructure and Transport, Office of National Security and with construction IoT inside DICT and conducted locationSelected 1 out of 10 topics, and conducted sitespecific education and special inspection every month International Contractors Association of Korea) based worker management, augmented reality-based Technical Safety System Presented our best practice for security management twice a construction management, safety monitoring, and fire and Daewoo Technical Safety Network Service System is a year gas leak detection monitoring. system for preventing disaster of buildings at the construction sites that has been developed by DICT since January 2015. The system consists of a guidance check checklist for detecting qualitative risks, MEMS (Micro-electromechanical systems) for quantitative risks and a safety monitoring system based on IoT. This aims to make all workers become safety experts by strengthening technology competence based on IT. • Safety checklist Prepared a safety checklist specified by each construction type with approximately 360 items 64 65 Health and Safety Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Management of Accident Rates of accident rates in 2015. This is due to increased number of Prevention of Health and Safety Risks Implementation of Worker Protection System safety issues such as the collision of equipment at overseas • Improvement of a model for prevention activities • Increased utilization of ISO 22301 system In 2015, the domestic converted accident rate was 0.22, operation sites and incidents concerning fire, fallen object, Analyze leading indicators > Predict project risks > • Systemization of overseas sites community management which is a 29% decrease that of the previous year, whereas etc. We are putting every effort into not repeating the same Check, Diagnose, Audit > Customized Solution > Act Conduct community education before assigning on-site the overseas Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) recorded 0.17. incidents by analysis of the cause, follow-up management Feedback > Prevention of accidents managers However, the number of serious incidents at home and and recurrence prevention. • Pre-inspection on safety of temporary structure engineering Systemically support according to the construction overseas increased by 33%, indicating a poor management phases Scaffold (31m), retaining (tunnel/sheathing/over 5m), Performance on the Management of Accident Rates Target power using temporary structure, cast with walk • Enhancement of competence in emergency response and plate network management 2) Converted accident rate: Category Target Performance Remarks (number of converted engineering review > Detail drawing of construction Analyze security information: Support newly entering victims / number of fullDomestic Converted accident rate2) 0.18 0.22 ▽29% in comparison with previous year Process > Structure review > Construction plan > Safety countries in advance and re-mobile for existing countries time workers) x 100 inspection > Prevention of collapse Manage emergency response: Strengthen simulation 3) Lost Time Injury Rate Overseas LTIR3) 0.05 0.17 (LTIR): (number of training between the headquarters and operation sites, victims / total worked hours) x 1 million hours support 3-month dispatch of headquarter official when • Manage 5 main items for eliminating serious disaster at on-site mobile in dangerous countries overseas operation sites Enhance security collaboration with governmental Permit to Work, Work in closed space, High place work, organizations such as National Intelligence Service, Heavy equipment work and Lockout Tagout (control Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Land, system) Infrastructure and Transport, Office of National Security and International Contractors Association of Korea • HSE system audit for every phase of overseas site construction, explore and response risks Analyze risks and establish countermeasures according to the construction progress at each operation site Set and manage the stages of ‘Safe/Warning/Alert’ through analyzing safety activities at each operation site • Prevention of unsafe activities through operating practical Visions and Objectives Basis for Safety Culture Permit to Work For the main safety activities for 2016, Daewoo E&C strives Daewoo E&C aims to lead a culture of safety with respect to manage a leading indicator, increase the level of safety for human life through change and innovation based on the through prevention activities and implement ‘Daewoo Health and Safety Management Policy across the company CLEAR Safety System’, a future-oriented safety culture. This Management of Accident Rates and accomplish zero-disaster through creation of safe and is Daewoo E&C’s unique safety culture program focusing Targets for the Management of Accident Rates sound operation sites. In 2016, we plan to have a takeon executives’ leading by example (Commitment), twooff year of enhancing competitiveness in health and safety way communication (Listen and Speak), risk elimination Category 2015 Performances 2015 Objectives Remarks management while implementing the system for employee through identifying UA/UC (Eliminate), appreciation protection. To do so, we will set up the basis for the culture and encouragement by exploring SA/SC (Appreciate) Domestic Converted accident rate 0.22 0.15 ▽32% of safety, manage health and safety risks in advance and and improvement of relationship among all members increase support for HSE infrastructure by raising HSE (Relationship). Overseas Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.17 0.05 ▽71% awareness. Additionally, we aim to achieve Zero Security Incident at overseas operation sites while increasing utilization of ISO 22301 system for employee protection, systemizing overseas sites community management and enhancing competence in emergency response and network management. 66 67 Eco-Friendly Construction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C G4-27 Disclosure on Management Approach Eco-Friendly Construction Environment Manager (Unit: Persons/As of November 2015) The eco-friendly construction has become a must with the Environment series of rising trends and events including an increase in Managers 427 2015 demand for corporate responsibility on the environment, the agreement of the international community on the New Climate System after 2020, and the increase in potential for companies to create values through the environment-friendly business model. Highly regarding environmental protection and respect for life as the overriding values of corporate management, Daewoo E&C strives to become a global ecofriendly construction leader by continuously expanding its eco-friendly business as well as making effort to prevent global warming. Goals Activities and Achievements • Environmental management • Environmental management Accomplish zero violation of environmental laws and occurrence of Accomplished zero penalty and sanction for violation of environmental environmental accidents laws Reassign roles and responsibilities of environment managers Reestablished the roles and responsibilities of environment managers Raise the level of environmental management in operation sites through Implemented HSE One Stop Service the implementation of HSE One Stop Service Achieved the target to reduce costs of waste disposal compared to sales: Achieve the target to reduce costs of waste disposal compared to sales: 0.18% (calculated with estimated sales at the end of November 2015) 0.20% • Response to climate change • Response to climate change Expanded public disclosure of environmental information: Won CDP Assess estimated amount of GHG emission and set objective and (Carbon Disclosure Project) Sector Winners Award strategy for reduction Increase disclosure of environmental information, win CDP (Carbon • Eco-friendly businesses Disclosure Project) Sector Winners, participate in the environmental Secured core technologies to accomplish Green Premium roadmap and information disclosure initiative by the Ministry of Environment established zero energy house (ZENERHEIM) Became the first in Korea to develop DECO2 integrated process optimal • Eco-friendly businesses technology and design a direct synthesis for CO2 integrated process plant Develop optimal technology and construction process to build high-rise zero energy houses Develop DECO2 (Daewoo Elimination of CO 2 ) integrated process optimal technology and seek methods to commercialize carbon capture byproducts Plans for 2016 • Environment management • Response to climate change • Eco-friendly businesses Accomplish zero violation of environmental Assign reduction target for the company, Develop optimal technology and construction laws and occurrence of environmental division, on-site/team and execute real time process to actualize zero energy house accidents monitoring in projects and reduce 80% of energy Enhance job competency of environment Conduct consistent training and promotion on consumption manager GHG reduction Design and install the first year lay out design Prepare to convert to ISO 14001:2015 Actively respond to public disclosure on for a direct synthesis pilot plant for CO 2 environment information integrated process Achieve the target to reduce costs of waste disposal compared to sales: 0.19% Enter new market for domestic/overseas new renewable energy business and secure performance Senior Researcher Juyeon Kim 68 69 Eco-Friendly Construction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Environmental Management Strategic Direction company-wide environmental management, and Global HSE Activities and Achievements HSE One Stop Service Team, which takes care of overseas on-site environment To encourage domestic and overseas operation sites Environmental management is essential in promoting management. The Corporate HSE Team is keeping up to comply with environmental regulations and establish Daewoo E&C, a trustworthy and eco-friendly construction sustainable construction business. To live up to our top with the status of the environmental management system the environment management system, Daewoo E&C company, has improved the quality of on-site environment priorities, which lie in the values of human being and the implementation, while the Global HSE Team is constantly implemented the HSE One Stop Service. It serves as the management through the implementation of HSE One environment, we promote continuous improvements on our strengthening environmental management in overseas total support service on HSE to HSE managers, on-site Stop Service, to comply with environmental regulations environmental management. We have established guidelines operation sites. employees, and on-site suppliers’ employees. The service and to settle its environment management system. We on complying with regulations and operating environment consists of HSE Starter, Helper, Letter, Tester and supports have also achieved zero penalty and sanction on violation management system, have made universal announcement Environmental Operate environmental management Policies system according to ISO 14001 and of environmental laws by conducting a thorough HSE employees for the early adoption of HSE system, providing on our established environmental objectives, such as comply with environmental regulations training, evaluation and various information. It made a great management system audits. As for the target ratio of accomplishing zero violation of environmental laws and Prevent environmental pollution caused by contribution to our environment management competency construction activities waste disposal costs to sales, we recorded 0.18%, far occurrence of environmental accidents, and have managed enhancement by providing its services 40 times in 2015. Reflect and implement stakeholders’ surpassing the 0.20% which we set out earlier through the the implementation results. In addition, we have retained the opinions on environment and climate implementation of the environment management system. change environmental management system certification, ISO 14001, since 1997 through post-certification inspections. Environmental Prevent environmental regulations violation Targets and accidents HSE One Stop Service Set and achieve targets to conserve energy Environmental Management Organization and other Daewoo E&C's environmental management organization Set and achieve targets to reduce costs of waste disposal compared to sales HSE Starter HSE Helper HSE Letter HSE Tester is composed of Corporate HSE Team, which supervises a • Supports early adoption of • Supports difficulties related to • Provides information on HSE • Supports by evaluating on-site system HSE (news, regulations, cases, etc.) level and understanding needs Environmental Management Organizations throughout the Company and by Division • Supports within three • Regularly with the request from • Supports regularly • Supports regularly months from the beginning of operation site • Supported 11 times in 2015 • Supported 5 times in 2015 Company Environmental Environmental Management Organization by Division construction • Supported 12 times in 2015 Management Organization • Supported 12 times in 2015 CEO Head of Divisions (Civil Project/Building Works/Housing/Plant Business/Power Plant) Building Plant Development of One Touch HSE-Q Mobile HSE-Q Division Civil Project Housing Power Plant Works Business Application Environment Environment Environment Environment Environment Environment Daewoo E&C has first developed the One Touch HSE-Q Executives Executives Executives Executives Executives Executives application in the construction industry in order to enhance Building Works Housing Plant Project Power Project transparency and convenience in waste disposal. Using Safety Quality Environment Civil Construction Corporate HSE Construction Construction Construction Construction Global HSE Team Management this mobile HSE-Q application, our employees can manage Team Management Management Management Management Team Team Team Team Team the ‘ALLBARO’ system at operation site. Since One Touch HSE-Q is well connected with the ‘Allbaro’ system of Operation Site Information Communication Korea Environment Corporation and the company’s waste Reestablishment of Role and Responsibilities of Site Environment Organizational Structure Hand-Over Document Registration disposal system (DW-PMIS) in real time, anyone can create, Environment Managers Environment officer delete and manage electronic hand-over document anytime Hand-Over Document Status In October 2015, the Corporate HSE Team reestablished the (site manager) and anywhere. Through the mobile application, which enable appointment standards and the roles of environment managers Oversees general Daily Emission Status environment affairs employees to register hand-over document with photos to increase work efficiency and minimize environmental risk. ALLBARO attached, the number of errors occurred by not posting Basic On-Site Information Persons were selected for management, project control and Environment Environment Environment the document or miswriting has significantly decreased. In Manager Manager Manager construction. (administration) (project control) (construction) recognition of our efforts, Mobile HSE-Q won the Chairman Waste Product Breakdown Reports, civil Government Site environment, Award for the ‘Best Practice for Construction Environment relations, document complaint complaints, GHG, etc. Contractors Status management, etc. management, etc. Management’ in November 2015. 70 71 Eco-Friendly Construction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C HSE Management System Audits Zero Penalty Environmental Management Training and Sanction Daewoo E&C has been conducting annual HSE management Daewoo E&C provides environmental training for environment for violation on system audits to supervise the operation status of the environmental managers, on-site managers, on-site workers, and on-site environment management and compliance of environmental laws executives of excellent and major suppliers in order to prevent 31,944 0 regulations of operation sites. In 2015, Daewoo E&C has environmental accidents and cultivate functional knowledge on participants completed executed 66 HSE management system audits on our operation environmental management. On-site trainings are conducted environmental training in 2015 sites and notified operation sites of the results, by announcing autonomously once a month, based on the environmental exemplary and poor cases. In addition, by enhancing the training materials prepared by the Corporate HSE Team. compliance inspection on environmental regulations, Daewoo cases Environmental Training Performance (As of December 31, 2015) E&C achieved zero penalty and sanction on the violation of environmental regulations. Category Name of Training Period Number of Participants st Trainings Hosted Job competence training for environment managers (Level 1)_ 1 Round: April 21 251 The first half of the year 2nd Round: April 28 HSE Management System Audits Performance 3rd Round: May 19 Job competence training for environment managers (Level 1)_ 1st Round: October 19 96 Category Civil Project Building Works Housing Plant/Power Total The second half of the year 2nd Round: October 20 HSE management system Trainings 2015 The 3rd Chief Manager Conference (Southern region) August 18 14 17 6 10 33 audits (regular) Supported 2015 The 3rd Chief Manager Conference (Central region) August 19 21 HSE management system 2 2 2015 The 3rd Chief Manager Conference (Western region) August 21 23 audits (special) 2015 The 3rd Chief Manager Conference (Seoul region) August 21 22 HSE management system 13 4 12 2 31 2015 The 3rd Chief Manager Conference (Eastern region) August 25 29 audits (fugitive dust) Working-level training on on-site environment management (6 20 Total 32 10 22 2 66 sites including Guri/Pocheon Business Unit) Monthly On-site environmental training (Civil Project Division) January 1 7,937 Environmental Training On-site environmental training (Building Works Division) ~ December 31 10,588 (operation site) On-site environmental training (Housing Division) 9,947 On-site environmental training (Plant/Power Business Division) 2,996 Total 31,944 Visions and Objectives management Appoint environment managers for business divisions Daewoo E&C will continue to strengthen the expertise of and conduct trainings our environment managers and environmental management - Support environment managers in acquiring system. For the settlement of environment managers’ roles management license on toxic chemical substances and responsibilities, the company will conduct environment • Preparation to convert to ISO 14001:2015 management training by appointing environment managers Complete training course on system conversion (once a for each business division. Preparation to convert to ISO year, 16 hours) 14001:2015 will also take place as well as supporting site Analyze revised version of ISO 14001:2015 environment management via the HSE One Stop Service. Prepare for conversion screening inspection Through the consistent improvements on environment management activities, we will once again, pursue • Waste management zero violation on environmental laws and occurrence of Achieve the target to reduce costs of waste disposal environmental accidents and 0.19% ratio of waste disposal compared to sales (0.19%) for 2016 costs to total sales. Identify and register exemplary waste treatment companies by region • Enhancement of job competency of environment manager Establish methods to recycle the waste (construction Support and confirm on-site application of HSE One sludge, waste soil, etc.) generated in operation sites Stop Service within three years Revise working-level guidebook for on-site environment 72 73 Eco-Friendly Construction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Key Environmental Climate Change Performance Waste Strategic Direction climate change. In addition, as we discharge a large amount of GHG due to the nature of the industry from constructing Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 In December 2015, as the result of COP21 held in Paris, an buildings to using and disposing construction materials, Waste Volume* ton 479,180 628,471 410,081 agreement which imposed activities on mandatory emission Daewoo E&C constantly monitors and manages the impact reduction and a response to climate change, was reached on climate change. Treatment Cost* KRW 100 million 89 156 108 among 195 countries including developing countries. As * Waste volume and treatment cost for domestic operation sites • Establishment of climate change response system the government’s target for 2030 national GHG emission Head of HSE-Q Division: manages the overall climate Energy reduction was set at 37% compared to Business As Usual (Unit: TJ) change response activities (BAU), it became urgent for the industry to reduce more Evaluate executives’ environmental Management: 2013 2014 2015 of GHG emission. Following the current domestic and Category Conduct evaluations annually, examine climate change Fuel Electricity Total Fuel Electricity Total Fuel Electricity Total international trends, Daewoo E&C is promoting a sustainable response activities and performances management based on two major strategic directions: 1) Headquarters (HQ) 34.08 48.35 82 36.14 47.78 83 33.09 49.76 82 • Climate change risks and opportunities Understanding climate change risks and opportunities and Daewoo Institute Analyze risks and opportunities according to changes 4.53 14.00 18 3.26 11.99 15 4.89 14.66 19 2) Preparing a climate change response system. The HSE-Q of Construction in regulations due to climate change, physical changes, Technology (DICT) Division leads the arrangement of climate change response and changes in customer behavior Dormitory 8.87 9.45 18 7.73 8.44 16 6.29 8.56 14 system as the head of HSE-Q Division is the chief officer in Asset Management 24.57 10.81 35 4.10 44.47 48 0. 34.12 34 Team Construction sites 152.41 1,004.55 1,156 127.43 949.24 1,076 138.29 1,015.31 1,153 Housing gallery 1.46 9.38 10 9.29 9.29 9 1.14 9.28 10 Analysis of Risks and Opportunities in Climate Change Migliore mall Busan, 0. 91.14 91 Category Risks Opportunities Lease business Regulatory Factors • Target Management System for GHG/energy • Target Management System for GHG/energy Jungbu Branch 0.22 0.36 0 0.10 0.35 0 0.20 0.36 0 Expenses involved in upgrading GHG inventory Cost saving by reducing GHG, less fines levied • Emissions Trading when targets are accomplished Total 226.13 1,188.05 1,410 188.04 1,071.56 1,247 183.90 1,132.05 1,312 Fines levied when exceeding carbon credits • Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) • Green Building Construction Support Act Growth of new renewable energy market and Additional authentication cost when acquiring participation in related projects GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO2-e) ‘Green Buildings Certificate’, technology • Green Buildings Construction Support Act development expenses Competitive advantage with accumulated eco2013 2014 2015 friendly/energy/saving technologies Category Direct Indirect Total Direct Indirect Total Direct Indirect Total Physical Factors • Increase in Average Precipitation • Increase in Average Precipitation Delayed construction period due to flood damage, Increased demand in repair works and loss Headquarters (HQ) 1,995.12 2,348.089 4,343 2,137.727 2,320.629 4,458 1,965.429 2,416.653 4,382 building durability problems due to increasing minimization facilities due to increased number of moisture disaster occurrence Daewoo Institute • Rise in Temperature • Rise in Temperature of Construction 241.59 680.14 921 170.36 582.28 752 274.22 712.13 986 Technology (DICT) Increased dust scattering, negative impacts on Increased demand in high-insulation, low energy product quality due to changes in construction constructions suitable for hot environment Dormitory 449.95 459.18 909 391.99 409.80 801 319.31 415.94 735 materials • Changes in Natural Resources Asset Management 1,246.77 524.92 1,771 208.28 2,159.76 2,368 0 1,656.99 1,656 Team Unstable supply of materials, increased project expenses and delayed construction period Construction sites 9,756.37 48,788.94 58,545 8,244.77 46,102.50 54,347 8,898.70 49,311.41 58,210 Other Factors • Reputation • Reputation Housing gallery 74.82 455.62 530 34.66 451.01 485 59.66 450.74 510 Increased demand in public disclosure of nonRise of brand value and sales increase financial information, loss of reputation and fall in • Change in Customer Behavior Migliore mall Busan, 0. 4,426.67 4,426 stock price when requirements are not fulfilled Higher demands in low carbon, eco-friendly Lease business • Change in Customer Behavior constructions, expansion of related markets Jungbu Branch 12.57 17.35 29 4.91 17.20 22 11.74 17.32 29 Higher demands in low carbon, eco-friendly constructions, corporate image tarnished when Total 13,777.19 57,700.91 71,474 11,192.70 52,043.19 63,233 11,529.05 54,981.17 66,508 response fails 74 75 Eco-Friendly Construction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Eco-Friendly Business 1) Carbon Management Activities and Achievements Public Disclosure of Environment Information Strategic Direction construction by 2023, Daewoo E&C is on its way to create Sector Winners is a We have actively and transparently been responding to the a cleaner and safer world to live in through the development status given to the top 4 companies. Utilizing GHG Inventory System public disclosure of environmental information requested by Increase in demand for environmental responsibilities can also of eco-friendly technologies and building materials within 2) Organization based in To be able to effectively manage GHG emission, Daewoo external parties. As a result, we were elected as the 2015 mean a new business opportunity for a company. Daewoo all sectors and areas such as civil, building works, housing the United Kingdom E&C has been operating GHG inventory system within Carbon Management Sector Winner1) hosted by Korea CDP2) E&C is diversifying eco-friendly business into various areas and plant business. In addition, as there has been growing which works with shareholders and ‘BAROCON’, an integrated construction management and improved our score on disclosure section from 94 in such as the development of eco-friendly technologies and demand to diversify energy distribution due to the response corporations to disclose system, since 2012. The inventory system measures the 2014 to 97 in 2015. We have also accomplished A band construction materials, eco-friendly architecture business, on the Climate Change Convention and fluctuations in oil the greenhouse gas emissions of major energy consumption and GHG emissions of all operation on environment section from the ESG evaluation by Korea and new renewable energy business that aids the reduction prices, we are in the midst of developing and promoting corporations sites and buildings in detail. Using the updated system that Corporate Governance Service, as well as participating on of environmental impacts. Targeting zero energy on housing domestic and overseas new renewable energy businesses. automatically estimates the ratio of GHG emissions to sales statistical survey on chemical substances. Based on the and shows the level of accomplishment for monthly reduction excellent performance on responding to the request for targets when reduction targets for each department are information disclosure, Daewoo E&C strives to build up trust entered, we are keeping a close watch on the progress to among stakeholders including investors. accomplish our objectives. Development of eco-friendly technologies CDP A Band on Information 2015년 Environment Disclosure Section from ESG Score Evaluation 2014년 Promote eco-friendly 94 Research and Development Develop eco-friendly concrete (R&D) in all areas including and cement materials civil projects, building works, housing and plant business Construct zero energy housing by 2023 Development of eco-friendly Visions and Objectives amount of GHG emissions and execute reduction activities construction materials Efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change must be around the areas with high volume, while continuing to continuously enhanced. Therefore, starting 2016, from which identify items for reduction. Furthermore, we will strive to New Renewable expand our promotion activities to raise company-wide energy business GHG target management system is implemented, Daewoo E&C aims to promote company-wide reduction activities interests in GHG reduction and strengthen our transparency according to GHG management guideline and directives. As and trust among stakeholders by proactively responding to the reduction target has been set, we seek to analyze the the request for carbon disclosure. Promote new renewable energy projects such as wind power, solar Plan for Promotion of GHG Reduction power, tidal power, etc. Short-term Plan (2016) Allocation of reduction target for the company, business divisions, operation site/team and implication of realtime monitoring: BAROCON Execution of continuous training, promotion, and campaign: E-book publicatrion and slogan contest Midand long-term Plan Substitute LED light on underground parking lot and emergency stairs on HQ (2017~2019) Apply temporary LED lights on operation sites Introduce Energy Management System (ISO50001) Long-term Plan (2019~) Establish an annual 2.1% reduction plan 76 77 Eco-Friendly Construction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Activities and Achievements developing a technology (DECO2), utilizing building materials and carbon capture for the first time in Korea. This research Eco-Friendly Technology, ‘Green Premium’ are electricity, gas, water, hot-water, and heating, are provided through a telemetering monitoring system. Moreover, we foster Development of Eco-Friendly Technologies project is to develop a continuous carbon capture process ‘Green Premium’ is an eco-friendly technology developed by an eco-friendly residential culture by installing energy saving In September 2009, Daewoo E&C established construction that can hold up to 40 tons of CO2 per day through the direct Daewoo E&C that can save energy costs such as electricity and equipment such as air volume control multi-drop chambers, sensor objectives to build ‘Zero Energy House’, in which energy reaction of CO2 in the exhaust gas and use the capture as gas to ultimately accomplish the Zero Energy House. This can type sink water saving machines, and highly water-efficient toilets. be achieved by applying the passive and active technologies that Daewoo E&C has established the ‘Green Premium’ roadmap is produced and used within the apartment complex by materials for civil work and building construction, where mass are optimized into a building. A passive technology minimizes to accomplish Zero Energy House by 2023 and succeeded in 2023, and has developed and applied the ‘Green Premium’ usage is possible. We aim to complete the commercialization the energy consumption within the building, whereas an active securing the core technologies to achieve the roadmap in 2015. technology consisted of eco-friendly and energy saving of the process development by 2019, starting June 2015. As technology produces energy. For apartments Green Premium Through the firmly established method for analyzing energy saving technology has been applied, various functions are provided, rate, we put together the optimal plan to achieve 80% of energy residential products. of 2015, we have completed the basic and implementation including a real-time energy monitoring system, a smart batch saving. Furthermore, with the application of an energy saving In 2015, with the objective to come up with a new alternative design of the direct reaction plant that can capture 40 tons control switch enabling gas shut-offs, lights controls, securities technology, we developed a formula for estimating the energy that can overcome the storage limit of CO 2, we started of CO2 a day. settings, and elevator calls all at once, heating energy consumption saving rate that enables us to figure out the effect of the saved saving system, and standby power shutoff devices. A collection energy in the early stage of a project. and analysis of information on consumption of five services, which First time entering the Chinese market for an air pollution elimination technology In November 2015, Daewoo E&C has set the stage for the expansion of its eco-friendly technologies to the Chinese market, by signing a MOA with Shandong Guohuan Industry Investment Co., Ltd, a representative company for the environment sector in China, and Liaocheng incineration plant, to apply a technology that eliminates air pollution. We agreed to provide 1) designing of Dual Bag Filer (DBF), which we developed and own, 2) an operation technology, and 3) a portion of necessary tools and materials, while Shandong Guohuan Industry Investment Co., Ltd taking charge in on-site construction, licensing, and operation. * What is Dual Bag Filter? It is an eco-friendly technology that eliminates substances such as particulate matter and dioxin that create air pollution in the process of incineration. Registered as New Environment Technology and Green Technology in Korea, it not only grasps the aspect of eco-friendliness, but also secures economic efficiency as the consumption of activated carbon is reduced to less than 1/5 through the recycle of the activated carbon. The technology is in the commercialization phase and it is expected draw a great interest from foundries with issues concerning particulate matter and high concentrated dioxin. 78 79 Eco-Friendly Construction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Eco-Friendly/Quality Product Certification Status Project Eco-Friendly and Quality Product Project Eco-Friendly and Quality Product Certificates Certificates Gwanggyo Central Prugio Green Building main certification: ‘Green Jegidong Station Complex Green Building preliminary certification: City 2nd grade’ Building site ‘Green 2nd grade’ Energy Efficiency preliminary certification: Kyunghee University Green Building preliminary certification: 2nd grade’ SPACE21 site ‘Green 3rd grade’ Cheonan Buldang Park Green Building preliminary certification: Gwangmyeong Station Green Building preliminary certification: Prugio 1st/2nd Complex ‘Green 4th grade’ Residential and Commercial ‘Green 4th grade’ sites Energy Efficiency preliminary certification: Complex site 1st grade’ nd Dongtan 2 New Town Green Building preliminary certification: Wirye New Town Songpa Green Building main certification: ‘Green First Tower site ‘Green 2nd grade’ Prugio 2nd grade’ Energy Efficiency preliminary certification: 1st grade Incheon Seochang (2) 5BL Green Building preliminary certification: Apartment Package with ‘Green 4th grade’ Samsong Wonheung Green Building preliminary certification: Private Sector Participation Station Prugio site ‘Green 2nd grade’ Prugio+LH Apartment Green Building preliminary certification: Energy Efficiency preliminary certification: (A5BL) ‘Green 4th grade’ 1st grade Prugio+LH Apartment Green Building preliminary certification: Songdo Edu-Fore Prugio Green Building preliminary certification: (A6BL) ‘Green 4th grade’ site ‘Green 2nd grade’ Energy Efficiency preliminary certification: Guri Galmae Bogeumjari Green Building preliminary certification: 1st grade Residential Area C1Bl ‘Green 4th grade’ Apartment House Wirye Art River Prugio site Green Building preliminary certification: ‘Green 2nd grade’ Paju Unjeong Housing Site Green Building preliminary certification: Development District A25 ‘Green 4th grade’ Energy Efficiency preliminary certification: Block Apartment 1st grade Gimpo Pungmu 2nd Green Building preliminary certification: Wirye Central Prugio site Green Building preliminary certification: Complex 24 Block 1 Lot ‘Green 4th grade’ ‘Green 2nd grade’ Apartment House for City Energy Efficiency preliminary certification: Development Project 1st grade New Renewable Energy Business in the business with the on-going project on developing Daewoo E&C actively examines and fosters the expansion offshore wind power structure designing regulations and of new renewable energy business through the application concrete structures by the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, of eco-friendly technologies, such as organic wastewe were able to acquire business license for wind power to energy technology (a technology that produces new plants in Haenam, Jeollanam-do in July 2015. In September, renewable energy using organic waste such as sewage we received a business license for solar power plants in sludge, livestock manure, and food waste), CCU (Carbon Jeju Island. Relevant teams at Daewoo E&C are constantly Capture and Utilization) and CCS (Carbon Capture and collaborating in order to expand business within the new Storage) in obtaining contracts. Having secured a foothold renewable energy sector. Development of Eco-Friendly Construction Eco-Friendly Architecture Business Materials An eco-friendly architecture is designed to minimize Daewoo E&C has made efforts to reduce resource use the environmental harm throughout its entire lifecycle of Visions and Objectives Achieve zero energy house as a business in high-rise housing buildings and minimize GHG emissions by developing eco-friendly engineering, construction, operation and maintenance, construction materials. Instead of cement with high CO 2 destruction with the objective of providing a pleasant To become a sustainable eco-friendly construction company • Development of eco-friendly construction materials that raises the value of the earth and quality of life, Daewoo Continuously develop and apply eco-friendly cement emissions, the Eco-Friendly Mass Concrete was developed residential environment while saving energy and resources, materials through the combination of fly ash, blast furnace slag powder recycling, and preserving natural environment. In 2014, E&C will continue to actively promote the development of eco-friendly technologies and businesses such as eco• Eco-friendly green growth business and new renewable and high contents of other industrial byproducts. By using Daewoo E&C constructed various eco-friendly buildings. energy business industrial waste and byproducts, we were able to reduce Certifications such as eco-friendly architecture, Green friendly housing, construction, and energy. Focus on winning contracts for domestic projects cement contents by 40% compared to the regular concrete, Buildings and Energy Efficiency Ratings were also obtained. based on project performance capabilities and cutting • Development of eco-friendly technologies edge technologies on water treatment and biogas plant resulting in a decrease of 79kg of CO2 per m3. It is currently Design and install first year lay out design for a direct synthesis pilot plant for CO2 integrated process Develop and promote domestic and foreign new being used in various sites as the level of its eco-friendliness, Establish CO2 integrated direct synthesis pilot plant for renewable energy business such as wind power, solar quality, and the economic efficiency have been enhanced power and tidal power emitted gas within three years compared to the existing material. 80 81 Customer Satisfaction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C G4-27 Disclosure on Management Approach CUSTOMER SATISFACTION External Certificates Customer satisfaction is the core value determining the company’s sustainable future and vision as well as the foremost prerequisite for Daewoo E&C, which is growing ISO 9001 KEPIC to be the best company in the world. As the age of limitless competition continues, International Korea Electric quality management, quick understanding of customer needs and stabilized/ Organization for Power Industry customized services have become important factors that lead to the customer Standardization Code satisfaction. Daewoo E&C is performing customer-focused quality management throughout all business activities from business planning, production, marketing, sales to services and rearranging policies on IT security and information protection as well as reorganizing the system for customer satisfaction. Particularly in 2015, ASME NBBI Daewoo E&C improved quality assurance process through systematized situation American The National audit on each division and enhanced mobile system. Society of Board of Boiler Mechanical and Pressure Engineers Vessel Inspectors Goals Activities and Achievements • I ncrease global quality competitiveness, • Quality management • Privacy and information protection achieve zero major quality accident S ecured quality competitiveness through Acquired ISO 27001 certification external quality certifications E xamined the current status of personal • Enhance brand identity and power through customer communication, customer Increased effectiveness and suitability of information management satisfaction activities the quality system by enacting and revising Expanded mobile system operating rules, as well as conducting quality audits Strengthened IT security management • I nspect current situation on methodical information management and build up the Promoted quality awareness through a quality Inspected hacking prevention measurements integrated system for information leakage training program management Established manual for personal information E s t a b l i s h e d a m o b i l e q u a l i t y a c c i d e n t protection in relation to housing and prevention system construction and provided training for the personal information transactors • Customer satisfaction Improved response rate and reduced average turnaround time at integrated call center Reinforced customer satisfaction surveys A w a r d e d t h e g r a n d p r i z e f o r i n t e r n e t communication (Prugio) Continuous promotion of Life Premium Plans for 2016 • Quality management • Customer satisfaction • Privacy and information protection Receive 85 or above on the Quality Establish consolidated system for complaint R enew ISO 27001:2013 certification upon Performance Indicator (QPI) management expiration Improve quality management system internally, Reinforce customer satisfaction surveys S elf-inspection on the actual condition of cultivate a quality culture that adheres to the Continuous promotion of Life Premium personal information management basic principles, improve equipment quality Enhance IT security E stablish foundation for voluntary onR evise manual for personal information site quality activities, reinforce preventive p ro t e c t i o n i n re l a t i o n t o h o u s i n g a n d management on quality construction and strengthen training for the external transactors of personal information Staff Yeonjoo Kim 82 83 Customer Satisfaction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Quality Management Strategic Direction Infra & Energy Developer by accelerating our consistent Activities and Achievements customers desire. Seven construction sites and 22 teams at quality management based on the company culture where the headquarters renewed their ISO 9001 certifications along Customer satisfaction comes from quality innovation on all executives and staff members from Quality Management Securement of Quality Competitiveness with the others who reconfirmed Daewoo E&C's ability for products and services. In order to guarantee the world’s Team, Quality Control Team and Division CM Team prioritize Through various quality related certifications that we acquired maintaining and replacing nuclear and power plant boilers by best quality competitiveness, Daewoo E&C laid foundation the customer satisfaction. in 2015, it has been confirmed internally and externally that maintaining certifications from KEPIC, ASME, and NBBI in for advanced quality system with our 2015 quality Daewoo E&C holds the capacity to provide the product that 2014. • Assurance of trustworthy quality management strategies of securing the global level of Optimization of principle-oriented practical quality quality competitiveness and zero rate of significant quality Acquired Certifications system issues which resulted in the management policy of 2016 Intension of on-site support and establishment of for the customer trustworthy quality. According to such ISO 9001 KEPIC ASME NBBI quality system • First Korean construction company • Nuclear • Nuclear: NA, NPT • Nuclear: NR management policy, Daewoo E&C will reaffirm to be a Global to acquire it in 1993 Construction: MN, SN, EN, MH • Non-nuclear: S, U, U2, PP • Non-nuclear: R Engineering: MN, SN Quality Management Promotion Organization Quality Quality Control Division CM Teams Management Team Team Operate quality management Manage on-site quality, audit onPromote divisional quality system, maintain and manage site quality system, evaluate onmanagement, manage on-site external quality certifications, site quality activities, manage construction quality and afterconduct quality trainings, audit and analyze penalties, manage sales service headquarter quality system, procurement/technologies evaluate quality on materials Continuous Improvement in Quality System Idea Space suppliers We have constantly promoted the maximization of the • System improvement for user-friendly convenience and efficiency effectiveness and suitability in our quality system through Expecting ready source of suggestions and prompt establishment and revision of our manuals, procedures, and feedbacks by simplifying the idea proposal process instructions. Total 336 enactments and amendments were • Promotion of practical use of ideas made while the company strengthened the quality fulfillment Revitalizing the system by HSE-Q-focused operations capacity by providing the feedback on quality system audit (applicable scope to be expanded) and result analysis to the headquarters and fields. We also • Improvement of system accessibility through mobile and increased the quality of Procurement by raising importance enhancement of participation rate of the due diligence evaluation on the suppliers. Additionally, Interlocking with the One Touch HSE-Q mobile system the ‘Idea Space’, a system for suggesting ideas, has been developed and operated to guarantee efficient business activities for employees at operation sites by sharing HSE-Q (Quality/Safety/Health/Environment/Security) related ideas. 84 85 Customer Satisfaction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Quality Awareness Promotion and our suppliers. As a part of the ‘2015 Company-wide Visions and Objectives oriented practical quality system and strengthening on-site Daewoo E&C provided 16 courses of quality trainings, Campaign for Quality’, Daewoo E&C created and distributed support on the quality system. As a midand long-term plan, including the competency enhancement training for quality posters on four grand principles on quality. Daewoo E&C aims to obtain 85 or above on the Quality we will expand our business from simple construction to O&M control managers, to 2,570 employees of Daewoo E&C Performance Indicator (QPI) and to secure the trustworthy of infrastructure such as roads and railways to becoming a quality by our customers in year 2016. In order to achieve Global Infra & Energy Developer by settling the global level of our target, we are planning to focus on establishing principlequality system and advancement of quality culture. M Maximize Practice! Quality Principles We Maximizing our quality competitiveness Optimization of principle-oriented • Improvement of stable quality management system U practical quality Quality Efficiency improvement on business process by conducting audit on functional quality MUST Upgrade system Management management Increasing corporate value System Settlement of monitoring DTMS on regular basis, Integrated management of DTMS and business flow Do It S Satisfy Achieving ultimate customer satisfaction Quality Certification Risk management and build-up of foundation for conversion to performance-oriented quality management system (ISO 9001:2015) T Trust Becoming a trustworthy • Establishment of principle-compliant quality culture Quality Contents Customized trainings and contents development for on-site quality improvement company Development Quality Campaign Establishment of baseline regulations, Production of posters, Distribution of quality cases, Publication of glossary for standard quality On-site Support Customization of solutions for on-site support and development of guidelines for quality tasks Quality Management of Materials Quality Improvement on Housing With the recent increase in poor quality of Chinese materials In order to improve the quality of housing, Daewoo E&C • Improve equipment quality in domestic market and as the importance of the material concentrates our efforts for providing feedback on quality Increase site inspection of new suppliers by 40% or more in order to secure quality equipment, tools and materials quality management came to the fore upon the conclusion of cases and technology support, quality check and evaluation, Reinforce iron quality checks: Audit quality system at supplier when building steel structures, inspect rebar the FTA between Korea and China, Daewoo E&C established and overall trainings on quality. manufacturing sites guidelines for material quality management. According to the Intension of on• Foundation for voluntary on-site quality activities • Feedback on quality and technology support requirements of the material quality in the guideline, Daewoo site support and Distributed casebook and training on instructive case of establishment of Develop Site-Quality Performance Indicator and establish independent criteria for on-site quality audits E&C requests inspections to a quality audit institution on quality system • Preventive management on quality failure the materials with doubtful quality by performing quality Amended field operation manual Quality System Audit Review of divisional/functional quality issues, penalty cases and social issues prevention activities and to conduct monitoring on the Enforced non-destructive inspection One Stop Service Starter (support for system establishment and training), Helper (close support on field transportation, handling, preservation, release, identification requests) Reviewed on completion publication and tracking of the materials. This resulted in securing • Quality check and evaluation on-site construction quality and safety as we prevent the Conducted 62 quality checks, 61 quality safety special substandard, poor quality materials from entering the inspections, 24 Pre-move-in quality checks construction sites. • Quality training Conducted training on analysis of defect lawsuit/major Quality Discussion Forum complaints/defect cases and instructive cases of failure Daewoo E&C held a Quality Discussion Forum with more than one on-site quality control manager from each field. Through this event, we could confirm that quality at each construction site is managed according to the plan based on the materials prepared for the Quality Discussion Forum on the progress of construction, quality management plan and external inspection. 86 87 Customer Satisfaction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Customer Satisfaction Strategic Direction We strive to provide housing products that raise customers’ Purpose of Customer Satisfaction Surveys safety, health, quality of life, and cultural standards while Daewoo E&C considers customer satisfaction as a top empowering brand identity and power through customer management priority, and therefore strives to communicate satisfaction activities. Furthermore, to provide precise Improve with and provide the highest service to customers. We have information on our products and services via fair marketing, significant adopted various on/offline channels to communicate with we are making continuous efforts to comply with relevant satisfaction customers to understand customer needs and satisfaction. domestic and international regulations. aspect Identify reason Assess current level • Identify customer Customer Customer satisfaction satisfaction and communication activities dissatisfaction within • Where does the gap integral aspects Integrated Call Center, Life Premium, Uz Center • Deduce priority • What are the current between satisfaction levels customer satisfaction improvement points satisfaction levels? occur? surveys, and Family Garden, Prugio Life • How do the scores compare among the apartment blocks? 2015 Survey Methods for Prugio Customer Satisfaction Survey design (Jul) → Quantitative survey (Aug) → Result analysis (Sep) → Qualitative (Oct) → Result analysis/final report (Nov) Category Quantitative Survey Qualitative Survey Direction 1-on-1 Face to face survey using questionnaire Focus group interview 10 Daewoo E&C apartment complexes, 7 other Target Site 6 Daewoo E&C apartment complexes apartment complexes Total 36 (6 apartment complexes, 6 people per Scale of Sample Total 1,700 (Daewoo E&C 1,150, other companies 550) complex) Activities and Achievements Schedule Survey design (Jul), Execution (Aug) Survey design (Sep), Execution (Oct) Integrated Call Center Customer Satisfaction Survey In 2013, Daewoo E&C launched the Integrated Call Center In 2015, we conducted an independent customer to maximize efficiency in our customer service system. The satisfaction survey to develop products and services that fit Integrated Call Center allows for the unified management with each and every one of our customers’ needs by hearing Family Garden • Online activities of the entire customer experience through a single channel their opinions. The survey was targeted to the residents of Family Garden is an online and offline integrated prosumer Participated in various online events including surveys ranging from sales, contracts, move-in to after-sales service Prugio, with quantitative questionnaire such as the level of (producer + customer) group run by Daewoo E&C since • Offline activities processes. In 2014, Voice of Customer (VOC) and Integrated satisfaction on products and services of Daewoo E&C/other 2006 in order to reflect customer opinions in housing Participated in events such as model house screening, Call Center were interconnected to increase the quality of our companies, reprocurement intention, brand image, and products and services. Family Garden is comprised of 248 meetings, cultural lectures, etc. complaint response system and to enhance the classification qualitative surveys such as in-depth satisfaction regarding male and female members in their 20s to 50s. Members and management functions of customer complaints. As for products and services, complaints, and specific needs. With may participate online or visit Daewoo E&C's model houses 2015, there has been improvements in the quality of the such effort, we were able to win 4th place in a row on 2015 to provide prior evaluations and ideas for improvement. As Integrated Call Center operation compared to 2014, with National Customer Satisfaction Index (NSCI). ideas are presented by members themselves and reflected 4.6% increase in response rate and 2.5 days reduction on in the actual development of housing products, the level of average days processing complaints. satisfaction is very high among customers. 88 89 Customer Satisfaction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Prugio Apartment Wins Six Consecutive Internet Prugio Life Uz Center residents. Daewoo E&C promotes the enhancement of Communication Grand Award ‘Prugio Life’, a webzine by Daewoo E&C, provides various Uz, a combination of the words ‘you’ and ‘needs’, is a term quality of life and community value by supporting the healthy In November 2015, Prugio by Daewoo E&C once again, won living information including living area, culture, education, coined by Daewoo E&C to express our willingness to provide lifestyle of residents with amenities such as fitness club, th the first place in the 8 ‘2015 Korea Internet Communication health, etc. In 2015, we reorganized the webzine structure, customer-oriented convenience that meets the various driving range, and reading room. In addition, we provide Award’ in construction/apartment section for six straight adding premium contents by interviewing experts in food needs of residents. PRUGIO Uz Center is where a number support for human resources, equipment, operation costs, years. The award, given by a non-profit private organization, and education field. As the leader of premium brand webzine of facilities are combined to foster socialization among etc. for ‘Uz Planner’ to further activate Uz Center. Korea Internet Communication Association (KICOA), under within the same industry, ‘Prugio Life’ has been well-beloved the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning, was by the customers and has won the Web Award Korea for Organization of the Uz Center established to activate companies’ and public institutions’ four consecutive years, the most wins for a single service. communication via internet. Having chosen as the winner Through such services and efforts, Daewoo E&C is providing Residence • Provide amenities considering the needs of residents Amenities through the customer evaluation of competitiveness level in practical contents that can add premium to customers’ A daycare center for working couples, a reading room, in which children can study in a comfortable atmosphere communication marketing, operation evaluation, integrated cultural living style and enhancing customer satisfaction by Life Culture Center • Provides customized life cultural center for the health and socialization of residents evaluation, and a review committee verification, we truly expanding interactive communication. A fitness club equipped with various exercise equipment for physical training, an indoor driving range where appreciate the meaning it gives – a proof of our effort to residents can enjoy screen golf customers – and plans to continue to strive for a sincere Life Premium communication with our customers. With the utmost goal of satisfying the three principle housing needs of customers – existence, relation, and growth – Life Premium is a Prugio’s specialized service to provide our customers a meaningful and valuable residential area. Life Premium Overview Housing Needs Existence Relation Growth Guideline Healthy Life Comfort Life Active Life Social Life Creative Life Proud Life Visions and Objectives Monitor processing status for customer complaints in Concept Safe and Convenient and UZ Center and Support system Cultural activities Pride in enjoying the real time and implement mailing service on complaints comfortable living easy service Planning for added for communication that bring special outdoors Establish big data analysis and report functions environment vitality with neighbors and joy Daewoo E&C plans to continue to expand customer community events communication and increase customer satisfaction through • Enhancement of customer satisfaction surveys Product/Services •Healing Forest •Family Love service •Bike-sharing •Complex Welcome •Free rental of •Petting Zoo various activities. In 2016, by integrating the Call Center Regularize the implementation of customer satisfaction •Essay Walkway •Endless Love •Uz Center Party everyday cultural •Glass House and VOC, and establishing the integrated customer service survey in the first half of year •Seniors’ service •Uz Planning •Story telling goods •Together Workshop Improve product/service by strengthening feedbacks Playground •Love Nature service •Fitness Trainer •Concerts •Cooking class •Mid-forest School management system, Daewoo E&C will instantly respond •Remember Tree •Love the Sky •Everyday-fitness •Bubble Show •Beauty class •Gardening School from relevant teams to customer needs and enhance the operation efficiency of •Kids’ Belt service Center •Cheery Sports Meet •Bicycle class •Tending vegetable Expand the number of samples through surveys •Sprout’s Stop •Handy-man service •Kid’s Traditional •Korean farm dance •Brunch Cinema gardens the Call Center. Moreover, we will try to increase customer •Kids’ Safety covering the entire 1 st and 2nd year complexes after Chinese class •Lifestyle information satisfaction by solidifying our survey on customer satisfaction Classroom •Aerobics class for residents completion •Yoga class •Kids’ Conference and promoting continuous life premium. •Hand Memory • Promotion of continuous Life Premium •Green Library • Establishment of integrated customer service management Increase efficiency applying Life Premium •One-point golf system Improve work process by setting a manual lessons Integrate systems for consultation, VOC, defects/ Develop and improve Life Premium specialized items housing business reflecting customer needs 90 91 Customer Satisfaction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Information Protection Strategic Direction improvement of our system in information database, coEnhancement of IT Security Management have not only developed a preemptive security system, but research, and integrated education on construction and IT. We are well aware of the seriousness and danger of the also introduced a security solution program in response to Daewoo E&C has been aware of the hacking technology information leakage, coming from quickly evolving IT security new malicious codes in October 2015. and its risk which have evolved along with the acceleration Acquisition of ISO 27001 Certification risk. Among many, the APT (Advanced Persistent Threats) There have been 11 milllion hacking attempts from August of media technologies such as IT and mobile. Therefore, We updated the certification acquired in 2005 on compliance causes tangible and intangible damages, such as information 1, 2015 to October 23, 2015, and we blocked 15,093 APT we have positioned ourselves not to merely respond to the of ISO 27001 (International Standard for Information security leakage and network failures, using new and unknown hacking attempts among them. detected risks, but proactively prepare for it by establishing management) to the latest version, ISO 27001:2013. malicious codes. We are paying a special attention to it and information protection system well beforehand. Since information covers not only the company’s asset, but also Inspection on Personal Information Management personal information of all the stakeholders of Daewoo Situation E&C, we have been establishing and operating policies Recognizing the importance of handling personal information, for the protection of information under the control of CEO Daewoo E&C conducts situation inspections to improve APT with partners being the Chief Privacy Officers (CPO). information security in term in terms of managerial, physical, The robustness of Daewoo E&C’s IT system, which have technological security. Situation inspections takes place maintained its stabilized level of information protection twice a year via regular or random checks, regarding the Advanced Persistent Threats with consistent regulations, is an opportunity factor for compliance of the Personal Information Protection Act Daewoo E&C to expand its business performance and according to the life cycle process of collection/access/ raise competitiveness as the global E&C leader. Therefore, storage/disposal. we aim to create new business opportunities through the Checklist for Personal Information Security in PC Check points Way to Verify Are personal information files stored inside PC appropriately? Verify personal information search program Are the uses of USB and external hard drives controlled? Verify installed PC security program Uses dynamic technology Uses inside and outside traffic Uses up-to-date intelligence to analyze files to identify analysis technology to identify information to seek for targeted opportunities for advanced opportunities for persistent attack, which is difficult to be Is the screen saver locked with a password? Verify PC security check program threats threats identified as threats Are security measures applied to personal information within PC? Verify encrypted storage (DRM) Infiltrate Search Collect Leak Is vaccine program designated by company used and updated to the latest version? Verify installation and updates of V3 Are personal information files permanently deleted? Verify installation and uses of WPM Is a password of at least 8 characters of letters and numbers used? Verify PC security check program Is Windows security program updated to the latest version? (once a month) Verify PC security check program Attacker infiltrates into the Collects information on the Collects data from the Send data to attacker’s base, network through a weak system structure of infiltrated system unprotected system or sabotage or destroy system or by infecting employees’ PC and infrastructure, then plans sabotage system operation operation with malicious code the next step 92 93 Customer Satisfaction Managing Sustainability Issues at Daewoo E&C Information Security Campaign The Housing Division, which specifically handles larger Since October 2015, Daewoo E&C has executed ‘Office Diet amount of personal information than others, is conducting Visions and Objectives • Establishment of centralized document system Campaign’ to make information security a part of employees’ regular inspections twice a year and personal information Minimize document storage in PC, save document by daily routine. The campaign is to discard unnecessary protection work that covers relevant offices, including the Daewoo E&C aims to establish flawless private information establishing Cloud system document or substitute them to electronic document, in headquarters, lotting-out office and resident support centers. protection system by putting together a centralized Establish portal system for company-wide knowledge order to prevent inforamtion leakage by shredding hard Through these activities, we were able to spot where our document system and internal control system based on sharing and utilization: Enhance search function, copies of document and to save paper consumption. For the weakness lies and in October 2015, we distributed a revised better structured inspection of IT information security and Lessons Learned Database, etc. settlement of the campaign, it is executed bimonthly. version of private information protection manual that contains private information protection. First and foremost, we plan Establish company-wide system for document creation guidelines, work procedures, and measures on private to conduct an assessment for renew of ISO 27001, as its and cooperation, information sharing and utilization Inspection to Prevent Hacking information protection, so that there be absolutely no leakage expiration date is imminent. Then, through IT information Prevent leakage of important information through As a part of information security, we conducted an inspection of our valued customer information. security management status inspection, which checks centralized document system to prevent hacking once again from the last year. Simulation Daewoo E&C provides trainings on information protection upon the installation of any illegal software, PC information Minimize trial and error, by transforming company-wide hacking tests were aimed at major websites of Daewoo to not only the headquarters, but also employees of its security for each operation site, and independent private information into knowledge asset for recycling and E&C including Daewoo E&C Official and PRUGIO. By testing subsidiaries and agencies. All of the employees of the information protection management situation inspection, sharing and analyzing the results, we plan to establish an effective Housing Division are annually taking online courses in the which we have consistently executed regularly and randomly, information protection policy. private information protection portal, operated by the Ministry we will objectively analyze our risks. According to the result, The Housing Division will continue its activities regarding of Government Affairs and Home Affairs, while operation the internal control system on information leakage will be private information protection by revising the manual it Protection of Customer Information site managers and lotting-out agency managers are taking established, and based on the big data analysis, we will distributed in October 2015 and enhancing its training on Daewoo E&C’s information protection covers not only the training courses on understanding the private information monitor symptoms of leakage to prevent a loss of our asset internal and external personnel in charge of the treatment of central computer network system, but the entire business protection law and mandatory guidelines regionally. on IT information. Moreover, by establishing a centralized private information. In addition, through a cross inspection area. In July 2015, we enhanced our security by recognizing Moreover, before the opening of our model house, we document system to save documents in Cloud, we will between housing and construction fields, we will improve the importance of increased security regarding the handling provide trainings to consultants and telemarketers, including minimize the amount of document storage in PC and by the inspection level on our own. On the other hand, through of personal information in apartment lotting-out management lotting-out agencies. Before the move-in, move-in agency establishing cooperation system that creates, shares, utilizes consulting service, we plan to prepare for government system, under Article 30 (measures to secure safety) of the managers are provided with an adequate training as well. For document company-wide, we plan to settle an integrated institution’s inspection by reviewing the headquarters' policies Personal Information Protection Act that which was passed our subsidiary, Prugio Service, we annually conduct trainings information leakage management system. and internal management standard, and supplementing on February 2015. for treatment of private information in service centers. inspection targets and checklists. Amendments Category Details Lotting-out Changed a document for approval when requesting for authority, Added a column for ‘agreement on privacy Management System policy’ for contractor in contract management Personal Information Prohibition on collecting a copy of resident registration that contains family members’ information when registering Collection for ownership transfer Substitute to a copy of resident registration that contains individual information rather than that of the entire family Return relevant document to the contractor rather than collect and keep 94 95 Sustainability Performance 98 _ Economy 107 _ Environment 111 _ Society Risk Management Air Pollution, Energy, Waste Employee Innovative Technology Biodiversity, Harmful Chemical Substances Supplier Environmental Campaigns, Investment, Eco-Friendly Local Community Procurement, Awards and Achievements Future Society Economy Sustainability Performance Economy Risk Management Risk Monitoring Enhancement Since 2015, Daewoo E&C has monitored and chosen company-wide risk management indicators on a regular basis. The Risk Management Framework company-wide risk management indicators monitoring was applied to assess the possibility of accomplishing the annual In the era of increasing uncertainty throughout the low-growth domestic and global economy, a preemptive risk management management objectives by analyzing the key performance indicators chosen for 2015 management objectives. Through the has become crucial than ever. Since the establishment of the company-wide risk management framework in 2014 by devising consistent enhancement of the monitoring process, Daewoo E&C has established the early warning system, which will enable a strategic direction on Daewoo E&C’s key risks and supporting to establish the culture of risk management, Daewoo E&C has us to prevent and respond to upcoming risks by identifying them faster than ever. been expanding its risk management area and ensuring the internal stability. In 2016, we will build a consistent risk management system by internalizing our risk management framework through Project Risk Management cooperation and sharing, reinforcing management and support at overseas sites, and relevant IT systems. Daewoo E&C manages risks that are found in the bidding process of all overseas projects using risk assessment checklists and management registers. Executives provide a comprehensive review of the findings and corrective action plans made from • Internalization of a risk management framework based on cooperation and sharingStrengthen integrated risk management, the risk assessment of new construction projects, and project risks are managed with systematic follow-up measures. By establish an early warning system, select management indicators, and systematically place responsibility/liability on using simulations, Daewoo E&C monetizes risks that were assessed in the bidding stages of the project and includes them in executives the project contingency relevance assessment. • Reinforcement of management and support at overseas sitesFortify analysis of risks at overseas sites, improve the budget To strengthen the competence of Daewoo E&C’s project management, we have built an Integrated Management System management system, develop process guidelines, and standardize construction completion management in June 2016. The system will enable us to effectively integrate project life cycle data from decision-making stages to • Increase in management capacity via IT systemsEstablish an Integrated Project Management System, improve the implementation and closing out stages, as its objective is to increase the efficiency of risk management at each project stage. Construction Management System, and set up an Experience Sharing System Company Risk Management Guideline To make full use of the opportunities of the competitive edge secured by actively responding to ever changing risks, Daewoo Daewoo E&C has developed a guideline that systematically defines and establishes the subject, organization, process, and E&C plans to lay the groundwork for a new risk management paradigm, thus contributing to the company’s substantial methods of company-wide risk management. Within the guideline, there is a detailed guidance on how to identify, analyze, management through proactive communication and cooperation between business and administration divisions and evaluate, treat, monitor, and report risks. identification of key risk factors. Analysis of Unfavorable Provisions Risk Management Organization Daewoo E&C lists examples of unfavorable provisions in project contracts and methods to deal with such provisions as a To increase the risk management expertise and enhance project risk management process, the Risk Management Department means of preventing possible risks and damages in the process of concluding overseas project contracts, which can be has been elevated to the Risk Management Division. The Risk Management Division will analyze and manage the risk factors applied to various operations, countries and clients. Daewoo E&C plans to form an active information-sharing system within by reinforcing the RM system through the efficient cooperation and communication among company-wide business divisions the company through the continuous expansion of the list and automatic link of the relevant information to the integrated and support divisions. Moreover, under the supervision of the CEO, we have formed and operated risk committees in charge management system. of the company-wide and project-based risks. • Risk Management Committee Establishment of Country Risk Database Suggest company-wide risk management policies and directions With the increase of overseas projects, Daewoo E&C has set up a new country risk database to identify and respond to Inspect management status of key risks, prepare quarterly issue reports, establishes and revise company-wide risk country risks effectively and efficiently. A multitude of risks (in terms of 70 different categories such as finance, taxation, politics, management regulations culture) in 46 countries are shared through BARONET, a company intranet. • Risk Assessment Committee Participate in specific meetings according to the business and project functions (Strategic Planning, Finance, Legal Affairs, Marketing, Risk Management, business divisions, etc.) Deliberate and make decisions on major changes in business plans managed by the company • Risk Occurrence Investigation Committee Locate liability, identify the causes for the loss, and prevent reoccurrence when financial loss occurs due to falling profits The RM Division shares and analyzes the management indicators in each committee in order to implement solid risk management. 98 99 Economy Sustainability Performance Innovative Technology Daewoo Institute of Construction Technology (DICT) DICT Organization In November 1983, Daewoo E&C became the first Korean construction company to open a new chapter in the development Within DICT, the R&D Planning Team leads the development and management of the enterprise technology strategies. The of construction research and technology development by founding DICT. As a recognition for the strenuous efforts for the Plant & Environmental Research Team, Civil Engineering Research Team and Architectural Engineering Research Team innovation of construction technology, the Presidential Award for the Best Corporate Research Institute (2000), Order of perform specialized research in each respective field for effective R&D management. The Technology Development Team Science and Technology Merit (2004), the Presidential Award on Construction Technology’s day (2006) were awarded, aims to maximize the application and overall use of new technology on sites. Majority of the researchers at DICT are those while IR52 Jang Youngshil Award for Technology Innovation (The Minister of Science, ICT and Future Planning Award) and with master’s or doctorate degrees in their respective fields (as of December 2015, a total of 79 full-time employees). The Entrepreneur for Construction Technology R&D Award (The Chairman of the National Assembly Award) were granted in 2015. researchers develop new technologies as well as new construction methods, and prepare to take a new leap towards becoming the world’s best research facility of construction technology by supporting sites and strengthening technology infrastructure. Director Deputy Director IR52 Jang Youngshil Award for Technology Innovation (2015) Entrepreneur for Construction Technology R&D Award (2015) Plant & Architectural Civil Engineering Technology R&D Planning Team Environmental Engineering Research Team Development Team Research Team Research Team Strategic Direction of DICT DICT contributes to the competitiveness in construction industry ∙ Administrative work ∙ Welding/plant advanced ∙ Bridge/road/railroad · Eco-friendly/high quality ∙ Ground improvement ∙ Strategic planning engineering ∙ Nuclear power plant/ concrete business in Korea by participating in the government’s core R&D projects. Management Goals ∙ Technology sensing ∙ Corrosion/plant water material/super long· Structure construction/ ∙ Environment plant Our steady investment in new renewable energy and green ∙ Research/technology ∙ CO2/air plant span bridge High-rise building business Increase in value of DICT through the substantial management marketing ∙ Sewage and ∙ Groundwork/soft ground movement control ∙ Maintenance business technology, and high value-added products development enable wastewater/biogas ∙ Tunnel/impermeability · Noise and vibration ∙ Platform business ∙ Water ∙ Wind power/port · Low energy and indoor ∙ Special material business us to develop innovative technology for our new growth engine Management Policy air quality ∙ Evaluation of structural function and make improvement in the quality of our social infrastructure A standalone R&D center that contributes to the company constructions. Based on the cutting edge professional experiment through technological innovation facilities and accumulated technologies, we contribute to the improvement of the quality of constructions as a national Core Management Measures public certification body providing professional engineering and Enhancement of support for business divisions construction-related technologies by actively responding to what Site-Oriented R&D Structure Main Roles of DICT customers want. In addition, by innovating technology in terms of ∙ R educe costs in operations sites and prevent non-executive business, support, and development, DICT strives to exceed the budgets Site-Oriented R&D Request R&D ∙ Support bidding by utilizing core technologies Business perceived limits of traditional corporate research centers as cost Through a site-oriented R&D system, Daewoo E&C achieves Divisions centers, and seeks future growth engines. The establishment competitiveness along with construction time and cost Future growth technology development Identifying Requesting of DICT as the first standalone R&D center in the construction reduction. The system enables active communication demand on-site needs sector is in itself an action plan that redefines the role of research between the business divisions and DICT, to convey on-site ∙ Identify future grown engines for the company centers from cost center to profit center. DICT endeavors to ∙ C ollaborate on technology development with governmentrequest on technological needs to DICT and the business funded research institute Site become a global leader of innovative technology through sitedivisions. oriented and future-oriented innovations which create value and Enhancement of self-sufficiency through increase world class competitiveness in technology for Daewoo E&C. We in winning contracts Through enhanced communication, DICT conducted 27 will continue to play a pivotal role in realizing the Daewoo E&C’s ∙ A dvance price competitiveness by developing cutting edge research projects as requested by the business divisions and DICT vision of ‘For the People & Better Tomorrow’ as well as advancing technology 12 governmental projects in 2015. ∙ E xpand to new markets such as overseas business by Develop site-oriented and future-oriented technology innovations. collaborating with public institutions and deploy technology 100 101 Economy Sustainability Performance On-Site Technology Support System DICT performs on-site technology support in order to solve difficult challenges in construction sites. We employ an on-site technology support system to provide convenience and quantify the performance of such support. If a technological problem occurs in an operation site, technology support requests can be submitted to DICT via the system, where upon DICT reviews the submission and promptly provides support. Through this system, we predict and deal with the construction cost reduction and nonexecutive budget in advance. It also helps enhance the price competitiveness, while aligning with the developed technologies Technology Business DICT performs technology business as well based on the developed technologies. Some of the major areas of technology business are Construction by Quick hardening fill using Co-products (CQC), Daewoo Biogas System (DBS), Daewoo Membrane Bio-Reactor R&D Achievement and Core Technology (DMBR), Dual Bag Filter (DBF), Building Movement Control (BMC) and Structural Health Monitoring (SHM). With these technologies, Daewoo E&C is conducting research and development in sectors of building works/housing, civil projects, and environmental DICT conducts various collaborative projects with the private and public sectors with the aim of order increase. In 2015, DICT plant. In the building/housing sector, we are working on development of optimized technology to achieve 80% energy saving recorded orders of KRW 13.3 billion and sales of KRW 7.1 billion, establishing a foundation of the first standalone R&D center in the rate apartment, safety management of facility/construction noise, development of carbon reduced eco-mortar/low carbon construction sector. crude steel concrete, etc. As for civil projects, we are in the progress of developing techniques related to long-span suspension bridge, rapid construction techniques for modular bridge (precast floor slab, barrier, pier) and precast modular retaining wall, and construction methods for improvement of soft ground, etc. In the environmental plant sector, we have developed various Creating Future Source of Income construction technologies such as a carbon capture technique for building materials, an organic waste-to-energy technology The R&D center has partnered with a government funded research center to identify future source of income and secure and a sewage advanced treatment method and applied them in pilot projects. markets that can apply our technologies by making use of public institutions’ functions in policy-making. Furthermore, we have implemented various business agreement to secure the foundation for entering into the global technology business through the establishment of international cooperation. DICT R&D Achievements (Unit: Case) Category Details Performance in 2015 Research Projects Projects requested by business divisions 27 Key Business Agreements and Collaborations Government projects 12 Business Model Business Target Strategy and Current Status Industrial Property Rights New Technology 2 O&M based on Technology O&M project for apartment MOA with Korea Housing Management Patents 43 housing (Oct. 27, 2015) MOA with Korea Infrastructure Safety & Technology Academic Papers Foreign 14 O&M project for SOC Corporation (Feb. 05, 2013) Domestic 46 Technology CQC Saemangeum Seawall MOA with Korea Rural Community Corporation Business Reclamation Project (Nov. 06, 2013) Awards Domestic 6 DBS Biogas project in Japan Business agreement with Shimane and Tottori Prefecture (Aug. 01, 2015) Biogas project in China MOU between government institution of Korea and China (Sep. 22, 2015) [Building Works/Housing] DBF Demonstration project of air Selection of participating company (operating expenses KRW pollution in Korea and China 20 bil.) (Jul. 24, 2015) In the building works and housing sector, Daewoo E&C has led the Korean housing culture through the technology Air pollution project in MOA with Guohan in Shandong (Nov. 10, 2015) development that raises the quality of life and the value of our earth. Shandong, China Cooperative Construction Business Win-win between company MOU with POSCO R&D Center Cooperative (Nov. 14, 2011) Green Premium Engineering service for Export of technology to Vietin Bank Tower for the first time in In 2009, Daewoo E&C announced ‘Green Premium’, an eco-friendly energy saving product, for the first time in the overseas high-rise building Korea (May 28, 2015) construction sector with an roadmap of providing ‘Zero Energy House’ by 2023, followed by Daewoo E&C’s introduction of a Environment Business Consulting for environment General meeting of cooperatives including 6 professional philosophy in housing, ‘Green Home, Clean Apartment’ for the first time in Korea by applying a concept of eco-friendliness to Cooperative project companies (Sep. 15, 2015) an apartment in 1995. Therefore, we are developing and applying the ‘Green Premium’ technologies consisted of eco-friendly Cooperation in Technology Development Smart Construction MOA with Korea Institute of Civil Engineering and Building and energy saving residential products. The research team of the Green Premium has established analysis methods for energy (future source of income) Technology (Oct. 02, 2015) saving rates in 2015, and developed a formula for estimating energy saving rates that enable us to figure out the effect of the Eurasian Railroad Project MOA with Korea Railroad Research Institute (Mar. 29, 2016) saved energy by applying an energy saving technology in the early stage of a project. 102 103 Economy Sustainability Performance Construction Noise Management System (DW-CNMS) in an underground parking lot, especially as an alternative for a wire mesh construction method for waterproofing layer of plain This system applies an IoT (Internet of Things) technology that can effectively manage noise from construction sites in urban concrete to reduce onsite cost and enhance concrete quality. areas through the real time provision of the construction noise level, systematic management of data and statistical analysis. We have been developing this technology since 2009 based on the project, Core Environmental Technology Development Non-Cement ECO Mortar Project for Next Generation by the Ministry of Environment, and established the noise monitoring system for construction Non-cement ECO Mortar, one of the technologies for Green Premium, is a mortar production technology for finishing housing sites in Seoul in 2015. Starting 2016, we aim to apply the IoT technologies in pilot projects to manage the construction noise floor based on a resource-recycling design. Since it is a mixture of various industrial byproducts such as ground granulate created during the construction. blast furnace slag powder, fly-ash of combined heat power plants and desulfurization gypsum, without using any cement, it significantly reduces CO2 generated from the cement. The technology has completed a co-registration for patent and signed Building Movement Control Technology an agreement for the engineering fee in 2015. As one of the core technologies in Prugio’s 48 Green Premium technologies, we In the process of constructing a high-rise building, even a minor error can become a factor that threatens the safety of are in the process of expanding its distribution. the entire building and its usability. The Building Movement Control Technology, developed by Daewoo E&C, predicts the alteration of the high-rise building in advance in order to manage these issues and make an accurate construction possible. The technology is comprised of alteration forecast, monitoring and control technologies. Its precision has been confirmed by [Civil Project] having been applied to around 20 domestic and overseas high-rise building projects, and with the development of our own technologies, which mostly had been borrowed from the overseas to build high-rise buildings, we could raise the level of Daewoo E&C analyzes diverse issues that arise from our civil project operation sites and provides optimum solutions which technological independence. Furthermore, it has been making a great contribution in exporting our technologies by entering save construction costs and reduce construction periods. various overseas market such as Malaysia, Singapore, and Vietnam. Super Long-Span Bridge Technology Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) DICT participates in the super long-span bridge project of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and has developed Daewoo E&C has established and is expanding the application of Structural Health Monitoring system with the advancement high performance concrete along with on-site concrete placement techniques and wind-resistant stabilizing system of the of Special Act on Disaster Management of High-Rise Building and on-site safety enhancement polices. Structural Health cable-stayed bridge during construction. These breakthroughs made it possible for us to deposit 400m-high concrete at once Monitoring (SHM) enables real-time monitoring and evaluation on structural movements and provides appropriate and acquire wind-resistant engineering technique on super long-span bridges. Furthermore, the integrated employment of the countermeasures when a symptom of any type occurs, in order to maintain structural safety. In 2015, we have applied it to long-span bridge shape control and management and the structural health monitoring technology has greatly improved the Songdo M1 Residential Complex, a high-rise building over 50 stories, and established an operation plan for its application structural health and safety of various bridges such as the Busan-Geoje Fixed Link bridge, the Yeonggwang-Haeje bridge, the to special construction methods such as Lift-up, etc. In 2016, we will expand the establishment of the system in high-rise New Millennium Bridge (Lot 1). buildings and implement the system on a steel-frame Lift-up construction method. Furthermore, using the IoT sensor, we plan to develop the system into an ICT integrated system and apply it to maintenance control of smart city and intelligence facilities. Tuned Mass Damper (TMD) for Long-Span Bridges over the Sea A Tuned Mass Damper (TMD) is a vibration control device installed at the top of the pylon, built on sea, to secure the stability User-Friendly Innovation on Concrete Crack Repair of the long-span bridge against wind. Continuous resilience against wind can be obtained by tuning the frequency of the TMD With the invention of ‘Power Cleaner’, a concrete crack repair product, in October 2013 by Daewoo E&C in partnership with according to the construction stages. The TMD technology is applicable to long-span special bridges, such as cable-stayed Seric Co., Ltd., we became the first in the industry to commercialize construction material to the public by registering the bridges and suspension bridges, which are vulnerable to wind. It is regarded both cost-effective and eco-friendly that does not product for a patent. This user-friendly product enables both use-at-home and on-site in a way of simply applying the product require temporary foundations or excavation process, and thus reduces sub-surface pollution. The technology was applied to the to the crack after spraying water. Our technology to induce self-healing behavior of the material comprises the best feature construction of the Geoga Bridge, thereby significantly reducing the construction cost and period. of this high-quality product. We are actively in collaboration on the technology development by signing a cooperation MOA with Korea Housing Management and constantly strives to establish a business model and develop sustainable maintenance Modular Bridge (precast floor slab, barrier, pier) Rapid Construction Technique material and construction method. A modular bridge is built by assembling pre-manufactured components of the bridge at the construction site. The construction method is deemed excellent in terms of LCC, since it not only significantly reduces the Smart Crack Reducing Concrete construction period through the minimized on-site construction such as installation of area reinforcement or cast, On December 2015, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport made an amendment on the ‘criteria for crack defect but also increases the durability which is accompanied by a thorough quality management. As we have secured on apartment housing’. Even though a crack is within the permissible width of 0.3mm, if it is accompanied by water leak the construction method to build the entire modular bridge, the modular bridge technique is actively being or placed on the top of a reinforcing steel or aesthetically unpleasant, it is now defined as a crack defect. According to used at Daewoo E&C as the optimized alternative for various occasions such as a new bridge construction that the amendment, we have therefore developed a ‘smart crack reducing concrete’ that can effectively control the cracks on requires eco-friendliness and durability and a rapid construction for substitution of an aged bridge. concrete. As the technique that has acquired the domestic patent, it not only gives 10~20% increase in intensity and 90% increase in crack reducing effect, but also enables us to effectively reduce crack leak defect for micro cracks under 0.3mm by applying the self-developed technology of self-healing technique for cracks. We aim to apply this on the middle strip of a slab 104 105 Economy Sustainability Performance Industrial Waste Utilization for High Quality Groundwork Air Pollution Prevention Technology In laying out the groundwork for construction, there are increasing number of cases, in which the midand long-term safety Daewoo E&C’s Dual Bag Filter, an eco-friendly technology, is registered in the New Environmental Technology and Green of a structure is threatened due to a sub-terrain sinking and distortion. In 2015, to reduce the sub-terrain sinking in the Technology in Korea with the recognition of reducing substances that cause air pollution. Those substances include particulate metropolitan area, we developed a technique to put buried objects underground as well as economical materials for backfills. matter, dioxin, heavy metal, VOCs, which are generated in an incinerator. The technology not only is eco-friendly, but as it In addition, we secured an eco-friendly dredged soil, and invented an eco-friendly, high-liquidity filling technology utilizing lowers the consumption of an activated carbon by 1/5 by maximizing the use of recycled carbon in the back filter, it also carbon capture byproducts. Aside from these, Daewoo E&C has exerted consistent efforts in the equipment development as secures the cost effectiveness. We have a track record of its applications in various facilities including domestic incinerators well by developing a high-efficiency concrete mixing and distribution equipment and a high-liquidity cast-in-place system using and pyrolysis smelting furnace, and are expecting for steel mills with serious level of dioxin and particulate matter to be the site soil. Through these technologies, Daewoo E&C makes full use of the various industrial byproducts as groundwork interested. materials to improve construction efficiency and substantially enhance the construction groundwork, contributing to an increased construction safety. Advanced Sewage Treatment Process (DNR, DMBR) DNR (Daewoo Nutrient Removal) Process is one of the most representative advanced sewage treatment process as it holds Technology for Precast Modular Retaining Wall the most and largest track record of being applied in KOREA to economically remove nitrogen and phosphorus in sewage. It Precast Modular Retaining Wall technology can be applied in supporting the collapsed slope of a landslide without any has been applied to a total of 36 facilities including the Southern Water Resource Eco-Park (Bucheon, 2006) and Happy City complementary material such as an anchor. It is a rapid construction method since it can be applied on its own slope and Water Restoration Center (Sejong, 2013). DMBR (Daewoo Membrane Bio-Reactor), in turn, has been applied to 12 sewage weight while minimizing the amount of excavation thanks to its narrow base plate. With the attributes of convenience, structural treatment plants, including Sandong Sewage Treatment Plant (Gumi, 2009) and Hyocheon Water Light Playground (Gwangju, safety and cost effectiveness, the technology can reduce the construction period up to 50%. It has been selected as the 2013) as a process that enables the treated water to be reused as high quality recreation water. best practice in the construction technology research sector and granted an award by the Korea Federation of Construction Contractors. Recognized of its excellence, it has generated profits for Daewoo E&C by being applied to the operation sites of Intelligent Waterworks System Toward Total Solution (DIMS, DIWS) Cheongju High-Tech Industrial Complex, Happy City Entry Ramp, Geoje Central Prugio, etc. The intelligent waterworks system based on total solution is a sustainable and harmonized technology, which can provide stable supply of safe water to the citizen. Based on devoted experiences on engineering, construction and operation, we can provide water utilities with the customized treatment processes. Also, our system combined with O&M expertise and diagnosis [Plant/Environment] technology can be economical and efficient for operators. The optimized technology of pump scheduling and performance monitoring in waterworks using on sensor and algorism contributes in reducing the carbon emission. On the other hand, the To make the world a cleaner and safer place, Daewoo E&C is developing eco-friendly technologies such as carbon capture accident response system and automatic water draining equipment designed for water distribution network guarantee safe and utilization, organic waste-to-energy technology and prevention of air pollution. and stable tap water to the customer. Carbon Reduction Technology Automatic Welding System of Steel Structure for High Heat Input Daewoo E&C’s carbon capture and utilization technology (DECO2) is a GHG reducing, eco-friendly technology, which is at the Utilizing Daewoo E&C’s automatic welding technology for high heat-input, we can produce an outstanding quality of storage center of attention in the international society. We are the first in Korea to develop this technology that captures CO2 produced tanks for various sources of energy including oil and natural gas in a short period of time. Our system and process hold a in power plants, incinerators, and biogas treatment facilities to utilize them as building materials. Our technology has gained a productivity over 30 times higher than existing manual method. In order to perform high productivity in welding, we have wide recognition around the world, by obtaining the Green Certification from the Ministry of Environment as well as acquiring automated the EGW welding method, one of the high heat-input welding techniques, while developing a stable steel structure 16 patents. Moreover, by participating in a government project in 2015, we have completed the basic and implementation that withstands in intense heat. Therefore, with multiple track records that we possess in constructing storage tanks, along design of the direct reaction plant that can capture 40 tons of CO2 a day. with technology that shortens the production period, we expect to have the best competitiveness in the field of storage tank construction. Organic Waste-to-Energy Technology The Daewoo Biogas System (DBS) is a technology that produces new renewable energy using organic waste such as sewage sludge, livestock manure, and food waste. This exceptionally eco-friendly technology was chosen as one of the top 10 innovative technologies in 2009, awarded two Green Certificates from the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy (MoTIE) and the Green Technology of the Year Award in 2012. After successful construction, Daegu Food Waste and Excreta Treatment facility is now operated with our DBS technology, which has the highest treatment capacity (300 tons/day) in Asia. In 2016, we are devoted to continue with the commercialization of the technology business based on the completion of an upgraded DBS construction technology. 106 107 Environment Sustainability Performance Environment Energy Waste Products Daewoo E&C manages energy consumption by operation site, building, and energy source for efficient use of resources. In Waste Product Management 2) Waste Management order to raise awareness on inefficient energy use, we operate an energy conservation program for the headquarters and DICT In 2015, the costs of waste disposal compared to sales recorded 0.18%, overachieving the target of 0.20%. Daewoo E&C Company Registration employees. stores waste product separately for each waste type and treatment required and an external contractor handles the treatment. System: The system by which outstanding In 2011, we launched our waste management company registration system2) and the system was implemented throughout waste management Energy Consumption1) (Unit: TJ) companies by region the country. After evaluation, outstanding companies with excellent performance in operations were selected. Reward are discovered and 1) Figures may vary 2013 2014 2015 and punishment based on the performances followed in order to motivate and incentivize appropriate waste treatment. registered companies slightly from National are monitored and Category Furthermore, we interconnected the One-Touch HSE-Q mobile application with Korea Environment Corporation’s ALLBARO Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Fuel Electricity Total Fuel Electricity Total Fuel Electricity Total evaluated. Management System system, thereby establishing a system that can manage all of the phases from disposal of waste to final process treatment and data as they were HQ 34.08 48.35 82 36.14 47.78 83 33.09 49.76 82 write and delete a delivery note using the mobile in real-time. rounded up from three decimal places. DICT 4.53 14.00 18 3.26 11.99 15 4.89 14.66 19 • 2015 waste management assessment result Dormitory 8.87 9.45 18 7.73 8.44 16 6.29 8.56 14 17 companies with the lowest performances deregistered, 4 outstanding rewarded Asset Management 24.57 10.81 35 4.10 44.47 48 0. 34.12 34 Team Harmful Chemical Substances Construction 152.41 1,004.55 1,156 127.43 949.24 1,076 138.29 1,015.31 1,153 Sites Daewoo E&C implements internal manuals for the management of harmful chemical substances, by which Housing Gallery 1.46 9.38 10 9.29 9.29 9 1.14 9.28 10 bentonite slurry, paints, oils, epoxies, and industrial strength adhesive are identified and stored in separate for safety. Waste oil, waste lacquer, and other designated wastes are stored in separate facilities as well to meet the Migliore Mall environmental regulations. The stored wastes are then disposed by specialized waste treatment companies. Busan, Lease 0. 91.14 91 Business Jungbu Branch 0.22 0.36 0 0.10 0.35 0 0.20 0.36 0 Biodiversity Total 226.13 1,188.05 1,410 188.04 1,071.56 1,247 183.90 1,132.05 1,312 In order to protect biodiversity, Daewoo E&C not only complies with the Wildlife Protection Act, but also includes a biodiversity protection process in its construction procedures. We assess our environmental impacts to examine the biodiversity status of endangered species in the surrounding area and Air Pollutants prepare measures prior to the construction in order to minimize any damage on the ecosystem. In 2016, we plan to increase construction of structures for biodiversity protection including wildlife crossing and fence for roadkill prevention. Daewoo E&C conducts ‘HSE management system inspection on fugitive dust’ focusing on operation sites in need of priority control in spring when fugitive dust especially becomes problematic. The inspection ascertains the status of fugitive dust Biodiversity Protection Process management and any issue found in the inspection is reported to the Corporate HSE Team within a week. We disclose the inspection result and share both good and bad practices throughout our operating sites to achieve zero environmental accident. In 2016, we strengthened the management of the early stage earthwork in our operation sites by aligning the fugitive Stop Stop Appearance construction Report via construction dust inspection, which used to be conducted only in spring with the support for HSE-Starter program at new operation sites. of legally in the emergency in the protected surrounding contact line surrounding HSE Management System Audit Results on Fugitive Dust species areas areas HSE Management Civil Project Building Works Housing Plant Business/ Total System Audit Power Plant (fugitive dust) 13 4 12 2 31 Impact No impact Inspection Result Strengths Opportunities Challenges 63 71 21 Establish plans to Resume construction reduce impact 108 109 Environment Sustainability Performance (Unit: m2) Creation of Terrestrial and Aquatic Biotope Terrestrial Aquatic Eco-Friendly Procurement Procurement List of Eco-Friendly Material Inside the Complex Biotope Biotope Daewoo E&C creates parks and greeneries in order to Daewoo E&C promotes eco-friendly procurement, and the • Geothermal system Wirye Central PRUGIO 267 266 secure space for biodiversity and habitat inside the complex. Business Partnership Planning Team places procurements for • Parking facilities Ansan Laketown PRUGIO 401 98 Moreover, we strive to create terrestrial and aquatic biotope, divisions upon request. In order to encourage such practices, • Lighting Fitting, Home Network System, AMR (Automatic Meter so that greeneries and water system are interlinked, taking Wirye Songpa PRUGIO 242 101 Daewoo E&C plans to establish the ‘Green Consumption Reading), Solar PV System, Fuel Cell, EVC (Electric Vehicle Charging) System, BMS (Building Managements System), into account certain areas such as outskirts of sites or inner Guideline’, and award certificates or incentives on delivery Wirye Green Park PRUGIO 435 136 Transformer, Switchgear Panel Main switchboard LV Boards, greeneries, where disturbance to local community can be performances to suppliers that provide with eco-friendly Total Turn-off Switch, Temprature Controller, Fire Extinguisher, minimized. Misa Gangbyun PRUGIO 1 180 materials. In the first half of 2016, we plan to investigate Water-saving sanitaryware / Water-saving plumbing fixture / Water-saving fixture, Ventilation System, Furniture, Kitchen whether the green procurement policy and system are Furniture, Finish of Toilet Ceiling, etc. established within the industry and then in the second half, Algeria Oued El Harrach River Restoring Project we will examine the necessity to implement one. • FGD (Flue Gas Desulfurization), ESP (Electrostatic Precipitator), Amonia Supply System, WWT (Waste Water Treatment), etc. Oued El Harrach River in Algeria, running through Algeria’s capital, had been highly polluted due to various industrial sewage, domestic sewage and livestock excretions as well as a lack of river improvement and development plan. Scheduled to be completed by April 2017, Daewoo E&C has been creating a landscape space for securing dimensional stability and water friendly activities in order to restore the biodiversity values in Oued El Harrach River. Awards and Achievements With our outstanding performance on environmental management activities, Daewoo E&C excels in the number of external • Building filter garden Plan to create habitats for animals and plants plankton, invertebrates, awards and environmental competitions as the industry leader. Intend to purify the Oued Aada and Oued Smar, the branches of the amphibians and provide a nature learning space and resting place for Oued El Harrach River citizens Environmental Awards and Achievements in 20153) Plan to create an aquatic biotope landscape with waterfront and • Creation of wetlands plants Intend to increase habitat density of various aquatic animals and Site Date of Award Grantor Details 3) President award: 1 / Chairman of the National Utilize the natural treatment system and plan on water purification insects after improving water quality to attract fish and birds Corporate HSE Team Feb 18 Minister of Environment Presentation of best practices Assembly Award: 1 with water plants within the wetlands Plan to create wetlands and reed marsh / Minister Award: 2 / Jun 5 President Contribution to preserving the environment Gu-office award: 3 / Civil Planning & Coordination Chief commissioner of Team Presidential Commission Jun 13 Mayor of Seongnam City Contribution to preserving the environment on Architecture Policy Wirye Central PRUGIO Award: 1 Environmental Campaign Environmental Korea Electric Power Oct 20 Presidential Commission on Korea Green Building Competition Grand Prize Campaign Status (Unit: Number of persons) Corporation (KPECO)’s new Architecture Policy company building As part of our environmental activities, Daewoo E&C hosts Wirye Central PRUGIO Nov 4 Mayor of Songpa-gu Best practice in construction sites environmental campaigns for each division, team, and Campaign 2014 5,231 operation site in an effort to preserve the local community’s Corporate HSE Team Nov 13 Chairman of the National Award within competitive exhibition participants environment and establish an eco-friendly organizational Assembly 2015 14,186 culture. In 2015, 14,186 of our employees participated in the Architectural Engineering Nov 13 Minister of Land, Infrastructure Award within competitive exhibition Research Team and Transport environmental campaigns. Seocho PRUGIO Summit Nov 20 Mayor of Seocho-gu Best practice in construction sites Investment on Environment Daewoo E&C actively invested on disposal of waste products, enhancement of environmental management system and environmental education, spending 84.3% of the environmental budget in 2015. In 2016, we will increase the amount of investment on environment to KRW 190 million, which was KRW 170 million in 2015. 110 111 Society Sustainability Performance Society Employee Differential increase rates are then applied to compensate each employee. In 2015, we simplified and rationalized the wage system in order to boost employee morale and efficiently manage the financial resources, whilst also improving the employee Employment compensation system. Daewoo E&C places great importance on equal employment opportunity for everyone and fair treatment without discrimination based on race, sex, and education. In an effort to actively recruit female employees and local talents who are prone to be Evaluation System for Executives neglected in terms of employment opportunities, we introduced an allocation policy for female employees as well as a local Daewoo E&C conducts annual leadership assessment for fair evaluation of management’s leadership. Through this talents employment policy. As a result, over 22% of our new employees in 2015 were female. Furthermore, we aim to provide assessment, a new leadership figure is presented in accordance with the changes in business environment. By appointing more opportunities by holding ‘Recruitment Concerts’, where participants are evaluated based solely on their presentations a new leader, based on the presented leadership figure, executives’ competence is expected to be enhanced. Additionally, without any information given to the interviewer on participants’ academic backgrounds and qualifications. The successful we establish executive KPI and evaluation in order to effectively and systematically accomplish our business strategies and candidates of Recruitment Concerts are exempted from a documentation screening. objectives. Status of Employment (Unit: Number of persons) Human Resources Development Daewoo E&C continues to establish and improve systematic education and training programs to develop talented global Category Details 2013 2014 2015 human resources. We foster outstanding human resources corresponding to our core values, ‘Challenge every task with Total Number of Employees 6,449 6,211 6,174 confidence and passion, while fulfilling the duty responsibly according to one's convictions.’ Type of Employment Executive 64 47 39 Full-time 4,771 4,089 4,053 Challenge every task with confidence and passion, Goal while fulfilling the duty responsibly according to one's convictions Contracted 384 389 412 Other 1,884 1,686 1,670 Human Resources Development Strategy Employment by Domestic 5,194 5,002 4,950 Region Share Core Values, Nurture Global Human Nurture PerformanceStrengthen On-Site Overseas 1,255 1,209 1,224 Vision and Reinforce Resources and Job Oriented Leaders Education Support System Implementation Experts Diversity of Male 5,739 5,591 5,600 Employees Female 710 620 574 Human Resources Development Direction Aged (55 or older) 488 432 424 Foreigner 110 75 70 Business Core Human Resources Performance-Oriented Strategies Values Strategies Strategies Disabled 77 64 65 • Nurture human resources with • Challenge and Passion: A spirit • Position-based personnel • Base on core competence, global business capabilities of passion, challenge, and management system leadership competency, and job Number of Managers Female 72 80 88 • Nurture human resources with confidence • Manage achievement based competency (section-chief or on performance and capacity • Balance of formal and informal engineering capabilities • Autonomy and Accountability: Foreigner evaluation learning higher) • Foster human resources with Fulfilling our duties responsibly and according to our convictions • Implement career rotation program • Measure the effectiveness of superior construction technology New Employment Male 241 136 90 • Focus on talents development education and manage individual and utilization (Maker strategy) performance Female 49 19 20 • Select and develop core talents • Improve practicality and convenience Employee Turnover/ Male 128 144 135 Retirement Female 8 8 13 Employee Education and Training Program Status Category Details Unit 2013 2014 2015 Performance on Total number of education hours Hours 757,485 627,428 501,455 Education and Total amount of education cost KRW million 4,390 3,833 4,067 Fair Evaluation & Compensation Training We evaluate our employees objectively and fairly based on their job performances and contributions, not on their position, Education hour per capita/year Hours per 117 101 80 working period or gender. Employees are evaluated individually according to their performances and competencies. capita 112 113 Society Sustainability Performance Enhancement of Global Competence Status of Maternity & Child-Care Leave Daewoo E&C strives to foster global players in order to enhance our competitiveness in global business. We have been Category Details Unit 2013 2014 2015 increasing the amount of investment on language courses every year and plan to increase even further. We support language education via LET (Language E-Tutoring) at overseas sites and run various programs such as internal language courses, global Maternity Leave Persons on leave Number of 204 178 208 persons work skill courses, and short-term intensive courses on English in order to increase language skills within our employees. Persons returned from Number of 201 171 204 leave persons PM Development System Return to work rate % 99 96 98 PM Development System, which has been in place since 2015, is a long-term course to foster EPC project managers. By Childcare Leave Persons on leave Number of 35 36 26 having our employees learn about engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning, contract and claim, project control, persons and scheduling management since junior level, we are setting the grounds for successful EPC projects. In 2016 and 2017, Persons returned from Number of 17 25 22 leave persons we will enhance the completeness of the course system by developing in-depth EM courses and elementary and intensive Average days of leave Days 244 245 275 courses on SM, commissioning, and PCM. Family Unity Culture Program With the aim of achieving company-wide unity, Family Unity Employee Benefits Culture Program is an employee participation program consisting of Harmony/Family/Culture events, Organization Family-Friendly Management 2. Organization Healthcare Daewoo E&C proactively promotes family-friendly management to such an extent as to be the first in the industry to be chosen Healthcare and Pride and Morale Enhancement programs. 1) Life&Work Balance as ‘Excellent Family-Friendly Company’ in 2013. With the emphatic support of top executives, Daewoo E&C has implemented 2) Three Health Campaigns (Antismoking, metabolic syndrome family-friendly educations and communications to establish family-friendly culture across the company. As a part of our familycontrol and blood donation) 1. Harmony/Family/Culture Event friendly policy, we encourage the enhancement of family relationship and leisure time through various programs such as Leave 1) Company-Wide Unity Contest of Absence for Family Nursing, Family Love Day, Family Love Vacation and Family Psychological Counselling Program. We 2) Family Participation CSR recently built a daycare center within the company and extended the family benefits to temporary employees including medical 3) Event with young children check-ups, education expenses for children, and medical expenses for family members. 4) Patriotic Concert 1) Company daycare center 2) New on-site uniform Family-Friendly Programs 3) Employee Benefit Plus UP (cooking class, snack delivery, etc.) 4) Improvement of work environment at Basic benefits Specialized benefits the headquarters • Employee healthcare system • Family healthcare system 3. Pride and Morale Booster Provide medical checkups, group insurance, and antismoking Provide medical check-ups for employee’s spouse, medical campaign expenses of family and of disabled family member, healthcare • Childbirth support system education, leave of absence (family nursing) Harmony/Family/Culture Event Provide maternity leave (spouse), present birth supplies, • Support leisure time with family By arranging harmonious events such as company-wide Sports Day and cultural sharing among employees, Daewoo E&C including prenatal music CD, provide lactation room and Hold events with employee’s family members, provide vacation, vacation bonus and leisure facility, support in-company leisure clubs promotes the family unity culture, and operates family-friendly management through programs including a family wall-painting employee lounge • Child rearing and education support system • Family event support system and children-invited company events Provide childcare leave and expenditures, invite employees’ Provide expenditure for congratulations and condolences, and children for in-house education, provide tuition for employees’ funeral services children in high school and university Childbirth Support System Daewoo E&C provides pregnant female employees with reduced working hours to create a mother-friendly work environment. For the benefit of female employees in their first twelve or last two to six weeks of pregnancy, we give the opportunity to work two hours less every day and provide payment equal to that of normal working hours. We also provide childcare leave and maternity leave, all of which may be why so many of our employees return to work after childbirth. 114 115 Society Sustainability Performance Pride and Morale Enhancement Daewoo E&C strives to boost employees’ pride and morale through various activities, such as opening ‘PRUGIO Daycare Center,‘ designing a new on-site uniform with the Daewoo E&C’s identity and arranging a family cooking class and a relay snack delivery ‘Tong Tong (通通!) Snack Delivery.’ Particularly in 2015, we developed a song for Daewoo E&C ‘Thanks to you, It’s Possible!’ which consists of a cheerful rhythm and hopeful lyrics whilst encompassing our vision, values and corporate culture. By forming a sound identity, our aim is to reestablish company identity, reinforce employee morale and increase loyalty to the company. ‘Thanks to you, It’s Possible!’ is being used in various methods that include major corporate events, ring tones, and it has even been officially registered as a karaoke song. Thanks to you, It’s Possible Organization Healthcare Organization Healthcare Program consists of Life&Work Balance Activities and Employee Health Campaigns. As a part of Life&Work Balance Activities, we provide an organizational healing program for those fatigued with everyday routines in order to manage organizational stress and improve communications between organizations. Since April 2015, we have implemented an individual healing program, managing employees’ stress and providing psychological counselling programs. In 2016, we plan to expand our programs for employees’ mental health to sleep disorder treatment and dietary counselling. Moreover, we are running the Three Health Campaigns for Employees (antismoking, metabolic syndrome control and blood donation) to support employee healthcare and encourage blood donations. 116 117 Society Sustainability Performance Supplier Labor-Management Relations Fair Selection of Supplier Daewoo E&C adopts a fair selection process for registration of new suppliers. At the very first stage of the selection process, Labor Union and Joint Labor-Management Committee we hold an annual open call for new suppliers on our supplier website, 'e-Cos.' Companies that respond to the open call Daewoo E&C fully respects the freedom and rights of collective bargaining of all our employees. All our employees are free are evaluated online. Eligible companies are fairly reviewed by our Business Partnership Planning Team and the Registration to seek admission and withdrawal from the labor union. For 17 years since the establishment of our integrated labor union in Deliberation Committee before being finally selected as our supplier. Our policies prioritize local businesses and incentivize 1999, Daewoo E&C has had zero dispute and zero strike, sustaining a culture of cooperative labor-management. Our Joint those who obtained ISO 14001 certifications. We built an online overseas subcontracting process, which is incorporated Labor-Management Committee, established along with the foundation of the integrated labor union, is aimed at developing a to our integrated management system, BAROCON, in order to enhance the uniformity and efficiency in selecting overseas healthy labor-management culture and creating a common interest of labor and management. We discuss major issues with suppliers. Additionally, in October 2015, we launched the overseas suppliers PQ system, ‘Global Contractor Registration (PQ a mutual understanding and appreciation to find the best way to resolve problems. In 2015, we signed a collective agreement Application)’, to share and make use of the information on overseas suppliers by integrating company-wide information. and wage agreement without any dispute with the committee and came to an agreement regarding the use of joint annual leave and revision of compensation system. We immediately notify and discuss major changes in our management within New Supplier Registration Process committee meetings. Status of Joint Labor-Management Committee Category Details Unit 2013 2014 2015 Applying Portion of Union Registrants % 26.4 26.5 26.3 Referrer Daewoo E&C Company Labor-Management Number of meetings Times 4 4 4 Committee Performance Number of issues voted Cases 4 4 6 Click 'Partner Company Registration' (New subcontractor registration) Labor Practice and Human Rights Labor Practice and Human Rights Policies Input company data and apply for registration Daewoo E&C complies with the domestic Labor Standards Act and has publicly committed to support the Conventions and Recommendations on child labor of International Labor Organization (ILO). We strictly prohibit child labor and forced labor in all our operations at home and overseas. In 2013, we joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and publicly declared Prepare application Sing as referrer the fulfillment of our social responsibility with respect to human rights and labor. documents for new applicant Prevention of Sexual Harassment and Human Rights Education Process application (Business Daewoo E&C integrated educations with relation sexual harassment, human rights, compliance, sustainability and ESG into a Partnership Planning Team) single compliance education. Since 2014, we have implemented such education for all our employees at home and overseas. As of 2015, 6,062 employees have participated in the compliance education. Evaluate application (Business Participants of Sexual Harassment Prevention and Human Rights Education1) Partnership Planning Team) 1) The education on the 2013 2014 2015 prevention of sexual harassment was 6,169 6,273 6,062 integrated with the Registration Deliberation Committee compliance education in 2014. Labor Practice and Human Rights of Foreign Employee In an effort to respect the labor rights of foreign employees and realize the value of Daewoo E&C, we comply with the norms Print out registration Announce results Verification on human rights and global labor practice. 118 119 Society Sustainability Performance Overseas Subcontracting Process Supplier Evaluation Daewoo E&C evaluates suppliers (annual evaluation of the headquarters and semiannual evaluation of operation sites) in categories including certain sustainability aspects such as efforts to improve the environment, interest in the environment, BAROCON Overseas Sub-contracting Process BAROCON ethical compass of management and safety management. Based on the results of such evaluations, suppliers are sorted into groups such as outstanding, adequate, inadequate and so on. Suppliers with excellent evaluation results are provided with benefits such as private contracts and exemption from contract guarantee insurance whereas inadequate suppliers are strictly restricted. Send notice of Indication of Interest Tenders Initial bid Request for tender/RFQ submitted submitted opening report Partner data resolution, Select Implementation Overview of Supplier Evaluations /evaluation quoting resolution send RFQ management companies created (site) Quotation Levelling Request Receive Final Category Cycle Details Revised Offer TBE/receive results final quotation selection Headquarters Annually Safety management, quality (defects) management, financial status, level of cooperation, level of contribution, feasibility Operation Sites Semiannually Construction management, quality management, labor/materials/equipment/ Partner data/evaluation Korean Send notice of •Produce tender number and company data ▶ automatic e-mail environment management, management evaluation, post-construction management management Company tender/RFQ sent • Manage companies by e-Cos digital country/process contract Supplier Screening Criteria Related to Sustainability Management • Manage bidding/contract Indication of Interest •Company receives RFQ and replies with indication of interest history submitted (through the system) • Build company evaluation Items Overseas system (evaluation, collection, Tenders submitted • Technical/Commercial separated tender Company Companies with potential and ongoing problems including delayed payment and other related issues analysis & inquiry) •Upload total amount for commercial tenders (upload breakdown) Offline contract Companies that have caused financial loss or reputational damage to Daewoo E&C Request for resolution, Initial bid opening Companies that have not addressed significant defects or request for repair report • Auto creation of initial bid opening report and online approval send RFQ (site) Companies that have colluded with others and spread rumors • Review/deny/demand changes of request for resolution •Quotation levelling for each company (adjust quote conditions, Companies with repeated safety accidents Quotation Levelling • Build online approval system Revised Offer common conditions for all quoting companies) • Levelling based Revised Offer sent and received automatically (Companies with more than three major incidents a year; Companies with accidents that resulted in more than three deaths; Companies with unsatisfactory record in safety assessment for two consecutive years) Request TBE • Short List based on Revised Offer, request TBE from companies Select quoting companies Companies that cause serious impact to quality and the environment receive results and process results Receive final • Receive final quotation (request and receive final offer) quotation Support for Suppliers Final selection • Create final company selection report and online approval Supplier Education To improve job performance, we provide five education programs for employees working for our suppliers. The programs include education on construction function, subcontract law, and construction industry law. To raise safety awareness, we provide safety training for the suppliers and special education on safety management to enhance the understanding of CEO Global Contractor Registration (PQ Application) System and construction managers of our major and newly-registered suppliers. In addition, we have developed materials for supplier’s environmental education, which the environmental managers from the headquarters and operations sites use to provide the INTERNET e-Cos System environmental training to our suppliers. • Education on the improvement of job performances for suppliers Conducted 7 times with 221 participants • Access by overseas suppliers to [e-Cos/PQ evaluation] [e-Cos/Company Daewoo E&C website Data Contractor information/General • PQ evaluation • Check Daewoo E&C website Transfer (subcontracting team) Registration information] Financial Support to Suppliers Contract Guarantee Insurance Rate Reduction • Complete PQ Application • Transfer of PQ-passed • Transfer of PQ-passed Daewoo E&C raised a shared growth fund of KRW 22 billion (KRW 12 company information company information • Automatic transfer of company billion from Daewoo E&C and KRW 10 billion from Korea Development information to BAROCON • Send pass/fail result by • Daewoo E&C overseas Bank) and provided all of it in loans, lending KRW 15 billion to 25 Outstanding Exemption email (overseas suppliers) suppliers POOL suppliers free of interest and security before Chuseok. We also extended • Enable to search by characteristics a network loan agreement with Korea Export-Import Bank and exempted Adequate 10% to 5% outstanding suppliers from contract guarantee insurance. 120 121 Society Sustainability Performance Communication with Suppliers We operate multiple channels to broaden interactive communication with our suppliers through various programs and events. In 2015, a shared growth meeting was arranged with 116 employees from our five outstanding/major suppliers to discuss shared growth policies and related programs, and a CEO meeting was held in Namhae-gun, Gyeongsangnam-do, where 26 CEOs of our suppliers gathered. Beside the direct communication channel, we have a dedicated banner to ensure timely report on any breaches of ethical management within our supplier communication channel, ‘DW-e-Cos’ and ‘Daewoo Shinmungo.’ Reports are handled with great discretion and limited access in order to secure confidentiality and protect reporters. Support for Suppliers’ Safety Management In terms of suppliers’ safety management, suppliers with excellent inspection results are provided with an incentive of receiving 50% reduction on penalty in case a serious accident arise, whereas those with poor performance are penalized with measures such as limited bidding. We also hold Safety Inspection Days during which the persons concerned, including the CEO, and the construction manager of our suppliers, participate in briefings and meetings on safety. Win-Win Cooperative Daewoo E&C strives to accomplish sincere shared growth that enhances technological competitiveness and added-value of small and medium sized business. In this sense, rather than providing one-time financial support, we established an innovative shared growth model and an engineering-cooperative. The ‘4S Structure Safety Cooperative’, in partnership with seven small and medium-sized businesses, is a new shared growth model that combines Daewoo E&C’s innovative technology with suppliers’ practical skills. It provides the total engineering solution with respect to construction safety at all phases of Prevention of Unfair Trade construction including engineering, construction, and maintenance after completion. Daewoo E&C’s objective of shared growth is rooted in the belief that ‘our suppliers’ further growth directly leads to Daewoo Furthermore, in 2015, we established a cooperative with expertise in core environment technology, ‘KEEP COOP’, with E&C’s future growth and sustainable development.’ In order to prevent the risks of unfair trade that impedes suppliers’ growth, four businesses holding core technologies, providing the full scope of key services such as production of core materials, we established countermeasures for management control related to fair trade with suppliers, created a coordination system development of integrated management S/W, engineering, assessment, construction of plant, commissioning, and between relevant divisions and conducted education and campaigns for our employees. Furthermore, we reinforced the maintenance. For our suppliers, structural weaknesses shall be overcome, namely, limited human resources or research reporting center to make substantial use of the nominal punishment policy. We will eliminate the case for compliance violations technology. In addition, expansion of business as well as business competitiveness are anticipated. and restriction on relevant divisions by strengthening the control of unfair trade practices. • Establishment of countermeasures for controlling fair trade with suppliers Organize joint council with respect to fair trade Fair Trade Violations Develop and distribute self-checklist for prevention of unfair trade In order to achieve fair trade, one of the CP core strategic tasks, Daewoo E&C has fully adopted the ‘4 Guidelines of Implement regular internal inspection for fair trade Fair Trade’ and breaches can be reported via the company website cyber audit page, Ethics Help-Line and the ethical • Reinforcement of reporting center for unfair trade with suppliers management reporting within ‘e-Cos’ for suppliers. Additionally, by first improving business conditions for our primary suppliers Need to increase interest and participation of suppliers toward existing reporting center within e-COS through various means such as implementation of subcontract protectors at certain operation sites, we are encouraging Send CEO message to encourage reports of unfair trade our primary suppliers to also improve business conditions for their secondary suppliers. In 2016, we plan to adopt standard Ensure confidentiality of the reporter and prohibit any punishments for reporting subcontractor contract for domestic and overseas operations, spread benefit sharing and improve payment period, and cash • Development of self-check IT system for fair trade with suppliers payment ratio in order to widespread our culture of fair trade compliance. Draft stage: Conduct compliance self-check with guideline and self-checklist Fair Trade Violations Request stage: Confirm self-check for compliance with the related law through system pop-up when requesting electronic approval (if not checked, unable to request approval) Category Details Unit 2013 2014 2015 Review/Approval stage: Confirm self-check for compliance with the related law through the automatically linked pop-up Breaches of Fair Trade Number of breaches Cases 1 7 6 in the case of approval (if not checked, unable to approve) (monopoly, collusion, etc.) Penalties and compensations KRW million 2,491 34,770 15,047 122 123 Society Sustainability Performance Local Community Strategic Direction for Social Contribution Activities Contribution Programs Daewoo E&C, as a global corporate citizen, has established three major areas of our social contribution activities protecting Company-Wide Relay Volunteer Activities environment, increasing convenience facilities, and enhancing livelihood safety in an effort to benefit the neglected social As Daewoo E&C’s signature social contribution program, the Relay Volunteer Activities represents a wide spectrum of class. We focus on relay volunteer activities for improving infrastructure for neglected social class, utilizing our core resources our contribution activities, operated based on the voluntary participation of our employees. The Relay Volunteer Activities and competencies as the leading construction company. We promote family programs through diversifying CSR activities while contribute to spread the culture of volunteerism within the company since the activities are neither limited to one-time event fostering voluntary participation of our employees across all our contribution activities. nor mere donations, but require increased participation of employees by nature as a relay program. In 2015, Daewoo E&C Strategic Direction of Corporate Philanthropy carried out five relay volunteer activities including housing facilities repair for the disabled and making and sharing kimchi out of love. We also have various other volunteer activities both domestic and overseas such as a campaign to knit hats for Major Areas Core Values of Corporate Beneficiaries Main Activity Social Contribution newborns and supporting local school remodeling work in Nigeria. Environmental Protection Clean Neglected social class Improve infrastructure for neglected social class Examples of Domestic and Overseas Volunteer Activities Convenience Facilities Convenient Livelihood Safety Safe Talent Donation of Decrepit Facility Renovation for Seoul Municipal Peace House 60 employees from the Corporate Management & Service Division and the Organizational Structure of Daewoo E&C Community Organization for Social Contribution Service Corps Building Works Division visited ‘Seoul Municipal Peace House,’ a housing facility for the severely disabled located in Eunpyeong-gu, to renovate the In order to instill an active volunteering culture among our decrepit facility. The mental stability room was too dark for the disabled Head of Community employees, Daewoo E&C operates Social Contribution Service Corps to take rest. In order to solve this problem, the participants created a Committee, Social Contribution Working Committee, and comforting environment with mats, mobiles, monitors and stereos so Executive Office of Social Contribution under the leadership of • Soclal Contribution that patients can watch videos for mental stability. This was even more the Head of the Community Service Corps. In January 2016, Committee Executive Office of • Soclal Contribution Social Contribution meaningful since ‘Coin Collecting Fund’ that has been raised from the we revised the operation guideline for Social Service Corps that Working Committee employees’ salaries by KRW 1,000 per month were used. applies to all employees, so as to specify the responsibilities and rights for the organization promoting social services and decide Divisions Volunteer Club on financial resources, implementation measures, and support policy of Social Service Corps. Headquarters & Sites Social Service Team ‘Sharing Love at Angels’ Haven In May 2015, 60 employees from the Power Plant Division, the HSE-Q Division, and RM Division visited Angels’ Haven, a child welfare institution at Eunpyeong-gu, to clean the facility, spend time with the children and Achievements of Contribution Activities assist in teaching craft classes. Additionally, in November, 30 employees of the Strategic Planning Division and Finance Division made and delivered Annual Social Contribution Achievements 300 heads of kimchi to Angels’ Haven through ‘Sharing Kimchi of Love’ Category Details Unit 2013 2014 2015 event. Social Annual number of participants Number of persons 11,927 11,508 5,645 Contribution Amount spent KRW million 3,406 4,200 1,540 Activities Achievements Operation costs KRW million 16 1,170 50 Spring Picnic with the Disabled In May 2015, followed by March 2014, employees from the Engineering & Donations (Art, culture, etc.) KRW million 3,390 3,030 1,490 Procurement Service Division went to spring picnic to Lotte World at Jamsil Average contribution hours per capita Hours per capita 3.3 2.7 3.9 with mentally handicapped people from a social welfare organization, Relay Volunteer Culture & Arts Times 99 6 5 ‘Wusung Sanatorium for the Disabled in Godeok-dong, Sangdong-gu, Activities Others Number of persons 1,826 424 241 Seoul.’ The members enjoyed the rides and had a wonderful time with our employees. 124 125 Society Sustainability Performance Future Society Recruitment of the 12th University PR Ambassadors Domestic and Overseas Examples of Social Contribution Activities In April 2015, Daewoo E&C recruited the 12th ‘Daewoo E&C University PR Ambassadors’ for university students to demonstrate their creativity and passion. In a program called the ‘Company,’ participants got involved in a startup simulation ‘Knitting Hat Campaign for Saving Newborn Baby’ where they planned and operated their own businesses. All profits from the business simulations were donated. At Daewoo In January 2015, 93 Daewoo E&C’s employees and their families knitted E&C, we support university students by providing them with opportunities to have diverse experiences so that they can hats for newborn babies suffering from hypothermia in Asian and Africa. genuinely develop their talents rather than just adding one more line to their resumes. This event, as the third time this year, was designed to share the meaning of volunteering with family members by participating in CSR activities together. Daewoo E&C Event with Young Children Support for a Local School in Nigeria Daewoo E&C holds event with children every year during In May 2015, Daewoo Nigeria Limited Co., Ltd. visited Ebubu Community Junior Secondary School in Eleme, Port Harcourt to renovate the summer vacation as a part of employee benefits. In the event library and donate books. In order to help the community around the company, our employees painted the library building, replaced the gate and held in 2015, 96 children of our employees went on a field windows, and put desks and chairs. Moreover, Daewoo E&C installed a well in Eleme to resolve the chronic shortage of water and helped tackle trip to the headquarters in Gwanghwamun. They enjoyed the challenges in the community by conducting various contribution activities with regard to education and culture. opportunity to experience their parent’s work, which boosted their pride in the company and their parents. We have invited approximately 1,000 children to the company since 2004. This event has especially gained popularity with the overseas and domestic on-site workers who do not have much time with their family together. Yoon, Jin, a child of Younghoon Jin, the department head of the operation site in Damansara City, Malaysia, said, “I got to know better on what my father does for living,” and “Although I cannot see him often since he works at the overseas operation site, I am proud of my hardworking father.” 126 127 Appendix 130 _ Sustainable Management Performances (Economic/Environmental/Social) 132 _ Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement 134 _ Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions 135 _ 137 _ GRI G4 Content Index United Nations Global Compact 138 _ ISO 26000 139 _ Membership/Consolidated Subsidiary List 140 _ About This Report Sustainability Performances Appendix Sustainability Performances G4-22 Economic Performance Social Performance Category Details Unit 2013 2014 2015 Notes Category Details Unit 2013 2014 2015 Notes Orders New orders KRW 100 million 114,145 109,367 130,736 Total Number of persons 6,449 6,211 6,174 Executives, Contracted, Professionals, FullEmployees time (foreigners excluded) Order backlog KRW 100 million 417,098 396,008 402,929 Type of Executives Number of persons 64 47 39 Sales Domestic sales ratio % 65.4 68.0 68.5 Employment Full-time Number of persons 4,771 4,089 4,053 Specialized Executives included Overseas sales ratio % 34.6 32.0 31.5 Contracted Number of persons 384 389 412 Contracted Executives included Misc. sales ratio % 0.0 0.0 0.0 Others Number of persons 1,884 1,686 1,670 Employment by Domestic Number of persons 5,194 5,002 4,950 Sales by Business Total sales KRW 100 million 84,171 98,531 98,775 Region Division Overseas Number of persons 1,255 1,209 1,224 Excludes local employees at overseas sites Civil Project Division KRW 100 million 13,174 12,118 11,932 Employee Male Number of persons 5,739 5,591 5,600 Building Works KRW 100 million 21,176 22,938 18,347 Diversity Female Number of persons 710 620 574 Division Seniors Number of persons 488 432 424 Over 55 (born before 1960) Overseas KRW 100 million 11,604 Overseas civil projects and Foreigners Number of persons 110 75 70 Not included in total head count Infrastructure Division building works Disabled Number of persons 77 64 65 Housing Division KRW 100 million 19,996 28,909 31,776 New Hires Male Number of persons 241 136 90 Full-time only Plant Business KRW 100 million 15,708 15,169 13,821 Female Number of persons 49 19 20 Division Retirement/ Male Number of persons 128 144 135 Power Plant Division KRW 100 million 13,932 12,877 11,090 Resignation Female Number of persons 8 8 13 Other KRW 100 million 185 191 204 Training and Total training hours Hours 757,485 627,428 501,455 Stakeholder Value Employee KRW million 863,472 864,828 1,001,181 Education Total cost KRW 100 million 4,390 3,833 4,067 Distribution Performance Supplier KRW million 6,580,902 7,371,570 7,558,376 Training per person Hours/person 117 101 80 Total training hours / total number of employees Investor, shareholder KRW million 103,767 111,193 89,498 Childbirth Persons on leave Number of persons 204 178 208 Leave Persons returned Number of persons 201 171 204 Government KRW million 127,569 48,429 29,083 from leave Local Community KRW million 3,406 4,200 1,540 Return to work rate % 99.0 96.0 98.0 Board of Directors Meetings convened Number of meetings 18 17 14 Parenting Persons on leave Number of persons 35 36 26 (BoD) Operation Leave Agenda items Number of meetings 66 48 56 Persons returned Number of persons 17 25 22 Performance from leave Attendance % 96.6 92.9 98.1 Average leave Days 244 245 275 Audit Committee Meetings Number of meetings 5 5 5 Labor Union Membership % 26.4 26.5 26.3 External Director Nominating Committee Meetings Number of meetings 2 Domestic Converted accident % 0.22 0.25 0.22 rate1) * Since 2014’s Sales by business division in 2014 Annual Report are different from those in 2015 Annual Report, the figures in 2015 Annual Report are adopted. Overseas LTIR 2) Million hours 0.10 0.07 0.17 Social Annual participation Number of persons 11,927 11,508 5,645 Contribution Environmental Performance Total investment KRW 100 million 3,406 4,200 1,540 Activity Average activity time Hours/person 3.3 2.7 3.9 Category Details Unit 2013 2014 2015 Notes Outcomes Greenhouse Total site emissions t CO2-e 58,545 54,347 Scope 1+2 Customer Satisfaction Survey Result Rank 3rd 4 th 4th National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) Gas (GHG) 1) Converted accident rate = (Number of casualties, Converted / Number of full-time workers) x 100 Total building emissions t CO2-e 12,929 8,886 Scope 1+2 Emissions 2) Lost Time Injury Rate = (number of victims / total worked hours) x 1 million hours Total emissions t CO2-e 71,474 63,233 Scope 1+2 GHG intensity t CO2-e/KRW 100 million 1.284 0.944 (Scope 1+2) / Domestic Sales Energy Total site consumption TJ 1,156 1,076 Consumption Total building consumption TJ 244 171 Total consumption TJ 1,400 1,247 Energy intensity TJ/KRW 100 million 0.026 0.019 Total consumption / Domestic Sales Waste Volume treated ton 479,180 628,471 410,081 Domestic site Treatment cost KRW 100 million 89 156 108 Domestic site 130 131 Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement Appendix Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement Introduction Stakeholder Inclusiveness DAEWOO Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (“DAEWOO E&C”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), DAEWOO E&C has identified 8 internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Local community, Employees, Government, part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of 2015 DAEWOO E&C Sustainability Report (the “Report”). The directors and Shareholders, Subcontractors and Suppliers, Academia/Industry association/Institute, Future generation. DAEWOO E&C engages of DAEWOO E&C have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engage with work is to the management of DAEWOO E&C in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based selected stakeholders and relevant organizations are described in the Report. In addition, main responsibilities of DAEWOO E&C for on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. respective stakeholder groups are addressed. Sustainability Context The stakeholders can review DAEWOO E&C’s vision (Vision 2025) and mid and long term strategy from the Report. The value creation Scope of assurance model for stakeholder developed in 2015 is provided in the Report as well. DAEWOO E&C addresses how material issues grouped The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period from 1st January to into 5 key aspects are managed and what was achieved in 2015, which would help the stakeholder understand the management 31st December 2015. This also includes: approaches toward the material aspects. •  Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 Materiality •  Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and DAEWOO E&C has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The same issue pool as applied in 2014 materiality test the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. was used on internal and external stakeholder survey to rate the material issues. 15 material issues are prioritized accordingly. DAEWOO E&C takes into account the consistent way of selecting material issues so that the decision made by the management and daily operation are fully aligned with strategic sustainability management. The audit team has reviewed the materiality assessment process Basis of our opinion and confirms relevant material issues prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. We’ve performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the Completeness limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in April and May 2016. The site visits were made to DAEWOO E&C’s Head quarter The Report has covered sustainability performances of DAEWOO E&C and management approach to material issues for the reporting in Seoul, Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: period. The reporting boundary includes the operations over which DAEWOO E&C implements management control in 2015 however •  Challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying the quantified performance data for the environmental aspects are collected from the operations only in Korea. DAEWOO E&C should data management system, information flow and controls; consider expanding reporting boundary. The material environmental performance data generated from international projects should be •  Interviewed representatives from the various departments; reported once it is determined material. •  Conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; Accuracy and Reliability •  Reviewed the outcomes of stakeholder consultation report and the materiality assessment report. The document allows the reader to examine both the positive and the negative trend of DAEWOO E&C’s performance in 2015. The stakeholder can analyze changes in the sustainability performance over time. Data owners were able to demonstrate the origin and Limitations interpretation of the data in a reliable manner. The data was identifiable and traceable The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of DAEWOO E&C’ subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial Competence and Independence data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as DAEWOO E&C’s website (www.daewooenc.com). These services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. In Kyoon Ahn Conclusion May 2016 Country Representative On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly address the Seoul, Korea DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html 132 133 Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions / GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosure Indicator Detail Pages Note Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (incl. strategy relates to sustainability, impacts of 6-7, 8-9 the activities in relation to the stakeholders) Organization Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization 12 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services 18-19 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters 12-13 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has 13, 39 significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form 12 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 12-13, 19, 39 G4-9 Report the scale of the organization, including: 12, 32-33 Total number of employees Total number of operations Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. 112, 130 b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 118 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 119-123 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. 12, 140 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 98-99 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 137 subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which 139 the organization: Holds a position on the governance body Participates in projects or committees Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 13, 39, 139 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. 26-27, 140 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 27 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: 26-27 Report whether the aspect is material within the organization If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17) Report any limitations regarding the aspect boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: 26-27 Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 38, 130 Change in scope of data; previous calculation error G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 140 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 25 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 25 G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 25 group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 26-27, 31, 53, responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of 59, 69, 83 the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 140 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 140 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 140 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 140 G4-32 GRI Index 132-133, 135-136, a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. 140 b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-33 a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 132-133, 140 b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. 20-21, 55 Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 55 134 135 GRI G4 Content Index / United Nations Global Compact Appendix GRI G4 Content Index United Nations Global Compact Specific Standard Disclosure In 2012, Daewoo E&C joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a strategic policy initiative for businesses that Material DMA and Indicator Detail Pages Note are committed in their corporate social responsibilities. By upholding the 10 Principles on human rights, labor, Aspects Indicators environment, and anti-corruption and participating in the global standards, we show our dedication towards Economy corporate social responsibility. Economic DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 31 Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 32-33, 38 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 75 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government None Indirect Economic DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 38 UN Global Compact Ten Principles & Related Activities Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 34-35 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 38 Areas Principles Activities Pages Environment Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect • Specifies in the Daewoo E&C Ethics Charter “We uphold all 55, 118 Emissions DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 69, 75 the protection of internationally proclaimed international and national laws governing human rights, the G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 74, 130 human rights. environment, culture and the economy” G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 74, 130 • Sexual harassment prevention training for all employees (CP G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 130 education) G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 130 2. Businesses should make sure they are not G4-CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings 130 complicit in human rights abuses. = Annual kilograms CO2 equivalent in total/Floor area (m2) or number of people in total G4-CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and redevelopment activity 130 = Annual CO2 equivalent emissions (tons) in total/Annual turnover from the construction activities in total (million) Effluents G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 69, 109 Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Abides by Korean Labor Standards Act 118 and Waste association and the effective recognition of • Operates Labor Union and Joint Labor-Management G4-EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 74, 109 G4-EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills None the right to collective bargaining. Committee G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly 109-110 affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Products DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 69, 77 4.  Businesses should uphold the elimination of • Abides by the International Labor Organization (ILO)’s 118 and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 78-81 all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Convention Concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Services Actions Toward the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Compliance DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 69-70 Labor G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 72 environmental laws and regulations • Abides by Korean Labor Standards Act 5. Businesses should uphold the effective Society abolition of child labor. Labor Practices and Decent Work Labor/ DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 118 Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective 118 agreements 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of • Implements fair evaluation and compensation 112, Occupational DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 59-60 Health and discrimination in respect of employment and • Operates family-friendly welfare and benefits program 114-115 Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of 66 work-related fatalities, by region and by gender occupation. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 64 Society Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary • Obtains and maintains environmental management system 70, 75 AntiDMA Generic disclosures on management approach 53-54 Corruption approach to environmental challenges. certification G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations asessed for risks related to corruption and the significant 56 risks identified • Analyzes risks and opportunities in terms of climate change G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 55-56 AntiDMA Generic disclosures on management approach 53, 122-123 Competitive 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to • Environmental compliance and accident minimization 72, Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their 122-123 outcomes promote greater environmental responsibility. • Operates a Waste Management Company Registration 109-110 Compliance DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 53-54 System G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with None • Environment campaigns for each division, team and site laws and regulations Product Responsibility Customer DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 83-84 9. Businesses should encourage the • Developed Green Premium Roadmap 78-79 Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are 85 100% in terms of development and diffusion of environmentally • Developed CCS technology assessed for improvement quality management friendly technologies. • Entered the Chinese market with Daewoo E&C’s air G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health None and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes pollution elimination technology Product DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 83 and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and 78-81 service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption • Implemented CP 55-57 G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product None Corruption in all its forms, including extortion and • Autonomously promoted CP in each business division and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes bribery. • Operated Ethics Help Line G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 88 • Conducted ethical management campaigns G4-CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labelling schemes for new construction, 81 management, occupation and redevelopment Compliance DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 83 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision None and use of products and services 136 137 ISO 26000 / Membership / Consolidated Subsidiary List Appendix ISO 26000 Membership G4-17 ISO 26000 is an international standard for Corporate Social Responsibility that is comprised of seven core subjects: organizational Division Associations and Institutes governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, customer issues, and community involvement and Finance Division Korea Electric Engineers Association, Engineering Financial Cooperative, Korea Engineering and Consulting Association development. Daewoo E&C will use ISO 26000 as a guiding principle to further strengthen sustainable management and fulfill roles and Corporate Management & SeriCEO, Construction Industry Human Resource Manager Council, Korea Emergency Plan, National Association of Reservist Battalion Commander, National responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Service Division Commander’s Council, Korean Human Resource Development Association, Korea Construction Engineers Association, Korea Employers Federation, Korea International Trade Association, Korea Fire Facility Association, Korea Software Technology Association, Korea Personnel Improvement Association, Korea Information Systems Audit and Control Association Global Business Korea Construction Association, Korea Facility Management Association, Korea Specialty Contractors Association, The Construction Management Association ISO 26000 Core Subject and Related Activities Management Division of Korea, Korea Federation of Construction Contractors, Construction & Economy Research Institute of Korea, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, Korea Information and Communications Contractors Association, Korea Plant Industries Association, Korea-Vietnam Friendship, Korea-Arab Society, Korea-Algeria Core Subject Issues Related Activities Pages Association, International Contractors Association of Korea Governance Operated Audit Committee and Outside Director Recommendation Committee under 20-21 Overseas Infra Project International Hydropower Association the Board of Directors Division Human Rights Due diligence Operated Ethics Help line 55-56 Civil Project Division Korean Society of Civil Engineers, Road Engineering Association of Asia & Australasia, Korean Society of Steel Construction, Korea Institute of Construction Human rights risk situations Conducted an ethical management campaign 57 Engineering and Management, Korean National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage, Korea Road Forum, Korean National Committee on Large Dams, Korea Road & Transportation Association, Korea Society of Road Engineers, Korean Society of Hazard Mitigation, Korea Water and Wastewater Works Association, Avoidance of complicity Included sustainability factors in supplier assessment, penalized unqualified suppliers 121 Korea Water Resources Association, Korean Society of Coastal Disaster Prevention, Korean Geotechnical Society, Korea Railway Association, Korean Society for Railway, Korean Tunneling and Underground Space Association, Korea Association of Waste to Energy Technology, Korea Ports & Harbors Association, Resolving grievances Operated system for receiving grievances including Ethics Help line 122 Korean Society of Coastal and Ocean Engineers, Korea Environmental Industry Association Discrimination and vulnerable groups Fair evaluation and compensation 112 Building Works Division IBS Korea, KMU Industry-Academic Cooperation Foundation, Korea Green Building Council, Architectural Institute of Korea, Society of Air-conditioning and Civil and political rights Complied with Korea Labor Standards Act, ILO standards 118 Refrigerating Engineers of Korea, Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, Korea Institute of Building Construction, Korean Institute of Architectural Sustainable Environment and Building Systems, Korea Military Supplies Cooperative, Korea Developer Association, Korea Institute of Ecological Architecture and Economic, social and cultural rights Operated family-friendly programs, childbirth and parenting leave policy 114-115 Environment, Korean Society of Living Environment System, Korean Association of Air Conditioning Refrigerating and Sanitary Engineers, Koran Institute of Fundamental principles and rights at Complied with Korea Labor Standards Act, ILO standards, conducted sexual 118 Electrical and Electronic Material Engineers, Korean Institute of Illuminating and Electrical Installation Engineers, Korea Facility Management Association work harassment prevention training Housing Division Korea Remodeling Association, Korea Green Roof & Infrastructure Association, Korean Institute of Traditional Landscape Architecture, Korea Institute of Labor Employment and employment Complied with Korea Labor Standards Act, ILO standards 118 Information & Telecommunication Facilities Engineering, Korean Institute of Landscape Architecture, Korea Housing Association, Korea Society of Environmental Practices relationships Restoration Technology Conditions of work and social Improved working conditions, family-friendly programs, conducted employee satisfaction 114-115 Plant Business Division Korea Gas Union, Korea Plant Industries Association (PEA Club), Korea Institute of Plant Engineering & Construction protection surveys Power Plant Division Korea Electric Association, Korea Coating Experts Society, Korean Radioactive Waste Society, Korea Atomic Industrial Forum, Korean Nuclear Society, Korea Social dialogue Operated Labor Union and Joint Labor-Management Committee 118 Nuclear Association For International Cooperation, Korea Project Management Association, Korea Plant Industries Association (Plant Business Group) Health and safety at work Operated Health and Safety Committee, Permit To Work (PTW) system for risky 60, 62 Engineering & Procurement Engineering Financial Cooperative, Korea Engineering & Consulting Association, Korea Electric Engineers Association operations, and risk evaluation Service Division Human development and training in Provided training and education based on talent development strategy 113 Strategic Planning Division Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Federation of Korean Industries, Korea-Indonesia Partnership Council, Korea Federation of Construction Contractors the workplace HSE-Q Division Construction Safety Organization of CEOs, Construction Safety Manager Committee, Association of Construction OHS Manager, Maekyung Safety & Environment Prevention of pollution Enhanced HSE management system audits including special inspections on Dust 108-110 Environment Institute, Korea Society for Construction Quality, Korea Construction Quality Association, Korea Environment Construction Association, KOSHA Scattering management 18001 Council, Korea Safety Management & Science, KEPIC WEEK Contribution (Korea Electric Association) Sustainable resource use Made eco-friendly procurement 111 Institute of Construction International Association for Bridge and Structural Engineering, International Federation for Structure Concrete, American Concrete Institute, American Society Climate change mitigation and Strengthened GHG Inventory System, increased disclosure on environmental information 76 Technology of Civil Engineers, Architectural Institute of Japan, Japan Society of Civil Engineers, Korea Construction Transport New-Technology Association, Korea Institute adaptation of Science and Technology Information, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korea Concrete Institute, Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, Korea Protection of the environment, Complied with environmental regulation, established wild animal protection guidelines 72, 109 Carbon Capture and Storage Association biodiversity and restoration of natural Management Review Division UN Global Compact habitats Fair Operating Anti-Corruption Introduced CP 56 Practices Responsible political involvement Signed in and participated in relevant associations and academic societies of business 139 divisions Fair competition Introduced Fair Trade CP 56 Promoting social responsibility in the Applied sustainability factors in supplier evaluation, penalized unqualified suppliers 121 value chain Respect for property rights ‘Operated Daewoo E&C ‘Shinmungo,’ regional subcontracting law training 122-123 Consolidated Subsidiary List Customer Fair marketing, factual and unbiased Complied with domestic and foreign laws on advertisement 88 Issues information and fair contractual (As of December 31, 2015, Unit: KRW million) practices Protecting customers’ health and Acquired global quality certifications (ISO 9001, KEPIC, ASME, NBBI, etc.) 85 Company Name Main Business Total Assets safety Daewoo Steel Tech Co., Ltd Steel structure manufacture, equipment lease 81,916 Sustainable consumption Acquired Green Building certification, established and implemented Green Premium 81 Roadmap Daewoo Songdo Hotel Co., Ltd Hotel business 168,123 Customer service, support, and Operated integrated call center, conducted pre-move-in quality control activities, 88-89 complaint and dispute resolution operated Family Garden PRUGIO Service Co., Ltd Construction and maintenance 15,682 Customer data protection and privacy Acquired ISO 27001, inspected management status of personal information, established 92 Korea Infrastructure Management Co., Ltd Operation of roads and related facilities 7,572 PC/Mobile security Access to essential services Provided Life Premium services to meet basic needs 90 Foodream Co., Ltd Food and beverage industry 4,458 Education and awareness Operated move-in exhibition and Family Garden 88-89 Busan Hi-technology Industrial Complex Development Co., Ltd Real estate development and sales 1,571 Community Community involvement Conducted company-wide community service relay and social contribution activities in 125-126 Involvement overseas sites Gangdong Project PFV Co., Ltd Non-housing building construction 40,478 and Education and culture Supported a local school in Nigeria 126 Development Daewoo Energy Co., Ltd Power plant facilities maintenance Employment creation and skills Diversified the nationality of foreign employees, engaged in community when proceeding 41-43 development with overseas projects Daewoo America Development, Inc. U.S. development business 5,688 Technology development and access Conducted Information and Communication Technology (ICT) integrated business 49 Daewoo Tripoli Investment& Development Co. Libya Tripoli hotel 180,913 Wealth and income creation Expanded local hiring, complied with local labor standards 41 THT Development Co., Ltd Real estate investment and development 206,597 Health Community Service at Seoul Municipal Peace House 125 Social investment Built national infrastructure such as roads and ports 34-35 Saipan Laulau Development, Inc. Saipan golf resort 66,278 Daewoo E&C Nigeria, Ltd. Nigeria power plant business 138 139 About This Report GR-18, 23 This is the fifth consecutive sustainability report by Daewoo Engineering and Construction Co., Ltd. since 2012. Our annual sustainability reports are a means for us to reflect on the sustainability of our business, and to communicate our efforts and accomplishments on the issues at hand to external stakeholders. Daewoo E&C, the ‘For the People, Better Tomorrow,’ will continue to uphold our commitment and fulfill our duties as a corporate citizen, growing together with our stakeholders. • Reporting Standard This report is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines and Construction & Real Estate Sector Supplement. In terms of the ‘accordance’ principles set forth in the G4 Guidelines, this report satisfies the ‘In Accordance Core’ option of disclosure. • Reporting Period This Report covers key sustainability activities and achievements from January to December 2015 (Qualitative performance data includes those up to June 2016). In terms of quantitative performance, data for the last three years is presented for time series analysis. • Reporting Scope This report covers all sites and buildings in which our operations take place both domestic and overseas. Quantitative environmental data, however, is limited to domestic sites and buildings in use as of 2015 (328 sites and 6 buildings in total). Financial performance is reported based on separate standards of K-IFRS. Design by interfolio T.02.6348.4854 • Questions about the Report Address : 75, Saemunan-ro (Sinmunno 1-ga), Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea Team : Compliance Team, Daewoo E&C E-mail : dwenc_sr@daewooenc.com Tel : 02) 2288-2303 Fax : 02) 2288-4284 www.daewooenc.com
