COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 01.01.2016 To: 31.12.2016 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) WISeKey’s Annual Report 2016: https://cdn.wisekey.com/uploads/images/ANNUAL_REPORT-20161.pdf Human Rights WISeKey markets a system of digital identity management that respects the fundamental right to privacy, as stated in Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. WISeKey core business is cybersecurity. The right to security of the person and the information she generates, guaranteed by Article 3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, is enforced on the digital world thanks to technical solutions and products marketed by WISeKey. WISeKey respects and values its employees without any discrimination related to race, religion, nationality or gender. All WISeKey business units are respectful of the right to freedom of thought, opinion and expression WISeKey’s human resources departments enforce the right to social security and the employees’ right to rest and leisure through appropriate contractual conditions. WISeKey is respectful of the legal framework of the countries and places where it has business operations and in particular of the Code des Obligations in Switzerland and the Code Civil in France. These two legal instruments comply with the highest standards of human rights. WISeKey fulfils its obligations to respect and promote human rights by abiding by the law of the places where it has operations. Labour WISeKey offers appropriate contractual conditions in terms of wages, working hours, holidays, maternity protection, occupational safety and training opportunities. WISeKey’s productivity and personnel motivation are high as a reflection of lawful working conditions. In WISeKey’s Geneva, the personnel participates on the election of a representative to the pension fund. WISeKey offers state of the art working-facilities including sanitation, heating, air-conditioning, working space, working supplies, parking facilities WISeKey is respectful of the legal framework of the countries and places where it has business operations and in particular of the Code des Obligations in Switzerland and the Code Civil in France. These two legal instruments comply with the highest standards of labour law. WISeKey actively checks that none of its suppliers engages in forms of forced and compulsory labor. WISeKey actively checks that none of its suppliers engages child labour. WISeKey respects and values its employees without any discrimination related to race, religion, nationality or gender. WISeKey makes sure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria WISeKey endeavours to ensure peaceful and fair working relationships among its different hierarchical levels WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules – last updated January 2011, based on the “Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance” offer guarantees of lawful and fair labour practices Environment WISeKey products, such as WISeAuthentic, have a low environmental impact. In the case of WISeAuthentic, WISeKey is not responsible to ship smartcards to clients individually. Watch manufacturers are responsible. Smartcards do not fly from far-away places and have a low carbon impact. WISeKey impact on Green House Gas emissions (GHG) is low. The volume of the company’s business is not big enough to impact on Green House Gas emissions (GHG). Apart from international travelling of its CEO, the impact is average for a small ICT company. WISeKey follows up closely on public utilities’ bills. WISeKey’s data centre is energy intensive. The cooling system employs important quantities of water. From the electricity consumption side it is difficult to reduce the bill when the company is expanding. However, there is a favourable trend thanks to the reduction of physical servers, in exchange for virtual servers. The processing capacity increases, but energy consumption remains the same. New equipment purchasing decisions are weighted considering its environmental impact. Energy efficiency is a criteria when deciding on the purchase of new equipment. Obsolete equipment is disposed respecting Swiss and European safe-disposal directives: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) WISeKey endeavours to reduce physical mail and paper use. The company recycles paper, ink toners and PET on-site. WISeKey’s premises are served by state of the art public transportation systems In order to reduce travelling: (1) WISeKey encourages the use of teleconferencing; (2) WISeKey implements teleworking arrangements for as many cases as possible; (3)WISeKey engages the services of foreign software developers in Southeast Asia; (4) WISeKey’s meeting rooms are fitted to offer state of the art technological facilities for telephone & video conferencing. WISeKey’s personnel often use Skype for video conferencing. The dematerialization of processes plays an important role in WISeKey’s business strategy. Dematerialization means less paper consumption. On the other hand, WISeKey’s clients have a positive environmental impact thanks to reduced transport and the simplifications of energy consumption processes due to the fact that interactions take place on-line. WISeKey has a positive impact because its business model implies an increase in the consumption of virtual rather than tangible products. Anti-Corruption Applications developed. “Should I buy it”, an application being developed by WISeKey, uses law-enforcement mechanisms developed by Interpol, i.e. the Global Register. “The INTERPOL Global Register is a project under development to counteract illicit trade by enabling people to scan and verify the legitimacy of a product from their mobile device. Users – consumers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers, law enforcement and government officials – will be able to open an Internet-based application on a mobile phone or other Internet-connected device to scan and receive information on a product to verify whether the product is being legitimately sold, access product information and see what safety features are in place.” WISekey’s market of digital identity for persons, processes and objects is closely linked to the efforts of curbing illicit trade. By becoming a publicly listed company on the SIX Swiss Exchange in 2016, WISeKey must publish a Corporate Governance Report, a Compensation Report plus the Statutory Auditor’s Report. These reports exist to guarantee that high-levels of transparency are in place. WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules include a “Whistle blow act”… reporting on violations of the law, rules, regulations and the company’s Code of Conduct are contemplated and protected… These rules explicitly state: “it is forbidden to demand or accept payments or other advantages for themselves or others from third parties, nor may they grant third parties unlawful advantages…” 2. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include: Human rights  2017 assessment of the company’s compliance with human rights principles when fulfilling the obligation to report to the Global Compact  Company records of compliance with human rights values  Personnel’s professional satisfaction and motivation  WISeKey’s products and solutions are a recognised brand that enforce the right to security and privacy on the digital domain Labour  Employees professional satisfaction and motivation  Absence of labour conflicts brought to tribunals  Record of employees’ observations and complaints with regard to working conditions  Surveillance of suppliers’ respect of recognised international standards of labour law  WISeKey makes sure that suppliers do not employ forced or child labour Environment  Improved waste-management measures  Improved recycling facilities at all the company’s premises  Improved recycling practices by all the company’s business units  Increase on the volume of recyclable materials processed at the company’s premises  Improved environmental awareness applied to the working place of all personnel  Discussions with the owner / manager of WISeKey’s premises with regards to airconditioning facilities at the data-centre facilities  Reduction on public facilities bills (water and electricity) Anti-corruption  Legal and Ethics Committee appointed by the Board of Directors (seven shareholder representatives with at least 3 non-executive directors)  Comments and observations made by the auditors on their statutory report  More companies and governments use WISeKey’s digital certification services as a means to curb illicit trade and fight corruption
