COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Communication on Progress Year: 2017 STATEMENT To our stakeholders: SoftSkills Management Consultants restates her commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the following areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we emphasised our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Documented in this report is the summary of the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future Wonuola Adetayo, Managing Director/ CE Contact: Wonuola Adetayo Email: wonutayo2002@yahoo.com Phone: 2348029990258 P 1/3 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans Human Rights for the upcoming Year 1. In SoftSkills, we ensure workers are provided with safe, proper and sterile work facilities 2. We continuously endeavor to create world class environment for our business processes. 3. Our labor force is gender balanced. 4. We guard our employees from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats 5. All our staff are treated with dignity and given fair and just compensation for their time at work. 6. Our procedures and policies are within the stated Human right law in Nigeria. 7. Our terms of employment and mode of operations are within Nigeria and ILO that guarantees non-violation of human rights of employees in whatever forms. Global Compact Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for Principle the upcoming Year Labour 1. SoftSkills does not participate in any form of compulsory or bonded labour 2. We are in full compliance with Federal Government minimum wage standards 3. All our staff members have the freedom to join any association of their choice without intimidation. 4. We do not encourage child labour in our work environment. None of our Staff member is below the legal working age – 18 years old. The youngest staff on our payroll is 24 years old. 5. Our job offer letter is explicit enough for our new staff. Job description, targets, KPI and expectations are jointly agreed and clearly started. P 2/3 Global Compact Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for Principle the upcoming Year Environment 1. We avoid environmental pollution by regular maintenance of Power generator and sewage system 2. Guarantee emergency procedures to avoid and address accidents affecting the environment and human health 3. To encourage a safety approach to environmental challenges, we have a developed code of conduct for our business operations and it is committed to upholding good health and the environment. HSE Policy in place, HSE meeting and audit are carried out regularly. 4. During orientation, new staff are taken around the office premises. 5. Our Muster Points are visible and easy approach in case of an emergency Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans Anti-Corruption for the upcoming Year 1. It is our standard practice we absolutely discourage the giving or collecting bribes for the jobs we do or the projects we lobby for. Part of the training and HR intervention to clients is based on good governance, work ethics, professionalism and good corporate citizenship. 2. Ethical behaviour are listed as one of our contracts elements with business partners and vendor 3. SoftSkills internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment P 3/3
