Sustainable Partnership Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S Welcome CSR report 2016 Welcome to the F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S CSR report 2016 It provides you with an insight and a review on the way we handle and integrate our corporate Welcome to the F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S CSR report 2016 3 social responsibility in our daily business. Message from the CEO 4 The Uhrenholt CSR report is prepared as a part of our Finansial statements 2016 in accordance with About Uhrenholt 5 the Danish Financial Statement Act § 99 a. Uhrenholt Global Organization 6 In addition, our CSR work is structured along with the framework and principles of the UN Global Business areas and product portfolio 7 Compact. This means, that we have committed ourselves to report on improvements in the areas Our Values are our DNA 8 of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Passionate about Partnership 9 Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative with more than 12,000 Invitation to responsible partnership 10 voluntary business and non-business participants in 170 countries. CSR Focus Areas 11 For more information about Global Compact visit: www.unglobalcompact.org Business Ethics 12 Employees 16 March 2016 Human rights/Labor 22 Environment/Climate 24 Partnership development 31 Charity: Water Cambodia 33 Progress 2016 34 CSR 2017 35 Thanks 36 2 Message from the CEO About Uhrenholt Dear Reader Uhrenholt is a global food company supplying mainly dairy products and frozen vegetables to a broad range of reCompared to a number of historic changes that emerged in 2016 – only time will show if they really were historic tail, wholesale, foodservice and industrial customers in more than 80 countries around the world. While our head – the declaration signed by the International Dairy Federation (IDF) and the UN Food and Agricultural Organisation office is situated in Denmark, we have offices and representatives in more than 20 countries and employ 450+ on (FAO) in Rotterdam in October 2016 is less spectacular. a global scale. Our products are sold under the brand names Emborg™, Friendship™ and Amigo™ or as commodities and industrial sales The core of the declaration is the recognition of “the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the importance of dairy for food security and poverty reduction and not least the critical contribution the dairy sector makes Uhrenholt was founded April 1 1978 in Denmark by Frank Uhrenholt. The main business was international trading to sustainable development including the essential role of dairy products for balanced nutritious and healthy diets”. of table cheeses and cheese for processing and soon Uhrenholt became one of the largest privately owned dairy companies in Denmark. In 2005 Uhrenholt acquired Emborg Foods A/S and in 2009 all activities of the former In Uhrenholt we fully subscribe to the long-term commitment associated with this declaration. Being an exporting Uhrenholt and Emborg Foods companies are merged and marketed under the Uhrenholt name. company with our roots deeply planted in the dairy world we align our commercial market activities and partnerships with a continuous strive for the sustainability agenda. The value chain of dairy products from raw milk producIn 2007 Sune Uhrenholt took over the role as CEO and has undertaken a restructuring of the company to include tion to sales is long and complex. Our specialist skills are to facilitate and handle this process, which includes that sales to the retail channel and focus on branded products. we recognize our responsibility to require our partners also to adhere to these demands. Frank Uhrenholt created the original ship logo in 1978 by folding a paper ship from a newspaper page and painting The matter of sustainability and its importance to the globes future after we have left the building is here to stay. it red and white. He was inspired by the Hans Christian Andersen fairytale, The Steadfast Tin Soldier, who went It will not go away by a new election in four years time and it has not been invented by a political union that you can to conquer the world in a ship of paper. decide to leave by a referendum. Today the logo has been simplified and is mirrored in the water. This visualizes that Uhrenholt is a modern food Enjoy reading our 2016 report company and all our actions. Sune Uhrenholt CEO Facts Founded: 1978 by Frank Uhrenholt Number of employees: 450+ Ownership: F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S is a 100 % family owned business CEO: Sune Uhrenholt Location Denmark: Head office in Middelfart Location worldwide: Represented in more than 20 countries Sales: Selling products in more than 80 countries across the world 4 5 Uhrenholt Global Organisation Business Areas and Product Portfolio F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S employs more than 450 dedicated people. Our commercial organization is structured in Uhrenholt has a long tradition and experience within sales of food products B2B and B2C. Reliability, tailor-made four regions: Russia & CIS, Middle East & Africa, Asia & Oceania and Europe. service and the ability to spot and seize opportunities together with our partners and customers has made Uhrenholt a preferred business partner for many years. Our Global Trading section focusing on commodities and industrial sales are integrated in the Europe Division. Our partners and customers benefit from the Uhrenholt extensive global network of selected suppliers. Uhrenholt Seafood A/S handle the groups trading in this area. This enables us to offer unique tailored food solutions across the entire portfolio. All regions are supported by our expert corporate functions including Legal and Risk Management, Quality Assurance, Procurement, Portfolio Management, Marketing, Logistics & Transportation, HR, Finance and IT to secure that we deliver the highest quality and standards and meet the diversity demands worldwide. The commercial organization is responsible for sales in the regions and divisions as mentioned above. The regions are apart from the geographical differences also different in terms of business focus. Unique for the region Russia & CIS is the large distribution setup in Moscow. Here Uhrenholt distribute own products and external brands to the retailand foodservice channel. Dairy We supply a full range of dairy products sourced from around the world. To obtain the best quality, we aim to CEO source cheese from local origin. All products are packaged in various shapes and sizes according to consumer and market needs. At our Grøndal Dairy we produce approx. 5.000 tons per year of cheeses like Fontina, Havarti and Kefalotyri Commercial Structure Corporate The Uhrenholt dairy portfolio also contains whey products, lactose, butter, yogurt, UHT-milk and cream Russia and CIS Asia and Oceania Human Resource Marketing Middle East Logistics and Legal and Europe and Africa Transportation Risk Management Uhrenholt Global Trading Finance Portfolio Management Seafood A/S Procurement IT Quality Assurance Vegetables Uhrenholt is a proud supplier of delicious vegetables. Through our wide assortment, we have a focus on providing the very best in every bag of Emborg Frozen Vegetables. We offer a range of classic vegetables individually quick-frozen, for example peas, peas & carrots, sweet corn, beans and mixed vegetables. In addition, we have an exciting range of different vegetable mixes, grilled vegetables, and breaded onion rings. For more information about Uhrenholt please visit uhrenholt.com 6 7 Our Values are our DNA Passionate about Partnerships Being part of a worldwide food industry, we touch many lives in one way or another on a daily basis. To create attractive food solutions, we firmly believe in strong partnerships and networks, We want to continuously improve our business and the way we navigate in the global marketplace. and for more than 35 years, this has been our main focus around the world. We firmly believe that our shared corporate values serve as a compass and lead the way for our We are a partnership-driven corporation and consider knowledge-based partnerships as the actions and daily work. We strive to follow them in everything we do to the benefit of our customers, core of our business engine. Through close cooperation with our partners, we are able to our employees, our business and society as a whole. deliver a wide variety of competitive, high-quality goods and services to a global audience. A value chain of the best companies working closely together for a common goal is always stronger than any individual company by itself. WINNING PARTNERING Partnership for Growth Teaming up with the best players in the market enables us to collectively add value and We value partnerships and win-win Our business is based on long-term growth to our mutual businesses. That is why we strongly promote Partnership for Growth, solutions in everything we do – when partnerships with customers and through which we create easy, fast and efficient access to affordable and attractive food we develop great products, provide service suppliers around the world. solutions. We are able to do so because we are independent, market-driven and have to our customers and work together with We strive to add value in our partnerships strong, global partnerships. suppliers. Our goal is to create an environby continuously exploring new opportunities ment where we are inspired to perform our and by working together to create mutual, very best together. sustainable value. THIS IS OUR PARTNERSHIP PROMISE EXCELLENCE PASSION Attractive Products and Tailored Solutions We aim to grow our partners’ businesses by identifying consumer needs, providing Professionalism and commercial excellence We are passionate about food and enjoy attractive food products and flexible solutions according to market demand. is the foundation for our behaviour internally an exciting and dynamic atmosphere in and externally. our daily work. Attractive Business Opportunities We deliver results through strong solutions Our enthusiasm is reflected in our way We help to grow our partners’ businesses by developing attractive market for our customers and our organisation. of working with markets, products, opportunities and making the route-to-market more efficient. partners and colleagues. 8 9 CSR Focus Areas We have structured our CSR work around six focus areas. These areas are most relevant to our business and we focus our efforts here. The ten principles of Global Compact complement our work and activities and therefore we describe our progress and efforts in these areas. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including Principle 9 extortion and bribery. EMPLOYEES Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT Invitation to Responsible Partnership PARTNERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Our philosophy is to use our global network to learn from and influence all partners involved. HUMAN We will build bridges between our different projects around the world making sure that we bring out LABOUR RIGHTS the best practice to all corners of the world. We need you to join and challenge us! The ambition is to invent sustainable solutions with the highest food safety standards. Principle 1 Principle 3 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the We will take the role as the link between producers, customers/end-users, organizations/NGOs and government. protection of internationally proclaimed human effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; rights; and You are invited to join us for commitment to projects with focus on: Principle 4 • Respect and improvement of the Global Compact principles of human rights, labour, Principle 2 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; environment and anti-corruption. Make sure that they are not complicit in human • Highest food safety and quality assurance standards. rights abuses. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and • Certified sustainability (Organic, MSC, ASC, Global G.A.P., AEO etc.) • Establishment and development of unbroken cold chains in new markets Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 10 11 Business Ethics Uhrenholt Business Principles Uhrenholt A/S is an AEO certified company The core competence of Uhrenholt is the ability to source, sell, In December 2012, Uhrenholt A/S officially received the AEO certificate proving our status as an Authorized Ecodistribute and market food products in a way that respect all the nomic Operator (AEO). In 2016 our compliance has been reviewed and sustained by the Danish Tax Authorities. regulations and red tape that follows international food business. It is our promise to our stakeholders, partners, consumers and the The AEO certificate confirms that Uhrenholt A/S is a reliable partner in all economic, custom and safety related societies in which we operate, that we continuously develop our operations. Uhrenholt A/S meets all the common criteria regarding: procedures to maintain this status. • security and safety standards • record of compliance with customs requirements The traditional skills required of the individual trader remain – but • satisfactory system of managing commercial and transport records, which allows appropriate customs controls every day the surrounding commercial world changes and the • proven financial solvency administrative burden is increasing. To cope with this we decided to prepare a written catalogue of our Uhrenholt Business Principles for internal use to frame and codify our key commercial rules and habits. All together the Uhrenholt Business Principles concerns the way we Uhrenholt care about our image, brands, employees, compliance, documents and not least our money As more colleagues join our company Business across our global market the Uhrenholt Business Principles also Principles Policies and guidelines for business conduct clearly define how we expect employees to behave, act and work within Uhrenholt Group together internally and externally. It is reviewed regularly and employees are urged to familiarize with those parts that are relevant in their specific position. To the benefit of our partners, the AEO certificate allows goods handled by Uhrenholt a preferential treatment in certain procedures of customs control of goods and documents. First of all at the EU level, but in the long term it will become much more global. So far mutual recognition is in place with USA, China, Japan, Norway and Switzerland. Code of Conduct Uhrenholt is among the frontrunners in the Danish food sector to obtain the AEO certificate and as such we are in due time to face the future. As we operate in more than 80 countries it is only natural that employees working in the frontline find our business ethics challenged from time to time. It is of paramount importance that all employees share Uhrenholt’s Companies with AEO status are recognized as safe, secure and compliant business partners interpretation of moral and ethical values. Serving as an educational tool, as a moral obligation and as a support in in international trade. daily decision making our Code of Conduct is perceived as an important tool. All employees have signed the Code of Conduct. Uhrenholt will continuously seek to improve the level of business ethics even further. We care about choosing business partners, whose business standards and ethics match ours. Being a global trading company we inevitably also operate in a number of countries, that according to the corruption index developed by Transparency International, are high risk areas. There is a close link between these Business Principles and our Code of Conduct. Therefore, an updated version of Code of Conduct will follow in 2017 to assure that these two documents correspond. 12 13 We work to create a culture where everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected, and empowered 14 15 IT security Our new IT security system was fully implemented in 2015 with a number of improving features. The service to protect against virus and get rid of spam will evaluate all external mails before they are delivered to our mail server. If the service encounters a mail where rating is not possible, it will forward a message to the receiver and let that person determine if the mail is to be released or deleted. In order to minimize the risk of hacking we have invested in a new generation firewall that protect not only against external attacks but also protects the inside of the network. This will increase the chance of stopping infected PC’s from communicating to outside hackers with intentions of getting access to our internal network. The new backup and restore solution include a number of new functions – e.g. extends our options of testing the validity of completed backups. Our backup system has been improved not only internally but also by external backups located in a Microsoft datacentre elsewhere. Employees An Inclusive and Diverse Culture based on Values In Uhrenholt we harness our people’s diverse experiences and backgrounds to better understand the needs of global customers, drive innovation, and enhance employee engagement. We work to create a culture where everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected, and empowered. Diversity has always been an important trademark of Uhrenholt. We are represented in more than 20 countries and have 23 nationalities employed. We want to reflect the variety in society in terms of culture and way of thinking. At the same time our focus is on ensuring that our partners, customers and consumers experience a high level of service whoever they address. In Uhrenholt we want to promote not least gender diversity at all levels of management. In 2015 we reached our goal to increase the proportion of female managers to at least 40% and we also aim for 25% female directors within the coming three years. We continuously focus on upgrading the competences among the sales force. Internal and external people within commercial sale have been through our internal Uhrenholt sales training course – these costs are not part of the figures invested in education and training. After finishing the course the skills are maintained through consistent and structured follow-up by the trainer and the board of directors. Besides enhancing the competences, it has been critical to bring the Uhrenholt values out in every corner of the world. The phase we enter now is to promote the Uhrenholt CSR profile and efforts to our business partners worldwide. 16 17 Flexible Working Student Work and Internships We respect and care for each other through an open environAt Uhrenholt we continue our work in educating apprentices in 2-year apprenticeships. Nearly 80 apprentices – ment that offers our employees opportunities to learn and 3-4 at a time have over the years been trained, primarily within sales and sales coordination. grow. Open communication, within offices and across counWe strive to maintain some of the apprentices in the company after finishing the apprenticeship and giving them tries, helps us work well together and always strive to do the the possibility to grow and make solid careers. right thing. Collaboration is at the heart of our culture. Besides the apprenticeship program, Uhrenholt has started to offer some university students and recent graduates the possibility for writing their master thesis with our assistance or giving them the possibility for shorter or Uhrenholts technologies enable people to collaborate with longer internships at our HQ or at one of the regional offices. This teaches them to put theory into practice, and colleagues around the world. Employees share ideas, give them a better understanding of the worklife they are about to enter. brainstorm solutions, and recognize achievements to help us succeed together. Our Global Brand Team is just one example. It was established cross regional in order to collaborate on new initiatives and ensure knowledge sharing globally, thereby creating a level playing field with regard to new product introductions, sales and marketing. By conduction monthly conference calls the team ensures dissemination of information and alignment on joint decisions going forward aiming to achieve greater focus, synergy and added value to each employee, our company and our partners. Generally, our technologies promote flexible working that can enhance health and well-being by enabling people to better balance work and personal commitments. In addition flexible work practices also help us meet our environmental goals by reducing the need for air and car travel. 2014 2015 2016 Total employees 644 537 479 Female 42% 43% 44% Male 58% 57% 56% Average age 39,4 40,7 41,2 Average seniority 3,9 4,1 6,3 First Aid and Defibrillator Sick leave percentage 2,4% 1,6% 2,5% More and more companies choose to invest in an AED (defibrillator). Shock from Number of promotions (next level promotions) 23 25 20 an AED is the most effective treatment of heart failure and increases the survival Female manager 38% 40% 49% chances significantly. Male manager 62% 60% 51% Every minute is vital when someone suffers a cardiac arrest and it happens for Female directors 14% 15% 23% approximately 3500 Danes outside the hospital every year. Male directors 86% 85% 77% At Uhrenholts head office and at our Danish department in Aalborg, we have set Investment in education and training (external) € per. Employee 144 112 227 up AEDs. These are also registered on TrygFondens list of AEDs in Denmark Number of nationalities 22 21 23 which means that other people can find them in emergency. 18 19 Bring the real taste home… Emborg takes real pride in quality. A delicious meal starts with natural ingredients. We select our ingredients based on where they have the best conditions. With expertise and passion, we make sure that our quality meets the consumers’ requirements for real taste. We are present at the table at one of the most treasured moments of everyday life: dinnertime. This is a responsibility that we recognise and value, and we take the job, of ensuring an enjoyable and tasty dinnertime experience for everyone in the family, seriously. With Emborg, you get real, tasty and nutritious food of a consistently high quality and a wide selection of familyfriendly food products at affordable prices. For all our products, we strive for the highest quality. The products are made with nourishment in mind, making them appetising in flavour, texture and appearance. All our products are produced in accordance with European 70 production standards and are subject to our own strict quality control. S INCE 1947 Making every day 70 A N N I VERS ARY Making every day Playful S INCE 1947 Exciting 70 A N N I VERS ARY Making every day Colourful Celebrating 70 years of S INCE 1947 70 making every day special ARY A N N I VERS Emborg was founded in 1947 so this means that this year is all about celebrating our Emborg’s 70th Anniversary. When we celebrate 70 years with Emborg, we are actually celebrating 70 years of making every day special. Running a family can be challenging. To succeed, we must master the art of routine on a daily basis. However, if we are not careful, routine easily ends up mastering us – leaving family life dull, repetitive and uninspired. Emborg helps Families break this pattern by providing them with the inspiration, joy, creativity, playfulness and products that are needed to make every day special. We will, throughout 2017, be celebrating “70 years of making every day special” based on helping Families break their everyday pattern by providing everyday dishes made with Emborg products in fun, festive, decorative and delicious settings with the use of food art. 20 21 Human rights/Labour Risk assessment of suppliers is based on the Authorised Economic Operators (AEO): Supplier management following criteria’s: • Secure premises and conditions Uhrenholt cooperates with a global network of suppliers. • Duly signed ”Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements” • Reliable staff • Level of food safety and quality assurance • Protection against unauthorized interference It is crucial that our suppliers demonstrate professional care for our interests ensuring that products delivered to management at the supplier Uhrenholt are safe and produced under secure and responsible conditions. • Food safety risk profile of the products to be Uhrenholt prefers suppliers holding a food safety certifproduced by the supplier icate approved by GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative) Therefore our suppliers undergo critical risk assessment regarding food safety, quality assurance and corporate • Country of production like BRC Global Standard, IFS Food Standard, FSSC social responsibility including elements which are part of our AEO approval. • Brands to be produced at the supplier 22000, SQF 2000 level 2 and others. / overall commercial impact for Uhrenholt Suppliers not holding a food safety certificate approved Based on risk assessment, onsite audit at the suppliby GFSI are required to answer the Uhrenholt Supplier er’s production and storage facilities can take place by Self-Assessment Questionnaire. Uhrenholt to ensure compliance with our requirements. The Uhrenholt supplier network is continuously develUhrenholt Supplier Requirements covers the foloping and consequently the supplier risk assessment lowing elements: and approval process is ongoing. Food Safety and Quality Assurance: Per 31.12.2016 the following numbers of our suppliers • Compliance with laws and regulations have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements and • Food safety management system passed our supplier risk assessment: • Product specification • Food contact packaging materials 75% of the total number of suppliers (71% in 2015) • Genetically Modified Organism (GMO) 86% of the top 100 suppliers measured on purchase • Irradiation value (91% in 2015) • Allergens 96% of the suppliers representing 90% of the GM • Chemical, physical and microbiological contamination (91% in 2015) • Certificate of Conformance COC / Certificate of Analysis COA In 2017 our goal is to increase further the number of • Handling of claims suppliers who have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Re• Crisis Management and recall/withdrawal of quirements and passed our supplier risk assessment: products Corporate Social Responsibility: • Human rights • Labour standards • Environment • Workplace environment • Anti-Corruption Suppliers who have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier 2015 2016 Requirements and passed our supplier risk assessment % of total number of suppliers measured on purchase value 71% 75% % of the 100 suppliers measured on purchase value 91% 86% % of the suppliers representing 90% of the GM 91% 96% 22 23 Environment and climate Sustainable seafood At Uhrenholt we want to minimize our impact on the environment which means that we always are looking for MSC, ASC, Global G.A.P. and B.A.P. sustainable and environmental friendly routes-to-market. In our seafood business we continuously focus on promoting MSC products for wild caught seafood and Global G.A.P. and ASC for farmed seafood. Environmental responsibility is a moral obligation for any commercial business. Protection of our nature including biological diversity on earth is an important issue when reviewing different business areas. Our focus areas: Uhrenholt follows the environmental legislation in the countries we are placed, but acknowledge that our respon• Using MSC and Global G.A.P. as a sales parameter for our retail and manufacturing channels with focus sibility includes our business in other countries and an effort for further improvement. on Denmark, Germany and UK. Our company structure leads to different areas on which we can influence the environment. These include our • Expand the knowledge about certified sustainable seafood products inside the Group. offices around the world, our cooperation with food producers and suppliers worldwide of cause our own dairy plant Grøndal. Organizations managing global standards for responsible seafood aquaculture: Grøndal Dairy is FSSC 22.000 certified MSC: Marine Stewardship Council Since 2012, Grøndal Dairy has maintained certification in concordance with FSSC 22.000. As a result of the certiASC: Aquaculture Stewardship Council fication and the work with continuous improvement of quality and food safety, the dairy has had success in: Global G.A.P.: Global Good Agricultural Practice • Upgrading the whole organization with knowledge and awareness on food safety BAP: Best Aquaculture Practice • Signal that our management system to control food safety is in place and up to date • Ensuring ongoing focus internally on continuous improvements The work continues towards improvements to maintain the highest food safety and quality of the products. Uhrenholt Seafood is a member of Sedex: Supplier Ethical Data Exchange Sedex is a non-profit membership organization dedicated to driving improvements in responsible and ethical business practices in global supply chains. The online database allows members to store, share and report on information on four key areas: Labour Standards, Health and Safety, Environment, Business Ethics Sustainable Palm Oil The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) unites stakeholders from the palm oil industry: Oil palm producers, processors or traders, consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, banks/investors, and environmental and social non-governmental organizations (NGOs), to develop and implement global standards for sustainable palm oil. The RSPO has developed a set of environmental and social criteria which companies must comply with in order to produce Certified Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO). When they are properly applied, these criteria can help to minimize the negative impact of palm oil cultivation on the environment and communities in palm oil-producing regions. The RSPO has more than 1,700 members worldwide who represent all links along the palm oil supply chain. They have committed to produce, source and/or use sustainable palm oil certified by the RSPO. Totally 20% of palm oil globally is certified by RSPO (2015). Palm oil is used in some Uhrenholt products mainly because of excellent technical functionalities of palm oil in many food applications. Our aim is to use Certified Sustainable Palm oil wherever possible. This work continues together with our suppliers in 2017. 24 25 We believe in close partnerships and networks. 26 27 Uhrenholt goes Organic NATURALLY GROWN ORGANIC urally grow na t n In 2015 Uhrenholt decided to explore opportunities to enter the organic route within dairy products. Therefor we signed membership of the two leading Danish trade organizations Økologisk Landsforening (Organic Denmark) and Bio aus Dänemark in order to support the continued expansion within the production and sales of organic dairy products. In dairy, we aim to introduce a range of primarily Danish produced organic quality products to our already existing and new clients. In this field we mainly 10 0% o r g a ni c VEGETABLES focus on the Scandinavian countries as well as Germany. Our vision is to build an export platform for independent Danish organic dairy producers, and help them to expand outside of Denmark. Uhrenholt has the expertise and know-how in handing international clients, and the dairies with whom we have lly gro signed export contracts are excellent in production and product development as well as organizing domestic sales tura w in Denmark, but may lack the know-how and logistical expertise as Uhrenholt possesses. n a n In addition we are pleased to announce that we will launch our first Emborg Organic vegetable products, in the beginning of 2017. Initially we launch four different types of frozen vegetables within this category: Garden Peas, Sweet Corn, Spinach and Mixed Vegetables. Consumers today are more health sensible and pay attention to product ingredients – they expect premium 00 % o r g a ni c 1 quality. At the same time they are much more conscious of the nutritional values and the origin of the products that they buy. Emborg Organic Vegetables are fulfilling these criterias. They are grown on fields that are selected with care and prepared for organic farming – free from pesticides and 100% naturally grown whilst ensuring sustainability. All our organic products are produced in accordance with European quality standards and have the recognisable and well-known EU organic logo. 28 28 29 Partnership Development Cold chain in Africa Year by year we increase and develop our activities and collaboration with partners primarily in Africa. The unbroken cold chain project that was launched in 2012 has been developed further and today freezers have been distributed to local business partners in 11 countries. The project continuously aims at: • Improving food safety and developing our access to market • Allowing the retail stores to store frozen products correctly and offer products from an unbroken cold chain • Allowing our local business partners to offer a broader range of products, which are stored correctly and with due respect to food safety principles • Supplying freezers that have been assessed from an environmental view to avoid excessive electricity consumption • Providing freezers that are purchased and serviced locally. The envisaged target of creating 2-3 more workplaces per country involved has been achieved. Local production Danida Explorer project 2016 – Uhrenholt A/S Assisted by the Danida Explorer program we were able to make further progress in our efforts to complement our exports to the African market with products sourced and processed locally. We aim for partnerships with local dairy companies that are likely to have access to increased amounts of raw milk and who we can join to develop the African dairy market in terms of scale, assortment and quality. The goal for the Explorer project has been to map the opportunities in the East and South African region for local processing of dairy products based on local raw material to be marketed at payable prices. Realization of local production in Uhrenholt brands will initially focus on long shelf life liquid products – white milk and flavored milk. Yoghurt may be next step. Cheese is an option for the long term but is a much more demanding challenge. We have gained our first experiences already rom a smallscale UHT-milk production in Kigali, Rwanda that was started in 2016, but the Danida-explorer project has provided us with a broader overview and valuable inputs on how, where and with whom we can move on. Countries like Ethiopia, Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and Zimbabwe stand out as key opportunities for Uhrenholt. There is a huge potential for the local farmers and industries to grow in these regions and increase self-sufficiency. However, it takes time and patience to build the necessary bridges to develop trustful partnerships and joint ventures between low technology local industries and external investors. 30 31 Transport Uhrenholt has a huge focus on optimizing the transportation need, and aim for using the most direct way to the customer, which gives the lowest impact on the environment with less CO2 emission. There is an increased focus on developing more environmental trucks, and the trucking companies we are using must live up to the CO2 norm valid for the involved countries. A big part of our volumes are shipped in containers by sea, and the vessel operators have a big focus on using fuel with less impact on the climate, and further developing of vessels which have a very low fuel consumption. Grøndal Dairy In 2016, the machinery at Grøndal was modernized and upgraded further. To utilize the whey from the cheese production in the best possible way we made an investment in a whey concentration plant. It adds value to a biproduct and allows us to recycle whey in a much more sustainable way as it is changed into a valuable raw material. Regarding our cheese production 2016 was a very stable year with a good flow almost at full capacity like in 2015. The implementation of new equipment has of course increased Grøndals use of energy and water resources as well as the CO2 emissions. Also the total amount of garbage produced was significantly higher which relates directly to the installments. All in all 2016 therefor is not really comparable to 2015. In order to find a new benchmarking baseline for our environmental impacts we plan to have a mid-term review in 2017 to compare Q3-Q4 2016 with Q1-Q2 2017 Results 2015 Production 2016 Cheese 4.705 m.t. (-4.8%) Whey concentrate 2.539 m.t Total use 2016 vs. 2015 Use 2016 vs. 2015 pr kg Charity cheese produced The 2016 Uhrenholt Christmas Donation CO2 +1.9% +6.6% It has become a tradition that Uhrenholt at Christmas time to donate for charity the money we would otherwise Electricity +2.2% +6.7% spend on a present to our customers and business partners. Gas +1.5% +6.3% According to our donation policy it can be given: Water +7.4% +11.9% • Anywhere around the world • To an international humanitarian organization, whose primary aim is to improve conditions for children Waste +12.6% +16.8% This year the donation was given to Charity Water a nonprofit organization bringing clean and safe drinking water to people in developing countries. Our donation is earmarked water projects in Cambodia. In Cambodia Charity Water works closely with the local organization Clear Cambodia to implement a bio sand filter technology in order to fight one of the highest infant and under-five mortality rates in Southeast Asia. 32 33 Projects 2016 Projects 2017 Focus Area Activity and goal 2016 Result 2015 Focus Area Activity and goal 2016 Employees Employees Education Enhanced the CSR framework/foundation Internships Allowing university students and recent graduates the possibility for shorter through our regional offices in Dubai and Kuala or longer internships at our HQ or at one of the regional offices Lumpur (internal employees/distributors) Packaging projekt Human Rights/Labour Human Rights/Labour Suppler Management Get suppliers to sign Uhrenholt Supplier Require75 % of the total numUhrenholt Quality Assurance Further improve the score of suppliers who have signed and perform in ments and perform supplier risk assessment in ber of suppliers (71% in for suppliers accordance with the Uhrenholt supplier requirements order to approve suppliers for Uhrenholt 2015) Partnership Development Goal: Improve the figures compared to 2015 Local production Africa Mak at least one more partnership ready to fly Accommodate customers Enhance our conscious approach to halal and kosher products to 86 % of the top 100 religious and cultural preferences accommodate religious and cultural preferences of customers suppliers measured on Environment/Climate In depth analysis of potential further local production activities in East Africa purchase value (91% in Grøndal Dairy Review the 2020 environment goals and action plan after switching from 2015) semi hard cheese to hard cheese production Organic Furhter develop our organic assortment 96 % of the suppliers Business Ethics representing 90% of Uhrenholt Business Principles Written catalogue to be evaluated and maintained annually the GM (91% in 2015) Partnership Development AEO certificate Maintenance and renewal Sustainable Production Expansion and awareness of certified sustainable wild caught and farmed seafood Cold chain Africa Continue to expand and develop business through the cold storage facilities Local sourcing Africa Exports to neighbouring countries from our local sourcing in Kigali, Rwanda Preparing further local production in East and South Africa based on explorer project completed in 2016 Donation The annual Christmas donation given to Charity Water earmarked water projects in Cambodia Environment/Climate In depth analysis of potential further local production activities in East Africa Grøndal Dairy New whey concentration plant into use to ad value to the biproduct and recycle it in a more sustainable way. Palm oil Mapping products with palm oil and together with suppliers initiate change over to Certified Sustainable Palm oil wherever possible Organic Added vegetables to the Uhrenholt organic product portfolio. Further development on the dairy side Business Ethics Uhrenholt Business Principles Written catalogue evaluated and updated for stakeholders and employees AEO certificate Maintenance and renewal 34 35 Thanks C00056 CSR 2015, English, Print and layout 03/2016 The CSR team would like to thank all partners and employees for inspiration and support to the 2016 CSR report. Special thanks to: Christa Desberg and Pia Mathiasen for again giving assistance to complete the report The CSR team 2016: Kate Bonne Larsen (Group HR), Arne Schmidt (Quality Assurance), Susanne Overby (Quality Assurance), Charlotte Kaasing Skougaard (Global Trading), Anette Gjørtsvang Kock (Legal and Risk Management), Edgar Marchl (Procurement), Stine Jensen (Senior Brand Manager) and Keld Winther Rasmussen (Global Trading, editor). Uhrenholt A/S • Teglgårdsparken 106 • DK-5500 Middelfart • Denmark Phone: +45 64 41 40 41 • Fax: +45 64 21 21 26 • info@uhrenholt.com • uhrenholt.com
