Summary 01 . About the Report.......................................................................................3 02. Message from the President..........................................................7 03. Industry Context........................................................................................9 04. About Copel...................................................................................................11 05. Governance and Sustainability..................................................17 06. Human Capital..........................................................................................29 07. Intellectual Capital..............................................................................36 08. Social and Relationship Capital...............................................40 09. Natural Capital..........................................................................................51 10. Infrastructure Capital........................................................................62 11. Financial Capital.....................................................................................68 12. Social Audit..................................................................................................74 13. GRI Content Index..................................................................................79 14. Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact........................................................................94 01 . ABOUT THE REPORT About the Report // Relevant and Strategic Aspects 3 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About the Report 01. About the Report About the Report Copel’s Sustainability Report is part of the Company’s commitment to The review of strategic and relevant aspects included, in addition to the Relevant and Strategic Aspects transparency and open dialogue with all its stakeholders. The document is points raised by Copel’s senior leadership, the risks relevant to each business, Message from published annually and presents management and performance information according to the strategic risk map. the President Industry Context including executive decisions, achievements, operational results, and social, Another highlight of the document is the attention to the normative guidelines About Copel environmental, and economic impacts. The latest published report refers to defined by the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), included in Governance the 2015 fiscal period. G4-29 and Sustainability the information from Financial Statements, the Social Audit from the Brazilian Human Capital This edition of Copel’s 2016 Sustainability Report contains information from Institute of Social and Economic Analyzes (Ibase), and Progress Communication Intellectual Capital about the commitments made under the Global Compact. G4-15 January 1 to December 31 of the same year in the various areas of activity of Copel Social and Relationship Capital Holding and its wholly-owned subsidiaries: Copel Geração e Transmissão S.A., The report was organized in two parts. The first presents an overview of Natural Capital Copel Distribuição S.A., Copel Telecomunicações S.A., Copel Renováveis S.A., Copel’s business model, bringing together the main social and environmental Infrastructure Capital and Copel Comercialização S.A., except when stated otherwise. G4-17, G4-28, G4-30 impacts and risks of its operations. The second part describes the context Financial Capital and performance of the Company’s capitals with a detailed approach to the The reporting methodology follows the guidelines of the G4 version of the Social Audit relevant aspects of the business and its ability to create value. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in the “core” option of adherence, and covers GRI Content Index the set of indicators of the electric utilities sector disclosures. It is important Annex Incorporation Relevant and Strategic Aspects of the Principles of the Global Compact to point out that in order to facilitate reading and identification of specific data, all indicators disclosed are listed in the Content Index, which includes Copel began, in 2013, the process of building the matrix of material and external assurance through an independent audit by Deloitte. G4-32, G4-33 strategic aspects, which was reviewed and validated by stakeholders who have a relationship with the business and their degree of importance. The matrix The current edition of the Report maintains the practice adopted by Copel in was prepared based on consultations about perceptions, and the convergence the previous cycle, following the structure and integrated reporting guidelines of the different points of view of the audiences consulted, on media surveys, recommended by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). It is a and on national and international sustainability benchmarks, considering model intended to improve communication with stakeholders about aspects the aspects relevant to the Company’s business. Since then, the audiences relevant to the sustainability of Copel’s business, and demonstrate the considered priority have been employees, shareholders, investors, clients and Company’s ability to create value. G4-22, G4-23 consumers, communities, suppliers, and society. G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 4 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About the Report About Concerning employees, one of the Company’s main stakeholders, there ■ Aspects determined in previous cycles by stakeholders and senior the Report are several approaches to engagement throughout the year. The strategic management during the engagement process, available online; G4-24 Relevant and Strategic Aspects planning process involving professionals from different areas and the process ■ Issues identified as material for the electricity sector by the most prestigious Message from of preparing the Sustainability Report itself are key to reflecting on strategic sources in the market, such as RobecoSAM (which evaluates companies the President aspects of the business. There is also regular communication on material for their inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, DJSI), the Industry Context aspects through the magazine Copel & Sustentabilidade and the newsletter Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE BM&FBOVESPA), SASB (sustainability About Copel concerning Education for Sustainability, available online. reporting standards for publicly held companies in the American stock Governance exchange), and RepRisk 1 . and Sustainability Human Capital The priority of the aspects was defined based on: Intellectual Capital ■ Risks to the business, according to Risk Maps prepared for each Social and Copel business; Relationship Capital Employee Vision of Copel Sustainability Natural Capital ■ Reputational risks, based on the analysis of Copel’s social, environmental, In order to obtain a diagnosis concerning sustainability, the Employee Opinion Infrastructure Survey found that almost 90% of the 5,915 employees who answered the survey and governance risks via RepRisk; Capital are committed to Copel policies, including the Sustainability Policy, and 87% ■ The main social and environmental impacts of Copel’s operations. Financial Capital understand the importance of following the Company’s sustainability guidelines, Social Audit While most aspects mapped during the previous cycle remained unchanged, aiming for the conscious use of natural resources and respect for the environment. GRI Content Index two aspects were updated in terms of coverage. In addition, two new aspects gained prominence in the matrix. Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact The aspect from the previous cycle called Training and Availability of the In order to stay informed of industry trends and new organizational and Workforce is now considered Human Capital Management. sustainability challenges, Copel annually reviews its matrix of material and The objective was to better reflect the importance of people management, strategic aspects. including the vision of investing in developing Human Capital. In order to obtain the current view on these matters, all Officers of Copel Energy Planning has become part of New Assets, in order to reflect their Holding and the Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries were consulted in 2016, and expansion and construction capacity. benchmark materials were analyzed. The review process included: G4-18, G4-37 Two new aspects were also highlighted: Innovation Culture and Risk and Crisis Management. G4-27 1 RepRisk — Media analysis tool used by RobecoSAM throughout the process for the evaluation of companies for the DJSI. 5 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About the Report Matrix of relevant and strategic aspects G4-19, G4-23 About the Report Social and Environmental Structure 1 Business Risks 2 Reputational Risks 3 Impacts of the Operations Relevant and Strategic Aspects Message from the President Social and Relationship with Supplier Relationship with 2 Industry Context Relationship Capital Customers and 1 Management 1 Communities Consumers 3 About Copel Governance and Sustainability Natural and Operational 2 Climate 2 Scope of aspects Impacts on Human Capital Infrastructure Capital Excellence and Change 3 Ecosystems revised based Eco-eﬀiciency 3 3 on business Intellectual Capital risks / impacts Social and Relationship Capital Governance, Ethics Occupational Health Human Capital Human Capital and Compliance 2 and Safety 1 Management 1 Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital Inovation Risks and Crisis Intellectual Capital 1 1 Social Audit Culture Management GRI Content Index Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Economic Acess to Energy Planning the Global Compact Regulatory Financial Capital and Financial 1 Financial Capital 1 and New Assets 1 Matters 1 Performance LEGEND: Previous Aspects New Aspects Previous Ajusted Aspects Learn about other results obtained by Copel, available online: Administration and Financial 20F Report Social and Environmental Reports Copel’s Materiality Process G4-26 Statements For questions, suggestions or explanations about the content of this report, Copel provides a communication channel Talk to Us Sustainability. G4-31 6 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About the Report 02. Message from the President G4-1, G4-2 About the Report The political and economic These acknowledgments, achieved several times in this decade, show the Message from the President instability of the country saw no strong perception that society and our customers have of our results and Industry Context mitigating factors in 2016; it was undertakings. In 2016, we made the largest investment in the Company’s About Copel another year of major challenges history: over BRL 3.57 billion in all our areas of operations, with net profit of Governance BRL 947.8 million. and Sustainability for the production sector in Brazil. Human Capital At Copel, many decisive aspects Copel Telecomunicações was recognized in the 2016 Telecom Yearbook as Intellectual Capital regarding company performance one of the 10 most profitable companies in 2015 in the Telecommunications Social and in the period were related to the sector, conferred by Fórum Editorial. The fiber optic backbone of Copel Relationship Capital energy distribution segment. Telecomunicações, which reaches all municipalities in the state, is already Natural Capital Throughout the year, default rates considered one of the best and fastest in the country. The energy trading Infrastructure Capital company, Copel Energia, was created to offer a reliable supply option to declined, although consumption Financial Capital companies migrating to the free market, seeking better contracting conditions remained stagnant. The good news Social Audit for energy inputs. came with the fourth tariffing cycle, GRI Content Index which raised the asset base to In 2016, Copel Renováveis continued with the work on the fourth wind farm in Annex Incorporation of the Principles of BRL 4.9 billion at the end of 2016, the state of Rio Grande do Norte, with estimated investments of approximately the Global Compact due to Aneel’s recognition of BRL 2.2 billion. By 2018, the complexes will total 28 wind farms in that region. With this, the equivalent in wind power at Copel will total 665 MW. Currently, investments made in the last four 93% of the Company’s generation comes from renewable sources. years. In the transmission segment, the year was marked by 1,678 km of lines entering This increase represents a operation, and the implementation of a BRL 258.8 million project, resulting new stimulus to the distributor’s from an auction won by the Company in 2015. This undertaking was to replace construction program, which is based on a more realistic level of assets in the structure at Avenida das Torres, between Curitiba and São José dos Pinhais, order to maintain its economic-financial balance, and provide services that with a fully underground line, which, in addition to increasing reliability meet the sector’s new quality requirements. We point out that in 2016, Copel in supply, allows the government to implement work to promote mobility once again ranked first in the customer’s evaluation of the Abradee Award, and and urban landscaping in this important corridor of access to the capital received the CIER trophy for Best Distributor in Latin America. city of Paraná. 7 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About the Report In order to address our works and projects program in the generation and biogas, while avoiding the environmental impact of disposing waste in nature. transmission segments, in 2016 we issued approximately BRL 1 billion in About the Report Copel also celebrated its best ever position in the Corporate Sustainability debentures, which demonstrates the trust and reputation that Copel has Message from Index (ISE). The voluntary participation in this index recognizes the performance the President historically enjoyed with investors and the market. of companies listed on the São Paulo Stock Exchange regarding sustainable Industry Context We reinforce our commitment to fighting corruption, an extremely important development, and demonstrates our inalienable commitment to the principles About Copel issue in our current situation, as well as the ethical and legal compliance of of the Global Compact. The differentiators that have guaranteed the Company Governance and Sustainability our practices, by elevating the areas of governance, risk, and compliance, a significant improvement in its score in the ISE range from practical actions Human Capital structured in 2015, to a status of executive office. The new department focused on climate change, with commitments extended to the value chain, Intellectual Capital reinforces our belief that transparency and accountability are key practices for to the adoption of the Integrated Report – an accountability model that Social and the continued and sustained growth of the business. Relationship Capital favors transparency by associating economic, social, environmental, and Natural Capital The Company increased its investments in people management, the main focus governance results. Infrastructure of the current management, in order to enable employee self-development Capital These are initiatives that show an important point in common: they are actions and more active participation in planning and execution of our strategy. By Financial Capital that will allow Copel to continue to grow sustainably in the coming decades, mobilizing 94% of employees in face-to-face consultations that analyzed the Social Audit and increase the capacity to serve its customers with quality and agility. Company’s challenges and brought up over 5,000 suggestions and criticisms, GRI Content Index the Anima Program began an engagement movement that intends to prepare Throughout this publication, we show our audiences the company’s guiding Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Copel to face the future through innovation across its business areas. In 2017, principles, the initiatives carried out in the year in order to put into practice the Global Compact the program will continue through the implementation of improvements, our strategy, and paths to creating value that have been opened to those who and promotion of collaborative environments such as the corporate social enable the growth and soundness of the business: our employees, customers, network and another phase of training leaders committed to the UN Principles shareholders, suppliers, organizations, and communities around our projects. of Responsible Management Education (PRME), as well as the development of teams aligned with a common purpose. The search for innovation is part of our daily routine, and today one of our main objectives is to foster this culture throughout the Company in order to contribute to its long-term vision. Good examples of this effort are the Mais Clic Rural program, implementing smart grids at the main agribusiness centers, and the Enjoy your reading micro-generation project in Entre Rios do Oeste, which associates smalland medium-sized pig farmers with large power generation condominiums using ANTONIO SERGIO DE SOUZA GUETTER 8 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About the Report 03. Industry Context G4-1, G4-2 About the Report Message from The ongoing Brazilian economic crisis in 2016 continued the trend of reducing Another important move in 2016 was the expansion of the free market through the President energy consumption in the country. The industrial sector recorded a drop of 2.9% the retail market, with the migration of captive customers from the Regulated Industry Context in the year, followed by trade, which dropped 2.5%. Residential consumption Contracting Environment (ACR) to the Free Contracting Environment (ACL). The About Copel alleviated the reduction, increasing by 1.4% during 2016, but did not prevent the Electricity Trading Chamber (CCEE) recorded a 25-fold increase in the number of Governance and Sustainability sector from posting an overall decline of 0.9% in the period, according to data approved applications for consumers to adhere to ACL last year, compared with Human Capital from the Energy Research Company (Empresa de Pesquisa Energética EPE). 2015, totaling 93 requests. Intellectual Capital In this way, the scenario already recorded in 2015 by the National Interconnected This mobility between environments helped free consumption grow 18.6% Social and Relationship Capital System (Sistema Interligado Nacional SIN) continued: energy surplus, distributors in November alone, according to the Monthly Electricity Market Review, of Natural Capital overcontracting, and price retraction. Data from the National System Operator November 2016. Infrastructure Capital (Operator of the National Integrated Grid ONS) indicates that SIN’s energy load The expectation for a less recessive economic environment, the increase in Financial Capital recorded a drop of 0.1% in 2016 compared with the previous year. investor confidence, and the low basis of comparison allow us to expect a positive Social Audit evolution in consumption in 2017. This scenario helped EPE calculate a surplus of 9,000 MW by 2019, which, added GRI Content Index to prospects for the economic scenario for the years to come, justified the Ministry Recovery, however, will depend on the expansion route of the Gross Domestic Annex Incorporation of the Principles of of Mines and Energy’s (MME) decision to cancel the 2nd Energy Reserve Auction, Product (GDP), which has an estimated growth of 0.5% for 2017 by EPE. the Global Compact scheduled for the month of December 2016. The year 2017 will be challenging, and key to beginning a reversal in the electricity Add to this the expansion of installed capacity for generating electricity in 2016. sector crisis. EPE projects an average growth of 3.5% in consumption for the fourData from the National Electricity Agency (ANEEL) showed an increase of 9,526 year period 2017-2021, if the industrial sector resumes activity in the second half MW, the largest increase in generation capacity recorded since the beginning of of the year and residential and commercial consumption increases, with average the historical series, in 1998. growth rates of approximately 3.8% and 3.9%, respectively, in the period. The supply of infrastructure monitored by the MME recorded an increase of 4,777 It will be a year of significant relief amid the turbulence in the economy in the last km of transmission lines. The transmission area experienced an excellent year, three years, albeit a relief that will probably be unable to reverse the downward with the closing of 21 lots of lines auctioned by ANEEL in October, with a projected trend in price, due to increased installed capacity, which will be 7,120 MW in 2017 investment of BRL 11.5 billion in 6,000 kilometers of lines. alone, according to Aneel. 9 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About the Report Context Operation of the Brazilian Electricity Sector Who are the major players on the market of electric PLAYERS power in Brazil. HOW ENERGY SUPPLY WORKS About the Report REGULATED MARKET: Captive consumers buy energy from the distribution concessionaries to which they are connected. Each consumer unit pays Message from only a montlhy electricity bill. Rates are regulated by the Govermment, and the price is the result of a mix of long-terms contracts. CNPE the President CNPE Conselho Nacional National Policy and Energy de Council Monitoring de Política Energia Industry Context Level of concession, regulation, Committee of the Government Fees Electricity Bill About Copel Electric Sector and taxes Money ﬂow Governance EPE MME Ministry of Mines and Sustainability and Energy Revenue from Distribution Service CMSE Remuneration Human Capital supervision, planning and monitoring Remuneration as per auction for services and Quota A Quota B Energy Research contract transmission Intellectual Capital Purchase of electricity Operating costs Company CNPE Social and ANEEL ConselhoElectric National Nacional Energy Agency de Política de Energia Relationship Capital Transmission Depreciation quota Energy ﬂow Return on Natural Capital GENERATION TRANSMISSION DISTRIBUTION CONSUMER Fees and taxes investment ONS Controls Destination: Infrastructure power generation Generation. Destination: Capital Level of services Indicates the Transmission and Distribution Contracting mechanisms amount of energy National Operator Electric Power government Financial Capital ONS CCEE of the Electric Marketing and agents System Chamber deﬁnes MME • deﬁnes price cap prices AUCTION FOR Social Audit POWER SUPPLY ANEEL • promotes auctions Total Electricity Bill = Quota A + Quota B CCE • ooperationalizes GRI Content Index Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact CNPE: Defines the country’s energy policy with the purpose of ensuring stability in energy supply. FREE MARKET: Free consumers buy energy directly from generators or distributors through bilateral agreements with freely negotiated conditions, MME: Responsible for planning, management and development such as price, time, volume, etc. Each consumer unit pays the local utility a bill referring to distribution services (regulated rate) and one or more bills of the legislation for the sector, as well as for supervision and related to purchase of electricity (negotiated price agreement). control of execution of policies geared toward the country’s energy development. Money ﬂow Government EPE: Plans expansion of generation and transmission, for the MME, and provides technical support for auctions. Possibility 1 CMSE: Supervises the continuity and reliability of electricity Sector Charges Distributor Invoice + Generator Invoice supply. Energy ﬂow ANEEL: Regulates and supervises generation, transmission, distribution and marketing of electricity. It defines the transport and Payment for Remuneration for consumption rates and ensures economic and financial balance of transmission services distribution services the concessions. ONS: Controls the operation of the National Interconnected CONSUMER System (SIN) so as to optimize energy resources. Energy ﬂow GENERATION TRANSMISSION DISTRIBUTION Possibility 2 FREE OR SPECIAL Agreements to supply CCEE: Manages transactions of the energy market and conducts power via trader the official auctions. Contracting TRADER mechanism 10 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governador Ney Braga Hydroelectric Power Plant 04 . ABOUT COPEL The Presence of Copel in Brazilian States // Interest in the Energy Market in 2016 // Strategic Objectives and Guidelines Shareholding Structure // Risks and Impacts of Copel’s Businesses 11 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About Copel 04. About Copel Presença Presença da da Presença Copel daCopelnosnos Copel nosestados estados brasileiros estadosbrasileiros brasileiros Presença Presença Presença G4-8 G4-8 da daCopel Copel da nos Copel nos estados nos estados estados brasileiros brasileiros brasileiros About G4-8 the Report G4-8G4-8 G4-8 Companhia Paranaense de Energia Copel was founded in October 1954, The Presence of Copel in Brazilian States Message from the Presidente G4-8 and is a corporation, established in the form of a quasi-public society and Presença da Copel nos estados brasileiros Goiás Goiás Goiás Goiás Goiás Goiás Industry Context controlled by the Government of the State of Paraná, with shares traded at G4-8 93% of generated Maranhão Maranhão About Copel the São Paulo stock exchange (BM&FBovespa), and at the stock exchanges in Maranhão RioRioRio power is renewable Goiás Maranhão Maranhão Maranhão RioGrande GrandeRiodo dodo RioGrande The Presence of Copel New York and Madrid. G4-3, G4-7 Norte Norte Grande GrandeGrande do dodo Norte in Brazilian States Norte Norte Norte Interest in the Energy It is the largest company in Paraná, with headquarters in Curitiba (PR), and Maranhão Rio Market in 2016 Grande do operations in ten Brazilian states. The Company operates with cuttingNorte Strategic Objectives and Guidelines edge technology in generation, transmission, distribution, and marketing Shareholding Structure of energy, in addition to telecommunications and natural gas. It operates a Risks and Impacts comprehensive and efficient electrical system with its own power generation of Copel’s Businesses Bahia Bahia Bahia complex, transmission lines, substations, lines, and electrical networks from Bahia Bahia Bahia Governance and Sustainability the distribution system, and a modern fiber optic telecommunications system Mato Grosso Grosso Mato Mato Grosso Mato Mato MatoGrosso GrossoGrosso Human Capital that integrates all cities in the state. G4-4, G4-5, G4-6 Bahia Minas Minas Gerais Gerais Minas Gerais Intellectual Capital Minas Minas Minas Gerais Gerais Gerais Interest in the Energy Market in 2016 Mato Grosso Social and Relationship Capital G4-8 G4-9 Minas Gerais Southern Natural Capital Santa Santa Catarina Catarina Main products (%) Brazil Paraná Santa Catarina SãoSãoPaulo SãoPaulo Paulo Region Santa Santa Santa Catarina Catarina Catarina SãoSãoPaulo SãoPaulo Paulo Infrastructure Capital Power Generation (1) 3.2 (2) (3) 20.5 (2) (3) 51.0 Santa Catarina Financial Capital São Paulo Electric Power Transmission (4) 1.8 9.1 24.2 Social Audit Paraná Paraná Paraná RioRio Grande Grande Rio do Sul Grande dodoSulSul Paraná Paraná Paraná GRI Content Index Distribution of Electric Power (5) (6) 6.1 (6) 34.6 97.3 Grande Rio Rio Rio Grande Grande do Sul dodoSulSul Annex Incorporation Paraná of the Principles of Gas Distribution (7) 2.2 27.1 100.0 the Global Compact Rio Grande do Sul Source: 2016 Administration Report (4) The market refers to the Annual Revenue Allowed – RAP USINA USINA HIDRELÉTRICA HIDRELÉTRICA SUBESTAÇÃO SUBESTAÇÃO LINHA LINHA DE DE DE TRANSMISSÃO TRANSMISSÃO (1) Installed capacity. Copel’s interest (5) Grid market USINA HIDRELÉTRICA SUBESTAÇÃO LINHA TRANSMISSÃO in wind farms not included (6) Source: Empresa de Pesquisa Energética (EPE) HYDROELECTRIC USINA USINA USINA HIDRELÉTRICA HIDRELÉTRICA HIDRELÉTRICA SUBSTATION SUBESTAÇÃO SUBESTAÇÃO SUBESTAÇÃO LINHA LINHA TRANSMISSION LINHA DE DEDE TRANSMISSÃO LINE TRANSMISSÃO TRANSMISSÃO POWER PLANT (2) Interest in the Itaipu HE Powerplant not included preliminary data (3) Plants in the Paranapanema River not included (7) Includes volume distributed in Paraná, including USINA HIDRELÉTRICA SUBESTAÇÃO LINHA DE TRANSMISSÃO thermoelectric USINA USINA EÓLICA EÓLICA WIND USINA FARM EÓLICA LINHA LINHA DE DE DE DISTRIBUTION LINHA DISTRIBUIÇÃO DISTRIBUIÇÃO LINE DISTRIBUIÇÃO ANELANEL DEANEL FIBRA FIBERDE DE FIBRA OPTIC ÓTICA ÓTICA FIBRANETWORK ÓTICA USINA USINA USINA EÓLICA EÓLICA EÓLICA LINHA LINHA LINHA DE DEDE DISTRIBUIÇÃO DISTRIBUIÇÃO DISTRIBUIÇÃO DEANEL ANELANEL DEDE FIBRA FIBRA FIBRA ÓTICA ÓTICA ÓTICA 12 USINA EÓLICA LINHA DE DISTRIBUIÇÃO ANEL DE FIBRA ÓTICA Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About Copel Strategic Objectives and Guidelines About Strategic Reference Strategic Objectives the Report Message from the Presidente Copel has assumptions and guidelines set forth in its strategic reference Copel’s strategy guides business conduct and operation in order to achieve its Industry Context which guides management and all actions, and internal and external decisions Vision: “To become a benchmark in the areas where it operates, sustainably About Copel of the company. G4-56 generating value.” For this purpose, the Company maintains a structured The Presence of Copel strategic planning process that is revised annually, taking into account changes in Brazilian States in its sectors of operation, the economy, regulatory changes, and stakeholder Interest in the Energy To become a benchmark in Supply energy and Market in 2016 demands. The strategic guidelines established by the Board of Directors CAD, the areas where it operates, solutions for sustainable Strategic Objectives sustainably generating value. development which guided current strategic planning are: and Guidelines Vision Mission Shareholding Structure Corporate Guidelines Guideline for the Businesses Risks and Impacts of Copel’s Businesses • Ethics: Result of a collective agreement that defines individual behaviors Governance aligned to a common goal. and Sustainability • Respect for people: Consideration for others. Electric Sector Human Capital ■ Copel Geração e Transmissão S.A. Maintain concessions; Profitably and Intellectual Capital • Dedication: Ability to engage intensely and completely in the work, ■ Copel Distribuição S.A. Increase share of alternative sustainably expand ■ Copel Renováveis S.A. renewable sources Social and contributing to the achievement of the organization’s objectives. businesses. ■ Copel Comercialização S.A. Relationship Capital Natural Capital • Transparency: Reporting the Company’s decisions and achievements in order to inform its stakeholders of any positive or negative aspects. Infrastructure Capital • Health and safety: Healthy work environment in which workers and Electric, Telecommunications, Maximize profitability Financial Capital Invest in innovation, Sanitation, and Gas Sectors Values managers collaborate to use a process of continuous improvement to modernization of assets, of assets in society Social Audit and people management. protect and promote safety, health, and well-being of all. GRI Content Index Annex Incorporation • Responsibility: Managing the company in a sustainable way, respecting the of the Principles of the Global Compact rights of all stakeholders, including future generations and the commitment Telecommunications Sector Expand its customer base to supporting all life forms. ■ Copel Telecomunicações S.A. and offer services with high Maintain excellence added value • Innovation: Applying ideas in processes, products, or services, in in costs, processes, and quality. order to improve something that already exists or build something different and better. 13 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About Copel Shareholding Structure of 12.31.2016 G4-17 State of Paraná Bndespar Free Float Eletrobrás Other Shareholders About the Report 58.63% Voting 26.41% Voting 13.68% Voting 1.06% Voting 0.22% Voting 31.07% Total 23.96% Total 44.17% Total 0.56% Total 0.24% Total Message from the Presidente BM&FBovespa Industry Context 12.85% Voting 31.29% Total About Copel Nyse The Presence of Copel 0.83% Voting in Brazilian States 12.85% Total Interest in the Energy Latibex Market in 2016 0.00% Voting Strategic Objectives and Guidelines 0.03% Total Shareholding Structure Risks and Impacts of Copel’s Businesses r Governance and Sustainability (1) Copel Geração e Transmissão S.A. (100%) (1) Copel Distribuição S.A. (100%) (1) Copel Telecomunicações S.A. (100%) (1) Copel Renováveis S.A. (100%) (1) Copel Comercialização S.A. (100%) Human Capital (1) Brisa Potiguar S.A. (1 00%) (4) Dominó Holdings S.A. (49%) Intellectual Capital Social and (2) UEG Araucária LTDA. (60%) (1) Nova Eurus IV Energias Renováveis S.A. (100%) (1) São Bento Energia (100%) (1) Cutia Empreendimentos Eólicos SPE S.A. (100%) Relationship Capital (4) Marumbi Transmissora de Energia S.A. (80%) (1) Nova Asa Branca I Energias Renováveis S.A. (100%) Natural Capital (4) Costa Oeste Transmissora de Energia S.A. (51%) (1) Nova Asa Branca II Energias Renováveis S.A. (100%) Central Geradora Eólica São Bento do Norte I S.A. (100%) (2) Elejor Centrais Elétricas do Rio Jordão S.A. (70%) Infrastructure Capital (4) Mata de Santa Genebra Transmissora S.A. (50.1%) (1) Nova Asa Branca III Energias Renováveis S.A. (100%) GE Olho d’Água S.A. (100%) Central Geradora Eólica São Bento do Norte II S.A. (100%) (2) Companhia Paranaense de Gás Compagás S.A. (51%) (4) Guaraciaba Transmissora de Energia (TP Sul ) S.A. (49%) (1) Santa Maria Energias Renováveis S.A. (100%) GE Boa Vista S.A. (100%) Central Geradora Eólica São Bento do Norte III S.A. (100%) (2) UEG Araucária LTDA (20%) Financial Capital (4) Matrincha Transmissora de Energia (Tp Norte) (49%) (1) Santa Helena Energias Renováveis S.A. (100%) GE Farol S.A. (100%) Central Geradora Eólica São Miguel I S.A. (100%) (3) Carbocampel S.A. (49%) Social Audit (4) Integração Maranhense Trans. de Energia S.A. (49%) (1) Ventos de Santo Uriel S.A. (100%) GE São Bento do Norte S.A. (100%) Central Geradora Eólica São Miguel II S.A. (100%) (3) Copel Amec S/C Ltda. (48%) (em liquidação) GRI Content Index (4) Caiuá Transmissora de Energia S.A. (49%) Central Geradora Eólica São Miguel III S.A. (100%) (3) Sercomtel S.A. Telecomunicações (45%) Annex Incorporation (4) Cantareira Transmissora de Energia S.A. (49%) (1) Wholly-owned subsidiary Usina de Energia Eólica Cutia S.A. (100%) (3) Foz do Chopim Energética LTDA (35.8%) of the Principles of (2) Associated companies (3) Dois Saltos Empreendimentos de Geração the Global Compact (4) Paranaíba Transmissora de Energia S.A. (24.5%) Usina de Energia Eólica Guajiru S.A. (100%) de Energia Elétrica (30%) (2) Affiliated companies (4) Transmissora Sul Brasileira de Energia S.A. (20%) (3) Jointly-held companies Usina de Energia Eólica Jangada S.A. (100%) (3) Dona Francisca Energética S.A. (23%) (4) Consortiums (4) Voltalia São Miguel do Gostoso Participações (5) Uhe Gov. Jayme Carnet Junior (Mauá) (51%) Usina de Energia Eólica Maria Helena S.A. (100%) S.A. (49%) (5) UHE Baixo Iguaçu (30%) Usina de Energia Eólica Potiguar S.A. (100%) (4) Paraná Gás Exploração e Produção (30%) Usina de Energia Eólica Esperança do Nordeste S.A. (100%) Usina de Energia Eólica Paraíso dos Ventos do Nordeste S.A. (100%) 14 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About Copel Risks and Impacts of Copel’s Businesses About Risk factor Internal Risk Factors: the Report G4-2 Message from Operations the Presidente The chart below summarizes the main risks in the industry that could affect our businesses and that are considered in our strategic planning. More details about 5. Uncertainties in projections for energy demand can adversely impact Industry Context these risks are available in the 20-F Report. businesses. About Copel 6. Legal actions that may have a material adverse effect if the outcome is The Presence of Copel in Brazilian States 1 2 3 4 unfavorable for the Company. Interest in the Energy External Risks Market in 2016 7. Security breach of information, employee errors and misconduct can harm our Strategic Objectives business and reputation. Internal Risks and Guidelines 8A. Contractors involved in the operation may not be in compliance with the law Shareholding Structure Operation Market Expasion and with Copel’s ethical values. Risks and Impacts of Copel’s Businesses 5 6 7 8A 9 10 11 12 8B Consumer Market Governance and Sustainability 9. Certain consumers in our area of concession may suspend the acquisition of Human Capital External Risk Factors: energy from our distribution unit. Intellectual Capital 1. Political, economic, and regulatory conditions, which include a series of topics, 10. Part of our operating revenue comes from Free Consumers, who may seek Social and such as economic development of the country, changes in tariff policies, other suppliers of energy once their supply agreements expire. Relationship Capital regulations and changes in the concession regime, taxation, and cases of 11. Default resulting from difficulty in receiving amounts billed to our customers. Natural Capital corruption and unlawful conduct. Infrastructure 2. Fluctuations in the currency rate comparing the Brazilian Real with foreign currencies Expansion Capital can increase the cost of servicing our debt in foreign currency and acquisition of 12. Limited access to capital, due to the fact that the Company is subject to Financial Capital electricity from Itaipu, as well as create additional inflation pressure that can limit the guidelines of the National Monetary Council and Brazil’s Central Bank Social Audit access to international markets. Factors that can have an adverse effect on our net concerning the level of credit that financial institutions can offer to companies GRI Content Index profit and cash flows, can also result in uncertainties in the Brazilian economy and of the public sector. Annex Incorporation the Brazilian real estate market. of the Principles of the Global Compact 8B. Contractors involved in the construction and expansion of projects may not 3. Negative performance of the economy in other countries, especially in developing be in compliance with the legislation and with our ethical values, delivering nations, can adversely affect foreign investments in Brazil and the economic growth of the country. materials and services below the expected quality and beyond the schedule foreseen in our planning. 4. Changes in the rainfall regime. The government can adopt measures for conservation of water/energy that are unfavorable to the businesses. 15 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report About Copel Social and Environmental Impacts of Copel’s Operations G4-2 It is in Copel’s mission to serve society, providing infrastructure, energy, and technology necessary for people’s lives, and available for development. Some of Copel’s operations About the Report presented below may generate relevant impacts to local communities and society as a whole. Message from Details on various ways to mitigate the social and environmental impacts of our operations are presented in Sections 8 and 9 of this report. the Presidente Industry Context Main social and environmental impacts and their management in Copel’s projects About Copel Construction Operations The Presence of Copel in Brazilian States Copel studies, evaluates, and measures the impacts on communities and ecosystems when All Copel operations follow the requirements for mitigating impacts that Interest in the Energy obtaining environmental licensing for its works. In order to mitigate negative impacts and are defined and approved during the licensing phase. Market in 2016 boost the positive impacts, Cope develops social and environmental programs with the impacted communities, the government, and local leaders. Strategic Objectives and Guidelines Shareholding Structure Possible displacement of families Local development Risks and Impacts Copel seeks to meet the expectations of the population surrounding its projects, of Copel’s Businesses Displacement cases are evaluated through a social and economic registration, and when any social vulnerability situation is identified, Copel provides for the investing in infrastructure and services that generate benefits for the Governance family relocation process and social compensation for the damages caused communities where it operates. Most of the actions implemented originate from and Sustainability by installing its projects. legal requirements related to licensing of its projects. Human Capital Income generation Intellectual Capital Copel pays to lease the land for implementing wind farms. For hydroelectric Social and Possible land and production losses Relationship Capital power plants, financial compensation is paid to municipalities in proportion to Copel provides the owners with compensatory remuneration for their losses the flooded areas and according to the energy produced. There is also ICMS (tax Natural Capital on commercialization of goods and services) for energy production, amounts Communities paid to the municipalities where the projects are located. Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital Significant increase in Service Tax collection (ISS), charged on civil construction Risk of accidents involving the local population Social Audit works, in the municipalities where the works are carried out. Copel promotes several informative events to promote the conscious and safe GRI Content Index use of electricity. Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact Building Copel’s assets may alter ecosystems, resulting in loss of biodiversity Copel studies environmental impacts prior to the installation of its projects, Generation of hazardous waste and the use of natural resources and if such impacts cannot be avoided, vegetation suppression programs are As defined in the licenses, each project implements specific programs to implemented, as well as monitoring and recovery of flora and fauna, recovery minimize and mitigate these impacts. of Permanent Preservation Areas, and forest replenishment, among others. Ecosystem 16 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report 05 . GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY Governance Structure // Performance of Governance Bodies // Integrity Practices // Sustainability Management 17 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governance and Sustainability 05. Governance and Sustainability About the Report The following principles guide the Company’s corporate governance: In 2016, Copel improved its corporate governance practices by creating Message from the President transparency, equity, accountability, and corporate responsibility. Based the Governance, Risk, and Compliance Office. The creation of Industry Context on these principles, our Governance Policy, whose main objective is to this office accelerated compliance with the requirements of the new State contribute to Copel’s continuity and establish the standard and best practices About Copel Law No. 13,303, of 2016, and is aligned with the Anti-Corruption Act regulated of corporate governance to be adopted by the Company and its wholly-owned Governance in 2015. and Sustainability subsidiaries. Governance The corporate governance practices adopted comply with the requirements In its structure, the new department integrated the responsibilities of other Structure areas of Copel that until then had been responsible for risk management, Performance established for BM&FBOVESPA level 1 companies. We also adopted as a of Governance Bodies benchmark the Code of Best Practices in Corporate Governance from the governance, and integrity, placing the Company among the first Brazilian Integrity Practices Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC). companies to incorporate business sustainability management activities into Sustainability For the Company to be permanently guided by ethically sound principles, this area, seeking to align its governance practices with those of companies Management all those working on its behalf are governed by code of conduct developed Human Capital that are global benchmarks in this aspect. G4-35, G4-36, G4-45 according to Copel’s values, the Principles of the Global Compact, and the Intellectual Capital Principles of Corporate Governance. Learn about the governance practices and policies that guide the Company’s Social and businesses: Relationship Capital Both the Governance Policy and the Code of Conduct are approved by the Natural Capital Company’s highest governance body the Board of Directors. G4-42 • Corporate Governance Policy • Governance Practices Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital Social Audit GRI Content Index Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact 18 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governance and Sustainability Governance Structure G4-34, G4-38, G4-42 About the Report Copel’s management structure consists of four permanent deliberative bodies, broken down by levels of responsibility and advised by technical committees. Message from the President General Shareholders' Meeting Industry Context Deﬁnes the business guidelines and make strategic decisions. • Members: shareholders eligible to vote (ordinary shares), About Copel which gather in forum annually or extraordinarily, whenever Governance necessary. and Sustainability Governance Structure Board of Directors Fiscal Council Performance of Governance Bodies Deliberates and deﬁnes the overall direction of Permanent organ that reviews and advises the the business. ﬁnancial statements and supervises the actions Integrity • Members: 9 (5 being independent). of the managers. Practices • Mandate: 2 years after the election in Assembly. Executive Board • Members: 5 eﬀective and 5 substitutes. Sustainability • Mandate: 1 year after the election in Assembly. Management Has executive functions and applies the Company's strategy. • Members: CEO, 5 directors and 1 adjunct director. Human Capital • Mandate: 2 years after election by the Board of Directors. Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Audit Committee Committee Disclosure of Relevant Acts and Facts Monitors, reviews, supervises, accompanies Infrastructure Internal C h i e f E x e c u t i v e O ffi c e and makes recommendations on the Supports the Department of Investor Relations Capital Company's activities. Audit in the practice of Disclosure Policy. • Members: 15. Financial Capital • Members: 3 independents and members of the board of directors. Social Audit • Mandate: 2 years. GRI Content Index Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact Holding Corporate Risk Management Committee Ethical Orientation Committee Business Development Finance and Investor Advises the Audit Committee in the deﬁnition Office Relations Office Ensures the fulﬁllment of the code of guidelines and strategies for the Company's of conduct. risk management. • Members: 12 (with 11 employees and • Members: 11 employees (Holding and Legal and Institutional Corporate Management Governance, Risk and Compliance one representative of civil society). wholly-owned subsidiaries). Department para Governance, • Mandate: 1 year after the election in Relations Office Office Risk and Compliance Office • Mandate: 2 years Assembly. 19 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governance and Sustainability General Assembly elected by the Board of Directors for a term of two years. Executive Board meetings are held every two weeks and the minutes are recorded in the appropriate book. About The Shareholders’ General Meeting is the forum in which shareholders have the power the Report to decide all business regarding the Company’s purpose and to make resolutions Board Composition Message from the President deemed convenient concerning the defense and development of the Company. ■ CEO: Antonio Sergio de Souza Guetter Industry Context ■ Chief Corporate Management Officer: Gilberto Mendes Fernandes The Annual General Meeting is held in the first four months of each year, and About Copel ■ Chief Financial and Investor Relations Officer: Luiz Eduardo da Veiga Sebastiani Extraordinary General Meetings may be convened whenever deemed necessary, Governance ■ Chief Legal and Institutional Relations Officer: Cristiano Hotz and Sustainability on any date. ■ Chief Governance, Risk and Compliance Officer: Fabio Malina Losso Governance Structure ■ Chief Bussines Development Officer: Jonel Nazareno Iurk Board of Directors Performance of Governance Bodies Copel’s Board of Directors CAD is composed of nine members, five of them Fiscal Council Integrity Practices independent. G4-40 Sustainability Copel’s Fiscal Council is permanent, composed of five members and five alternates Management The CAD holds regular meetings according to the pre-established schedule, in elected by the General Meeting for a term of one year. It convenes monthly to deal Human Capital addition to possible extraordinary meetings (on average, there are eight meetings with matters that include, among others, supervision of the acts of the administrators, Intellectual Capital per year). In 2016, ten regular and six extraordinary meetings were held. G4-47 analysis, and opinion on the quarterly and annual financial statements. All meetings of Social and the Fiscal Council both regular and extraordinary are recorded in the appropriate book Relationship Capital Composition of the Board of Directors period 2015-2017 G4-38, G4-39 and, sometimes, in accordance with legal requirements, opinions are also recorded. Natural Capital Infrastructure ■ President: Fernando Xavier Ferreira Capital Composition of the Fiscal Council period 2016-2017 ■ Board member: Antonio Sergio de Souza Guetter Financial Capital ■ Board member: Mauro Ricardo Machado Costa Members ■ George Hermann Rodolfo Tormin Social Audit ■ Board member: José Richa Filho ■ Board member: Carlos Homero Giacomini ■ Nelson Leal Junior GRI Content Index ■ Board member: Marlos Gaio ■ Massao Fabio Oya Annex Incorporation ■ Board member: Sandra Maria Guerra de Azevedo ■ João Carlos Flor Junior of the Principles of the Global Compact ■ Board member: Sergio Eduardo Weguelin Vieira ■ (vacant position) ■ Board member: Hélio Marques da Silva Alternates ■ Osni Ristow Executive Board ■ Roberto Brunner ■ Gilmar Mendes Lourenço Copel’s Executive Board is responsible for executive roles and has the exclusive ■ Aurelio Belarmino Barbosa responsibility of representing the Company. It is composed of six members who are ■ Vinícius Flor 20 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governance and Sustainability Audit Committee G4-49 About Reporting directly to the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee is composed of three risk matrix, managing it, and recommending preventive security measures to the the Report members of the Board, who are independent according to Rule 10A-3 of the Securities business. This committee has an annual agenda of ordinary meetings, and may convene Message from the President Exchange Act, with the characteristics, composition, operation, and powers established extraordinarily whenever necessary. G4-45, G4-46 Industry Context in a specific Internal Regulation. G4-40 In 2016, the Corporate Risk Management Committee reported to the Audit Committee About Copel As of the next term of office of the members of the Committee, which will begin in May its monitoring of 19 significant concerns regarding the Company’s business, of the Governance and Sustainability 2017, the Company will adopt the requirements provided in Article 25 of Law 13,303/2016 following nature: stakeholders; social and environmental liabilities; contingencies and Governance and State Decrees 6,262 and 6,263/2017, for the appointment of board members. judicial deposits; property, permanent, intangible assets, and receivables related to Structure the concession; suppliers; labor obligations; accounting procedures, and information Performance The Committee holds regular meetings at least six times a year, according to a previously of Governance Bodies technology. G4-50 defined schedule, with extraordinary meetings and, if necessary, with any member of Integrity Practices the Board of Directors, Independent Auditors, Internal Audit, or Fiscal Council. In 2016, a Sustainability Management total of 16 meetings were held to deliberate on approval of annual planning of the work, Risk Management Human Capital performance, and monitoring of the activities of the Internal Audit. G4-2 Intellectual Capital It also oversees the Internal Audit, responsible for developing and executing the Copel’s Integrated Corporate Risk Management covers all corporate areas, its whollySocial and owned and controlled subsidiaries, jointly held affiliated companies, and establishes Relationship Capital Annual Audit Plan, which covers the Copel corporation, its business units and interests, the formation of a Corporate Risk Management Committee, which reports to the Audit Natural Capital conducting special audits through requests received through the proper channels, Committee. Infrastructure preparing and submitting reports of the results of the audit to the Company’s Capital The guidelines adopted are based on renowned structures and standards, such as the Management and the Audit Committee, when necessary, communicating the results Financial Capital Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and ISO of the audit, with recommendations and/or suggestions for the auditees to improve 31000, and whose purpose is to maximize economic, social, and environmental value to Social Audit management of their respective areas, among others. The Internal Audit Regulations stakeholders and ensure compliance with laws and regulations in force. GRI Content Index are available online. The risk management model adopted by Copel considers legal, regulatory, social Annex Incorporation of the Principles of and environmental, and reputation aspects, among others, and serves as a base for the Global Compact Corporate Risk Management Committee decision-making processes and operating activities, taking into account the following risk profiles: strategic, operational, disclosure, and compliance. The model also A permanent advisory body. It is a subordinate of the Audit Committee and is composed defines the parameters of appetite for risk, likelihood of occurrence, and its social of representatives of the Board of Directors, the Superintendency of Controllership, and environmental, financial, operational, and image impacts, providing tools for its Management and Participations, the Coordination of Corporate Regulatory Affairs and preventive treatment and mitigation. G4-14 Integrated Corporate Planning, and a member of the Internal Audit. The Corporate Risk Management Committee is the department responsible for preparing the Company’s 21 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governance and Sustainability Deficiencies and recommendations on internal controls are routed to business assessment. In addition to being a best practice in governance and management the areas through “Internal Controls Certificates.” For each note, an action plan is initiative meets the requirements of Law No. 13,303/2016. About the Report developed, which will be monitored in the following year. After analyzing the results of the Assessment of the Administration held in 2016, the Message from the President This process is coordinated by Corporate Integrity Coordination, a body that reports Board of Directors approved the continuity of the process and requested the plan for Industry Context directly to the Governance, Risk and Compliance Officer, with whom it meets evolving the methodology to be presented in the first quarter of 2017. About Copel periodically, and is responsible for reporting its activities to the Audit Committee In 2016, the main opportunities for improvement identified refer to the management and Governance and the Executive Board. Copel also in place has an Internal Audit structure, and Sustainability transparency dimension, as follows: responsible for assessing the adequacy of internal controls, the effectiveness of Governance risk management, compliance with standards, and process reliability. ■ Availability of relevant information about the organization, market trends and Structure Performance the industry sector; of Governance Bodies Performance of Governance Bodies ■ Monitoring feasibility and execution of strategic planning; Integrity Practices Remuneration ■ Monitoring risks and internal control processes; Sustainability G4-51, G4-52 ■ Monitoring transactions between companies and stakeholders. Management Human Capital Copel’s Administrators and Fiscal Advisers have their remuneration defined during The main actions for improvement implemented were: Intellectual Capital the General Meeting, which takes into account the remuneration of the previous ■ Prior preparation for meetings in order to further knowledge and the decision-making Social and period and the corresponding monetary restatement. In 2016, overall remuneration process of the administrators aiming to improve management processes in order to Relationship Capital for the Executive Board, for the Board of Directors, and for the Fiscal Council totaled sustain the business strategy and ensure expected results; Natural Capital nearly BRL 9.5 million. ■ Publication of the Stakeholders Transactions Policy. Infrastructure Capital Self-Assessment Development Financial Capital G4-44 Social Audit The Administrator Training Program is aimed toward directors, presidents of In pursuit of continuous improvement, the Company annually conducts a selfGRI Content Index assessment of the Board of Directors, the Executive Board and the Audit Committee. subsidiaries, and executive officers. The content was developed in modules and Annex Incorporation Board Members and Directors answer a specific questionnaire for each department. included issues regarding corporate governance, economic and financial aspects, of the Principles of the Global Compact Based on the analysis of the results, strengths and weaknesses are indicated and business strategy, fiscal council, and administration and strategic management of proposals are made for improvement. business risks. Assessment The program aims to develop the competencies required for Members of the Board G4-44 and of the Fiscal Council to perform their activities. It also aims to train professionals In order to provide greater credibility to the process of assessing the performance of who act as directors of Copel’s subsidiaries and affiliated companies, so that their the Company Administration, Copel contracted an external consultant to carry out the performance may be more effective. G4-43 22 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governance and Sustainability Integrity Practices Integrity Program About Copel has several structures in place to establish a transparent dialogue and The Integrity Program is a platform for disseminating the Company’s commitments the Report ethical relationship with all its audiences. These mechanisms form the integrity to transparency and the fight against corruption. In 2016, Copel implemented the Message from the President practices of the Company and its subsidiaries, based on alignment with the UN Distance Learning (EaD) training program in order to raise awareness of ethical Global Compact 2 and the public commitment to fight against corruption. Industry Context behavior among all employees of Copel and its subsidiaries. About Copel The Company uses internal tools in order to disseminate ethical conduct and identify deviations. To this end, the Company makes available the Compliance A total of 7,724 employees were trained in the fight against corruption, equivalent Governance and Sustainability Portal, which contains mechanisms adopted to guide the transparency and ethical to 90.54% of the employees, in addition to all members of the Company’s Board Governance conduct of its activities. Learn about the mechanisms adopted by the Company, of Directors. G4-SO4 Structure such as the Confidential Communication Channel, the Copel Distribuição and Copel Performance of Governance Bodies Telecomunicações Ombudsman’s Office and the Ethics Guidance Committee (COE) The program was further strengthened by disseminating the Company’s ethical Integrity on the Compliance Portal. G4-56 standards using all internal communication channels such as emails, internal Practices This structure is monitored by determining that process managers issue “Certificates newsletters, intranets, meeting minutes and others, as well as making all related Sustainability Management of Internal Controls,” formalizing the cases of nonconformities detected and corporate rules of the Integrity Program available on the web. Human Capital thus committing to regularizing them. All these mechanisms are overseen by the Audit Committee. All these actions are reflected in the reduction of cases of corruption involving Intellectual Capital According to the recommendations of the Second External Control Inspectorate Copel’s employees. Four people received sanctions for their involvement in Social and Relationship Capital Office of the Audit Court of Paraná (Segunda Inspetoria de Controle Externo do suspicious activities in 2014 and 2015. In 2016, no case was registered. G4-SO5 Natural Capital Tribunal de Contas), Copel promoted improvements on its Transparency Portal, There were also two events with aspects focused on integrity: Infrastructure making access easier with more detailed information. Capital Management Meeting: presenting the current scenario facing integrity practices The result of the work was praised by the inspectors, and mentioned as a Financial Capital benchmark at the State Audit Court (TCE-PR). Learn about the improvements on and how companies are reacting to the need to adapt their processes, and Social Audit the Transparency Portal. implement an integrity program. It was attended by over 500 managers. GRI Content Index In addition to immediate and detailed access to all content, the new portal 25º GAIP – Group of Internal Auditors of the State of Paraná: held at Copel’s premises, Annex Incorporation facilitates the export of data, now fully complying with the Access to Information of the Principles of aiming to contribute to the evolution of the profession of Internal Auditors, supporting the Global Compact Act. Among the innovations added to the portal is the inclusion of a link to report the official institutions that govern this activity, as well as other correlated activities. At cases of corruption, information regarding corporate participation in concession contracts, and public bids opened by the Company, among others. this meeting, the aspect “How Copel structured its Risk Management, Internal Controls, and Compliance areas, and the relationship of these areas with Internal Audit” was Copel proactively adopted the practice of scheduling monthly meetings with TCE-PR to streamline possible actions and/or proceedings by the 2nd inspectorate, thus discussed. This event registered a record number of participants, with 92 present. improving the flow of information and demands, as well as the relationship between 2 Copel has been the United Nations’ Global Compact signatory since 2000 and joined the Call to Action initiative Copel and TCE-PR. launched in 2014 by the UN’s Global Compact, aimed to encourage governments to fight against corruption. 23 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governance and Sustainability Compliance tested in company contracts and processes employees participated. The goal is to ensure that all employees take this module by October 2017. For the 2017/2018 cycle, a new version of the EaD Code of Conduct About the Report Copel maintains a commitment to taking preventive action in the fight against is planned, with emphasis on the Confidential Communication Channel. Message from corruption; thus in 2017 the Company will conduct systematic compliance tests the President in contracts and processes that are more fragile, among which we highlight: As a best practice, the Company has defined in an administrative standard Industry Context financial, accounting, procurement, and information technology. that the Code must be revised every two years, and every four years, through About Copel public consultation, in a candid and open dialogue with all stakeholders. For 2017, Governance Aiming for greater effectiveness in risk management in the supply chain, Copel a new update of the Code of Conduct is planned, seeking improvement in and Sustainability is developing a due diligence process for critical business suppliers to be compliance issues. Governance Structure implemented in 2017, which, in addition to handling corruption risks, will contribute Performance to monitoring social and environmental issues. The Code of Conduct is available to all stakeholders at the Company website. of Governance Bodies Integrity Also in 2017, Copel will hold a workshop on the Integrity, Anti-Corruption Risk Assessment for Corruption Practices G4-SO Sustainability and Social and Environmental Act for its main critical suppliers. Copel Management As part of its Policy on Integrated Management of Corporate Risks, Copel works to Telecomunicações will also develop an Integration Program with its service Human Capital ensure constant monitoring of threats of corruption within the Company, and of fraud providers and contractors, with lectures on safety and integrity, for all its partners. Intellectual Capital in the internal control environment. Social and Relationship Capital Code of Conduct Due to these safety criteria, all operational processes are annually submitted to risk G4-56, G4-57 Natural Capital assessment involving errors or frauds that may interfere with the results of the financial Infrastructure The Company’s Code of Conduct is aligned with its values, the Principles of the statements. In this respect, controls are submitted to tests by an Internal Audit and an Capital UN Global Compact, and Corporate Governance guidelines. It defines actions that Independent Audit, the results of which are reported to senior management. Financial Capital promote integrity, transparency, safety, and health. The document also addresses Social Audit In 2016, the Company submitted 28 transactions to risk assessments concerning social and environmental responsibility, respect, and the relationship with the GRI Content Index corruption. This was 100% of the transactions carried out in the year, and no cases of various segments in which the Company operates. Annex Incorporation corruption were identified in the period. of the Principles of the Global Compact Created in 2003, based on ethical parameters, the code is a guiding instrument for the Reporting Channels acts of all those who carry out activities on behalf of Copel. The Code was revised at G4-57, G4-58 the end of 2015, and was even submitted to public consultation. In 2016, it was widely In order to gather opinions, criticism, complaints, claims, and personal publicized in the media and all employees received a hard copy. G4-SO4 consultation, Copel provides a communication channel, presented below, which, In order to disseminate the concepts of the Code of Conduct, in 2016 Copel in addition to fighting fraud and corruption, expands the organization’s relationship developed specific training in the “Distance Learning” modality (EaD), where 543 with stakeholders. 24 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governance and Sustainability Confidential Communication Channel This channel is intended to receive reports Sustainability Management About and claims associated with noncompliance with standards and laws, especially Copel’s commitment is to promote economic growth with social and environmental the Report those associated with fraud or irregularities involving financial, audit, or accounting responsibility, in line with the Sustainability and Corporate Governance Policy. Message from the President issues. The channel ensures protection, confidentiality of the person making the At the end of 2016, Copel restructured the duties of sustainability and governance, Industry Context report and response to the claim. It is available 24x7 through a toll-free number: creating the Coordination of Corporate Sustainability and Corporate Governance About Copel 0800 643 5665. with a scope of action that includes following the sustainability agenda, Governance disseminating culture, and adopting best practices in sustainability and corporate and Sustainability Ombudsman’s Office There are two channels open to all audiences, both internal Governance governance. The Coordination resports directly to the Risk, Governance, and Structure and external, to receive suggestions, complaints and reports, which are available on Compliance Office. G4-35, G4-36 Performance business days, from 8 AM to 6 PM, via toll-free number. of Governance Bodies Sustainability challenges are part of the strategic framework, through the mission, Integrity The Ombudsman’s Office for Copel Distribuição is available prepared to receive vision, values, and strategic guidelines, and are aligned with business planning, Practices linked to the strategic objective, “Improve performance in sustainability”. G4-36 Sustainability complaints personally or through mail sent to the address Rua Professor Brasílio Management Ovídio da Costa, 1703, district of Santa Quitéria, zip code: 80310-130, in Curitiba, PR. In its ongoing search to improve the Company’s sustainability performance, in Human Capital addition to managing aspects and indicators, Copel considers expectations and Intellectual Capital The Ombudsman’s Office for Copel Telecomunicações is available receive works to improve communication and relationships with our stakeholders. G4-35, Social and complaints personally or via mail sent to the address Rua Emiliano Perneta, 756, G4-36, G4-45 Relationship Capital district of Batel, zip code: 80420-080, in Curitiba, PR. In this work, the following main market practices are used to: Natural Capital Infrastructure ■ Guide and assess performance, as well as compare practices with global and Capital Committee to Investigate Claims of Mobbing (CADAM) to address and support national benchmarks: questionnaire from RobecoSAM (Dow Jones Sustainability Financial Capital all employees victim of mobbing in the workplace. The information is confidential Index DJSI), Ethos Indicators for Sustainable and Responsible Business Models, Social Audit and both the person reporting and the person reported have the preservation of their and the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE – BM&FBOVESPA). GRI Content Index identity guaranteed. Email: cadam@copel.com. ■ Report our performance and engage our audiences: Global Reporting Initiative Annex Incorporation of the Principles of (GRI), Integrated Reporting (IR), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Global Ethics Guidance Committee (COE) The COE evaluates and offers guidance in the Global Compact Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG). processes associated with ethical conduct within the Company and has up to 90 days The main purpose of corporate sustainability and corporate governance is to ensure to provide a final solution. Email: conselho.etica@copel.com. continuity of the Company, which is achieved through recognition that our practices In addition to these channels, Copel is open to receive requests for information, services, must meet the expectations of our stakeholders. criticism or suggestions for improvement, guidance and grievances from its audiences One of the main results of the action was that in November 2016, the Company was through various service channels. selected to remain in the group of the most sustainable companies in the São Paulo 25 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governance and Sustainability Stock Exchange (ISE BM&FBOVESPA) in the 2016/2017 portfolio, where it evolved in the Brazilian Committee of the Global Compact CBPG, since its the most since 2012, above the average performance of the portfolio. Copel has creation in 2004. About the Report been a part of eleven of the twelve editions of the Corporate Sustainability Index National SDG We Can Movement Message from (ISE), since the index was created, in 2005. the President The SDG is a global agenda that comprises 17 objectives and 169 goals to be Industry Context The year 2016, was also marked by the continued inclusion in the Morgan achieved by 2030. The National SDG We Can Movement acts in support of About Copel Stanley Capital International (MSCI) Sustainability Index, a global leader in the this global development agenda defined by the UN, which is non-partisan, Governance preparation of financial indices that serve as reference for investors. The MSCI and Sustainability ecumenical and plural. It is the result of coordinating volunteers from the ESG seal is awarded to companies that show excellent performance in the social, Governance three sectors of Brazilian society in order to promote the improvement of the Structure environmental and corporate governance areas. COPEL obtained a maximum population’s living conditions, from a sustainable development standpoint in Performance score in 27 of the 28 indicators analyzed in 2016, and AA concept on a seven-level of Governance Bodies Brazil and internationally. scale that ranges from CCC to AAA. Integrity Practices Copel was also selected to be part of the FTSE4Good Emerging Index, an index Sustainability As a member of the Brazilian Global Compact Committee, Copel participated in Management linked to the FTSE 100, of the London Stock Exchange, which recognizes companies a study on the contribution of companies in the Brazilian electricity sector to the Human Capital that have best practices in the social, environmental, and governance areas, and is Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), launched by the United Nations Global Intellectual Capital a reference for investors. Compact. The study seeks to create a methodology that translates business Social and Relationship Capital Voluntary Commitments engagement with SDG, identifying best practices and learning, and providing G4-15, G4-16 Natural Capital inputs for strategic guidance of the Brazil Network of the Global Compact. Committed to sustainable development, in the course of its history, Copel has Infrastructure Capital made several voluntary commitments that it disseminates throughout its value Financial Capital Corporate Contribution to Promoting a Green and Inclusive Economy chain and other stakeholders. Social Audit Copel assumed the commitment in 2012 at Rio+20. It is the public commitment Global Compact GRI Content Index of companies signatory to the Global Compact with the adoption of initiatives Annex Incorporation A signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2000, Copel endorses the principles toward a more inclusive economy, which contributes to face major challenges in of the Principles of the Global Compact proposed by the initiative, based on three main aspects: constant improvement sustainability in Brazil and worldwide. of management systems and corporate policies; supporting the formulation, Statement of Cultural Action for Governments in the Fight against Corruption implementation, and improvement of public policies and consolidation of partnerships with other companies, institutions, or organizations Copel adhered to the statement in 2014, reaffirming its commitment to in projects that may bring social and environmental gains. In line with transparency and the fight against corruption, expressing its support to the this commitment and the Sustainability Policy, Copel participates Post-2015 Development Agenda, in an effort to promote sustainability, ethical in the Brazilian Network of the Global Compact and has had representation conduct, and best practices in corporate governance. 26 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Governance and Sustainability Corporate Pact for Integrity and Fight Against Corruption are to raise awareness and involve employees in the promotion of equal rights, opportunities and recognition of everyone, with special attention to follow About The company became a signatory in 2015. Its principles are based on the Charter the Report of Principles of Social Responsibility, on the United Nations Convention against vulnerable groups subject to discrimination based on gender, race, color, physical Message from disability, sexual orientation, age, and religion. the President Corruption, on the 10th principle of the Global Compact, and on the guidelines of Industry Context the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Prevention of Mobbing and Sexual Harassment About Copel Eradication of Child, Forced or Bonded Labor Copel recognizes health and safety at the workplace as a fundamental human Governance and Sustainability In alignment with the principles of the Global Compact and the Sustainable right, valuing life and respecting physical and moral integrity of people, intended Governance Development Goals SDG, Copel commits to implement tools to bar hiring to create a gratifying and conducive work environment to generate productivity. Structure Performance products and services from suppliers who use child, forced or compulsory of Governance Bodies Respect for Free Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining labor in its value chain. In 2016, Copel joined the Network of Companies Integrity Practices for Education and Eradication of Child Labor, which reaffirms the Company’s Copel guarantees the principles of freedom of association, for individuals and Sustainability concern for the cause. collectively, pursuant to article 8 of the 1988 Constitution, and Convention No. 87, Management of the International Labor Organization ILO. Human Capital Sexual Exploitation of Children and Adolescents Intellectual Capital The Company promotes actions to raise awareness among employees, Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) Social and suppliers, and customers against the sexual exploitation of children and further Copel Corporate University (UniCopel) became, in 2014, the first of its kind in Brazil Relationship Capital disseminates its commitment in its Supplier Manual and through specific clauses to adhere to the PRME, a program by the United Nations that promotes training of Natural Capital in its agreements. leaders toward responsible management of businesses. Infrastructure Capital Fight against Discrimination and Valuation of Diversity Learn more about the commitments assumed on the Sustainability page – Financial Capital Voluntary Commitments. Social Audit The Company created the Permanent Committee on Diversity, whose goals GRI Content Index Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact 27 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Photo credit: Vanderlei Tacchio Performance in Capitals Copel has executive areas that cover the Company’s most important strategic fronts. In these areas, considered business capitals, Copel shows its capacity to create value for stakeholders in the short, medium, and long term. “Capitals are deposits of amounts that increase, reduce or transform through activities and products from the organization. For example, the financial capital of an organization increases when it generates profit, the quality of its human capital improves when employees receive better training.” IIRC Framework Human capital Intellectual capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital 28 This is Donizete Benedicto Barboza 06 . HUMAN CAPITAL Human Capital Profile // Performance Management // Professional Development // Health and Safety 29 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Human Capital 06. Human Capital About the Report Investment in human capital is one of Copel’s main strategic pillars. There are two businesses, collaboration, sharing, satisfaction, well-being, and work safety, as well Message from the President main challenges regarding Human Capital management at Copel, which guide as pioneering the use of blank spaces in the market and society. Industry Context their development strategies, remuneration, and employee assessment. The first is The idea is to allow all Copel employees to contribute to creating a management adjusting personnel costs, since it is a public and regulated concession, where the About Copel model capable of preparing people to perform their roles in an increasingly complex priority is tariff accessibility, resulting in a constant search for productivity, efficiency, scenario where new technologies arise and improve with great speed. Governance and Sustainability and operational excellence. Human Capital The second challenge is the search for more diversified projects using other sources of clean energy, for example, wind power generation and distributed generation, Human Capital Profile Human Capital Profile Performance which represent a constant need to develop its professionals, as well as generate and Management retain knowledge. Copel’s Workforce *New Hires in 2016 Professional G4-9, G4-10 G4-LA1 Development This vision of the future market guides strategies for the development, engagement, Health and Safety and assessment of employees, and is reflected in its policies for People Management Intellectual Capital and Occupational Health and Safety. Initiatives at Copel are always focused on 1,900 women 25 women Social and Relationship Capital enhancing both professional and personal development, improving knowledge Natural Capital management practices, and strengthening the Company’s innovation and safety culture, based on providing equal opportunities. 6,631 men 70 men Infrastructure Capital The Company believes that professional qualification and well-being of its employees Financial Capital is reflected in better results in terms of business growth. To this end, Copel traditionally Social Audit fulfills a benefits commitment that gives the company advantages in the market. GRI Content Index In addition to maintaining its competitive advantages in the market, and promoting 22% 26% Annex Incorporation of the Principles of a motivating climate in the workplace, Copel understands that modern forms of 8,531 95 the Global Compact management significantly contribute to maintaining its competitiveness. employees hires Accordingly, Copel launched Anima, an unprecedented initiative whose challenge is 78% 74% to build a new participatory management model, openly discussing its future with over 8,500 employees. Initially formed by eight projects, its main concepts are: involvement, proactivity, *Approximately half (49%) are less than 30 years old. The turnover rate was 1.7%. participatory leadership, greater synergy between the holding company and the 30 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Human Capital All Company employees are covered by a Collective Bargaining Agreements and have This structure aims to: contracts governed by the Consolidation of Labor Laws (CLT). G4-11 About ■ Identify the positions and roles required to perform the activities; the Report The Company bases its relationship with all its employees on the guidelines of ■ Define training required to perform the activities regarding each position Message from the President its policies for People, Health, and Safety Management, its Code of Conduct, and and role; the Copeliano Manual, in compliance with the Consolidation of Labor Laws (CLT), Industry Context the fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the ■ Establish the levels of maturity and complexity of each position and role About Copel Universal Declaration of Human Rights. required to meet the demand of each job position; Governance and Sustainability In addition to direct employees, the Company operates with 5,666 contractors. ■ Establish rules for the functional (vertical) and salary (horizontal) movement Human Capital These are contractors providing services such as: customer services, construction of employees; Human Capital Profile of transmission lines, networks and substations, connections, disconnections and ■ Demonstrate opportunities for career growth and development. Performance re-connections, reading low voltage meters, maintenance of electrical systems, Management green areas, and buildings, private security, and maintenance, among others. In 2016, the average annual remuneration adjustment of all employees was Professional Development 10.62%. The ratio between the percentage of increase in remuneration of the Health and Safety Respect Creates an Inclusive Culture highest paid individual and the percentage of increase in the average annual Intellectual Capital remuneration of all employees was 0.86. G4-55 Social and Copel was one of the first Brazilian companies to allow the use of the “social name” Relationship Capital a name chosen by employees who have adopted a different sexual identity on Natural Capital their ID badge. Relocation Program Infrastructure Capital Regarding gender equality at Copel, one in five employees is a woman. The ratio Valuing people, prioritizing internal mobility, and allowing employees to move is the same among managers, reflecting the seriousness with which the Company Financial Capital to other locations or areas of the company are the main objectives of the addresses issues related to equal conditions and the opportunities offered to Social Audit women in the workplace. In 2015, Copel was awarded the Pro-Equity Seal for Relocation Program launched by Copel. Reflecting the wishes of the employees GRI Content Index Gender and Race from the Federal Government for the second time, and in 2016, themselves, expressed through the Employee Opinion Survey (POE), the Annex Incorporation Copel was one of the 48 companies selected by the organizers of the WEPs Brazil initiative enables employees to become more active in managing their own of the Principles of the Global Compact Award Women’s Empowerment Principles. careers, collaborating toward personal and professional development. The program is intended to optimize the workforce by increasing gains Remuneration and Benefits in productivity, offering equal opportunities based on the principle of The Company’s career and remuneration structure establishes remuneration transparency in the decision-making process regarding internal movement of standards compatible with the market and the position, title, and level of the employee, according to training and qualification, enabling recognition for people. Since its launch in 2016, a total of 120 job openings have been made individual development. available internally. 31 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Human Capital Benefits G4-EC1 Copel offers a benefits package that goes beyond those required by law, and is in line The guiding principles for development of human capital are goals and objectives About the Report with those of the best companies in the market. It annually delivers to its employees derived from Copel’s strategic planning, as well as the need to develop the skills Message from the Benefit Balance BBC, which provides a comprehensive view of the benefits of each employee. These training and development initiatives ranges from basic the President offered by the Company, with stratified information regarding what each employee training, intended for certain roles, to graduate courses at specialization and Industry Context received in the previous year, in terms of salary, additional pay, allowances, profit doctorate levels. About Copel sharing, financial and non-financial benefits, as well as future benefits regarding the These actions are organized into corporate programs (education actions geared pension plan and the government’s severance fund (FGTS). Governance G4-LA2 toward the entire Company), qualification training (basic training to perform and Sustainability a given role), compulsory training (courses for certain activities), training Performance Management Human Capital for professional development and events (seminars, lectures, workshops, Human Capital Profile In 2016, Copel continued the Performance Management Program called Our congresses, etc.). Performance Energy. Improvements for each cycle are provided by the experiences of previous Corporate education actions (Integrity, Sustainability, Foreign Language Training, Management cycles and by performance management practices. In this way, we always seek Leadership, Preparation for the Future, Integration, among others) are coordinated Professional Development spot and assertive changes that do not modify the essence of the model, in order by the Corporate University (UniCopel). Basic training courses are aimed at to preserve its main characteristics and make it increasingly continuous and Health and Safety empowering the employee in a new activity. One highlight is the Distribution consolidated. An example of a change was including the calibration process that Electricians Training Program, in which the newly admitted employee receives Intellectual Capital minimized distortions and errors in the evaluations. The objective is to further adapt the initial training necessary for the proper performance of the function. Social and Relationship Capital the model to the Company’s market practices and needs. In 2016, all (100%) of the employees received their performance assessment. Through the Employee Opinion Natural Capital Survey (POE), which is carried out every two years, we verify that all employees Infrastructure Capital were subjected to the evaluation interview and whether it contributed to improving Good ideas, informal conversations, and suggestions for improvements in Financial Capital the people management process. G4-LA11 processes, from employees to senior management are the strengths of Chats Social Audit with the President. In 2016, ten meetings were held, including trips to other cities Professional Development in the state, and breakfast and lunch with employees and the President. In these GRI Content Index G4-DMA-EU14 two years of conversation, the program enabled the President to meet with about Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Investments in Human Capital in 2016 180 employees from the Copel units in Paraná, Mato Grosso, São Paulo, and Rio the Global Compact G4-LA9 Grande do Norte. ■ 2,242 events ■ 416,298 hours of training Short term ■ 34,488 participants ■ Average of 48.8 hours per employee Language Courses Long term Post Graduate Courses ■ 302 participants Employee Qualification and Training Programs In 2016, UniCopel focused on three fronts: Integrity, Sustainability, and Transformational In 2016, a total of BRL 8.75 million were invested in training and people development. Leadership. 32 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Human Capital Integrity Program: In 2016, several training courses were developed to raise awareness about the topic at various levels of the Company, also considering The Anima Program aims to implement actions that value the Company’s Human About the Report the target audience for each event. Examples of such modern approach include Capital, encouraging discussing ideas and points of view of different generations of employees in the creation of a participatory management model. In order to engage Message from training on general aspects of Anti-Corruption Law and Decree as well as the President Workshop on Integrity for all managers of Copel. The workshop included the employees, the Orange Blood (Sangue Laranja) was created a mote chosen to instill Industry Context topics of Anti-Corruption Law, Public Companies Law, and the role of corporate a sense of belonging among over 8,500 employees. About Copel integrity. The Code of Conduct training was also started. Governance Transformational Leadership Program: Structured in alignment with the and Sustainability Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME), a UN Global Other Forms of Training and Development Human Capital Compact initiative that fosters the education of leaders in charge of responsible G4-LA10 Human Capital Profile business management and the application of knowledge in daily management, Performance promoting alignment, integration, shared performance, and co-responsibility In addition to promoting its own training and qualification programs, the Company Management encourages training of its professionals through the following initiatives: Professional in the day-to-day activities of the company’s business leaders. Development Educational Aid: encourages employees to undertake postgraduate and other Initiated in October 2016, the program has already reached ca. 22% of the Health and Safety specialization courses, reimbursing 70% of school monthly tuition up to the limit 540 managers. The goal is that, by the end of 2017, all managers complete Intellectual Capital amount of BRL 840.46. To this end, by means of an hour bank, Copel employees are the training. For each module, trained managers must propose at least two Social and excused from part of the work hours provided the conditions of the curricular schedule Relationship Capital practical actions to be implemented with their teams. Through the initiative, the are justified and compatible with the employee’s career. In 2016, the program benefited company has invested not only in establishing the desired managerial profile, Natural Capital 1,064 employees, reimbursing a total of BRL 4.53 million. but in training its management team. The idea is that leaders are increasingly Infrastructure Capital able to support and leverage the potential of their teams. Foreign Language Training Program BABEL: established in 2012 and intended for Financial Capital employees who perform activities in which another language is required. In 2016, a total Anima Program: With the challenge of building a new participatory of 255 employees benefited from German, Spanish, and English courses. Social Audit management model in 2015, Anima launched an innovative program GRI Content Index sponsored by the presidency and permeated throughout the groups Postgraduate courses: promotes professional development in specific and strategic closest to the operations. Initially consisting of eight projects, aimed at subjects focusing on producing research, dissertations, theses, creating innovation, and Annex Incorporation of the Principles of intensifying the production and flow of ideas and action plans in all areas of improvements for the Company and the electricity sector. In 2016, ten employees began the Global Compact the Company, where each employee is encouraged to imagine alternatives postgraduate studies and in total, 47 participated in courses at lato sensu and stricto and solutions to aspects such as innovation, collaboration, proactivity, sensu levels, fully subsidized by the Company. leadership, synergy between the holding company and the businesses, Exchange Programs and Courses Abroad: employees also participate in events satisfaction, well-being, and work safety, as well as the pioneering spirit abroad to share experiences and disseminate projects and constantly research aspects of occupying blank spaces in the market and in society. By the end of associated with the business. Also part of these actions is qualification through short2016, a total of 75% of the employees were trained in the program and involved term courses, offered by national and international companies, guaranteeing quality of in their conceptions. content and the effective improvement of the professional staff. 33 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Human Capital Pre-retirement: The Company began a series of events to guide employees on The Individual Development Plan was Copel Telecomunicações’ way of retirement conditions, providing support in taking decision about post-career. preparing its professionals to meet the challenges of the business, identifying the About the Report skills required for their processes. Training for Contractors: Copel also offers training for contractors, provided that Message from the President included in the contract or in the interest of the Company. The Individual Plan is a tool to help managers cascade the strategic plan and Industry Context corresponding management commitments, in addition to contributing to the In 2016, the Second Workshop on Training for Environmental Programs was About Copel development of professionals by offering a comprehensive vision of their training held, to raise awareness among Copel’s service providers and the internal needs. Governance audience on social and environmental issues in compliance with environmental and Sustainability licensing requirements (preliminary, installation, and operation licenses) from the In line with the Company’s strategic objectives, in order to disseminate experiences Human Capital Environmental Institute of Paraná (IAP). and knowledge and to continuously improve its processes, Copel Geração e Human Capital Profile Transmissão, through the INOV+GeT and ETGET Programs, holds technical Performance Management meetings to promote knowledge sharing, integration, and dissemination of matters Measurement and Planning of Investments in Training Professional related to the operation and maintenance of transmission lines, substations, and Development Investments in employee training are planned based on the Company’s power plants, as well as matters related to management, environment, land, Health and Safety strategic objectives and on the process to assess the roles and activities of each finance, accounting, legal, and safety. Intellectual Capital professional. The focus of these investments is to maintain the availability of Social and skilled labor in the long term. G4-EU14 Relationship Capital Awards and Recognition in Professional Development Natural Capital Subsidiaries are responsible for managing goals and results related to investments The awards received reflect the result of a set of actions carried out by the Infrastructure in training, through tools such as Management Commitments and Critical Review Capital Company. Copel won the CIER (Regional Energy Integration Committee) Award for Meetings. These meetings seek to ensure the effectiveness of the actions in the Financial Capital the third time in the last four years, which distinguished it as the best Distributor in period, where follow-up indicators are presented and monitored with the help of Latin America. Social Audit the ERP-SAP system. GRI Content Index The Company also won the Transparency Trophy, granted by ANEFAC (National Copel Distribuição has a program in place called the Talent Bank that Annex Incorporation Association of Executives of Finance, Administration, and Accounting), recognizing of the Principles of allows the identification of employees with potential to take on a higher-level the Global Compact the quality of the accounting information provided to the market. The Company is leadership position. the only state-owned company among the five companies in the electricity sector To this end, criteria such as performance, potential, maturity, and time until awarded in the 20th edition. retirement are analyzed. The talents Identified take part in specific processes to leverage development, among them, mentoring and coaching processes are For the third time, Copel Distribuição won the National Electricians Rodeo, highlighted, due to the empowering nature of performance and maturity. In 2016, focused on perfection in executing daily tasks carried out by electricians, focusing a total of 250 potential leaders took part in the Talent Bank and may fill openings on technical expertise, safety, and agility. such as division managers, department managers, or superintendents. 34 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Human Capital Health and Safety G4-LA6 compliance with legal requirements by contractors is monitored through the PPV. Given the high employee turnover rate among contractors, and the characteristics of the About the Report Health and Safety Performance Indicators agreements, there is no specific manner to determine the percentage of contractors Message from Category 2015 2016 the President trained; however, the company adopts as a rule to provide onboarding training on DIS GET HOL DIS GET CTE** HOL* Industry Context Employees safety to all contractors. Fatalities 0 1 0 0 0 0 About Copel Participation in the Electricians Rodeo: in order to promote the culture of work safety Contractors 4 2 0 0 0 0 Governance and development in performing as electricians, Copel encourages participation in the and Sustainability Absenteeism rate Employees 2.48 1.36 4.68 2.80 1.08 1.16 1.48 Electricians Rodeo, which consists of joining teams of electricians and technicians from Human Capital Employees 5.92 4.01 1.42 5.95 3.26 0.88 0 all regions of the state, on an internal phase, and teams of electricians from different Lost Time Injury Human Capital Profile Frequency Rate Contractors 5.59 11.41 0 3.74 5.70 1.47 4.63 electricity utilities around the country that compete among themselves, on a national Performance Management Employees 185 2,468 1.42 207 21 0 phase, where the competition activities are based on following safety standards, acting Severity Index Professional Contractors 3,181 3,338 0 349 231 138.89 with expertise, and having differentiated skills. It is an entertaining way of valuing Development electricians, encouraging integration, improving attention to work safety, and sharing Health and Safety * The numbers for the Holding Company include the subsidiaries Renováveis e Comercialização, and are consolidated until November 2016; the frequency and severity rates were not assured. experiences and knowledge. In the 2010 and 2014 editions, Copel Distribuição was Intellectual Capital ** The absenteeism rate of Copel Telecomunicações was not assured. champion of the national rodeo and in 2012 came in second place. In the 2016 edition, Social and Since it develops activities associated with risk factors, the Company has in place an Relationship Capital Copel Distribução’s teams took the top three places on the podium. Occupational Safety Policy. The area of Occupational Health and Safety Management Natural Capital (OHSM) at the Company is responsible for identifying these risks and defining preventive Training and integration: all field activities are conducted by contractors who Infrastructure Capital actions allowing for tasks to be completed safely. have participated in the Occupational Health and Safety Onboarding, and in the Financial Capital exhibit about Risk Assessment carried out for the activities in question. Control of the Training and qualification: programs such as Training of Field Inspectors, and Training Social Audit for the Use of Preliminary Risk Assessment, are offered to employees. These courses minimum mandatory training for working with electricity is conducted through GRI Content Index aim to establish active prevention in order to identify and prevent occupational diseases a proprietary application that contains information about employees of contractors Annex Incorporation and accidents. and of the agreements. of the Principles of the Global Compact Promotion of health: Copel has in place an occupational health service that offers The Company provides a specific Health and Safety Manual for contractors, whose employees, through the Copel Foundation, a health plan to conduct diagnostic exams content is included in all services agreements. Outsourced companies are contractually for diseases that can affect capacity and productivity at work. obligated to apply the guidelines described in the Guidelines for Occupational Safety Preserving Life Program (PPV): establishes field inspection of the technical and safety and Health for Contracted Companies (available online), to achieve and demonstrate procedures during the execution of activities, pursuant to standards of the OHSM area, satisfactory performance regarding safety and health of their employees. In addition, where a technician from the occupational safety area, or from departments, monitors Copel conducts onboarding lectures with each new hire, complementing the actions the teams and issues reports with scores for faults encountered. At Copel Distribuição, encouraging safe work. 35 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report This is Cleusa Maria Pereira 07 . INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Research, Development, and Innovation // Brand // Website and Presence on Social Networks 36 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Intellectual Capital 07. Intellectual Capital About the Report Research, Development and Innovation the Company authorizes employees participating in R&D+I projects to work overtime up Message from the President G4-EU8 to the limit of 20 hours per month in order to carry out activities related to the project. Industry Context The R&D Award by Copel Distribuição and Copel Geração e Transmissão, for the Copel is recognized as one of the companies in the electricity sector that invests About Copel projects with the highest potential for business value, aims to foster participation in the most in technology. The increasing rate of investments is a strategy to ensure Governance that the company stands out as one of the most modern. proposing innovative projects aligned with strategic planning. This initiative offers and Sustainability opportunities and aims to encourage employees to become researchers along with Human Capital The impacts of innovation are evident as the Company contributes to increased academic training. Intellectual Capital productivity, improved process execution, and quality of products and services. Research, Innovation leads to differentiation in the Company’s business and consequently Copel invests in partner institutions in order to promote the technological evolution Development and Innovation enables greater competitiveness and consolidation of activities, strategically of laboratory facilities, academic research, and foster masters and doctorate degrees Brand necessary for its sustained growth. in fields that are relevant to the electricity sector. This ends up reflecting on social Website and Presence Management of Innovation Projects development, benefits, and improving quality of life for society. on Social Networks Social and Since 2015, Copel has had in place an Innovation Coordination that reports In 2016, the Company’s contributions in this area were: Relationship Capital directly to the Presidency, whose objective is to establish Research, Development, Natural Capital Copel Geração e Transmissão invested BRL 15.3 million in 28 R&D projects. Four and Innovation (R&D+I) policies, in order to coordinate the projects of the Holding Infrastructure projects are strategic, with aspects established by ANEEL, and nine projects are Capital Company, to monitor those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and coordinate conducted in cooperation with other companies in the sector. More than BRL 436,000 Financial Capital special projects demanded by the CEO. There are currently 22 employees working was invested in management of these R&D projects. exclusively in the areas of R&D and Innovation, which managed investments Social Audit of around 0.37% of net revenue dedicated to project management and Investments in innovation are part of a new model adopted to subsidize planning and GRI Content Index investments in innovation. programming of generation in hydroelectric plants. Efforts have already recorded a Annex Incorporation of the Principles of gain of 8.6% in energy production, which corresponds to additional revenue of BRL the Global Compact Investments in R&D 13 million in the second half of 2016. Theoretical studies show that gains from this shift G4-DMAEU8 in paradigm may reach a 20 % increase in generation, and revenue increase of BRL 30 million per year. Copel’s R&D+I program has already earmarked BRL 263 million for innovation projects. Currently, there are 55 projects in progress, totaling approximately BRL 159 million in Copel Distribuição invested BRL 17.7 million in 31 projects, three of which are strategic new investments. projects, with aspects established by ANEEL, and six projects conducted in cooperation with other companies in the electricity sector. Copel encourages the development of innovation projects, supporting internal teams and in partnership with universities and other centers of academic research. To this end, The breakdown of investments can be found in the Content Index. 37 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Intellectual Capital Results of Investments plants, the tunnel connecting the reservoirs of the Governador Ney Braga Plant and the Foz do Jordão Plant, machine operating points, and the uncertainty About In 2016 the following results can be highlighted: the Report regarding the flow of the reservoir tributaries. These variables, when included Message from the President Development of the Integrated Energy Market Forecasting System (Sistema in the scientific analysis made using the mathematical model, result in more de Previsão Integrada de Mercado de Energia SPIN), a computer system that Industry Context refined operational decisions capable of optimizing the combined operation of integrates several projections of energy and demand for forecasting studies, all plants. In the second half of 2016, the use of the model recorded an 8.6% About Copel assisting in decision-making of energy auctions, planning and expansion of the gain in energy production, which corresponds to additional revenue of BRL 13 Governance and Sustainability electricity distribution system, and in the relationship with government agencies million. Theoretical studies show that gains from this shift in paradigm may Human Capital (ONS, EPE), creating more assertive forecasts. The system is composed of reach a 20% increase in generation and increase in revenue of close to BRL 30 Intellectual Capital management modules for measurement, geoprocessing, and billing data, and million per year. Research, global forecasts of energy and demand (short term), busbar systems (medium Development and Innovation Another 15 patent applications have been filed with the National Institute term) and georeferencing. Brand of Industrial Property (INPI) for products developed under the Research, Website and Presence Development, and Innovation R&D+I Program. on Social Networks Social and Copel Distribuição files first product patent R&D+I Projects under Development Relationship Capital Another highlight of 2016 was the launch of the Gera Rural Program, which aims Natural Capital In 2016, Copel Distribuição field a product patent, developed in the Research, Development, and Innovation R&D+I program. It is a voltage-sensing helmet to mobilize public and private institutions in the production of renewable energy Infrastructure Capital designed to increase safety of electricians in field work. The equipment detects on the rural properties of Paraná, grouping them into self-sufficient systems Financial Capital electric fields and emits an intermittent audible alert when the electrician enters and energy exporters. Autonomous generation brings clear environmental and the so-called hazardous area less than 60 cm away from the energized areas, Social Audit economic advantages. For the electricity system, gains are a result of diversifying for 13,800 volts, and 1 meter networks, for 34,500 volts. The prospect is that the GRI Content Index helmet will become standard equipment for all Company electricians, and the first sources, and by mapping the generation potentials in the State, producers will Annex Incorporation batch of 500 helmets was manufactured for use in 2017. form microgrids that, once integrated, will guarantee a continuous supply of of the Principles of the Global Compact energy for the whole system. Gera Rural began as a Copel R&D project initiated in 2015, which is implementing The planning model and generation schedule in hydroelectric plants biodigesters on pig farm properties, and channeling the biogas from manure to presents the best alternatives for Copel Geração e Transmissão to generate more a thermoelectric micro-plant in the municipality of Entre Rios do Oeste. energy in order to contribute to the performance of the National Interconnected System. This is only possible because the calculation began including several The program includes close relations with state and federal universities in order details from the generating park, such as the flooding of the spillways at some to align research projects and the installation of solar panels in schools in five 38 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Intellectual Capital macro regions in the State of Paraná, teaching new generations about distributed energy consumers, we want to build consistent relationships with conscious, generation and the importance of clean energy. informed citizens about our products and services. About the Report In this spirit of integration, Copel proposed the formation of the “Energy of the The daily service calls, during business hours on the Twitter and Facebook Message from the President Future” forum, in order to integrate the Company with universities and research, networks, with 100% response in up to three minutes, more practical than Industry Context development, and innovation organizations operating in Paraná, within the concept travelling to one of our on-site service units or e-mail. We maintain two dedicated About Copel of open innovation and collaboration, aiming to boost energy innovation actions. teams informed about everything involving our brand, services, and operation Governance in the 10 states where we operate. Information and services are also available and Sustainability Brand on our website, which in 2016 recorded 27,936,277 visits to the Virtual Agency, Human Capital where the most requested service was a second copy of the energy bill, which Intellectual Capital Copel participates in the lives of 11 million people in the state of Paraná. With was 7,301,840, or 11% of the visits to the website. Research, electricity or Internet services, we are the Company that connects people to the Development For 2017, we renewed our series of inspiring videos, “Atreva-se a Mudar seu Mundo” and Innovation world and to the comfort provided by electricity. More than a solid and reliable (“Dare to Change Your World,”) which tell a bit about the lives of our employees Brand logo present in the daily lives of three generations, today Copel is a symbol of an engaged in volunteer work, people who do more than their day job at Copel. Website and Presence efficient, modern, innovative company, always ahead of its time. on Social Networks Social and At home, at work, at school, in the industry, on the market, or in the field, we Relationship Capital provide important services that are strengthened by transforming consumption Natural Capital habits, means of production, and social relations. We adapt and prepare to Infrastructure Capital understand and meet the needs of our customers today and of future generations. Financial Capital That is why our presence on social networks is strengthened each year as another Social Audit means of serving our four and a half million consumers. Information, guidance, GRI Content Index and problem solving quickly become possible in the palm of the hand, at a click. We also communicate the risks of using electricity and the caution required for Annex Incorporation of the Principles of working with it. The benefit of our product lies in customer satisfaction, and the the Global Compact recognition of Copel as one of the best Companies in Brazil and Latin America, in the opinion of the consumers themselves (CIER and Abradee Awards). Website and Presence on Social Networks We have diversified our channels, expanded our presence, and today we are on This is Rakelly Schacht social networks: YouTube, Vimeo, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Instagram. We talk with, guide, and serve our consumers through social networks. More than 39 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report This is Thais Handar R. da Silva 08 . SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Customers and Consumers // Supplier Management // Local Communities // Indigenous Communities Education for Sustainability // Social Investments through Fiscal Incentives // Social Initiatives 40 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social and Relationship Capital 08. Social and Relationship Capital About the Report Copel believes that the continuity of its business model depends on ongoing satisfaction survey and grants the winning company the ISQP award (Satisfaction Message from dialogue with the various stakeholders: shareholders, consumers, employees, the President Index for Perceived Quality). This indicator is calculated based on a questionnaire suppliers, the government, and communities. The Company considers a quality, of approximately 100 questions, through which over 2,000 consumers from Paraná Industry Context transparent relationship with all these groups to be a competitive differentiator. About Copel assessed the Company. The survey is conducted with nearly fifty distributors from across the country. Governance For this reason, Copel maintains a working group dedicated to having in place and Sustainability a structured relationship policy, governed by constant planning and activities, Abradee also awarded Copel as the best distributor in the Southern Region, Human Capital with the purpose of guaranteeing levels of excellence in the relationship of according to customer assessment – the award was announced a day after Copel Intellectual Capital these groups with the Company. reduced its residential rate by 14.3%. Social and Relationship Capital In addition to the competition organized by Abradee, Copel conducts research with Customers and Consumers Customers rural customers every four years and with government customers in the first and and Consumers Customer Satisfaction Management last year of each mayor in office. Suppliers Management G4-EU3 Local Communities The satisfaction indicator is also monitored through the annual survey conducted Indigenous Communities by the National Electricity Agency (ANEEL), focusing on residential customers. Copel Distribuição’s customer profile Dec/2014 Dec/2015 Dec/2016 Education for Sustainability Residential 3,437,030 3,527,126 3,597,105 Customer Satisfaction Index Distribuição (%) 2014 2015 2016 Social Investments throught Fiscal Industrial 91,068 88,276 82,021 Low voltage Incentives Measured by Abradee, it evaluates residential 89.3 88.6 88.8 ISQP customer perception of electricity Social Initiatives Commercial 369,205 376,959 382,121 Satisfaction distributors in five aspects: energy Low voltage Index for 85.6 86.5 84.8 Natural Capital supply, information and communication, nonresidential Rural 372,464 368,297 360,066 Perceived electricity bill, customer service, and Quality image Infrastructure High voltage 86.3 78.6 85.9 Capital Other (government, public lighting, public 57,203 57,404 57,454 service, company’s own) Financial Capital IASC Measured based on a survey by ANEEL, conducted since Total Number of customers 4,326,970 4,418,062 4,478,767 Consumer 2000, among residential consumers, in order to evaluate the Social Audit 75.2 60.3 73.1 Satisfaction level of residential consumer satisfaction with the services Index provided by electric power distributors. GRI Content Index Annex Incorporation Copel Distribuição Rural Customer The survey is conducted every four years*, by sending of the Principles of G4-PR5 questionnaires to all 400,000 rural clients, along with the * 77.9 * the Global Compact Satisfaction Survey rural schedule for automatic meter reading. In 2016, Copel was recognized for the third consecutive time as the best distributor Government The survey is carried out with the mayors of the municipalities, in the country according to customer assessment. This recognition comes from Satisfaction * * 80.4 during their first and last year in office. the Abradee (Brazilian Association of Electric Power Distributors) customer Survey *Surveys were not conducted in these years. 41 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social and Relationship Capital Copel Telecomunicações G4-PR5 About Copel Telecomunicações has conducted regular opinion surveys since 2008. the Report Starting in 2015, the Company began to adopt the same data collection instrument Message from Compensation for consumers the President used by ANATEL, making it possible to compare the results of the Company’s Industry Context quality indicators with those of other companies in the sector. In case of disturbances in the electrical system that resulted in damage to equipment, assets, products, animals and people, Copel ensures the right to compensation. About Copel In 2016, the level of overall customer satisfaction with the quality of multimedia Procedures and term for compensation claims are predefined. Consumers are Governance communication services remained high (80.1%), despite oscillations compared with and Sustainability reimbursed after power failure has been confirmed. the previous year (81.3%). Human Capital Intellectual Capital Complaint Management Social and G4-SO11 Relationship Capital Another initiative to achieve quality services is the annual survey of Satisfaction of Copel Distribuição Complaining Customers, which measures ease of contact, clarity of the information Customers and Consumers provided, friendly service, observance of the term to respond, and the meeting of Suppliers Management Using two indicators, Copel Distribuição assesses the quality of products expectations in terms of the response to the complaint. Local Communities and services according to consumer perception: the Equivalent Frequency of Indigenous Communities Complaints indicator (FER) quantifies valid complaints in relation to the number Copel Telecomunicações Education for of consumers, and the Equivalent Complaint Duration indicator (DER) shows the Sustainability average time it takes the utility to respond to complaints. Copel Telecomunicações provides the Ombudsman’s Office as a customer Social Investments throught Fiscal channel, responsible for managing and following up on suggestions, complaints, Incentives and reports received directly by the Company or through the Ombudsman Social Initiatives Complaint Management at Copel Distribuição 2014 2015 2016 channels of the regulatory agency, ANATEL. The statements recorded on the Natural Capital Registered and processed grievances and complaints 11,077 17,592 20,668 National Consumer Department (SENACON) platform of the Ministry of Justice Infrastructure Capital Registered and resolved grievances and complaints 10,833 17,835 20,668 are also handled, in addition to those that arrive through PROCON (Consumer Financial Capital Protection Department) and the State Ombudsman. Equivalent Frequency of Complaints (FER) 7.64 7.21 6.77 Social Audit Equivalent Complaint Duration (DER) 120.82 126.89 116.94 The Ombudsman’s goal is to respond to complaints within 10 business days. GRI Content Index To this end, deadlines are monitored daily. In 2016, the difference between the Annex Incorporation of the Principles of number of complaints recorded and complaints resolved was only 40 complaints the Global Compact Copel also monitors the quality of service channels and the standard to receive and address complaints (1st Level). At the end of 2016, the Ombudsman’s in relation to the total number processed. As a result, most of the complaints Office began to work to secure ISO 9001 certification, expected to be completed that would have been escalated to external entities such as PROCON, SENACON, at the end of 2017. or even ANATEL, were resolved by the Company itself. 42 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social and Relationship Capital Business Performance of the Telecom Business 2014 2015 2016 295,000 consumer units with regular benefits were served, representing 8.4% of the total households served by Copel Distribuição. About Registered and processed grievances and complaints 576 1,178 4,474 the Report The Fraternal Light Program (Programa Luz Fraterna), of the state of Paraná Message from Registered and resolved grievances and complaints 560 1,171 4,434 the President pays the bills for consumers registered in the TSEE, provided consumption does Equivalent Frequency of Complaints (FER) 0 3.1 5.4 not exceed 120 kWh in an initiative that represents a positive financial impact to Industry Context low-income consumers, who are exempt from electricity expenses. In 2016, the About Copel Equivalent Complaint Duration (DER) 11.1 4.4 8.3 state government invested in the program ca. BRL 40.5 million, benefiting an Governance and Sustainability The increase in the absolute volume of complaints in the Ombudsman’s Office average of 156,000 families per month. Human Capital of Copel Telecomunicações, from 2015 to 2016, may be explained in part by the The Nighttime Irrigation Rate and Nighttime Rural Rate programs encourage Intellectual Capital significant increase in the customer base, requiring constant adjustments in the increase of agricultural productivity with a discount of 60% to 70% in the Social and the internal processes linked to service, service activation, and maintenance. rate for electricity used between 9:30 PM and 6:00 AM. In 2016, a total of 3,026 Relationship Capital Another contributing factor was greater availability for access both in the farmers benefited from the Nighttime Irrigation Rate and 8,828 rural consumers Customers and Consumers Customer Service Center and in the Ombudsman’s Office, areas that had their benefited from the Nighttime Rural Rate Program. Suppliers Management structures expanded and disseminated with greater emphasis among the Local Communities various stakeholders. Efficient Use of Energy Indigenous Communities Use of Energy G4-DMA-EU7 Education for Sustainability G4-EC8, G4-EU23, G4-DMA-EU7 Copel annually promotes actions toward conscious consumption of electricity, Social Investments throught Fiscal Affordable Energy which include energy efficiency, safety, and health of the population. Efficiency is Incentives The energy rate has a direct impact upon the economy of consumers, regardless a permanent target of the campaigns, such as: empowering citizens (adults and Social Initiatives their social status. This effect may be negative for the low-income population, children), and encouraging the use of more efficient equipment in all sectors. Natural Capital which makes it necessary to adopt differentiated rates so that the financial Infrastructure Copel makes public calls for energy efficiency projects, open to all industrial Capital impact becomes positive, directly or indirectly. consumers, residential consumers (including housing complexes), commerce Financial Capital This understanding is the driving force behind the movement that leads Copel and services, public authorities, rural services, and public services (including Social Audit to play its social role in partnership with the Federal, State, and Municipal public lighting). In 2016, a total of BRL 16 million was made available, and 38 GRI Content Index governments. To this end, the Company promotes several programs to make projects were received, which are being evaluated and selected. Annex Incorporation energy affordable for all. of the Principles of The Energy Efficiency Program promotes efficiency in the final use of electricity the Global Compact This is the case of the Social Rate for Electric Power (TSEE), which offers discounts for consumption of electricity up to a limit of 220 kWh to families and applies Company resources towards this purpose. The main mechanism of registered in the Federal Government’s Social Program Registry, as long as the the PEE is the Copel in the Community project, which develops actions for lowprovisions set forth in ANEEL Resolution 414/2010 are met. In 2016, a total of income consumers, benefited by TSEE. Lectures are given on safe and efficient 43 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social and Relationship Capital consumption, energy diagnostics, and replacing equipment with other more Our Suppliers G4-12 economical equipment. In 2016, the Copel in the Community project held 500 About the Report lectures, 39,000 energy diagnostics, and replaced 118,000 incandescent light Message from bulbs with compact fluorescent and LED lights. For 2017, the replacement of ■ Generators and traders of electricity the President Companies that make projects, provide 5,000 refrigerators with new ones with the Procel energy saving seal is planned. ■ Suppliers of materials and equipment Industry Context consulting services and work in power plant and transmission line projects. ■ Services providers These actions seek to engage the community in the concession area in conserving About Copel natural resources, especially energy. Governance and Sustainability Human Capital Supplier Management Intellectual Capital G4-12 Social and Relationship Capital G4-EC9 Expenditure for Local Operation Suppliers Suppliers 3 % GENERATION TRANSMISSION DISTRIBUTION CONSUMER Customers and Consumers Distribution 1,179,686.66 740,549.28 62.78% Suppliers Management Local Communities Generation and Transmission 596,712.59 554,111.47 92.86% Indigenous Communities Holding 69,770.29 56,270.64 80.7% Suppliers of fiber optic network equipment and materials. Education for Sustainability Telecommunications 349,278.36 149,565.97 42.82% TELECOM Social Investments Total 2,195,447.89 1,500,497.36 68.35% throught Fiscal Incentives Social Initiatives 3 Copel Holding, Copel Distribuição and Copel Telecomunicações consider the suppliers of the State of Paraná to be Qualification, Selection, Contracting, and Monitoring Natural Capital local. Copel Geração e Transmissão considers the suppliers of the states where it operates as local, in this case, São G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-HR1, G4-HR10, G4-SO9, G4-SO10 Paulo, Paraná, and Mato Grosso. Infrastructure Copel requires compliance with labor and tax laws in bidding documents, Capital For Copel, suppliers are an important link of the value chain, representing a contractual clauses, supplier registration manuals, and standards and technical Financial Capital strategic audience that is carefully considered in a sustainable management manuals that are permanently available online. Social Audit model, in line with corporate policies and focusing on improving the relationship GRI Content Index Issues related to social and environmental aspects, and human and labor between the parties. The permanent challenge is to mobilize and engage this Annex Incorporation rights, are addressed by Copel during the onboarding process, conducted with of the Principles of chain in the ideals and values shared among them. the Global Compact each new supplier. They are also included in specific clauses in contracts for As a result of the work carried out in 2016, the Management Committee for the acquisition of construction work and services. Noncompliance generates Sustainability of Copel’s Supply Chain is updating the Supplier Manual that suspension of the agreement and inability to participate in the Company’s new guides suppliers regarding the Company’s policies and guidelines. bidding processes for a period of two years. 44 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social and Relationship Capital Critical Suppliers About Copel considers critical suppliers those whose supply poses a significant risk to the Copel is also aware of the positive effects of the infrastructure of its projects in the Report company’s business. In order to minimize potential risks from supplying products surrounding communities. This infrastructure favors the appearance or expansion Message from the President and services, and also better protect the business, the Company classifies its of industrial and regional business centers, and consequently expands the supply Industry Context supply chain according to the supplier’s level of criticality. of jobs and taxes, resulting in benefits and services for the population. About Copel Copel considers suppliers to be critical when their supplies represent a Guided by the need to dialogue and serve several audiences, Copel works toward Governance and Sustainability significant risk for the business in terms of the following aspects: legal, financial, an efficient relationship with the communities in which this dynamic occurs. Thus, the Company seeks to improve the dialogue channels in the cities impacted by its Human Capital environmental, occupational health and safety, safety of the population, image of operations. Intellectual Capital the company, perception by client and society, and the processes involved. Social and The first social and environmental impact assessment is conducted by Relationship Capital In the methodology, critical supplies are those considered the “main supplies,” Copel’s Business Development Office (DDN), in the analysis phase of business Customers and those that stand out from the others due to their high criticality when and Consumers opportunities. If the business is of interest to the Company, the DDN carries out the evaluated for their social, economic, and environmental importance, as well as Suppliers Management approval with the Executive Board and the Board of Directors (CAD), responsible Local Communities their comprehensiveness in the business. for approving the strategic decisions related to new investments. Indigenous Communities In 2016, the evaluation and identification cycle of critical suppliers occurred for the Detailed assessments of impact upon communities are conducted in studies Education for Sustainability subsidiaries Copel Geração e Transmissão and Copel Telecomunicações, and the prepared during the environmental licensing of each project. It is at this stage Social Investments Technical Report was prepared with the methodology and identification of their that the impacts are measured according to the characteristics of the location throught Fiscal Incentives Critical Suppliers. For the Holding Company, identification of critical suppliers is and project. From there, through the implementation of environmental programs, Social Initiatives expected to be completed in 2017. negative impacts are mitigated and the positive ones are strengthened. All this Natural Capital takes place in conjunction with the dialogue with neighboring communities, the Infrastructure government, and local leaderships. Capital Local Communities Financial Capital G4-EC8 Whenever cases of displacement are evaluated through a Social and Social Audit Economic Registry and a situation of social vulnerability is identified, Copel Management of impacts GRI Content Index provides a family resettlement process and social compensation for damages Annex Incorporation The social and economic impacts of Copel’s activities have different orders of for the installation of projects. Social Compensation consists in enabling of the Principles of the Global Compact magnitudes and vary according to the characteristics of each project and location. the affected family to be relocated to an area that is similar or better than For this reason, the Company follows the Sustainability Policy and the Code of the previous area, and to recover the economic status they had prior to the Conduct, whose principles of corporate governance include commitments made project. Additionally, properties undergoing condemnation are compensated. under the UN Global Compact. In 2016, two families were relocated, totaling four people. G4-EU20, G4-EU22 45 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social and Relationship Capital Colíder HPP Araraquara – Taubaté Transmission Lines The Colíder Hydroelectric Power Plant, which is in the final phase of implementation About Installation of transmission lines has impacts on the communities where Copel the Report in Northern Mato Grosso, has in place 32 social and environmental programs. The operates. Properties and residents are affected by the loss of land and production, Message from the President actions aim to avoid risks, and mitigate and compensate for the changes that may resulting from the creation of right of ways, as well as the modifications in the Industry Context occur in the social and natural environments of the region affected by the work. natural landscape of the location. About Copel Governance Copel provides a website for the community to have access to all reports produced To this end, Copel carries out a series of initiatives to mitigate these impacts. This and Sustainability by the mitigation programs. The website offers information regarding the project, occurs through compensatory remuneration for the owners for their losses, as well Human Capital and provides a communication channel open to the community. G4-SO2 as the adoption of a series of proactive programs and actions associated with the Intellectual Capital compliance and conditions established in environmental licensing. Social and Relationship Capital Customers Program for Fostering and Monitoring Sustainable Among the initiatives, the programs that stand out are Social Communication; and Consumers Local Production Arrangements Social Interaction or Relationship with the Community; Environmental Education Suppliers Management for Communities; The Local Production Arrangement, Tourism Strengthening; and Local Communities The Program for Fostering and Monitoring of Sustainable Local Production Indigenous Communities Arrangements developed by Copel is one of the measures to compensate for The Free Line, to meet demands in occupations for housing or economic purposes Education for the installation of the Colíder Hydroelectric Power Plant and is described in the under the transmission lines. Sustainability company’s Basic Environmental Project. Social Investments throught Fiscal Copel is currently installing the 500 kV Araraquara Taubaté transmission line, 356 Incentives Investments in the municipalities totaled more than BRL 5 million. You can view km long, in 28 municipalities of the State of São Paulo. The Company implemented Social Initiatives this contribution on Copel’s website. Transfer of resources is part of the support the Social Compensation Program with the purpose of compensating for the loss Natural Capital program for the activities of family farmers residing in the municipalities in the Infrastructure plant’s area of influence. The initiative enables, for example, about 100 properties of economic activities suffered by the communities, due to the right of way for the Capital in the cities of Colíder, Itaúba, Nova Canaã do Norte, and Cláudia to receive monthly transmission line. Financial Capital technical visits from agronomists. The professionals in the field teach residents Social Audit about sustainable agriculture primarily organic, aiming to ensure qualified food Copel provides professionals in social and land management issues to enable GRI Content Index production and better living conditions for families. proper and dignified relocation, in agreement with those affected. Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Rural technical assistance is strengthened by other Copel initiatives, such as the Global Compact To this end, regular visits are carried out to the communities affected and a training workshops on management processes, processing and marketing family farming products, in order to improve the conditions for including farmers in the transparent communication channel is established. local production chain. Additional programs intended for local communities are ongoing. 46 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social and Relationship Capital The program called Programa de Educação Patrimonial has been in place since Dialogue with Communities 2014, through a contracted company (Fundação Aroeira). The target audience for About the Report the activities includes the local community directly affected by the installation Copel values a good relationship and permanent dialogue with the communities Message from of the projects, teachers at schools in the region, and construction workers the President around its administrative buildings and projects. To this end, the Company is at operational and management level. The program addresses issues such as Industry Context structuring a specific program for engaging with the surrounding community. education on citizenship, valuing cultural identity, preserving heritage, educating About Copel The initiative began with mapping communities within a radius of up to 2 km multiplier agents, and disseminating scientific research. The methodology used from Copel’s buildings in the south-central region of Paraná. The objective is seeks to instill in the community with the interest in knowing and understanding its Governance and Sustainability to improve the relationship with these communities and minimize the possible identity, history, and culture. Human Capital negative impacts caused by the activities carried out in the area. The survey has Intellectual Capital already enabled the development of engagement actions, through a visit to four Investments in local development Social and institutions in the communities. The meetings were held to identify possible Relationship Capital In 2016, Copel invested in infrastructure and services to generate benefits actions and partnerships to be developed in 2017, through groups of volunteers. in the communities where it operates. These investments totaled BRL 662.75 Customers and Consumers million. G4-EC7 Suppliers Management Distribution Networks Copel’s investments in infrastructure and services provide better living conditions Local Communities G4-SO1, G4-EU22 for the population, economic development in the regions and, consequently, Indigenous Communities Distribution projects do not cause human displacement. Particularly in employment and income generation for families, the State, and Municipalities. Education for Sustainability High Voltage Distribution Lines projects (LDAT), there is compensation for Taking into account the legal requirements for licensing the projects, the Company Social Investments implementing the right of ways for the Line. This measure does take ownership always seeks the most effective way to respond to the wishes of the local throught Fiscal communities in the municipalities where it operates. Incentives from land owners, but establishes some restrictions for its use and, for Social Initiatives that reason, results in compensation. In 2016, a total of 580 people were As part of the Distribution Development Plan (PDD), in 2016, Copel Distribuição Natural Capital compensated. G4-EU22 invested BRL662 million in ensuring that the demands of electricity consumers Infrastructure are met, and in contributing to the improvement of the quality and reliability of Capital As part of the implementation processes of new projects, Copel conducts an the electrical system. Additional PDD resources were invested in various social Financial Capital awareness program with the contractors (third parties) who will carry out the works interest programs, including rural electrification, housing, projects for isolated and also the Community Relations Program with the surrounding community, communities, and settlements. Social Audit where explanations are given about the work to be carried out, caution concerning GRI Content Index the works, and the benefits they will bring to the community. In 2016, the Company In addition, Copel Geração e Transmissão contributed about BRL 750,000 in the Annex Incorporation state of Mato Grosso, where the Colíder HPP is located, as part of the Action Plan of the Principles of carried out engagement programs with communities in all 25 operations carried the Global Compact out throughout the year 4. for Malaria Control (PACM). Ambulances, vans, computer equipment, instruments, 4 To establish the number of operations that implemented community engagement programs, the projects served by the Community Relations Program and the Equity Education Program were included. 47 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social and Relationship Capital and laboratory materials were donated, as well as inputs and entomology by social institutions and suppliers working in communities close to their equipment. In addition, the local infrastructure has gained the headquarters of the projects. The trophy is presented annually on International Volunteer Day, About the Report Colíder Tutelary Council, a landfill in Nova Canaã, and the Colíder Municipal Park celebrated on December 5. Message from was revitalized. the President Industry Context Indigenous Communities EletriCidadania Volunteer Program About Copel Governance In order to arrive at the Indigenous communities located in the environmental On Volunteer Day, Copel pays homage to employees who volunteered throughout and Sustainability conservation units or other areas where the implementation of a power distribution the year. The awards are given under the EletriCidadania Program and the winners Human Capital network is not viable, Copel developed projects that involve new power connections, of the 2016 edition received trophies with prominent inscriptions about the four Intellectual Capital efficient use of electricity, installation of solar panels in villages located on the prerogatives of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), established by the UN, Social and coast, and new power connections for communities in the state. Relationship Capital that were reached through their volunteer activities. On that occasion, Copel also Customers launched a new portal for the EletriCidadania Program. and Consumers In 2016, a total of 819 consumer units of Indigenous people were included in the Suppliers Management Social Electricity Rate Low Income. For the beginning of 2017, a major operation is Local Communities scheduled for the villages of Aldeia Apucaraninha, for inspections of connections Indigenous Communities in consumer units, commercial registration and guidelines regarding the safe and In 2016, the Amigas da Mama Association was the winner of the Social Institutions Education for conscious use of energy and rate benefits. award, with the project Ação Feliz e Responsabilidade Social (Happy Action and Sustainability Social Responsibility), which promotes assistance and encourages women facing Education for Sustainability Social Investments throught Fiscal breast cancer to share their experiences. In second place was the Associação Incentives In 2016, the Copel Sustainability Seminar was reformulated and extended to other Franciscana de Educação ao Cidadão Especial (Franciscan Association of Education Social Initiatives cities in the state of Paraná, to the cities of Londrina, Ponta Grossa, Cascavel and Natural Capital for the Citizens with Special Needs AFECE), and third place went to the Ação Reserva do Iguaçu, under the name “Sustainability Dialogues.” The Seminar aims Social para Igualdade das Diferenças (Social Action for Equality of Differences Infrastructure to share with employees and suppliers information about corporate environmental Capital and social programs, providing greater integration with the subject areas, ASID Brazil). The institutions received cash prizes in the amount of BRL 10,000, Financial Capital enabling progress and innovation in sustainable actions. The aspects covered BRL 6,000, and BRL 4,000, respectively, as an incentive to continue the projects. Social Audit were: Human Rights, Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals, Mobbing, The Susie Pontarolli Trophy also recognizes social and volunteer projects GRI Content Index Sexual Harassment, Ethics, Corporate Citizenship and Values, Climate Change, Eco-efficiency, Solid Waste, Gender and Race Equality, Affordability, and The developed by Copel suppliers. In the Suppliers category, the winners were Radiante Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Susie Pontarolli Award. Suppliers from each region also participated and had the Engenharia, the Associação de Educação Familiar e Social do Paraná (Family and the Global Compact opportunity to present success stories. Social Education Association of Paraná AEFSPR), and Landis+Gyr. Suppliers Since 2002, Copel has been promoting the Copel Sustainability Award Susie received certificates from Copel for their work (details about the winning projects Pontarolli Trophy. The award focuses on social responsibility projects conducted are on the Copel website). 48 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social and Relationship Capital Through the project called Iluminando Gerações (Lighting Generations), Social Investments through Fiscal Incentives Copel provides informative and preventive lectures to fourth graders at the G4-EC1 About the Report elementary school level, on sustainability geared toward conscientious Copel supports and participates in several initiatives with government agencies Message from and safe use of electricity, use of natural resources (energy and water), and the President and other institutions, aiming to promote the sustainable development of the proper disposal of waste. In order to consolidate this knowledge, after the Industry Context regions where it operates. Selection of the initiatives followed the company’s lectures, Copel distributes to the audience presentstudents, teachers and About Copel strategic references, commitments assumed with the Global Compact, and the school employeesa kit containing a primer called “A energia elétrica e você” Governance state of Paraná’s government policy. and Sustainability (“Electricity and you”), which addresses care in using electricity and the use of Human Capital natural resources. G4EU24 Intellectual Capital Area of Investment Amount National Electricity Safety Week brings together Copel volunteers for visits to Social and homes, construction sites, cooperatives, and schools throughout Paraná. They ■ Rouanet Law BRL 7.6 million Relationship Capital Culture ■ PROFICE (ICMS) BRL 8.58 million teach the population about the safe use of electricity. Under the coordination ■ Mecenato Municipal Curitiba (ISS) BRL 252,000 Customers and Consumers of the Brazilian Association of Electricity Distributors (Abradee), the campaign Suppliers Management Education and ■ FIA BRL 544,000 promotes lectures, distributes information and guidance material to prevent social initiatives ■ Elderly Act BRL 544,000 Local Communities accidents involving electrical shock. This initiative operates on six main Indigenous Communities Sports ■ Sports Incentive Act BRL 544,000 fronts: civil construction, rural areas, pruning trees, electricity theft, antenna Education for Sustainability installation, and caution with kites. ■ PRONON BRL 544,000 Health ■ PRONAS/PCD – no investment in 2016 Social Investments In addition, on its website, Copel made a Manual available on “Electricity throught Fiscal Incentives without Risks” which provides important guidelines on the correct use of Social Initiatives electricity and basic recommendations to prevent accidents on the street, at Copel’s investment in 2016, arising out of fiscal waiver, totals BRL 13.2 million. Natural Capital home, in the field, and in construction. The initiatives include the areas of education, culture, sports, and health. This Infrastructure year Copel started promoting cultural projects through PROFICE State Program Capital for Promotion and Incentives for the Culture of Paraná, a form of tax incentive Financial Capital The initiatives for education on sustainability can be found in the sustainability section from ICMS. Social Audit of the Copel website, which also offers educational and informative material, such as primers, educational games, and several publications that address issues associated GRI Content Index Social Initiatives with efficient and safe use of electricity, issues on citizenship, human rights and Annex Incorporation protection of the environment. Solidarity Invoice Project each agreement to receive the Copel invoice via email of the Principles of the Global Compact will be worth a BRL 1.00 (one real) donation to the institution to aid people with Other questions can be answered through the Fale Conosco (Talk to Us) Sustainability, special needs Federação das Associações de Pais e Amigos dos Excepcionais a direct channel established by Copel with the population of the state of Paraná. FEAPAES/PR, at no cost to consumers. Since its launch, approximately BRL 80,000 have been donated to all APAEs linked to the federation. 49 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social and Relationship Capital Cobrança de Valores de Terceiros CVT, (Collection from Third Parties) collects elements that has helped tell the history of the region for 16 years. Maintained by Copel, contributions via electricity bills, for participating philanthropic entities. The amounts the Museum is located next to the Governador Ney Braga Hydroelectric Power Plant. About the Report to be included must have a written authorization from customers. Donation limits are Its mission is: Message from a minimum of BRL 1 and a maximum of BRL 150. In 2016, a total of 208,000 donators ■ To showcase the cultural heritage of the region under its care, valuing the cultural the President collected a monthly average of BRL 1.9 million, distributed among 120 philanthropic and environmental memory of Paraná; Industry Context institutions. About Copel ■ To raise awareness toward preservation of biodiversity and all forms of life; The More than Energy Project, conceived by Copel in order to promote projects ■ To demonstrate the interaction of men and women with their environment, Governance and Sustainability involving deaf and deaf-blind people with the following aspects: education and reflected in the social-cultural aspects of the collection; Human Capital social inclusion; safety of the environments to cater to them; accessibility; health and ■ To demonstrate Copel’s commitment to preservation of environmental, historical, Intellectual Capital quality of life; and training and qualification of professionals serving the students. and cultural heritage through social and environmental compensation programs Social and Funding for project development total BRL 750,000 and comes from the line of social derived from implementing generation, transmission, and distribution projects. Relationship Capital investments for companies (ISE) from the National Bank for Economic and Social Customers Since its inauguration in December 2000, it was responsible for the educational and Consumers Development (BNDES). In 2016, through a bidding process, a specialized company and monitoring activities of over 300,000 people, who became aware of Copel’s Suppliers Management was hired to carry out the architectural and complementary projects for the first environmental and social actions. In 2016, the Museum had 7,309 visitors, among Local Communities two institutions selected by the project. The bidding process for hiring companies guided tours, spontaneous visitors, and at the Traveling Museum. Indigenous Communities to carry out the work planned in the projects is scheduled for the beginning of 2017. Education for The Cultivate Energy Program, developed in partnership with municipal Sustainability governments and communities, encourages the establishment and cultivation of Social Investments throught Fiscal community gardens in vacant spaces under its distribution and transmission lines, Incentives In 2016, the Museum was awarded in the 14th edition of the Brazil Benchmarking in order to promote social inclusion, food safety, and income generation in socially Social Initiatives Award, a project that rewards companies and/or projects considered as Best Social vulnerable communities. Through this activity, it is also possible to provide the and Environmental Practice. Participating in the award for the first time, in its Natural Capital population with greater safety, since the existence of the gardens inhibit irregular 14th edition, the Regional Museum of Iguaçu registered a project that produced Infrastructure Capital and high-risk occupations under the power lines. a book of compositions. This book alluded to the Museum’s 15 years, celebrated in 2015, and rakned 12th among over 85 projects registered for this edition of the Financial Capital With the positive results of the first garden implemented in the municipality of Award, enabling Copel Geração to be included in the Ranking of Best Social and Social Audit Maringá/PR in 2013, other vegetable gardens were enabled and are currently Environmental Practices of 2016. GRI Content Index benefiting nearly 140 families from three different communities in that municipality. For this book, of the 127 texts registered, 15 essays were selected from 5th grade Annex Incorporation In 2016, Copel formalized the rules and procedures for expanding the program’s of the Principles of students from the André Dorini and São Francisco de Assis municipal schools in the Global Compact capacity to serve. For 2017, the implementation of new gardens is planned for other Manguerinha-PR, a city that houses the machine room of the Gov. Ney A. Braga municipalities in the same state. Hydroelectric Power Plant. The Iguaçu Regional Museum, located on the banks of the largest river in the state of Paraná, in the South-Central region of the state, has been guarding and preserving 50 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report 09 . NATURAL CAPITAL Climate Change // Eco-efficiency // Ecosystems // Reservoirs and Water Quality 51 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Natural Capital 09. Natural Capital About the Report Climate Change Message from the President G4-EC2, G4-15 Commitments Assumed in 2016 Industry Context Sustainable development is an essential part of Copel’s strategic growth objectives. ■ Manage annual greenhouse gas emissions (GHG); About Copel The Company believes that financial resultts should be obtained in a manner aligned ■ Conduct studies and projects related to climate change; Governance ■ Reduce GHG emissions from Copel’s activities; and Sustainability with social and environmental responsibility guidelines as part of a commitment ■ Raise awareness towards GHG emissions in the value chain; to the population of Paraná, the other states in which it operates, and future Human Capital ■ Assess the risks and opportunities of new projects, from acquisitions to mergers generations. Copel’s operations are cross-sectional and involve all business fronts Intellectual Capital of assets based on carbon; of the Holding Company in the areas of energy and telecommunications. ■ Assess the risks and opportunities of climate change for the Company’s business. Social and Relationship Capital Materialization of these commitments is in Copel’s Agenda for Climate Change, Natural Capital a guide developed by the Company in 2011 aiming to maintain coherence of the Climate Change actions of the various business fronts with the aspect. Through this platform, Copel Eco-efficiency The committee monitors those commitments approved by senior management, defines positioning, plans actions, and makes corporate decisions that take into Ecosystems validates strategic documents related to climate change, assesses risks and account the impacts on the environment caused by climate change. Reservoirs and opportunities, fosters initiatives that contribute to mitigating greenhouse gases, and Water Quality Incorporated into the Company’s risk matrix, actions related to the Climate Change drives actions to adjust its businesses to the climate change scenario. In addition, it Infrastructure Capital Agenda involve mitigating environmental impacts inherent to its business activity, is responsible for defining strategies for disseminating the Climate Change Policy investments in technological innovations that promote reduction in greenhouse and participating in discussions with external entities. Financial Capital gas (GHG) emissions, and environmental preservation programs disseminated to Social Audit The Adaptation Subcommittee was primarily created to identify Company processes employees, suppliers, communities, and society in general. GRI Content Index that may be vulnerable to the effects of climate change, based on history or relevant Annex Incorporation In 2016, the progress was reflected in the implementation of the Climate Change facts. It proposes adaptation plans that are applied to the processes identified of the Principles of the Global Compact Policy, aiming to promote actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and prepare as a potential risk, and develops methodologies to add the adaptation criteria to to cope with the effects of climate change on business. In order to implement the corporate risk matrices. Policy, Copel reinforced and expanded its commitments to climate change. Adaptation to Climate Change In 2016, within the scope of the Corporate Climate Change Management The Adaptation Subcommittee was primarily created to identify Company Program, Copel created a Management Committee represented by processes that may be vulnerable to the effects of climate change, employees from each department of the Holding Company and its based on history or relevant facts. It proposes adaptation plans that subsidiaries. The committee is composed of three technical subcommittees: are applied to the processes identified as a potential risk, and develops Adaptation, Carbon Valuation, and Management and Mitigation of Emissions. methodologies to add the adaptation criteria to corporate risk matrices. 52 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Natural Capital The Adaptation Subcommittee suggested projects focused on generation and Scope 1 of this work focuses on reducing consumption of fuel used in the Company’s transmission processes, taking into account the risk of water shortage and the operations as a whole. One of the solutions to complying with this guideline is About the Report need to measure variations in the flow of tributaries at the hydroelectric plants through the use of distance communication technologies, whenever possible, to Message from under the Company’s concession. the President avoid the need for employees to travel from the executive and operational areas to Industry Context meetings and training sessions. About Copel Copel develops a pilot project with FGV In 2016, emissions by Copel Holding and its wholly-owned subsidiaries were Governance and Sustainability In 2016, Copel initiated a pilot project in partnership with the Center for Sustainability considered. The results can be seen in the table below. Human Capital Studies of the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV). The Company’s vulnerability to climate G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN19 Intellectual Capital will be studied in order to suggest adaptation measures. The project aims to discover the impacts of climate change in the current scenario and to prepare a projection for 2040 Social and Relationship Capital in the north and northwest regions of Paraná. The study was divided into three phases: By type of gas (tCO2e) Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Natural Capital diagnostics of vulnerability to climate change, development of an adaptation plan, and implementation and assessment of the project. CO2 187,880.91 249,026.27 3,055.00 Climate Change Eco-efficiency So far, it has been possible to point out three critical points in the regions studied: CH4 89,762.60 0 3.82 Ecosystems increases in temperature, wind storms, and volume of rainfall. The direct consequences N 2O 1,102.71 0 44.25 Reservoirs and of these phenomena are the increased dilation of power cables, toppling of transmission Water Quality HFCs 1,698.31 0 line towers, risk of accidents to the population, fires, and temporary power outages. Infrastructure SF6 2,300.84 0 Capital The second phase of the project will take place in 2017, when an adaptation plan will be defined to address the adverse climatic effects in the coming years, pointing out the TOTAL 282,745.37 249,026.27 3,103.07 Financial Capital alternatives that may be applied in order to minimize the risks. Social Audit Biogenic CO2 (t) 1,679.44 164.37 GRI Content Index Note: Emissions referring to changes in land use are not yet incorporated in scope 1 of the Company, since this is a new source in the inventory, which is still being prepared. Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact Management of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Scope 1 considered its own sources of emissions from stationary and mobile Copel sets goals for reducing greenhouse gas emissions as one of its combustion, fugitive emissions, and industrial effluents. Upon completion of commitments under the Climate Change Agenda. Since 2009, the Company has the inventory, it will be possible to assess the increase in emissions due to the invested in producing annual inventories, based on semiannual consolidated inclusion of the new source. The 2016 inventory showed that there was an 11% monitoring, to quantify GHG emissions following the methodology of the reduction in emissions from stationary combustion, which is important, since this Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. source represents over 85% of the company’s emissions. 53 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Natural Capital Scope 2 considered emissions from consumption and loss of energy. Compared capable of measuring the costs related to increase in emissions or the investment with 2016, there was a 44% reduction in emissions due to the reduction of the to be made to reduce them. About the Report grid emission factor, and reduced energy consumption, and losses in energy Copel expects that this methodology will be able to guide the new business Message from transmission and distribution. areas in assessing risks and financial opportunities regarding aspects related the President to climate change. Industry Context Scope 3 emissions were considered to be air travel, transport and distribution About Copel As measures for study, the Company has invested in the participation of its (upstream), and waste from the company, but this scope has not yet been employees in discussion forums such as the CEBDS (Brazilian Business Council Governance finalized, so it is not possible to make comparisons at this point. and Sustainability for Sustainable Development) and the EPC (Companies for the Climate of GVces) Human Capital The inventory was assured by an external entity and will subsequently be and also by simulating a carbon market coordinated by the EPC using the BVRio Intellectual Capital published in the public records of the GHG Protocol, and in the climate change platform. Social and forum in the state of Paraná. This simulation enabled the Company to understand the structure of a possible Relationship Capital carbon market to be installed in Brazil and how to operate it, since in 2016 the Natural Capital Company participated in the auctions promoted by the EPC. Climate Change Paraná Climate Seal: Gold for the Four Copel Subsidiaries Eco-efficiency Ecosystems Copel’s commitment to reducing the impact of its operations was recognized, for the Eco-efficiency Reservoirs and second consecutive year, through the Paraná Climate Seal. Copel was recognized in Water Quality Eco-efficiency Program the Gold category, reserved for companies that submit their inventories for external Infrastructure assurance. In 2016, seeking further transparency and showing internal alignment Copel understands that eco-efficiency is an important management philosophy Capital regarding this aspect, the four subsidiaries of the Company participated individually. for achieving economic benefits in parallel with environmental improvements. Financial Capital Of the 15 seals awarded in this edition, only seven were in the Gold category, and four Thus, the Eco-efficiency Program, in force since 2014, aims to integrate the Social Audit of them were awarded to the Copel companies. Registration in the Paraná Climate various initiatives developed in the company related to reducing and optimizing GRI Content Index Seal is voluntary and aims to encourage state companies to publish their greenhouse the use of natural resources, by strengthening and enhancing them. In addition, Annex Incorporation gas emissions inventories, the main vector for climate change worldwide. of the Principles of the program intends to support projects with a sustainable focus on cost the Global Compact reduction and propose new actions that may contribute to this purpose. The current economic scenario, coupled with the legal and regulatory changes that have affected the electricity sector in recent years, reinforces the Carbon Valuation importance of implementing actions toward optimizing costs. To this end, the In 2016, Copel included carbon pricing in the responsibilities of the Climate awareness and involvement of the employees are essential to guaranteeing the Change Committee. Since this aspect is still new, the Company understands company’s commitment and achievement of its goals. Engaged employees are that it will take at least two years of study to be able to implement any type of aware of impacts on costs related to their roles and areas of operation, thereby action. The idea is that in the coming years, a methodology will be developed increasing company revenues. 54 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Natural Capital The actions of the Eco-efficiency Program are concentrated in five theme lines: Copel’s experience with the Eco-efficiency Program was also presented at the energy, water, paper, mobility and fuel, and education and communication. seventh edition of SMARS (Brazilian Seminar on the Environment and Social About the Report Responsibility of the Electricity Sector), held in November 2016, at the Electricity In 2016, the Eco-efficiency Program was one of the aspects of the Sustainability Message from Research Center (CEPEL) in Rio de Janeiro (RJ). the President Dialogues, promoted by the Sustainability Education Program in the following cities Industry Context in the state of Paraná: Londrina, Cascavel, Reserva do Iguaçu, and Ponta Grossa. The purpose of this event was to promote technical discussions on the main About Copel The main actions developed by Eco-efficiency were introduced, as well as some challenges involving planning, implementation, and operation of projects Governance future perspectives. in the Brazilian electricity sector, in view of commitments to sustainability, and Sustainability environmental legislation requirements, and corporate social responsibility. Human Capital The meetings were also used to receive suggestions and reports of other The selection of the work submitted by the Eco-efficiency Program coordination Intellectual Capital experiences regarding this aspect. In total, 232 employees and 34 suppliers reinforces the importance of this aspect in company management, and is a good Social and participated in the events. Relationship Capital recognition of the actions carried out at Copel so far. Natural Capital Climate Change Water Consumption Summary of the Eco-efficiency Program in 2016 Eco-efficiency The administrative consumption of water is monitored through the Eco-efficiency Ecosystems In 2016, initiatives were carried out to reduce water and energy consumption in Copel’s largest administration buildings. There was a 1% reduction in water Reservoirs and Program. Consumption data is obtained semi-annually from the companies Water Quality consumption, compared with 2015. The goal for 2017 is to reduce consumption responsible for the municipal supply. In 2016, the goal established by the Infrastructure by 2%, compared with 2016. Also worth noting are the actions toward the use Capital of rainwater in 2016, a total of 147.86 m 3 of rainwater were collected and used Eco-efficiency Program was to reduce water consumption by 5% compared with Financial Capital for administrative purposes. In 2017, we intend to improve management of this 2015. The goal was not achieved, there was a reduction of only 1%. It is important consumption data and encourage the implementation of new tanks. Social Audit to note that reduction in consumption from 2014 to 2015 reached the goal of Regarding energy consumption, the reduction goal for 2016 was 2% compared GRI Content Index 5%. In the accumulated period from 2014 to 2016, consumption was reduced by Annex Incorporation with the previous year (or 4% compared with base year 2014). Performance was of the Principles of 8% above the goal. For 2017, Copel plans to reduce energy consumption by 2% 6%. For 2017, the goal is to reduce by 2% compared with 2016. The main actions the Global Compact compared with 2016. For paper consumption, the goal was to achieve 40% rate carried out toward reaching the established goal include replacing simple faucets for duplex printing in 2017, and 50% in 2018. with automatic faucets, replacing sanitary valves with dual-flush toilets, and In addition, several internal awareness and information campaigns were internal awareness campaigns on the rational use of this resource. In addition, the carried out. Specific actions for saving paper, improving employee mobility, and reducing consumption of inputs and natural resources are planned for possibility of installing tanks for the use of rainwater in some of the Company’s the coming years. It is important to note that most of the actions in the Ecounits is being studied. efficiency Program were carried out without large specific investments, and a routine building maintenance budget was used. In 2016, Copel’s total water consumption in the administration units located in the state of Paraná was 135,678 m³. G4-EN8, G4-EN9 55 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Natural Capital In 2016, a total of 99,481,215.61 m³ of water from ground sources were withdrawn, Below are the amounts corresponding to fuel consumption by the Company. which were used for cooling at plants. The volume of water returned to the body About the Report of water is practically the same as the volume withdrawn, since only an immaterial Type of Fuel Consumption (GJ) Message from volume was lost through evaporation, and was not considered as water consumed the President Coal (Figueira Thermoelectric Plant)* 1,759,580.98 Industry Context by the Company. Diesel** 175,312.35 About Copel Source of water Administrative consumption (m3) LPG*** 9.46 Governance and Sustainability Ethanol 2,642.52 Underground Sources 22,750 Human Capital Gasoline 52,494.78 Intellectual Capital Municipal Supply 112,928 Aviation Kerosene 3,706.07 Social and Relationship Capital TOTAL 1,993,746.16 Natural Capital Electricity and Fuel Consumption * Coal is used to produce electricity in a thermoelectric plant. G4-EN3 ** Total diesel used in transportation and emergency generators. Climate Change *** Total consumption in the company’s forklifts and kitchens. Ethanol, gasoline, CNG and aviation kerosene are the fuels used in the Company’s own means of transportation. Eco-efficiency Copel’s total energy consumption in 2016 was 2,101,180.96 GJ, considering the Ecosystems scopes for Generation, Transmission, Distribution, Telecom, and Holding. The Reservoirs and following table shows the energy consumption in 2016 and the two years before. Water Quality Bike Day Infrastructure Capital Bike to Work Day is inspired by the event of the same name held annually in several Electric power Evolution Evolution Evolution Financial Capital consumption (in MWh) 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2015 2016 2014 2016 countries to promote cycling as a transportation option. In 2016, this date was Social Audit celebrated on May 13, and at Copel, employees who signed up in advance were Copel 489.9 535.2 656.4 9% 23% 34% greeted with a special breakfast. The action involved the company’s own employees GRI Content Index Telecomunicações S.A.* and contractors at the headquarters, Atuba, Santa Quitéria, and hub at KM3, in Annex Incorporation Copel Distribuição S.A. 24,171.8 23,498.2 21,160 -3% -10% -12% of the Principles of Curitiba, as well as employees of several municipalities in the state of Paraná. the Global Compact Copel Geração e 8,813.7 8,314 7,775.8 -6% -6% -12% In total, 148 employees participated. They answered a questionnaire in which the transmissão S.A Company recorded the following data: Copel Renováveis S.A.* 10.5 64.6 516% ■ 1,726 km in commuting back and forth (home work); ■ About 225 kg of carbon dioxide (CO ) were prevented from being released 2 Holding 87.1 186.4 114% into the atmosphere; ■ The group would stop issuing 60 tons of CO over the course of a year with the use Grand Total 33,475 32,445 29,843 -3% -8% -11% 2 of a bicycle every day for work. * The increase in energy consumption was due to the evolution of the operations of this subsidiary in the period analyzed. 56 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Natural Capital Waste Management Disposal of industrial waste G4-EN23 About Destination Description Unit Amount the Report Industrial Waste Concrete parts unit 148 Message from the President The waste generated in the company’s operations is segregated, packaged and Crossarm unit 44,828 Industry Context sent to one of the warehouses, where it is stored until disposal. The entire process Miscellaneous equipment tons 102 About Copel adopts criteria according to current norms and laws. Isolators tons 498 Governance and Sustainability Meters unit 220,639 In its operations, the Company mainly generated ashes from the Figueira Disposal Human Capital Furniture and utensils unit 450 Thermoelectric Plant, copper and aluminum cable scrap, poles, crossarms, Intellectual Capital Insulating Mineral Oil* l 220,000 ceramic isolators, transformers, lead-acid batteries and insulating mineral Social and Poles m 470,485 Relationship Capital oil. All disposals are made according to legislation, prioritizing reuse and Plastic waste tons 32.3 Natural Capital recycling whenever possible, as established in the priority order of the National Scrap metal tons 964 Climate Change Policy on Solid Waste, requiring from contracted companies all necessary Eco-efficiency Fiber optic cable m3 111 technical qualification. Ecosystems Landfill Rubble and wood m3 15 Reservoirs and Ashes tons 17,105 Water Quality The disposal of waste generated revenues of approximately BRL 5 million. Infrastructure Wood m3 93.3 Capital In 2016, Copel reached the goals established for reuse or recycling of 90% of its Composting Golden mussel m3 21 Financial Capital industrial waste from distribution and 70% of the industrial waste from Copel Oils and solvents* tons 13 Social Audit Geração e Transmissão. However, the goal of recycling 50% of the ashes generated Co-processing Contaminated waste* tons 23.8 GRI Content Index was not reached due to the delay in the modernization work of the Figueira Annex Incorporation Lead-acid batteries tons 144 of the Principles of Thermoelectric Plant, and consequently, migrating the operation of the Figueira the Global Compact Rubble m3 20.8 plant to Copel Geração e Transmissão, which studies new forms of final disposal Fluorescent lamps* unit 17,998 for this waste. Recycling Wood m 3 1,205 For 2017, Copel has the following goals: Oils and solvents* l 1,588 Tires unit 28 ■ A reduction of 95% in industrial waste from Distribution sent for reuse or recycling; Scrap metal tons 3.28 ■ 60% of the industrial waste from Copel Geração e Transmissão sent for reuse or * hazardous wastes recycling (ashes not included). 57 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Natural Capital Administrative Waste Generation Projects About Copel has in place the Solidary Waste Sorting program for disposal of recyclable Construction of hydroelectric generation projects may contribute to reducing the Report waste with associations and cooperatives of recyclable materials. The program is species important to the local ecosystem, due to suppression of vegetation in the Message from the President conducted in partnership with these entities and works to contribute with income catchment basin; conversion of habitats caused by damming or rivers in order to create a reservoir, and changes in ecological processes outside the natural variation Industry Context generation and improvement in working conditions for pickers. range. Mitigation of impacts is done through programs involving suppression About Copel In 2016, the goal to expand the program was to reach 65% of the company’s of vegetation, monitoring and rescuing species of wildlife and flora, recovering Governance employees. This goal was exceeded, reaching 69% of the employees, and Copel and Sustainability Permanent Preservation Areas, replacement of forests, monitoring and recovery of received a certificate from the State Public Ministry for excellence in compliance Human Capital archaeological heritage, among others. with State Decree No. 4,167/2009, which requires the mandatory segregation of Intellectual Capital recyclable solid waste and subsequent sending to associations and cooperatives In the case of Copel Renováveis wind farms, no significant impacts on biodiversity Social and of recyclable materials. were identified that could not be mitigated, considering the magnitude of the works Relationship Capital and their locations. G4-EN12 Natural Capital During the installation phase of wind power generation projects, fragmentation Climate Change Disposal of Administrative Waste Eco-efficiency and edge effect may occur due to suppression of vegetation and loss of habitats, Destination Description Weight (kg) increased risk of accidents involving wildlife, and risks of increased hunting Ecosystems Reservoirs and Landfill Organic/Rejects 427,606 activities. In order to mitigate this type of impact, Copel Renováveis requested Water Quality that companies involved in the construction of wind farms conduct campaigns to Composting Organic 34,967 Infrastructure relocate and rescue wildlife, as well as a Rescue and Management Program for the Capital Other recyclables 3,571 Plant Species Melocactus violaceus and Griffinia gardneriana. Financial Capital Paper 130,939 Social Audit Recycling Plastic 15,773 GRI Content Index Transmission and Distribution Projects Metals 5,668 Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Forest fragmentation and reduced populations of native species caused by the Global Compact suppression of vegetation in the right of way is the main direct and indirect Ecosystems negative impact on biodiversity due to the construction of transmission and distribution projects. In order to mitigate these impacts, Copel carries out detailed Mitigation of Impacts Caused by Projects G4-EN12 and multidisciplinary studies of alternative routes with minimal impact, prioritizing The implementation and operation of projects impact ecosystems in their area of the use of previously altered areas that are environmentally and socially less fragile. influence. Before beginning installation, Copel conducts several environmental Where the route must pass through certain areas where forest remains are studies in order to assess the best ways to avoid or mitigate negative impacts more preserved, the Company places higher towers in the right of way to while promoting the positive ones. minimize impacts. 58 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Natural Capital In the same period, 23,000 native forest seedlings were planted in Ibicatu State Park, totaling six hectares for environmental compensation of the About In 2016, a pilot study called “Valuation of ecosystem services related to the Riparian the Report Londrina Figueira C2 TL project. Over 1,455 seedlings were planted for urban Forests Program at a plant on the Iguaçu River, Paraná” was completed and Message from afforestation as a form of compensation for the Bateias Curitiba Norte TL the President published in partnership with the Center for Sustainability Studies of FGV. project. The Company also donated 1,615 seedlings to the Campo Largo City Industry Context According to the data analyzed in this study, it was concluded that maintenance and Government, as compensation for these projects. recovery of riparian forests of the reservoir of the Foz do Areia (HPP GBM) plant could About Copel In the State of Mato Grosso, approximately 60,000 seedlings of native species generate the avoided cost of approximately BRL 50 million over a 10-year period. Governance were planted in the Permanent Preservation Area of the future reservoir of the and Sustainability In addition, reforestation actions in this same area and time period could remove Colíder HPP, totaling 59 hectares of reclaimed area in 2016. In the State of São Human Capital nearly 60,000 tons of CO2e from the atmosphere. More details on this study may be Paulo, where it implements transmission lines, the Company compensated for obtained at: http://mediadrawer.gvces.com.br/publicacoes/original/fgv-gvcesIntellectual Capital the impact of the project by transferring 870 native seedlings to contractors tese-estudos-casos_set16.pdf. Social and and Copel itself replanting 6,500. Relationship Capital This year, new valuation studies began. One of them, to be published in 2017, Natural Capital refers to managing vegetation in electrical systems and the object of study is the Urban Forests Program. The other will address soil erosion on high voltage power Biodiversity Preservation Climate Change Eco-efficiency distribution lines (LDATs). Ichthyofauna Studies Ecosystems Copel recognizes and values the importance of biodiversity to maintaining Reservoirs and Water Quality ecosystems, and especially, life. For years, it has been monitoring the fish fauna Infrastructure Forest Compensation that live in its reservoirs, distributed over five different watersheds in Paraná, Capital G4-EN13 and the Teles Pires River, located in Mato Grosso. This monitoring seeks to Financial Capital Since 2012, Copel has maintained an agreement with the Environmental Institute follow and understand the condition of fish in different reservoirs, guiding the Social Audit of Paraná (IAP) through which it assigns contractors to dedicate exclusively to environmental actions of Copel and environmental agencies. In addition, it GRI Content Index the production of native forest seedlings. These seedlings are used to restore develops captive breeding techniques for fish native to the Iguaçu River basin, Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Permanent Preservation Areas, Legal Forest Reserves, and Forest Restoration with the purpose of conserving these species. the Global Compact Areas of the State of Paraná. Since 1982, at the Governador Ney Braga Plant (Salto Segredo), Copel has In 2016, reforestation was carried out in urban areas with seedlings of native trees maintained the Experimental Station for Ichthyology Studies, where it produces donated by third parties and plantations. There were 400 native forest seedlings catfish, lambari, and surubim-do-iguaçu fingerlings. The fish produced are and 2,434 urban afforestation seedlings. The initiative is part of the environmental released along the river according to conservation guidelines. The main species compensation for cutting vegetation for power distribution lines in the State of Paraná. studied and produced are the Jundia ( Rhamdia quelen), lambari ( Deuterodon) In other environmental actions, such as those promoted by the Internal Social and and the surubim-do-iguaçu (Steindachneridion melanodermatum). Environmental Committees (CISAs), the Company collaborated by planting 284 native forest seedlings. There is also the release of fish at environmental education events and on 59 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Natural Capital commemorative dates, such as World Water Day, World Environment Day, Tree Lago Azul State Park It was created through a decree in 1997, and since then, has Day, and River Day. Among these fish is the surubim-do-iguaçu fish, the largest awaited approval from the National Electricity Agency (ANEEL). The area has 1,749.00 About the Report fish native to the Iguaçu River, which is endangered and whose captive breeding hectares and is classified as Full Protection for protecting natural ecosystems Message from technology was developed by Copel itself. Reports indicate that, thanks to the of ecological relevance and scenic beauty. It is located in the reservoir and the President repopulation actions promoted by Copel, the populations of surubim-do-iguaçu surroundings of the Mourão Hydroelectric Power Plant, in the municipalities of Industry Context are growing again. Campo Mourão and Luiziana. About Copel Governance In 2016, a total of 124,758 fish were released, and this number also represents the and Sustainability Urban Forest Program number of fish produced at the Company’s fish station, achieving the proposed Human Capital goal of releasing 87,600 fish into the reservoir. In 2017, the goal is to produce and Since 2007, Copel has supported municipal governments Intellectual Capital release 132,500 fish in the reservoirs of the Copel plants. in planning of afforestation of public roads, contributing to Social and environmental improvement and reduction of energy supply Relationship Capital Ecological Stations interruptions caused by the incompatibility between trees and Natural Capital G4-EN13 electrical systems. Climate Change Rio dos Touros Ecological Station Created in 2001, has a total area of 1,231 The initiative focuses on the production of seedlings in the Eco-efficiency hectares, classified as Full Protection. The station conducts scientific research Company’s forest gardens. With this, in addition to the catering Ecosystems and is located in the Mixed Ombrophylous Forest or Araucaria Forest, on the right to interested municipalities, compensatory measures are Reservoirs and Water Quality bank of the reservoir of the Governador Ney Braga Hydroelectric Power Plant fulfilled. More than 40,000 seedlings have been planted in the afforestation of public Infrastructure (Salto Segredo), a municipality of Reserva do Iguaçu Reserve, Paraná. roads. After reformulating the program in 2015, with changes in the procedure for Capital Tia Chica Ecological Station With 423.12 hectares, will be classified as Full supplying seedlings, the process of supplying over 6,000 seedlings to 20 municipalities Financial Capital Protection to reinforce nature preservation and scientific research carried out by began. In 2016, a total of 2,545 seedlings for afforestation were delivered to seven Social Audit Copel. The area declared of Public Utility for condemnation purposes has not yet municipalities in Paraná. GRI Content Index been declared a Conservation Unit; however the process is underway. It will serve In 2016, due to the election year, the performance of the program was below plan, Annex Incorporation of the Principles of as environmental compensation for the plant and is installed in the backwaters which was to provide 12,000 seedlings to at least 25 municipalities. Another factor the Global Compact of the Jordão River Reservoir, in Pinhão (PR). that interfered in the results of the program in 2016 was the closing of Campo Mourão Guarani River State Park Created in 2000, totaling 2,322 hectares. It is classified Forest Garden, when Copel no longer had the concession of the Campo Mourão as Full Protection and aims at preserving natural ecosystems of ecological Hydroelectric Plant. With this, the production of seedlings began to be carried out only significance and scenic beauty. It began to be studied by Copel in 1997, as a result in the Forest Garden in Cabreúvas Governador Ney Braga Hydroelectric Plant (Salto of the implementation of the Governor José Richa Hydroelectric Power Plant. It is Segredo), municipality of Reserva do Iguaçu PR; and in the Perobas Forest Gardenlocated in the Semideciduous Seasonal Forest and Mixed Ombrophylous Forest Governador José Richa Hydroelectric Power Plant (Salto Caxias), in the municipality or Araucária Forest, on the right bank of the Salto Caxias Hydroelectric Plant of Capitão Leônidas Marques PR. The goal established in 2016 will remain the same reservoir, in Três Barras do Paraná. for 2017. Training and qualification courses for municipal managers and civil servants 60 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Natural Capital in the state of Paraná were not carried out, and contact with the partner institutions In 2016, a total 72,048 seedlings of native species were planted, reforesting should be resumed in 2017 in order to plan the continuity of the courses. 83.43 hectares. The seedling production for the Riparian Forests and Urban Forests About the Report In order to manage pruning of urban trees, a corporate georeferencing project is Program was 104,000 seedlings, and the goal was to produce 213,600 native seedlings Message from the President underway, in which 229,000 trees have already been planted under the energy for the Riparian Forest Program. There were no available workers during the first seven networks in 69 municipalities. Industry Context months of 2016 because of the review of the call for the bid to hire gardeners. Due to this About Copel Also in 2016, the actions of the Urban Forest Program were announced in a lecture and fact, the target was not reached. Governance roundtable at the Urban Afforestation Forum of the Southern Region of Paraná, held and Sustainability in June in São Mateus do Sul. Human Capital Reservoirs and Water Quality Intellectual Capital In the reservoirs and surrounding areas, Copel monitors possible environmental Social and Copel participates in the Interagency Work Committee to evaluate the Municipal Urban Relationship Capital Tree Plans coordinated by the Public Ministry of the State of Paraná MP-PR, with interventions and acts to address irregularities found in terms of illegal construction in Natural Capital the evaluation in 2016 of 69 municipal urban afforestation plans. Copel’s work on the the areas of concession, release of effluents, stability of the slopes, use and occupation Climate Change Committee was announced at the 20th Brazilian Congress of Urban Afforestation and of Permanent Protection Areas, Illegal hunting and fishing, among others. In order to Eco-efficiency at the Latin American Congress of the International Society of Arboriculture, held in assist in the process of preserving the areas of relevant environmental interest, the Ecosystems November 2016 in Belo Horizonte. Company has an agreement with the Environmental Police Battalion of the State of Reservoirs and Water Quality Paraná, actively participates in the Watershed Committees and the National and State Infrastructure Capital Riparian Forest Program Council of Water Resources, conducting the real-time monitoring of the situation of the Financial Capital rivers where it has reservoirs, and monitors water quality. Social Audit Copel’s main impact on water resources is the modification of its natural flow conditions GRI Content Index due to the construction of hydroelectric plants. For this reason, the company works in Annex Incorporation of the Principles of managing social and environmental impact of its projects, from the construction up to the Global Compact the operation phase, conducting studies, mitigating impacts and risks, and addressing the applicable environmental legislation. In order to evaluate some of these impacts, on a quarterly basis the Company collects and analyzes water samples from the reservoirs Copel carries out reforestation and fencing of Permanent Preservation Areas (APPs) in of the plants in order to monitor their quality using 25 physicochemical and biological its own and third-party areas, as a way to recover degraded areas and/or to prevent their parameters. Copel also monitors water quality of the river before the beginning of the degradation. In addition to contributing to improving the water quality of the reservoirs, inhibiting the occurrence of erosion processes in the soil and conserving biodiversity. construction of a new project. Such monitoring includes sediment and agrochemical Seedlings used in reforestation are produced in the Company’s forestry nurseries. analysis, involving a much larger number of parameters analyzes. 61 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report This is Rafael Rodrigues 10 . INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL Assets for Energy Generation and Planning // Transmission and Distribution Assets // Commercialization // Telecommunications // Corporate Interest 62 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Infrastructure Capital 10. Infrastructure Capital About the Report Assets for Energy Generation and Planning Copel is currently building 15 wind farms, which will add 737.1 MW of installed Message from the President G4-DMA-EU6 capacity and 355.5 MW average physical guarantee to the Company’s generation Industry Context park, with 20% of this physical guarantee expected to begin commercial operation Copel operates 30 own plants and participates in nine other plants, 21 of in 2017. About Copel each are hydroelectric plants, 16 wind farms, and 2 thermoelectric plants, Governance with total installed capacity of 5,674.7 MW, and average Physical Guarantee BRL 3.2 billion had been invested in these generation projects by December and Sustainability of 2,651.4 MW. In 2016, net energy production was 25,843 GWh. G4-EU1, G4-EU2 31, 2016, of which BRL 2.2 billion was until December 31, 2015. Of the total, Human Capital BRL 2.4 million refers to additional fixed assets in own plants and in consortium, Intellectual Capital As part of the strategic and sustainability guidelines established for the and the remainder refers to capital contributions in the companies in which Social and generation business, Copel works toward expanding its share of renewable the Company has interest. Evolution of the generation Park with the gradual Relationship Capital alternative sources of energy in the energy matrix in a profitable and beginning of operations of the plants under construction can be represented as Natural Capital sustainable manner. G4-EU2 follows: G4-EU2 Infrastructure Capital Generation park by source in 2016 and installed capacity Assets for Energy Generation and Planning Evolution of Generation Park Transmission and Distribution Assets Generation Park Generation Park projection for 2019 13% 14% 14% 14% Commercialization Physical Guarantee by Source Physical Guarantee by Source 8% Telecommunications Corporate Interest 82% 80% Financial Capital Hydroelectric Hydroelectric Plants Social Audit Plants GRI Content Index Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 11% 11% Thermoelectric Thermoelectric Plants 7% Plants 9% THERMOELECTRIC PLANTS WIND FARMS HYDROELECTRIC PLANTS Wind farms Wind farms 63 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Infrastructure Capital Power Plant Availability Currently, the Company focuses its efforts on building seven projects, which will add a G4-EU30 2,878 kilometers and 4,150 MVA of transformation capacity to the set of transmission About the Report In the generation activities, the indicator on average availability of the plants is lines and substations. Message from monitored. The indicator measures the number of hours of interrupted generation. the President Distribution Industry Context Average availability factor 2014 2015 2016 Copel’s distribution lines total 195,458.5 kilometers, and in all serve nearly 4.5 million consumers, in 394 cities in the state of Paraná and one About Copel Total number of hours of planned interruption 71,967.37 42,265 21,916 municipality in Santa Catarina. Governance and Sustainability Total number of hours of forced outage 36,226.20 36,048 18,672 (unplanned) Human Capital Distribution Lines – Voltage level 2014 2015 2016 Own hydroelectric plants 0.94 0.90 0.92 Intellectual Capital Total extension (km) 189,925.4 193,527.1 195,458.5 Social and Hydroelectric plants with Copel’s 0.95 0.96 0.96 Relationship Capital shareholding interest 13.8 kV 101,688.7 103,488.2 104,556.0 Natural Capital Thermoelectric plants 0.64 0.78 0.70 34.5 kV 82,232.5 83,347.4 84,071.3 Infrastructure Thermoelectric plants with Copel’s Capital 0.93 0.89 0.89 shareholding interest Assets for Energy 69 kV 727.2 695.3 695.4 Generation and Planning Generation by Renewable Sources 138 kV 5,153.5 5,866.6 5,970.3 Transmission and G4-13 Distribution Assets Commercialization In 2016, the Cutia Complex received investment of over BRL 700 million. The 230 kV 123.5 129.6 165.5 Telecommunications complex will have 13 parks with 312.9 MW generated by 149 wind turbines, and will Number of substations 361 363 364 Corporate Interest be built in two stages, with the first seven parks expected to start operating by Financial Capital September 2017, with a capacity of 180.6 MW, from 86 wind turbines, and by 2018 In 2016, new substations and high voltage lines were connected to reinforce the another six wind farms will be added, with 132.3 MW from 63 wind turbines. Social Audit electrical distribution system, improving quality and increasing the availability of GRI Content Index energy to consumers. Transmission and Distribution Assets In all, in 2016 these projects added approximately 185 MVA to the distribution system Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Extension of Transmission and Distribution Lines the Global Compact and 84 km of new 138 kV transmission lines. G4-EU4 Wire Market (TUSD) In 2016 the load wire, which takes into account all consumers Transmission that accessed the distribution network, showed a reduction of 2.0%, compared The Company wholly owns and participates in the concession for transmission with 2015. The industrial wire market decreased by 1.4% in the year, and the most and operation corresponding to 5,552 km of transmission lines and 44 significant branches of the industrial class that reported a drop in 2016 were those substations of the basic network with transformation potential of approximately manufacturing non-metallic mineral products, wood products, rubber products, 14,602 MVA. and plastic material. 64 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Infrastructure Capital No. Of Consumers/contracts Energy Distributed (GWh) The charts show the participation of the captive market by class, compared to energy consumption and number of consumers: About Power Wire Market 2016 Dec/15 % 2016 2015 % the Report Captive market 2016 Captive market 2016 Message from Captive Market 4,478,767 4,418,062 1.4 22,328 24,043 (7.1) the President By Energy consumption By number of Consumers Utilities and Licensees 4 4 614 699 (12.2) Industry Context 1.8% Industrial About Copel Free Consumers(1) 620 129 380.6 5,273 4,045 30.4 10.7% 31% 8.5% Other Commercial Governance Residential Wire Utilities 2 2 52 56 (7.1) and Sustainability 8% 9.8% Rural Human Capital Wire Market 4,479,393 4,418,197 28,267 28,483 (2.0) Rural 1.3% Intellectual Capital (1) Total number of free consumers served by Copel Geração e Transmissão and by other suppliers within the concession Other area of Copel Distribuição. Social and Relationship Capital Captive market From January to December, captive market consumption 25.8% 80.3% Natural Capital 22.7% Industrial Residential was 22,328 GWh, with a negative variation of 7.1% compared with the same Commercial Infrastructure Capital period in 2015. The drop in captive consumption is mainly due to the economic Assets for Energy recession that began in the second quarter of 2014 and has worsened, as well Efficiency in Supply: Quality Management and Energy Loss Generation and Planning as the migration of 491 consumers to the free market in 2016, which represented Transmission and Quality and supply, measured through performance indicator of distributors in Distribution Assets a consumption of 1,296 GWh in the year. terms of continuity of services provided, known as DEC (Equivalent Duration of Commercialization The number of captive consumers billed by Copel Distribuição in December Interruption by Consumer Unit) and FEC (Equivalent Frequency of Interruption by Telecommunications 2016 was 1.4% higher than in December of the previous year, totaling 4,478,767 Consumer Unit) showed improvement in 2016 compared with the previous year. Corporate Interest consumers. G4-EU2 The improvement of the DEC was 20.8% and the FEC, 13.2%, as a result of changes Financial Capital in process, increased maintenance and preventive inspections, and performance Social Audit Energy Sold (GWh) Dec/2016 Dec/2015 % and expansion works. G4-EU28, G4-EU29 GRI Content Index Supply quality indicators Annex Incorporation Residential 6,932 6,957 (0.4) of the Principles of 14.01% the Global Compact 13.67% Industrial 5,753 6,929 (17.0) 2014 Commercial 5,059 5,530 (8.5) 10.82% 8.92% 8.33% 2015 7.23% Rural 2,179 2,256 (3.4) 2016 Other 2,405 2,371 1.4 DEC (hours)* FEC (interruptions)* Total 22,328 24,043 (7.1) *Measured in hours and hundreds of hours 65 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Infrastructure Capital Loss of energy is inherent to the nature of electricity transformation, transmission, abnormal situations occur, detecting problems and irregular procedures in metering and distribution processes. In 2016, overall losses technical, non-technical and and reducing commercial losses for Copel. About the Report of basic network represented 9.6% of the energy injected into the distribution Paraná Smart Grid Project a government project in the State of Paraná, inaugurated Message from system, a percentage that remained stable compared with 2015. the President in 2014, which gathers Copel’s efforts with that of the companies Lactec, Tecpar, G4-EU12 Industry Context Sanepar and Compagás, and aims to improve the telemetry system. It was designed Types of Losses 2014 2015 2016 About Copel to improve the quality of services and the Company’s ability to serve in the electrical Overall losses (%) 1.7 1.8 2.0 and telecommunications system. Governance Transmission and Sustainability Technical losses (%) 1.7 1.7 1.9 As part of the project, telemetry points were installed in the urban and rural areas of Human Capital Overall losses (%) 9.8 9.6 9.6 Greater Curitiba in order to test the technologies. There were also shared telemetry Intellectual Capital Distribution Technical losses (%) 6.2 6.1 6.1 facilities (joint measurement of water, energy, and gas) for consumers in the district Social and Relationship Capital of Bigorrilho, energy micro-generation with the installation of a wind turbine and Nontechnical losses (%) 1.9 1.6 2.0 Natural Capital set of solar panels added to the power grid of the Copel Distribuição km3 hub, for Technical losses, on the same basis, remained at the level of the previous year, and nonelectric cars and bicycles, and reconfiguration of distribution networks in feeders of Infrastructure Capital technical losses increased by approximately 0.4 p.p in 2016. The transmission operation, on three substations. Through the project, reading is performed every hour allowing for Assets for Energy the other hand, can register losses in the interconnected system, which are proportionately detection of problems, power outages and reading without physical displacement. Generation and Planning divided between generators and distributors, and determined by the Electric Power Transmission and In 2016, a total of BRL 3.5 million was invested in implementing new equipment Distribution Assets Marketing Chamber (Câmara de Comercialização de Energia Elétrica CCEE). in distribution networks, in reconfiguration systems in the city of Guaíra (PR), in Commercialization Compared with previous years, losses in the basic network have changed. These totals expanding monitoring of customers that access distributed generation, in installing Telecommunications refer to losses observed in the basic network of the national interconnected system, 50% 1,000 points of energy telemetering in the municipalities of Bocaiúva do Sul and Corporate Interest prorated to generators and 50% to load agents, where Copel Distribuição has a defined Campina Grande do Sul, in order to support the installation and monitoring of the Financial Capital portion reflecting its share of the market. A change in this loss profile influences the total electric charging station for electric buses in Curitiba. Social Audit amount for overall losses. GRI Content Index Mais Clic Rural In 2016, investments were made in the amount of BRL 43 million in Advances in Operational Excellence Annex Incorporation new technologies in automation and communication systems, 34/13 kV substations, of the Principles of the Global Compact Telemetering Group A Group A and B billing data is automatically obtained, and work to improve and reinforce the network. The initiative focuses on the four without the need to send someone to read the meter. Until 12/31/2016, there were sectors most sensitive to the quality of energy supply: pig farmers, tobacco farmers, 13,461 telemetric points in Hemera, corresponding to 87.9% of the consumers in group aviaries, and dairy farmers in the State of Paraná. Altogether, 70,000 rural producers A, group B with microgeneration and free (14,534). This type of distance measurement in Paraná and, indirectly, around 2.4 million rural and urban consumers may benefit. enables real time data collection (on time), optimizing the process for more precise Among the main advances made in the period is the entry into operation, in four collection, handling, and availability of data, including data for customers, via the locations, of the network automatic reconfiguration system. The technology enables Internet. The system is also capable of monitoring use of energy, issuing alarms when the isolation of possible defects and the automatic restoration of supply in the other 66 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Infrastructure Capital sections of the network. By July 2018, the goal is to take the innovation to the other in demand, is fundamental to reducing the rate of growth of generation, and 133 rural circuits in the state. postpone the need to build large plants and transmission lines that, together About the Report In addition to a series of improvements to the distribution system in rural areas, the with their benefits, are associated with large environmental impacts. Message from the President amount invested allowed for the purchase of 400 automatic branch circuit-breaker systems, 130 automatic load reconfiguration systems, and 1,000 single-phase Commercialization Industry Context About Copel reclosers. Equipped with technology still new in this country, the equipment enables Copel Comercialização, created in January 2016, established itself in the market under Governance automatic reclosing, replacing manually operated circuit reclosers installed at the the brand Copel Energia, working with a free market specialization of energy purchase and Sustainability poles. It is expected that by the end of 2017, they will all be installed avoiding about Human Capital and sale, motivated by the accelerated movement of migration of large consumers 12,000 deployments of crews per each year, to locate the defects and manually refrom the regulated market to the Free Marketing Environment ACL. In addition to Intellectual Capital connect the reclosers. Social and operating in the energy purchase and sale segment, it offers management services in Relationship Capital In the pilot project carried out in Salto do Lontra where a recloser station was the free energy market for its customers. The Company showed rapid growth, closing Natural Capital implemented and investments in network automation systems were made, the the year with 30 megawatts of average energy sold. For 2017, we expect to double Infrastructure average duration of interruptions (DEC) in the municipality was reduced by 70%. Capital the volume traded, with over 20 negotiations in progress. In the other places where the investments were made, there were 30% to 60% Assets for Energy Generation and Planning improvements in the quality indicators. Telecommunications Transmission and Distribution Assets In 2016, Copel’s rural DEC contributes 5 hours to Copel’s total DEC, with a reduction Copel Telecomunicações provides telecommunications and communications services in Commercialization of approximately 18% in Copel’s total rural DEC. general, in Multimedia Communication Service (SCM), developing studies and projects Telecommunications Distributed Generation is the generic name of the type of energy generation focused on meeting the needs of the Company and the market in general. The operation Corporate Interest that differs from the centralized generation, usually of greater size and greater Financial Capital of such services is for an indefinite term, without exclusivity, at national level. environmental impact, because it occurs next to or near consumers. Social Audit In 2016, the fiber optic network totaled 31,117 km of fiber optic cables, up 10.7% compared GRI Content Index Copel Distribuição updates technical standards and adopts best engineering with 2015, of which 10,140 km are intercity and 20,977 km are urban. This network Annex Incorporation and safety practices to connect customers that access distributed generation of the Principles of provides corporate services in 399 municipalities in Paraná, two in Santa Catarina with the Global Compact (57 independent producers or self-producers, with 600 MW of generation in broadband services in 64 municipalities in Paraná. 45 municipalities). For micro and minigerators, including operating units and units in documentary Corporate Interest processing, there are 405 units, in general, of solar generations (395 units). Copel has corporate interest and association with companies, consortiums and other They total 3.34 MW of installed power. institutions, which operate in several sectors other than energy. More information in The addition of distributed generation, although insufficient to meet the growth NE 1.1, NE 2, NE 18, and NE 19.7 of the Financial Statements. 67 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report 11 . FINANCIAL CAPITAL Net Operating Capital // Operanting Costs and Expenses // EBITDA // Financial Result // Value Added // Indebtedness // Net Profit Consumer Default // Investment Program // Relationship with Shareholders and Investors 68 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Financial Capital 11. Financial Capital G4-EC1 About the Report Message from Net Operating Revenue ■ Increase of BRL 1,588.1 million in Revenue from Electric Network Availability, the President Industry Context mainly due to the recognition of the effects of remuneration for the remeasurement In 2016, Net Operating Revenue dropped BRL 1,844.1 million, representing About Copel a 12.3% decrease compared with 2015. of cash flow as a result of Ordinance MME No. 120, regarding RBSE assets; result Governance of the 4th Tariff Review Cycle, occurred in June 2016, which increased Portion B and Sustainability by 22%; partially offset by the drop in power consumption in the wire market; Human Capital 5,231.5 Supply of Electricity Intellectual Capital 5,746.9 and by the average adjustment of -12.87% in the usage tariff. Social and Relationship Capital 2,676.1 ■ Increase of BRL 83.3 million in Revenue from Construction. The Company Natural Capital Procurement of Electricity 3,707.4 accounts for revenues related to the construction or improvement of the Infrastructure Capital infrastructure used to provide electricity or gas distribution and transmission 3,976.9 Financial Capital Availability services, which totaled BRL 1,279.6 million in 2016, and BRL 1,196.3 million in of Electrical Net Operating Network 2,388.5 Capital 2015. The respective expenses are recognized in the income statement for the Operating Costs 1,279.6 period, as cost of construction, when incurred. and Expenses Revenue from 2016 Construction EBITDA 1,196.3 2015 Financial Results 261.6 Telecommunications Value Added This variation is mainly due to: 209.9 Indebtedness ■ Decrease of BRL 515.4 million in Revenue from the Supply Electricity, Net Profit 471.9 mainly due to the 7.1% retraction in the captive market, basically as a result of the Distribution Consumer Default of Piped Gas 526.4 migration of captive consumers to the free market and of the country’s economic Investment situation; and the average reduction of 12.87% in the rate applied beginning Program June 2016. Results of Financial 1,079.7 Relationship with Assets and Liabilities in Shareholders 858.2 and Investors the Sector ■ Reduction of BRL 1,031.4 million in Supply of Electricity, mainly due to lower PLD Social Audit (Settlement Price for Differences) value in the period; and lower revenues in CCEE, 284.1 2015 GRI Content Index due to the non-activation of the Gas-Fired Thermoelectric Plant (UEG) Araucária. Other Operating Revenue Annex Incorporation 312.2 2016 of the Principles of the Global Compact 69 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Financial Capital ■ An increase of BRL 51.7 million in Revenue from Telecommunications, mainly ■ Decrease of BRL 1,347.3 million in Electricity Purchased for Resale, mainly due About due to the increase in the number of customers, especially in the retail market, to the lower LDP in the period and the impact of the GSF Generation Scaling the Report with the Copel Fibra product. Factor (risk of water shortage). Message from the President ■ Decrease of BRL 54.5 million in Revenue from Distribution of Piped Gas, due ■ Reduction of BRL 850.7 million in Natural gas and gas operation inputs reflecting Industry Context to the non-activation of UEG Araucária and the market retraction compared with the non-activation of UEG Araucária in 2016. About Copel the previous year. Governance ■ Decrease of BRL 53.5 million in Charges for the Use of the Electricity Grid mainly and Sustainability ■ Negative result of BRL 1,079.7 in the Result of the financial assets and due to lower costs of Charges on System Services ESS, offset by the increase of the Human Capital liabilities in the sector in 2016, while in 2015 the result was positive, Charge on Reserve Energy EER. Intellectual Capital at BRL 858.2 million. Social and Relationship Capital ■ A reduction of BRL 28.0 million in Other Operating Revenues, reflecting the Natural Capital lower variation in the fair value of the indemnifying assets of the concession in Manageables the amount of approximately BRL 85.0 million, offset by the increase in revenues Infrastructure Capital from services rendered, revenues from leases, and renting equipment and 2015 1,304,4 1,280.7 Financial Capital structures, and fines applied to customers who migrated from the captive market 1,251.0 2016 1,168.9 Net Operating to the free market. Capital Operating Costs and Expenses Operating Costs and Expenses 768.7 708.3 676.5 EBITDA Financial Results Unmanageables Value Added 6,032.9 210.8 Indebtedness 4,685.6 2015 Net Profit 2016 Consumer Default People and Construction cost Estimated losses, Depreciation and administrators provisions and amortization Investment Program write-back Relationship with 1,176.1 Shareholders and Investors 866.2 919.8 ■ Increase of BRL 135.6 million in Personnel and Directors, mainly reflecting the 325.4 Social Audit 33.4 199.3 salary adjustment of 9.9% in October 2015 and 9.15% in October 2016, according GRI Content Index to the collective bargaining agreement, and the variation of BRL 38.8 million of Electricity purchased Natural gas and inputs Charges for the use Raw material and inputs for Annex Incorporation for reselling for the gas operation of the electrical the production of electricity provision for compensation for voluntary resignations and pensions. of the Principles of the Global Compact network 70 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Financial Capital ■ Increase in Construction Cost, from BRL 1,251.0 million in 2015 to 2,802.9 BRL 1,280.7 million in 2016. 2,752.4 About the Report ■ Increase of BRL 557.9 million in Estimated Losses, Provisions and Reversals Message from mainly due to: provision for estimated losses for doubtful accounts, in the amount 2,357.0 the President of BRL 46.9 million; reversal for litigation in the amount of BRL 69.9 million Ebitda (BRL millions) Industry Context considering the reversal of BRL 193.4 million in the Cofins proceedings; and About Copel estimated losses for impairment of assets in the amount of BRL 647.6 million. 2014 2015 2016 Governance and Sustainability Manageables 2015 Financial Result Human Capital 550.5 2016 Intellectual Capital 519.5 The financial result decreased BRL 237.1 million due to a 16.5% increase in financial Social and 426.1 revenues, mainly due to the late payment charges of energy bills and higher income Relationship Capital 414.9 from financial investments, and a 33.1% increase in financial expenses mainly due to Natural Capital 259.8 254.3 higher monetary value, exchange rate, and debt charges. Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital 81.5 76.7 Value Added Net Operating Capital In the 2016 period, Copel recorded BRL 12,746.6 million in Total Value Added. This total is Operating Costs Third-party Services Social security plans Material Other operating costs 11.8% lower than the previous year. The variation is mainly due to the decrease in sector and Expenses And care and expenses charges in 2016. The full statement can be seen on Financial Statements. EBITDA Financial Results ■ Increase of BRL 31.0 million in third-party services, mainly due to the Value Added readjustment of contracts for inflation. 2016 2015 Indebtedness 2.1% 2.7% ■ Increase of BRL 5.4 million in Social Security and assistance plans resulting from Shareholders Shareholders Net Profit the effects of the actuarial evaluation, calculated by the contracted actuary. 5.3% 6% Consumer Retained Retained Default ■ Reduction of BRL 11.3 million in other costs and operating expenses mainly 11.6% 7.9% Investment due to the change in the method of evaluating Copel’s investment in Sanepar, Third Parties Third Parties Program which was evaluated at fair value, while in 2015 it was accounted for by the equity Relationship with method. 9.3% Shareholders 11.7% and Investors Personnel Personnel EBITDA Social Audit GRI Content Index The Company’s EBITDA in 2016 was BRL 2,752.4 million, a decrease of 69.3% 74.1% Annex Incorporation BRL 50.5 million compared with 2015, representing a reduction of 1.8%. Government Government of the Principles of the Global Compact 71 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Financial Capital Indebtedness In December 2016, consumer default for Copel Distribuição was BRL 267.3 million, equivalent to 1.61% of its revenues, whereas in 2015, default reached About the Report The Company finances liquidity and capital need with resources from operations BRL 272.8 million, or 1.81% of revenues. Message from and external financing, aiming to expand and modernize businesses associated the President Although the amount of estimated losses for doubtful accounts (PECLD ) in 2016 is Industry Context with generation, transmission, marketing, and distribution of electricity, as significant, actions to combat delinquency have provided significant gains in shortAbout Copel well as telecommunications. term delinquency indicators, presented by the Abradee5 and Corporate6 default Governance and Sustainability It is important to point out that the Company seeks to invest in corporate rates, obtaining a reduction in delinquency for both compared with 2015. Human Capital interest, to use credit lines available in the market, that make sense in Copel’s According to the Abradee criterion, delinquency reduced by 14.5% and according Intellectual Capital capital structure, regarding financial leverage concerning the return from to Corporate, by 4.7%. The reduced delinquency indicators is due to the Company’s Social and projects. We point out that our perspectives for financing, as well as cash action plan to combat the PECLD, with measures that have resulted in reduced Relationship Capital availability, will be sufficient to meet the needs of the investment plan for the Natural Capital default indicators. Infrastructure fiscal period. Capital Financial Capital Payments in the year totaled BRL 1,918.4 million, of which BRL 1,012.2 million Net Operating was principal and BRL 906.1 million from charges. Index (%) 2016 2015 Variation Capital Operating Costs Abradee Default 2.18 2.55 -14.51 and Expenses Net profit EBITDA Company Default 1.61 1.81 -11.05 Financial Results In 2016, net profit assigned to shareholders of the holding company was Value Added BRL 958.7 million, 19.6% less than the amount obtained in the previous period, Indebtedness of BRL 1.192,7 million. Net Profit Investment Program Consumer Default Consumer Default The investment program for 2016 was approved on 12/09/2015 by the 151st Ordinary Investment Meeting of the Board of Directors of Copel Holding. The investments made and Program Copel has been calculating, since 2003, the default rate for the product “energy projected for 2016 are as follows: Relationship with Shareholders and Investors supply,” using a methodology that considers consumers to be in default in Social Audit case of a debt past due for more than 15 days up to 360 days, in compliance GRI Content Index with the term of the due date notice (Aneel Resolution No. 414/2010), and the 5 Delinquency Index Abradee criterion: i = ∑ Default (1 to 90 days) / Invoicing 12 months Annex Incorporation of the Principles of recognition of loss of past due debits is excluded. 6 Delinquency Index Corporate criterion: i = ∑ Energy default (16 to 360 days) / Invoicing 12 months the Global Compact 72 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Financial Capital Realized Realized Variation % Planned Markets in which Copel’s shares are traded Companies (BRL million) 2016 2015 2016-2014 2017 About the Report Copel opened its capital stock on the market in April 1994, on the São Paulo Generation and Transmission 1,879.2 1,373.3 36.8 570.3 Message from Stock Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA) and became the first company in the the President Distribution 777.1 656.4 18.4 629.6 Brazilian electricity sector listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in Industry Context July 1997. Since June 2002, the company has also been present in the European About Copel Telecommunications 193.8 105.4 83.9 164.3 Economic Community with its entry into Latibex the Latin American arm Governance and Sustainability Wind Farm Projects (1) 722.2 229.3 245.2 638.6 of the Madrid Stock Exchange. On May 7, 2008, the shares were traded at Human Capital Corporate Governance Level 1 of the São Paulo Stock Exchange. Since 2005, Others (2) 3.1 20.4 32.1 Intellectual Capital Copel’s shares have been included in the ISE Corporate Sustainability Index Social and Total 3,575.4 2,364.7 51.2 2,034.9 of BM&FBOVESPA. In 2016, for the second consecutive year, it became part Relationship Capital (1) Includes Brisa Potiguar, Cutia Empreendimentos Eólicos, and São Bento Energia. of the sustainability index of Morgan Stanley Capital International MSCI, a Natural Capital (2) Includes Holding, Copel Renováveis, Copel Comercialização, among others. global leader in the composition of financial indexes, and was also selected to Infrastructure Capital be part of the portfolio of the FTSE4Good Emerging Index, an index linked to Financial Capital Relationship with shareholders and investors FTSE 100, of the London Stock Exchange. The seals of MSCI ESG, FTSE4Good Net Operating Capital and ISE are awarded to companies that show excellent performance in the At the end of 2016, a total of 25,742 shareholders participated in Copel’s capital Operating Costs stock, corresponding to BRL 7,910.0 million, represented by 273,655,000 shares, social, environmental and corporate governance areas. and Expenses with no par value. EBITDA Financial Results Distribution of dividends and interest on shareholders’ equity Value Added Indebtedness In accordance with Law 9,249/1995, Copel adopts, as a policy, the distribution Net Profit of interest on capital in replacement of dividends, in whole or in part. Consumer Default Pursuant to the by-laws, the amount of dividends distributed is at least 25% of Investment adjusted net income, in accordance with article 202 and its paragraphs of Law Program 6,404/1976. Relationship with Shareholders and Investors Tag Along Social Audit Copel guarantees tag along rights for its minority common shares, assuring its holders GRI Content Index the minimum price of 80% of the amount paid for shares in the controlling block. Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact 73 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report 12 . SOCIAL AUDIT 74 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social Audit SOCIAL AUDIT December 31, 2016 and 2015 (Amounts expressed in BRL thousands, except when stated otherwise) About G4-9 the Report Message from 1 CALCULATION BASE 2016 2015 the President EN 32 Net revenue (NR) 13,101,753 14,945,844 Industry Context About Copel 2 INTERNAL SOCIAL INDICATORS % Over NR % Over NR Governance and Sustainability EN 33.2 Management remuneration 20,885 0.2 19,194 0.1 Human Capital Employee remuneration 920,726 7.0 842,948 5.6 Intellectual Capital Food and meals (meal allowances and others) 131,629 1.0 119,410 0.8 Social and Mandatory payroll taxes and benefits 307,057 2.3 271,225 1.8 Relationship Capital Pension Plan 76,583 0.6 68,091 0.5 Natural Capital Health (assistance plan) 205,458 1.6 205,291 1.4 Infrastructure Training and professional development 10,705 0.1 10,600 0.1 Capital EN 33.2 Profit sharing 64,814 0.5 78,462 0.5 Financial Capital Employee compensation and severance pay 47,005 0.4 6,905 Social Audit (1) ther benefits 16,336 0.1 16,119 0.1 GRI Content Index TOTAL 1,801,198 13.7 1,638,245 11.0 Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact 3 EXTERNAL SOCIAL INDICATORS % Over NR % Over NR Culture 11,672 0.1 7,568 0.1 Health and sanitation 637 3,121 Sports 712 1,801 Others 62,318 0.5 99,710 0.7 Research & Development 38,005 0.3 37,840 0.3 Energy Efficiency Program 11,459 0.1 38,666 0.3 Morar Bem Program 5,142 12,769 0.1 Morar Bem Program 2,447 3,833 Others 5,265 6,602 Total contributions to society 75,339 0.6 112,200 0.8 Taxes (excluding payroll taxes) 8,591,151 65.6 10,495,595 70.2 75 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social Audit Total 8,666,490 66.1 10,607,795 71.0 4 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS % Over NR % Over NR About Investments related to the company’s operations 299,893 2.3 492,277 3.3 the Report Investments in programs and/or external projects 703 856 Message from the President Total 300,597 2.3 493,133 3.3 Industry Context (2) Number of environmental sanctions 1 1 About Copel Amount of environmental sanctions (BRL thousand) 19 132 Environmental Goals 2016 Goals 2017 Governance and Sustainability ( ) does not have goals ( ) does not have goals Human Capital ( ) fulfills 0 to 50% ( ) fulfills 0 to 50% Regarding the establishment of annual goals to minimize waste, overall consumption in production/operation, and increase Intellectual Capital efficiency in the use of natural resources, the Company: ( ) fulfills 51% to 75% ( ) fulfills 51% to 75% Social and (x) fulfills 76% to 100% (x) fulfills 76% to 100% Relationship Capital EN Explanatory Note Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital 5 WORKFORCE INDICATORS (INCLUDING SUBSIDIARIES) 2016 2015 Financial Capital Number of employees at the end of the year 8,716 8,813 Social Audit Number of hires during the year 97 234 GRI Content Index Employee schooling Men Women Total Men Women Total Annex Incorporation Total Higher and postgraduate 3,098 1,320 4,418 2,993 1,289 4,282 of the Principles of the Global Compact Total Secondary 3,500 629 4,129 3,673 670 4,343 Total Primary 61 8 169 181 7 188 Employee Age Group From 18 to 30 (exclusive) 878 1,100 From 30 to 45 (exclusive) 4,290 4,257 From 45 to 60 (exclusive) 3,432 3,371 60 or older 116 85 Women working in the company 1,957 1,966 % of women in management positions: in relation to the total number of women 5.7 5.4 in relation to the total number of managers 20.1 19.9 Blacks working in the company 970 981 % of blacks in management positions 76 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social Audit in relation to the total number of blacks 3.6 3.3 in relation to the total number of managers 6.3 6.0 About the Report Employees with special needs 223 207 Message from Dependents 14,711 15,580 the President (3) Outsourced 5,670 6,457 Industry Context (4) Apprentice(s) 227 252 About Copel (4) Intern(s) 292 333 Governance and Sustainability Number of labor suits in course at the end of the year 4,476 4,795 Human Capital Number of labor suits terminated in the period 1,128 1,011 Intellectual Capital Social and 6 RELEVANT INFORMATION ON CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 2016 2015 Relationship Capital Ratio of highest to lowest remuneration in the company 19 19 Natural Capital (5) Total number of work-related accidents (includes accidents involving contractors) 132 125 Infrastructure Capital Total number of consumer complaints and grievances: in the company 43,453 43,360 Financial Capital (6) at second level 3,738 998 Social Audit in court 3,644 2,649 GRI Content Index % of complaints addressed or solved Annex Incorporation of the Principles of in the company 99.0% 99.3% the Global Compact (6) at second level 92.4% 94.5% in court 15.0% 17.1% 2016 GOALS 2017 The company’s social and environmental projects were defined by Board and management Board and management Workplace safety and sanitary standards were defined by All + Cipa All + Cipa Regarding freedom of association, right to collective bargaining and internal worker representation, the company Encourages and follows ILO Encourages and follows ILO Private pension plan covers All All Profit sharing program covers All All In selecting suppliers, the same ethical, social responsibility and environmental standards adopted by the company are required will be required 77 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Social Audit Regarding employee participation in volunteer work, the company organizes and encourages will organize and encourage About 7GENERATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF WEALTH 2016 2015 the Report Total value added for distribution 12,746,577 14,456,447 Message from the President Industry Context Distribution of Value Added (DVA) About Copel Third parties 11.6% 7.9% Governance Personnel 11.7% 9.3% and Sustainability Government 69.3% 74.1% Human Capital Shareholders 2.1% 4.9% Intellectual Capital Retained 5.3% 11.8% Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital 8 OTHER INFORMATION Infrastructure Capital • After 2010, the Instituto Brasileiro de Análises Sociais e Econômicas Ibase has no longer prescribed its standard model for Social Audit, understanding that this tool and methodology are already broadly disseminated among companies, consulting companies and institutes that promote corporate social responsibility in Brazil. For this reason, Copel, which had been using this model since 1999, decided, based on Ibase recommendation, to improve its Financial Capital Social Audit Statement, also addressing information requested in NBCT 15 aiming to ensure transparency of its information. Social Audit • The explanatory notes ENs are an integral part of the Financial Statements and contain additional social and environmental information not covered in this Social Audit. GRI Content Index Annex Incorporation • This Social Audit contains data related to Copel holding, wholly-owned subsidiaries, associated companies and consortiums due to the consolidation of their results, unless indicated otherwise. of the Principles of the Global Compact (1) The item Other Benefits is composed of: Complementary Illness Assistance, Extended Maternity Assistance, Insurance, Surplus Transport Allowance and Assistance for Permanent Injury, Accidental Death, Daycare Assistance, Education, Culture and Occupational Health and Safety Assistance. (2) This information refers to social and environmental fines and notifications for Copel holding and its wholly-owned subsidiaries: Copel Distribuição S.A., Copel Geração e Transmissão S.A., Copel Telecomunicações S.A., Copel Comercialização S.A. and Copel Renováveis S.A. The original amounts are disclosed; these may be altered in accordance with the administrative defense presented to the environmental body. The amounts of the sanctions are proportional to Copel’s interest in the projects. Amounts related to Terms of Commitment TCs and Terms of Conduct Adjustment TACs are classified as external social or environmental, depending on the specific nature of each. (3) This number corresponds to the total number of contractors hired in the year regardless of the number of hours worked. It does not represent the number of outsourced work positions. Neither does it cover the contractors engaged in the implementation of the work of Copel Geração e Transmissão and subsidiaries (Plants, Transmission Lines and Substations) or those engaged in the expansion of the Copel Telecom system. (4) Not part of the staff. (5) Calculated through the methodology used in the GRI Sustainability Report G4 indicator LA6. (6) Includes the complaints in PROCON, Ombudsman’s Office, Consumer.gov, ANEEL and ANATEL deemed founded. 78 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report This is Priscilla Lima da Silva This is Everton Farias Dias 13. GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Content Index // Audit Report 79 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index 13. GRI Content Index G4-32 The following table presents the indicators of the GRI guidelines reported in this publication and the identification of their location throughout About the Report the contents of the Report or their direct response. Key: Indicators with external assurance Message from the President Global Industry Context Indicator Details or reference page Compact About Copel Strategy and Analysis Governance G4-1 Message from the president 7, 9 All and Sustainability G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 7, 9, 15, 16, 21 Human Capital Organizational Profile Intellectual Capital G4-3 Name of the organization 12 Social and G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 12 Relationship Capital G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 12 Natural Capital G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 12 Infrastructure Capital G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 12 Financial Capital G4-8 Markets served 12 Social Audit G4-9 Scale of the organization 12, 30, 75 G4-10 Employee profile 30 6 Male GRI Content Index By Category Male Female Total By Career Male Female Total By Region Male Female Total Audit Report Board Member 41 2 43 Employee 122 122 South 6,554 1,894 8,448 Operational Annex Incorporation Director 24 – 24 Manager 1 1 Southeast 14 – 14 of the Principles of the Global Compact *Employee 6,204 1,792 7,996 Midwest 55 5 60 Technical Prof. High Employee 1,876 133 2,009 *Manager 427 108 535 Northeast 8 1 9 School Degree Manager 33 1 34 Intern 114 163 277 North – – – Prof. High School Employee 3,396 1,320 4,716 *Direct employees Workload/day Male Female Total Degree Manager 90 38 128 4 workdays 36 31 67 Male Female Total Employee 810 339 1,149 Prof. University 6 workdays 186 331 517 Total of Employees 6,631 1,900 8,531 Degree Manager 303 69 372 8 workdays 6,409 1,538 7,947 23 The Company has a relationship with 19 unions representing the various classes of workers and, throughout the year, holds meetings to discuss matters of mutual interest. On the base date (October), this relationship intensifies when unions and Copel discuss the demands to reach the G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Collective Labor Agreement (ACT). Compliance with the clauses of the ACTs mitigates possible problems involving unions and employees. In 1,2,3 addition, dismissals for just cause are preceded by a summary administrative proceeding, regulated by an internal administrative norm, which guarantees the employee the right to defense. G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 44 All 80 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index G4-13 Significant changes regarding size, structure, ownership, and supply chain 64 G4-14 Description of how the organization applies the precautionary 21 About the Report G4-15 Externally developed social charters, principles, or other initiatives 4, 26, 52, 95 All Message from G4-16 Memberships of associations and organizations 26, 95 All the President Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Industry Context G4-17: All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements 4, 14 About Copel G4-18 Process for defining the report content 5 Governance and Sustainability G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 6 Human Capital G4-20 Aspect boundary, within the organization, of each material aspect All relevant and strategic aspects are material within Copel and for all of its businesses. Intellectual Capital G4-21 Aspect boundary, outside the organization, of each material aspect Social and Capitals used in Strategic and relevant aspects for the success Relationship Capital Relevant Indicators Relevance to stakeholders our businesses of our business in the medium and long term Natural Capital Governance, Ethics and Compliance All Copel stakeholders Infrastructure Human Capital Management Employees and contractors Capital Human capital Occupational Health and Safety Employees, contractors and regulatory agencies Financial Capital Culture of Innovation All Copel stakeholders Social Audit Intellectual Capital Risk and Crisis Management All Copel stakeholders GRI Content Index Customer and Consumer Relationship Clients and consumers Social and Audit Report Supplier Management All Copel stakeholders Relationship Capital Annex Incorporation Relationship with the Community All Copel stakeholders of the Principles of the Global Compact Climate Change All Copel stakeholders Natural Capital Operational Excellence and Eco-eﬀiciency All Copel stakeholders Ecosystems All Copel stakeholders Energy Planning and New Assets All Copel stakeholders Infrastructure Capital All Copel stakeholders, more speciﬁcally Economic and Financial Performance governments and partners Regulatory Aﬀairs Management Regulatory agencies, customers and consumers Financial Capital Access to Capital Customers and consumers 4 G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports Restatements in the information are provided throughout the report, together with the context of the change G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect 4, 6 boundaries 81 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Stakeholder engagement About G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4, 5 All the Report G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom the company engages 4, 6 Message from the President G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 4, 6 Industry Context G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised during the engagement, by 5 About Copel stakeholder group Concerns raised during previous cycle engagements are listed on page 3 of the 2015 Report, available online. Governance G4-28 Reporting period 4 and Sustainability G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 4 Human Capital G4-30 Reporting cycle 4 Intellectual Capital G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 6 Social and Relationship Capital G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option and location of the GRI Content Index 4, 80 a 91 Natural Capital G4-33 Policy and current practices with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 4, 92 10 Infrastructure Capital Governance Financial Capital G4-34 Governance structure of the organization and its composition 19 Social Audit G4-35 Process for delegating authority from the highest governance body for economic, 18, 25 GRI Content environmental, and social topics Index G4-36 Process to appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether such post holders report directly 18, 25 All Audit Report to the highest governance body Annex Incorporation of the Principles of 5 the Global Compact The Board of Directors consults stakeholders directly and indirectly through various representatives, focusing on economic, G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body environmental, and social issues, and delegating consultations to the Company’s departments and receiving consolidated feedback. All on economic, environmental and social topics Copel’s Business Development Department is responsible for analyzing business opportunities, as well as social and environmental risk assessment in the phase before project implementation. The results of the assessments are presented for approval at meetings with the Executive Board and the Board of Directors. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 19, 20 G4-39 Chair of the highest governance body 20 G4-40 Selection criteria and nomination processes for the highest governance body and 20, 21 its committees More information is available online. Those elected to the Company’s Board of Directors sign a statement of independence, which contains a clause on issues concerning G4-41 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 10 conflict of interest. G4-42 Roles of the highest governance body and senior executives in the development of 18, 19 All policies and goals to manage impacts The Board of Directors directs, approves and revises the annual plan for business processes and management of the Company. 82 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index 22 In 2016, Copel Board members participated in the Training Program for Board Members, provided by Fundação Dom Cabral, where the current trends of Corporate Governance, importance of stakeholder engagement, understanding of the main financial About G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective statements and their economic and financial analysis, legal risks, and the correlation between transparency and accountability the Report All knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics and the Company’s reputation were discussed, with an analysis of various case studies. Also discussed was the modern concept Message from of corporate responsibility that includes continuity of the organizations and the creation of job opportunities, training of the the President workforce, stimulation of scientific development, guarantee of human rights, freedom of association and fair trade, among other forms of creating wealth for society. Industry Context G4-44 Process for delegating authority from the highest governance body for economic, 22 All About Copel environmental, and social topics Governance G4-45 Responsibility for the implementation of economic, environmental and social policies 18, 21, 25 and Sustainability G4-46 Role of governance in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk Human Capital 21 management processes for economic, environmental and social aspects Intellectual Capital G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of impacts, risks, and 20 opportunities Social and Relationship Capital On 03/28/2017, the Board of Directors (CAD) approved the presentation of relevant and strategic aspects, described in the Report and G4-48 Formal approval of the organization’s sustainability report defined regarding business risks and impacts for society, the strategic communication materials of the Report for various stakeholders, Natural Capital publicly assumed sustainability commitments, as well as reported sustainability performance values and expected results. Infrastructure G4-49 Process used for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 21 10 Capital G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest Financial Capital 21 governance body and solutions adopted Social Audit G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body 21 GRI Content Index G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 22 Audit Report G4-53 Participation of stakeholders concerning remuneration Stakeholders do not participate in the company’s remuneration process. Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact The ratio of the total remuneration of the highest paid individual to the total annual average remuneration of all employees is 7.33. G4-54 Ratio between the highest salary and the overall average of the organization Remuneration data includes non-variable base remuneration and does not include benefits and variable pay (e.g. profit sharing and bonuses). 31 The increase in total annual remuneration of the highest-paid individual amounts to 0.86 times the average increase of the total annual G4-55 Ratio between the increase in the highest salary and the average increase of the remuneration of other employees. Percentage increase in the total annual average remuneration of all employees of the organization is organization 10.62%. Percentage increase in remuneration of the highest paid individual of the organization is 9.15%. Remuneration data includes nonvariable base remuneration and does not include benefits and variable pay (e.g. profit sharing and bonuses). Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 13, 23, 24 All G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms to provide guidance on ethical and lawful 24 10 behavior G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms adopted by the organization to communicate 24 10 concerns about behaviors that are unethical or incompatible with legislation 83 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Global Indicator Details or reference page About Compact the Report Economic Aspect Message from the President Economic Performance Industry Context G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 32, 49, 69 a 73 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 About Copel G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s 52 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 activities due to climate change Governance and Sustainability Market Presence Human Capital Variation between the lowest wage and the minimum wage: 1.97 Variation between the lowest wage and the minimum wage Men: 1.97 Intellectual Capital G4-EC5 Variation of the ratio between the lowest wage and the local minimum wage 1, 2, 6 Variation between the lowest wage and the minimum wage Women: 2.13 National minimum wage on 12/31/2015: BRL 880.00 Social and Relationship Capital 47 4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided for In addition to the investments included in the report, Copel Geração e Transmissão invested another 2.13 million in social projects. This 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 Natural Capital public benefit data was not available during the reporting period, which is why it could not be ensured. Infrastructure G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 43, 45 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 Capital Procurement Practices Financial Capital G4-EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers 44 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 Social Audit Environmental Aspect GRI Content Index Energy Audit Report G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 56 7, 8 Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Water the Global Compact G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 55 7, 8 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 55 8 Biodiversity Copel Distribuição has 8,208.4 km of transmission lines with voltages ranging from 69 to 500kV. Of this total, only 82.146 km in full Protection conservation units, according to the National System of Protected Areas (SNUC), only 0.96% – of its total extension. G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Copel Geração e Transmissão has 27,277 km of high voltage distribution lines in Fully Protected Areas in the State of Paraná, according to 8 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas SNUC. Copel Renováveis does not have its own, leased or managed areas in Fully Protected Areas, according to SNUC. G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 58 8 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 59, 60 8 84 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and in other conservation lists with habitats 8 in areas affected by operations of the organization About Copel Geração e Transmissão: The most recent information presented refers mainly to the wildlife and flora data Copel Distribuição: The main species found in forest suppression inventories is Araucaria angustifolia (pranicthe Report v affected by the most important Generation project, which is in the final phase of implementation at the moment, paraná), considered critically endangered on the IUCN red list. Among the species listed by the IUCN were: which is the Colíder Plant. Cedrella fissilis (cedar) endangered and Ocotea puberula (canela-guaicá) of l concern. Also, Dicksonia sellowiana Message from (xaxim) is considered endangered on national and state lists. Aiming to reduce the suppression of vegetation when the President ENDANGERED SPECIES implementing distribution lines, the Internal Program to Minimize Impacts on the forest cover is executed. Critically Copel Renováveis S.A.: Of the species of vascular plants surveyed in the present studies carried out in the Industry Context Endangered Vulnerable Near threatened Least concern Copel Renováveis projects, five appear on some of the consulted endangered species lists. The species endangered Griffinia gardneriana (Herb.) Ravenna appears on Ministry of the Environment (MMA) Ordinance No. About Copel 3 12 28 1 21 443/2014 as “endangered” (EN). Tacinga inamoena (K.Schum.) NPTaylor & Stuppy, Cereus jamacaru DC and Pilosocereus catingicola (Gürke) Byles & Rowley, belonging to the family Cactaceae, are listed in Appendix II of Governance the CITES list, which is also considered “LC” by IUCN for the State of Rio Grande do Norte. The species Catasetum and Sustainability sp., listed in Appendix II (species not necessarily endangered, but whose marketing must be controlled to avoid exploitation incompatible with its survival) was also identified on the CITES list. Human Capital Emissions Intellectual Capital G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 53 7,8 Social and Relationship Capital G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the acquisition of energy (Scope 2) 53 7, 8 Natural Capital G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 53 7, 8 Infrastructure Capital G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Intensity of emissions (ton of CO2 eq scope 1 and 2) by Net Operating Revenue reached in BRL thousand: 0.041. Financial Capital G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 53 7, 8 ,9 Social Audit G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) COPEL does not maintain production, import or export activities of ODS. 7,8 GRI Content Index Air Emissions 2016 (t) Audit Report Annex Incorporation NOx 709 of the Principles of SOx 2764 the Global Compact G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Emission of Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) 0 7,8 Emission of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 0.20 Emission of Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) 0 Emission of Particulate Matter (PM) 709 Effluents and Waste In 2016, Copel’s administrative facilities, in the State of Paraná, discharged 119,788.92 m³ of sanitary wastewater* in collecting public G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination networks or in controlled septic tanks. 8 *Generation of sanitary wastewater calculated according to NBR 7229, coefficient of return water-sewer = 0.8. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 57 8 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for In the case of Copel Geração e Transmissão, there was a Terms of Adjustment of Conduct (TAC), which covers two judicial 8 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations proceedings, in which six court deposits totaling BRL 1,200,000.00 were made. There were no sanctions. 85 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Suppliers 44 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria For legislation-related issues as well as due to the fact that Copel is a mixed economy company, the bidding processes follow the 8 About the Report applicable legislation, therefore not allowing for the selection of suppliers based on environmental criteria. G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply Message from At Copel, there is currently no mapping of significant negative environmental impacts in the supply chain. 8 the President chain and actions taken Social Aspect Industry Context Labor practices and decent work About Copel Employment Governance and Sustainability G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 30 6 Human Capital New Hires 2014 2015 2016 Turnover rate 2014 2015 2016 Intellectual Capital Total 211 225 95 Overall (%) 0 2.42 1.7 Social and Male 131 144 70 Male (%) 2.51 2.17 1.38 Relationship Capital Female 80 81 25 Female (%) 3.82 3.31 2.78 Natural Capital New hires by age group and location 2014 2015 2016 Under 30 7.83 0 3.25 Infrastructure Capital Under 30 112 114 47 30 to 50 1.85 0 0.94 Financial Capital 30 to 50 93 99 45 Over 50 2.1 0 3.31 Social Audit Over 50 6 4 3 Southern Region 2.44 0 1.65 GRI Content Southern Region 208 222 90 Southeast 0 0 5.56 Index Southeast 0 0 0 Midwest 4.76 0 3.97 Audit Report Midwest 3 3 3 Northeast 0 0 20 Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Northeast 0 0 2 North 0 0 0 the Global Compact North 0 0 0 32 Copel offers a package of benefits that contribute to the well-being of all employees: Food Aid, Snack Aid, Daycare Assistance, Extended Maternity Leave, Extended Paternity Leave, Profit Sharing, Advance of the 13th Salary, Education Aid, Foreign Language Training, Advance on Vacation Bonus, Vacation Allowance, Flexible Hours, Assistance to People with Disabilities, Assistance to G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or employees with dependents with Disabilities, Professional Rehabilitation and Readjustment Program, Award for Traffic Safety, 1,2,6 part-time employees Complementing Disability Insurance, Chemical Dependency Program, Vaccination. Quality of Life Benefits Internal Games, SESI Games, Pre Retirement program, Health and Energy Space, Copel Choir, Hours during work days for volunteer work. Benefits offered through the Copel Foundation Private Pension Plan, Peculio Plan, Medical, Hospital, Dental, and Pharmaceutical Assistance Plan, and Loans with interest rates lower than those practiced by the market. In all, maternity and paternity leave in the period, respectively, 112 and 283, and 98.21% returned after taking a maternity leave: 110 and G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 6 100% after taking a paternity leave: 283 Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 35 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities 86 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Training and Education About the Report G4-LA9 Average number of training hours per year by employee 32 6 Message from G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 33 6 the President Industry Context G4-LA11 Percentage of employees regularly receiving performance reviews 32 6 About Copel Diversity and Equal Opportunity Governance and Sustainability G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by employee 6 category, by gender, age group, minority group, and other indicators of diversity Human Capital Intellectual Capital 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Social and Profile of individuals who are part of the governance bodies (%) By Category (%) Profile of Copel employees (%) Relationship Capital Men 96 97 95 Operational 1.63 1.58 1.44 Men 78.2 77.87 77.73 Natural Capital Women 4 3 5 Technical Prof. High School Degree 23.98 24.03 23.9 Women 21.8 22.13 22.27 Infrastructure Capital Under 30 0 13 0 Prof. High School Degree 57.08 57.15 56.8 Under 30 * * 10.05 Financial Capital 30 to 50 28 13 20 Prof. University Degree 17.32 17.25 17.8 30 to 50 * * 67.78 Social Audit Over 50 50 50 80 Over 50 * * 22.15 Blacks / mixed 4 3 0 People with disabilities or special needs 2.2 2.36 2.58 GRI Content Index * Values are not informed Blacks / mixed 11.6 11.34 11.33 Audit Report Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices the Global Compact 44 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria For legislation-related issues as well as due to the fact that Copel is a mixed economy company, the bidding processes follow 1,2,7,8 the applicable legislation, therefore not allowing for the selection of suppliers based on environmental criteria. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the Currently, Copel does not have programs in place for mapping negative impacts related to labor practices in the value chain. 1,2,7,8 supply chain Human Resources Investments G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts 44 2 that include human rights clauses. Neither Copel Renováveis nor Copel Geração have management over the indicator yet. Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous people In 2016, there were no cases of violation of the rights of Indigenous and traditional people. 1 and actions taken 87 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Supplier Assessment for Human Rights 44 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria For legislation-related issues as well as due to the fact that Copel is a mixed economy company, the bidding processes follow 1,2 About the applicable legislation, therefore not allowing for the selection of suppliers based on environmental criteria. the Report G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain Currently, Copel doesn’t have programs of mapping of negative impacts related to human rights in supply chain. 1,2 Message from and actions taken the President Society Industry Context Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, About Copel 47 1,2,7,8 and local development programs Governance G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on and Sustainability 46 1,2,7,8 local communities Human Capital Anti-corruption 4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption Intellectual Capital 24 10 and the significant risks identified Social and G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 23, 24 10 Relationship Capital G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 23 10 Natural Capital Public Policies Infrastructure The 2016 elections did not include financial donations from Copel. Given its quasi-public composition, the Company is legally Capital G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 10 constrained to make this type of contribution. Financial Capital Anti-competitive Behavior Social Audit G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Copel does not have pending or closed lawsuits. 10 monopoly practices and their outcomes GRI Content Compliance Index G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions In 2016, there was a fine of BRL 491,187.70 at Copel Telecomunicações. In addition, the amount of BRL 1,321,243.63 was paid by Copel Audit Report for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Geração e Transmissão. There were no non-monetary sanctions or lawsuits brought through arbitration mechanisms. Annex Incorporation Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society of the Principles of the Global Compact 44 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts For legislation-related issues as well as due to the fact that Copel is a mixed economy company, the bidding processes follow 1,2,7,8, 10 on society the applicable legislation, therefore not allowing for the selection of suppliers based on environmental criteria. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain 44 1,2,7,8, 10 and actions taken At Copel, there is currently no mapping of significant negative impacts on the supply chain in society. Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Related to Impacts on Society 42 G4-SO11 Number of grievances related to impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved At Copel, there is currently no systemic process for recording and managing complaints and claims specifically related to through formal grievance mechanisms impacts on society. Product Responsibility Product and Service Labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 41, 42 Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations In 2016, there was no case of non-compliance associated with quality in Tele Service (INS, Iab and ICO Indices), Quality in Distribution concerning the provision and use of products and services of Services DIC, FIC, and DIMIC or Supply Voltage Levels. 88 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Sector Supplement About Global the Report Indicator Details or reference page Compact Message from Organizational Profile the President G4-EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and regulatory regime 60 Industry Context About Copel G4-EU2 Net energy output, by primary energy source and regulatory regime 60, 65 Governance G4-EU3 Number of residential, industrial, and trade accounts 41 and Sustainability G4-EU4 Extension of transmission and distribution lines, aerial and underground, broken Human Capital 64 down by regulatory system Intellectual Capital Management of Demand for Electric Power Social and G4-DMA EU7 Management programs for demand, including residential, trade, institutional, Relationship Capital 43 and industrial Natural Capital Research & Development Infrastructure G4-DMA EU8 R&D activity and expenditure aimed at providing more reliable electricity Capital 37 1, 7,8 and promoting sustainable development Financial Capital Breakdown of investment in R&D Copel Distribuição: 2016 Breakdown of investment in R&D Copel Geração e Transmissão: 2016 Social Audit Project Management 871,407.97 Energy Efficiency 1,065,709.43 Alternative sources for power generation 340,792.86 Alternative sources for power generation 2,335,641.84 GRI Content Index Metering, billing, and fighting commercial losses 584,740.44 Management of Watersheds and Reservoirs 106,191.53 Audit Report Environment 3,038,763.98 Environment 2,848,883.92 Annex Incorporation Operation of Electric Power Systems 2,891,060.93 Operation of Electric Power Systems 2,316,348.71 of the Principles of the Global Compact Planning Electric Power Systems 940,682.01 Planning Electric Power Systems 1,118,679.04 Other projects 934,524.12 Quality and Reliability of Electric Power Services 3,900.80 Supervision, Control, and Protection of Electric Power Systems 4,496,446.91 Supervision, Control, and Protection of Electric Power Systems 2,427,165.11 Safety 3,606,331.53 Safety 3,074,958.76 Total 17,704,750.75 Total 15,297,479.14 Availability and Reliability G4-DMA EU6 Management approach to ensure shortand long-term electricity availability 63 and reliability The Operation and Maintenance (O&M) processes for Copel Geração have a management model supported by Reliability to maintenance planning, team management, material management, equipment registration, event registration, techniques. The Operation and Maintenance Based on Reliability (O&MBC) is a structured process that aims, through the management of occurrence analysis, and calculation of equipment performance indicators. analysis of cause and effect, to define the ideal policies for failure management to prevent or limit the consequences of The ONS annually publishes the Annual Performance Report (RAD), where the results of all centrally dispatched plants functional failures and their relationships (health, environment, safety and costs), when applied to any physical asset, are compiled by ONS. In this report, the results of the generation agents are individually compared to the average of the considering their operational context. other agents. These reports show that the performance of Copel Geração e Transmissão’s plants, in addition to the plants In addition to this structured procedure, a set of O&M process support tools such as Meeting to Analyze Occurrence where the company provides operating and maintenance services, is above the performance of other plants centrally of Failures in Generating Units (ANAOCO) and Support App Portal (OMNI/GMG) is applied. The activities are related dispatched by ONS. 89 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Availability and Reliability G4-EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the shortand Generation expansion planning is conducted by the Energy Research Company EPE, considering the entire load of the National About long terms Interconnected System – SIN. In 2016, the amount was 771MW. the Report System Efficiency Message from G4-EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy (%) 66 the President Biodiversity Industry Context Copel mitigates impacts on ecosystems through compensation, but at the moment does not make the comparison between the affected About Copel G4-EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas 7,8 and compensated habitats. Governance Labor Practices and Employment and Sustainability G4-DMA EU14 Programs and processes that ensure the availability of skilled labor 32, 34 1,2,5 Human Capital G4-EU15 Percentage of employees with a right to retirement in the next 5 to 10 years, Intellectual Capital There are 1,073 (12.56% of total) of employees subject to retirement between 2016 and 2021, and 2,183 (25.6%) between 2016 e 2026. 1,2,5 broken down by functional category and region Social and In 2016, a total of 2,642 outsourced and subcontracted employees of Copel Geração e Transmissão were subjected to health and safety training. Relationship Capital Due to the great turnover of the employees hired, and the characteristics of the contracts (on demand, for example), there is no way to tell what G4-EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone percentage of contractors were trained. The company adopts, as a rule, safety integration training for all its contractors. At Copel Distribuição, 1,2,5 Natural Capital relevant health and safety training this figure totaled 5,367 outsourced and subcontracted employees, representing 100%. In the case of the Holding Company Copel Renováveis, and Copel Comercialização, there were 160 workers. Infrastructure Capital Local Communities Financial Capital G4-DMA EU19 Stakeholder participation in the decision making processes related to energy 7,8 Social Audit planning and infrastructure development Description of the roles of the main stakeholders in the Company’s decision-making processes: Participation of stakeholders occurs in various ways, according to the phase of each project. GRI Content Index Copel Holding: schedules and approves all of Copel’s investment decisions. In the case of Implementation of infrastructure projects: Government of the State of Paraná: controls the common shares and maintains administrative control of Copel Holding, the community is consulted directly through public hearings conducted by the licensing body and indirectly through Audit Report is involved in all strategic decisions of Copel and its subsidiaries. permits/licenses/no opposition; is involved throughout the social and environmental licensing process; Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME): acts directly and indirectly (through its affiliated companies) in the long term stakeholders: involved through the social and environmental programs defined during the licensing process. Annex Incorporation investment decision making process. Agencies linked to the MME: of the Principles of In the case of acquisitions of assets, completion of acquisition of any asset depends on approval of regulatory agencies, the Global Compact National Electricity Agency (ANEEL) normalizes and supervises all services provided by Copel Distribuição. It has the such as ANEEL, CADE Administrative Council for Economic Defense, and Financing Agencies, in addition to the necessary role of adjusting and reconciling the interests of society as a whole and the energy distribution companies; internal approval (Executive Board and Board of Directors), and the entire process is monitored by the Court of Auditors of Energy Research Company (EPE) plans transmission lines, in line with the needs for Copel Distribuição; the State. Operator of the National Integrated Grid (ONS) operates the national integrated grid and detects problems and In the case of preparation of projects for participation of energy auctions, several agencies participate in the process, where appoints solutions for the network of Distribution Companies. the environmental agency (IAP / Departments of the Environment/IBAMA) is a licensing agency and several others as Consumer Council: Represents the various classes of consumers of electricity in all levels of planning. intervening agencies (FUNAI, Fundação Palmares, Agência Nacional de Águas ANA, INCRA, IPHAN, Instituto das Águas do Paraná); Federal and State Prosecutors, Local Universities and Municipal and State governments also participate in the Organized civil society: Is represented by governmental and non-governmental bodies for discussions on process. infrastructure projects, representations, or organized trade unions. The areas coordinating and executing the project are structured to provide information and details on all resources Municipal Government a stakeholder in all decision-making processes in infrastructure projects. involved and ensure the participation of stakeholders, including vulnerable stakeholders, pursuant to the environmental Environmental agencies and intervenors: analyze and approve environmental and archaeological licensing of Copel legislation, the needs for public hearings in licensing processes, informative technical meetings and obtaining consent of Distribuição’s main infrastructure works. the municipalities and intervening agencies. Copel’s Business Development Office is responsible for the analysis of business opportunities and submits to This detailing allows for decision-making on the implementation or not of the business, considering the social and approval by the Executive Board and the Board of Directors, responsible for approving strategic decisions. environmental viability, availability of environmental resources and legal consents for the projects. 45 G4-DMA EU20 Approach to managing the impacts from displacements In the year 2016, two families were displaced, totaling 4 people. G4-EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced or compensated, broken 45, 47 down by type of project 90 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Provision of Information About G4-DMA EU24 Practices used to address barriers related to language, culture, low schooling the Report and special needs that stand in the way of access to electricity and customer service, as well 49 1,2,8 as to its safe use Message from UPS Cidadania and Paraná Cidadão: orking to facilitate low-literacy consumers access to information and services specific accessibility needs. Copel offers blind consumers the possibility of receiving their energy bills in Braille. Copel the President provided, Copel participates in integrated actions carried out by the Departments of State and Municipalities, providing Distribuição has 72.4% of its branches and service stations architecturally adapted for people with disabilities (there guidance to these audiences in an entertaining manner, through the use of educational games and the Energy Efficiency was a reduction compared with 2015 due to a change in the number of service locations). Copel’s website is adapted Industry Context VAN, regarding the conscious and safe use of electricity. for access to people with visual impairment. In 2016, the site was also adapted for people with hearing impairment by Copel no Bairro (Copel in the Neighborhood): Meets local demands, raising awareness in the community toward the implementing the Hugo avatar. About Copel efficient and safe use of electricity. In 2016, four events were held, totaling eight days of activities in the communities, Assistance to Indigenous peoples and remote areas: Copel has in its concession area several Indigenous tribes, and all located in the Tatuquara neighborhood in Curitiba. seeks to ensure this group the right to the differentiated rate benefit established in the TSEE (Social Electricity Rate). By Governance and Sustainability Corporate Accessibility Program: Aims to make the company rigorously adapted in terms of accessibility issues, 2016, a total of 819 Indigenous consumer units were enrolled in the TSEE. implementation of technological resources, and provision of training and educational campaigns for audiences with Human Capital Consumer Health and Safety Intellectual Capital 2014 2015 2016 Social and Relationship Capital Number of accidents involving the population 31 29 38 G4-EU25 Number of accidents and fatalities for users of the service involving company Natural Capital assets, including decisions and legal agreements, in addition to court cases pending relating Number of deaths involving the population 8 13 14 to diseases. Infrastructure Number of cases related to health and safety, including diseases and members of the Capital 0 3 15 audiences affected in legal agreements and potential risks associated with these cases. Financial Capital Access Social Audit G4-EU23 Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to 43, 95 1,2,7 electricity and customer support services, as well as to is safe use GRI Content Index Copel serves 100% of the population in its concession area. There are requests for new connections that will be attended to within G4-EU26 Percentage of unattended population in concession area the regulatory time limits. Audit Report 4-EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of disconnection and by regulatory regime Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact Number of consumer units disconnected considering the time Number of consumer units disconnected considering the time 2015 2016 2015 2016 between disconnection and payment agreement between disconnection and payment agreement and reconnection Less than 48 hours 232,716.00 269,812.00 Less than 24 hours 268,742.00 273,314.00 Between 48 hours and one week 41,852.00 55,691.00 Between 24 hours and 48 hours 11,702.00 15,796.00 Between one week and one month 54,293.00 73,259.00 Between 48 hours and 48 hours 17,004.00 15,705.00 Between one month and one year 51,069.00 80,136.00 Over 7 days 34,250.00 41,853.00 Over one year – 28.00 G4-EU28 Frequency of interruptions in power supply (FEC). 65 G4-EU29 Average duration of interruptions in energy supply (DEC). 65 G4-EU30 Average plant availability, broken down by energy source and regulatory system. 64 91 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Audit Report G4-33 About the Report Message from the President Industry Context About Copel Governance and Sustainability Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital Social Audit GRI Content Index Audit Report Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact 92 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index About the Report Message from the President Industry Context About Copel Governance and Sustainability Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Infrastructure Capital Financial Capital Social Audit GRI Content Index Audit Report Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact 93 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Employees of Copel 14. ANNEX INCORPORATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND SDGS 94 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact and SDGs 14. Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact and SDGs G4-15, G4-16, G4-EU23 About the Report The Company ratifies its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals and presents as an Annex its Communication on Message from Progress (COP), where it specifies the initiatives developed to implement the principles of the Global Compact and the SDGs in its operations. Throughout the publication the President of which this annex is a part, we also present the results of these initiatives and the progress of its commitments in 2016, which can be located in the GRI indicators Industry Context reported by Copel. About Copel Governance Principles of the Global Compact The Global Goals for Sustainable Development and Sustainability Human Capital RESPECT and support the internationally recognized human Intellectual Capital rights in its area of influence Social and Relationship Capital ENSURE the company’s non-participation in violation Natural Capital of human rights Infrastructure Capital SUPPORT freedom of association and recognize the right to collective bargaining Financial Capital Social Audit ELIMINATE all forms of forced or compulsory labor GRI Content Index ERADICATE effectively all forms of child labor from its Annex Incorporation of the Principles of production chain the Global Compact STIMULATE practices that eliminate any kind of discrimination in employment ASSUME a responsible and proactive preventive approach to environmental challenges DEVELOP initiatives and practices to promote and disseminate social and environmental responsibility ENCOURAGE the development and diffusion of environmentally responsible technologies FIGHT corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 95 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact and SDGs PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES PROJECTS / PROGRAMS / MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS / PARTICIPATIONS AND POLICIES RESPONDED DATE GLOBAL About SDG START / FINISH the Report COMPACT Policies and Management Systems Message from the President Adherence to voluntary commitments in an effort to promote sustainability, ethical conduct and best practices in corporate governance: Global Compact; ODS National Movement We Can Paraná; Business Contribution for the Promotion of a Green and Inclusive Economy; Statement Call to Action for Governments in the Fight Against Corruption; Business Pact for Integrity 1 to 10 16, 17 Various / Indeterminate Industry Context and against Corruption, and Principles for Sustainable Executive Education (PRME). About Copel Management to Sustainability in the Supply Chain aims to contribute to the development of suppliers, establishing parameters linked to sustainability, proposing actions that 1 to 10 16, 17 2008 / Indeterminate promote and strengthen best practices throughout the supply chain. Governance and Sustainability Our Energy Program ties together obtaining new opportunities in relation to career development, remuneration, and personal development to performance. 6 16 2013 / Indeterminate Human Capital Generation by renewable sources – compliance with the strategic and sustainability guidelines established for the generation business, Copel Renováveis has been researching and 7, 8, 9 7, 17 Indeterminate prospecting new businesses related to these energy sources. Intellectual Capital Ethical Guidance Council – analyzes and provides guidance on processes related to ethical conduct in the Company. 1 to 10 5, 8, 16, 17 2003 / Indeterminate Social and Relationship Capital Committee for the Analysis of Reports on Psychological Harassment – aims to assess reports on psychological harassment in labor relations within the Company. 1 to 10 5, 8, 16, 17 2009 / Indeterminate Natural Capital Integrity Program and Compliance Portal – a set of activities that ensure compliance with internal and external rules and regulations to which the company is subject and a platform for 10 16 2015 / Indeterminate disseminating the Company’s commitments to transparency and the fight against corruption. Infrastructure Capital Transparency Portal of the Company and link to the Transparency Portal In this environment, information is found on the structure of the government, revenues, expenses, bids, contracts, assets, remuneration of the Executive Branch employees. This tool for communicating with society enables monitoring and controlling the use of public resources. Publicizing the acts of the 10 16 2014 / Indeterminate Financial Capital Public Administration complies with Federal Law No. 12,527/2011, which ensures the right of access to information for citizens, and State Decree No. 10,285/2014. Diversity Program: Implementation of the Action Plan and certification for the 5th Edition of the Pro-gender and Race Equity Program of the Department of Policies for Women. 1 to 10 4 2014 / Indeterminate Social Audit Internal Social and Environmental Committees – CISAS – Act as multipliers of sustainability concepts, enabling the identification of problem situations in the social and environmental aspect, GRI Content 9, 10 13, 16, 17 2012 / Indeterminate Index strengthening the relationship with stakeholders. Annex Incorporation Copel’s Corporate University – UniCopel – Implementation of Educational Planning and management of the Leadership Development Programs, Postgraduate, Master’s and Doctoral of the Principles of 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 13, 16, 17 2007 / Indeterminate degrees, and Languages.x the Global Compact Corporate Management Program on Climate Change: Aims to discuss and deliberate actions associated with the study of the effects of climate change, implementation of Copel’s 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 6, 7, 15 2011 / Indeterminate Climate Change policy, and voluntary commitments undertaken. Integrated Management of Water and Soil partnership between Copel, Sanepar and the Secretaries of State, aimed at creation of synergy between the actions conducted in hydrological 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 6, 15 2010 / Indeterminate micro-basins and at promotion of water quality and availability improvement through the improvement of use, management and conservation of soil, water and forests. Support for Public Policies and Management Improvement Participation in the Brazilian Committee of the Global Compact and the ODS National Movement We Can Paraná. 1 to 10 16, 17 2016 / Indeterminate Member of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program: as a founding member, Copel conducts and publishes annually the accounting report of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 13 2008 / Indeterminate Participation in the Entrepreneurship Initiative Trends in Ecosystem Services TeSE initiative of the Center for Sustainability Studies of the FGV (Gvces) aims to incorporate the 7, 8, 9 16 2015 / Indeterminate concepts of valuing Ecosystem Services in business, as well as developing methodology. Participation in organizations in the electrical industry that discuss and promote energy efficiency and environmental improvements: Brazilian Assoc. of Electric Utilities, Energy Planning Company, Independent Energy Producers Assoc., Brazilian Assoc. of Power Generation Companies, Brazilian Assoc. of Power Distribution Companies, Brazilian Assoc. of 1 to 10 6, 7, 15 Various / Indeterminate Large Power Distribution Companies, Brazilian Committee of Large Dams, Regional Engineering, Architecture and Agronomy Council in Paraná, FUNCOGE. Participation in associations that discuss and promote environmental improvements: Forum Paraná Agenda 21, Federation of Industries of Paraná, Interinstitutional Commission of Environmental Education of the National Program of Environmental Education, Watersheds Committees of the State of Paraná, Cigré Environment Committee, Regional Engineering 7,8,9 6, 15 Various / Indeterminate Council, Architecture and Agronomy of the State of Paraná, Garbage and Citizenship PR Forum, Forum on Climate Change of the State of Paraná, Environmental Committees of the Public Ministry of Paraná. 96 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact and SDGs Participation in the Corporate Citizenship Council of the State of Paraná CPCE, for joint promotion of social responsibility in the State of Paraná. 1 to 10 16, 17 2005 / Indeterminate Voluntary participation in the Competitive Paraná Movement and in examining panels of awards: National Quality, MPE Brasil, and The Management Quality of the State of Paraná. 1 to 10 16, 17 2000 / Indeterminate About the Report Integrated Management of Water and Soil in partnership between Copel, Sanepar, and State Departments, to create synergy between actions carried out in watersheds, to promote 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 6, 15 2010 / Indeterminate Message from the improvement of the quality and availability of water by perfecting the use, management, and proper conservation of soil, water, and forests. the President Programs, Projects, and Social and Environmental Initiatives Industry Context Program to collect donations to charities and social service institutions, non-profit and of collective interest, through the energy bill. 1 to 10 1 1999 / Indeterminate About Copel Annual donation, through tax incentives, to Fund for the Rights of Children and Adolescents – FIA, Rouanet Act, Elderly Act, Incentive to Sports Act, PROFICE, 1, 2, 5 1 2006 / Indeterminate PRONON and PRONAS. Governance and Sustainability Corporate Volunteer Program EletriCidadania: the program allows employees to use up to 4 hours/month for performing volunteer work. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8 5,17 2001 / Indeterminate Human Capital Choir: promotes employee integration, the quality of life at work, the development of culture and music education, as well as the appreciation of Copel’s brand in the community. 6 3 2010 / Indeterminate Intellectual Capital Support room for breast pumping and reduced working day: a comfortable and cozy place where mothers may withdraw and store breastmilk to be offered to their children in a timely manner. 1, 2, 6 3 2016 / Indeterminate Social and Program Cultivating Energy: works to implement community gardens in the safety sections of Copel’s power networks, in partnership with municipal administrations and associations of Relationship Capital 1, 7, 8, 9 2, 10 2009 / Indeterminate residents. Natural Capital Corporate Accessibility Program: aims to adapt the Company in accessibility issues. 1, 2, 6 8, 9 , 11, 16, 17 2007 / Indeterminate Infrastructure Eco-Efficiency Program: Works to concentrate the various eco-efficiency initiatives developed by Copel into one program that operates as a hub, interconnecting them, strengthening them, Capital 7, 8, 9 6, 8, 11, 12, 13 2014 / Indeterminate potentializing them, and enabling new forms of operation. Financial Capital Education for Sustainability Program: works to train and develop professionals, formal and informal leaders of Copel, in sustainability-related issues. 1 a 10 4 1998 / Indeterminate Social Audit Copel Sustainability Seminar: The initiative aims to disseminate social and environmental projects and practices. The Seminar was reformulated and extended to other cities in the state of 1 a 10 4 2009 / Indeterminate GRI Content Paraná, to the cities of Londrina, Cascavel, and Segredo, under the name of Sustainability Dialogues. Index Susie Pontarolli Sustainability Trophy aims to recognize and support initiatives aimed at contributing to the promotion of sustainable development and improvement in the quality of life. 1 a 10 4 2012 / Indeterminate Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Luz Fraterna Program: Program of the Government of the State of Paraná that performs payment of consumer bills registered on the Social Electricity Rate, provided that consumption does the Global Compact 1, 2, 4, 5, 10 1, 7, 11 2003 / Indeterminate not exceed 120 kWh. Program Morar Bem (Live Well) Paraná: in partnership with the Housing Company of Paraná Cohapar housing program for families with monthly income of up to six national minimum wages. 1, 2, 4, 5, 10 1, 7, 11 2003 / Indeterminate Rural Nighttime Rate Program: incentive to increased agricultural production, to poultry and pig farmers, through discount prices for consumer units classified as rural, served in low voltage. 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 11 2007 / Indeterminate Nighttime Irrigation Program: incentive to use of irrigation to increase agricultural and poultry production and improve quality of life in rural areas. Subsidized rates and equipment to rural 1, 2, 8 11 2003 / Indeterminate consumers. Energy Efficiency Program: Geared toward the efficient use of electricity in residential, industrial, trade, and public school installations located in Copel’s concession area. 1, 2, 8 7 2000 / Indeterminate Paraná Cidadão (Paraná Citizen) Program: a program promoted by the Special Department for Community Relations, with the objective of offering free services that promote citizenship and 1,2,4,5,6,10 1, 7, 9 2003 / Indeterminate social inclusion. Copel participates by providing customer service and guidelines for safe and efficient use of electric energy. Paraná Digital Program: digital inclusion in public education, through the connection of State schools to the Internet. In partnership with the State Government/SEED, we take the Internet to 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 10 1, 9, 11 2003 / Indeterminate schools, with priority to localities with low HDI. Today, there are 2,210 State schools served by Paraná Digital. Connected Paraná Program: the initiative provides access to the Internet in fiber optics at affordable prices and at 1 Mbps speed, according to the State Broadband Plan. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 10 1, 9, 11 2010 / Indeterminate State Broadband Plan PEBL: aims to disseminate affordable Internet access to all municipalities in Paraná sell communication services to providers and municipalities that join the plan and that, on the other hand assume the commitment of providing affordable Internet service. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 10 1, 9, 11 2010 / Indeterminate Social Electricity Rate: Established through Law No 10,438/2002, discounts are offered on electric energy consumption up to 220 kWh, to families registered in the Single Register of Social Programs from the Federal Government, provided the other criteria laid out in ANEEL Resolution No. 414/2010 are observed. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 10 1, 7, 11 2002 / Indeterminate 97 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Annex Incorporation of the Principles of the Global Compact and SDGs Mais que Energia (More than Energy) Project: Implementation, expansion and consolidation of social investment projects and programs for the community. In 2015, the funds were geared toward supporting institutions and schools that assist the deaf and/or deaf and blind. 1, 2 1, 7, 11 2014 / Indeterminate About Smart Grid Project: Installation of 2,000 telemetering points in the urban area of Curitiba and 1,000 points in the rural area of Colombo and Bocaiúva do Sul; reading is carried out every hour the Report enabling error detection, power outage, and reading for billing without deployment of crews. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 17 2015 / Indeterminate Telemetry: enables the automated collection of data in real time (on time), optimizing the process for more precise collection, handling, and availability of data, including data for customers, Message from 8, 9 7,9,13 2010 / Indeterminate the President via the Internet. Industry Context Distributed Generation: type of energy generation that differs from centralized, usually of greater size and greater environmental impact, because it occurs with or close to consumers. 7, 8, 9 7,9,12,13 2004 / Indeterminate About Copel Illuminating Generations Project: Lectures for Fourth-grade students from public schools, of informative and preventive nature regarding the conscious and safe use of electricity, use of natural resources (energy and water) and correct disposal of waste. 1,2 4 1970 / Indeterminate Governance and Sustainability Program Mais Clic Rural: Improving the quality of electric power supply in rural areas, with a focus on farming activities integrated with production processes sensitive to interruptions. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 7, 11 2015 / Indeterminate Human Capital Solidarity Invoice: Incentive to customers who opt for receiving the invoice by email; at each registration, Copel donates BRL 1.00 to the APAE institutions in the State of Paraná. 1, 2 11 2015 / Indeterminate Intellectual Capital Waste Sorting: program is conducted in partnership with associations and material recycling cooperatives and works to contribute with income generation and improvement in working 7, 8, 9 1, 10, 11 2009 / Indeterminate Social and conditions for pickers. Relationship Capital PrevenCão: Awareness of the population about the importance of caring for pets to prevent accidents. 7, 8, 10 4 2015 / Indeterminate Natural Capital Program for Integrated Actions for Development and Citizenship UPS Citizenship: integrated actions for urban development and social promotion, and recovery of citizenship are carried out in the areas of installation of the Safe Paraná units (UPS). The initiative is developed in partnership with agencies and entities of the Federal, State, and Municipal administration, and civil 7, 8, 9 7, 11, 17 2013 / Indeterminate Infrastructure society, contributing to improve public safety and local social and economic development. Capital Financial Capital Corporate Waste Management Program: Aims to reduce, reuse, measure, and monitor solid waste generated by the Company. 7, 8, 9 8, 11, 12 2006 / Indeterminate Social Audit Program for Monitoring and Repopulation of Fish Fauna works to monitor and repopulate the Company’s reservoirs and rivers where Copel’s projects have some influence. 7, 8, 9 15 1993 / Indeterminate GRI Content Experimental Station for Ichthyological Studies: Study and reproduce species suitable for repopulation of rivers and reservoirs in Paraná. 7, 8, 9 15 1992 / Indeterminate Index Riparian Forests Program: Aims to recover natural environments surrounding the reservoirs of power plants and other areas of interest to the Company. 7, 8, 9 15 2006 / Indeterminate Annex Incorporation of the Principles of Urban Forests Program: Since 2007, Copel has supported municipal governments in planning afforestation of public roads, contributing to environmental improvement and reduction of energy the Global Compact 7, 8, 9 11, 15, 17 2008 / Indeterminate supply interruptions caused by the conflict between vegetation and electrical systems. Control of invasive and/or exotic species: Monitoring and control of invasive and/or exotic species of wildlife and flora. 7, 8, 9 15 2000 / Indeterminate Recovery of degraded areas: Monitoring and recovery of degraded areas. 7, 8, 9 15 1999 / Indeterminate Forest Gardens: its objective is the production of seedlings suitable for application in other Company programs. 7, 8, 9 15 1973 / Indeterminate Botanical Garden: aims to conserve and research plant species and to house collections of exotic ornamental plants. 7, 8, 9 15 2010 / Indeterminate Iguaçu Regional Museum: presents the social, cultural and environmental characteristics of the populations who have occupied the banks of the Iguaçu River. It holds the collection from the Archaeological 7, 8, 9 4, 11 2000 / Indeterminate Rescue programs and from the Cultural and Scientific Exploitation Memory of Flora and Wildlife in the implementation of the Ney Braga Hydroelectric Power Plant. Ecosystem services: direct and indirect contributions of ecosystems to the economy and well-being of humanity. 7, 8, 9 6, 8, 11, 15 2015 / Indeterminate Life Cycle Analysis: A tool that quantifies the environmental impacts of a given product or service. Composed of categories such as: greenhouse gas emission (GHG), acidification, eutrophication, 7, 8, 9 7, 8, 12 2015 / Indeterminate toxicity, consumption of natural resources, and depletion of the ozone layer. Reverse Logistics: plan, recommend, and structure the actions related to the aspect, within the scope of the Corporate Waste Management Program. 7, 8, 9 12 2014 / Indeterminate 98 Copel | 2016 Sustainability Report Credits Coordination Governance, Risk and Compliance Office Coordination of Corporate Sustainability and Governance GRI Consulting, validation of materiality and texts Keyassociados Graphic Project Vivas Comunicação copel@copel.com Rua Coronel Dulcídio, 800 Batel Curitiba Paraná Zip code 80420-170
