thaiunion.com TABLE OF CONTENTS 01 About This Report 4 02 CEO Message 8 03 Thai Union at a Glance 12 04 Sustainability at Thai Union 30 05 Safe and Legal Labor 50 06 Responsible Sourcing 58 07 Responsible Operations 72 08 People and Communities 88 09 Performance Summary 98 10 GRI Content Index and UNGC COP 106 OUR VISION To be the world’s most trusted seafood leader, caring for our resources to nurture generations to come. OUR MISSION To be the seafood industry’s leading agent of change, making a real positive difference to our consumers, our customers and the way the category is managed. thaiunion.com 4 About This Report 01 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 5 This is the fourth sustainability report that Thai Union has made publicly available. This report details our annual performance from January through December 2016 against key performance indicators and targets outlined in our sustainability strategy, SeaChange®. 6 MENU G4-14, G4-18 About This Report This is the fourth sustainability In keeping with the intent of the report that Thai Union has made GRI Guidelines, we focused on publicly available. This report four key elements of the G4 details our annual performance approach, as outlined in this chapter. from January through December 2016 against key performance indicators and targets outlined in our sustainability strategy, SeaChange®. Our previous report, PRINCIPLES FOR Sustainability Report 2015, was DEFINING REPORT issued in May 2016. CONTENT To make our annual sustainability Determining the content of this reports and data more accessible, report began by understanding we will continue publishing them the impacts of our value chain on in an increasing range of formats. different stakeholders, including Thai Union’s Sustainability Report suppliers, customers, govern2015 was published as an eBook ments, local communities, and and available on Kindle for the civil society. Next, we engaged first time last year, and this year’s external experts and our global digital report has more multimedia leadership team for their insights. content to better engage readers. The report addresses items of significant interest to stakeholders This report was prepared in important to Thai Union’s business accordance with the internationally strategy. recognized sustainability reporting guidelines known as the Global In conducting the analysis of internal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines and external environments, we G4 and its Food Processing Sector abided by the four GRI G4 principles: Supplement (FPSS). The report sustainability context, materiality, is in accordance with the GRI G4 completeness and stakeholder Guidelines – Core option. inclusiveness. Thai Union conducts a formal materiality assessment on a regular basis to identify and prioritize our primary sustainability issues. These issues reflect Thai Union’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts, . as well as reflect our stakeholders’ interests. Our materiality assessment process is detailed in the Material Issues chapter of this report. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 7 G4, 18 As a participant in the United DEFINING REPORTING Nations (UN) Global Compact, QUALITY this report also serves as our annual Communication on The G4 Guidelines define reporting Progress (COP) to stakeholders. quality through a set of quality The COP reports our progress in aspects: balance, comparability, implementing the Ten Principles accuracy, timeliness, clarity, and of the UN Global Compact within reliability. We have taken numerous our sphere of influence as well actions to meet these: as our progress in supporting the environmental and social • We continue to improve responsibilities of the broader UN the quality of information in Sustainable Development Goals our sustainability reports and (SDGs). The report’s content has . we publish them in a timely been reviewed and approved manner so our stakeholders by the leadership of relevant can effectively integrate the business units at Thai Union and information in their decision our Sustainability Committee. making. • We value the opinion of our stakeholders, including employees, local communities and interest groups, nongovernmental organizations, customers, suppliers and contractors. In preparing our As a participant in the United Nations (UN) report, we listen and respond Global Compact, this report also serves to stakeholder feedback to as our annual Communication on Progress help ensure the information we report is balanced and reliable. (COP) to stakeholders. • We are moving toward more efficient and effective operations with minimum adverse social and environmental impacts along the entire value chain. 8 CEO Message 02 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 9 It has been a truly remarkable year for our company, full of tremendous achievements in sustainability. When I reflect on these accomplishments, I often recall the old saying that we do not inherit the earth from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children. — Thiraphong Chansiri, CEO 10 MENU CEO Message industry operates worldwide. We think of it as a journey which covers every aspect of the business: from how we look after the oceans to how we manage our waste; from the responsibility we take for our workers to building brighter futures for our communities. Traceability is the backbone of our sustainability efforts. It gives us the ability to wholly trace our seafood. From catch to consumption, full traceability enables us to identify, investigate and improve upon the industry’s most critical issues. In line with SeaChange®, Today, our world faces a range Thai Union has now committed to of sustainability challenges the source 100 percent of its branded sheer scale of which is daunting tuna from fisheries that are Marine both in its complexity as well as Stewardship Council (MSC) enormity. From pressing human certified or engaged in Fishery rights, migrant and labor issues to Improvement Projects (FIPs) to large and looming environmental move them toward MSC certifiand climate change threats, the cation. We aim to reach a target action we take – or do not take – of 75 percent by 2020. This also today will determine much about entailed a commitment to invest the type of world humanity will $90m in initiatives to increase the inhabit tomorrow. supply of sustainable tuna, including 11 new FIPs. At Thai Union, we are determined to do our part to ensure that After the company updated and world is a brighter one. That is adopted a more stringent Business why we have fully embraced and Ethics Labor Code of Conduct our role as a leader for positive in 2015, we started to roll it out to change as one of the largest all of our global suppliers in 2016. seafood companies in the world. This allows us to promote greater levels of accountability and This means putting sustainability transparency throughout our at the heart of our business. supply chains, as well as to lift the entire group performance to In 2016, Thai Union launched international standards. SeaChange®, a strategic approach to sustainability designed to Collaboration has been key to transform the way the seafood many of our recent successes. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 11 Alongside the Wat Sri Suttharam the company values we embrace School, Thai Union organized are being translated into real and an English teaching program to demonstrable change for good. improve the English language skills of students, many of whom Positive change that will not only are the children of migrant workers. impact the entire fishing industry The two-month program was led but will enable Thai Union to help by both Thai and expatriate Thai deliver against the United Nations’ Union employees. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – the world’s roadmap to Meanwhile, Thai Union teamed attain prosperity both for people up with the Labour Rights and the planet. Specifically, 100% Promotion Network Foundation we have identified three SDGs (LPN) to develop an educational the company can most contribute labor rights booklet for migrant toward: zero hunger, decent work workers in Samut Sakhon. The and economic growth, and life OF BRANDED TUNA FROM booklet provided information on below water. FISHERIES THAT ARE labor rights, children’s rights and MARINE STEWARDSHIP education, human trafficking, It has been a truly remarkable COUNCIL (MSC) CERTIFIED and emergency numbers. This year for our company, full of community engagement program tremendous achievements in helped continue to ensure sustainability. When I reflect on migrant workers understand their these accomplishments, I often $90 rights under Thai law, as well as recall the old saying that we do educated them about the risks of not inherit the earth from our human trafficking and how to best ancestors; we borrow it from our MILLION protect themselves. children. IN INITIATIVES TO INCREASE THE SUPPLY OF I am incredibly proud that Thai With that in mind, rest assured, SUSTAINABLE TUNA Union’s sustainability efforts have we will continue to make progress been acknowledged with numerous and maintain an unceasing focus awards in 2016, as well as recogon leveraging our leadership nized by the investment community position and collective strengths 3 as the company was named to the to face down and resolve the Dow Jones Sustainability Index sustainability challenges that (DJSI) for the third consecutive confront us. I take great solace IN A ROW year. We also debuted on the in the belief that, at Thai Union, THAI UNION NAMED TO FTSE4Good Emerging Index, we have the right people in DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX (DJSI) . which helps investors integrate the right places, poised to do THIRD STRAIGHT YEAR environmental, social and our part in making a real and governance factors into their transformative impact for future investment decisions and is generations. a framework for corporate — Thiraphong Chansiri, engagement and stewardship. FTSE4GOOD CEO These successes embody how Thai THAI UNION DEBUTED ON Union is working every day to ensure FTSE4GOOD EMERGING INDEX 12 Thai Union at a Glance 03 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 13 Thai Union is a global seafood leader with ambitious growth goals and a dedication to sustainability and innovation. Our portfolio of brands includes convenient consumer favorites that have brought nutritious and tasty seafood to tables around the world for over a century. 14 SEAFOOD SOURCING LOCATIONS *Reference: http://www.fao.org/fishery/area/search/en SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 15 THAI UNION’S FOOTPRINT Production location / Innovation center / R&D center Innovation center/R&D Center THAI UNION’S FOOTPRINT Brands / Corporate office / Sales / Key joint venture and associated companies Corporate office/Sales Key joint venture/associated companies Corporate office/Sales 22 2016 NET SALES FISHERY SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 23 AQUACULTURE SUPPLY CHAIN 24 Our Portfolio With brands across North America, built on local insights and market Europe, and Asia and the Pacific, preferences that inform product Thai Union’s vast selection of development. Through strategic shelf-stable, chilled and frozen mergers and acquisitions, our foods and related products makes family of brands is expanding our mealtimes delicious, dynamic, market share across the world; easy and healthy for millions of and our commitment to . families worldwide. innovation, sustainable growth, quality and consistency facilitates Our portfolio of consumer-favorite our brands’ competitive brands has a global reach, and is advantage. NORTH AMERICA CHICKEN OF THE SEA AND CHICKEN OF THE SEA FROZEN FOODS Chicken of the Sea began as a California-based fish canning company in 1914 and, over the decades, the iconic mermaid image and brand have become a household name. A century later, Chicken of the Sea is synonymous with health, nutrition and convenience, offering a variety of products including shrimp, lobster, salmon, crab and, of course, tuna. In 2015, Chicken of the Sea was the largest U.S. seafood company by revenue, and the top importer of frozen shrimp and pasteurized crabmeat in the U.S. Ensuring a healthy supply of seafood for future generations is imperative to both Chicken of the Sea and its consumers. Over the past century, Chicken of the Sea has pioneered responsible sourcing initiatives including the Dolphin-Safe Policy, Shark Finning Ban, and a partnership with the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation. GENOVA The rich, savory taste of Genova premium tuna is central to many inspired dishes because of its distinct, delicious taste and texture. Genova is so simple and incredible on its own, take just one bite and it will ignite a passion for more. Exquisite premium tuna and extraordinary taste make Genova simply fulfilling. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 25 EUROPE JOHN WEST John West is the number one convenient seafood brand in the UK and Ireland. At John West, we have been selling fish since 1857. It is our passion to develop category-leading innovation that meets consumers’ needs for taste, quality and convenience. PETIT NAVIRE Since its launch in 1932, Petit Navire has established itself as an everyday part of French people’s lives, and has over 90 percent brand recognition in France. Petit Navire is the leading brand of tuna, known for its high quality standards and dedication to innovation. Petit Navire offers consumers a large variety of tasty products prepared with natural ingredients and flavorful simplicity, meeting the demands of today's hectic lifestyles. PARMENTIER Parmentier is the number one premium canned sardine brand in France. Since 1883, Parmentier and its fabulous small yellow cans have established the brand as the king of whole sardines. Keeping true to its history and legacy while continuously modernizing and innovating products, Parmentier remains a French household favorite, recognized as the expert in sardines. 26 EUROPE (continued) KING OSCAR King Oscar is the number one premium sardine brand in the U.S., Norway and Australia, while its premium mackerel line is number one in Poland. In 1902, King Oscar II of Norway and Sweden granted special royal permission to use his name and portrait on a brand of Norwegian sardines. Over 110 years, King Oscar has offered its discerning consumers the finest premium sardines and seafood sourced from the Norwegian sea and other corners of the world. MAREBLU Mareblu is a historical brand in the Italian tuna market, founded in the early 1970s. Thanks to the focus on quality and innovation, Mareblu is known as the only tuna brand in Italy produced directly where the tuna is caught. In Italian the slogan reads: ‘Il tonno lavorato sul luogo di pesca’. This fully integrated process results in a product of the highest standards in taste, quality and nutrition. Mareblu is the second player by volume and by value in the canned seafood market, offering a complete range of products: tuna (in oil, in brine, no drain, “light” and ventresca); mackerels (in oil, in brine, flavored); tuna salads and sardines. RÜGEN FISCH Rügen Fisch has grown its business since 1949 to become the leading seafood company in Germany, representing a powerful house of ambient and chilled seafood brands. These include brands for shelf-stable canned seafood products such as Rügen Fisch and Hawesta – a historic brand founded in 1909, along with brands for chilled products such as Ostsee Fisch (smoked salmon products) and Lysell (canned premium seafood). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 27 ASIA-PACIFIC SEALECT Sealect in Thailand is present in tuna, sardines and mackerel categories. In tuna, the brand has grown since 1992 to become the number one tuna brand in Thailand by virtue of share of market. According to Superbrands’ recent consumer survey, Sealect was ranked as the most popular tuna brand in Thailand. Sealect offers consumers canned tuna with premium quality, taste, nutritional value and product varieties, making it the most sought after tuna brand. In sardines and mackerel, Sealect offers good quality fish in original sauces and is part of the main meal for many Thai households. FISHO Fisho is a fish-based snacking brand. It is available in various convenient formats like strips, sheets and sticks. It is very popular among teenagers and young adults who enjoy the taste and love the idea of snacking without guilt. BELLOTTA AND MARVO Bellotta and Marvo are the brands for discerning cat and dog lovers who demand only the best for their pets. In 2015, Bellotta launched a comprehensive range of premium cat food products while Marvo launched dog foods internationally, offering products with exotic world flavors. In addition, Marvo continued to build brand awareness in 2016 through a partnership campaign with the animated film “The Secret Life of Pets” about the friendship with our four-legged family members. 28 Recognition and Awards At Thai Union, a commitment to influence positive change is inherent in SeaChange®. And, with the support of our customers, partners and other stakeholders, we have made significant and substantive achievements in sustainability in 2016. Thai Union is proud to have many of those sustainability efforts recognized by leading organizations from around the world. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 29 WINS PUBLIC AFFAIRS ASIA’S GOLD STANDARD AWARD FOR GLOBAL CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP THAI UNION NAMED TO DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX FOR THIRD CONSECUTIVE YEAR THAI UNION NAMED TO FTSE4GOOD EMERGING INDEX CSR CLUB 2016 AWARD FOR OUTSTANDING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION AWARDED ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) 100 AWARD FROM THAIPAT THAI UNION RANKED IN TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL’S TOP 25 FOR TRANSPARENCY AMONG 100 MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES 2016 BEST CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN THAILAND FROM FINANCEASIA MAGAZINE’S ANNUAL BEST MANAGED COMPANIES POLL 2015 BEST FOR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FROM ASIAMONEY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLL 2015 OF THAILAND INCLUSION IN THE LIST OF 2015-2016 THAILAND SUSTAINABILITY INVESTMENT (THSI) BY THE STOCK EXCHANGE OF THAILAND SHORTLISTED THOMSON REUTERS FOUNDATION'S INAUGURAL STOP SLAVERY AWARD ASIA SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING AWARDS 2016: ASIA’S BEST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, ASIA’S BEST ONLINE CSR COMMUNICATION, AND ASIA’S BEST MATERIALITY REPORTING 30 Sustainability at Thai Union 04 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 31 Recognizing a responsibility to show leadership, Thai Union heeded stakeholders’ calls with SeaChange®, our sustainability strategy with measurable commitments to delivering real, lasting changes in the way we operate. SeaChange® aims to drive a positive transformation throughout the global seafood industry. 32 Sustainability at Thai Union Sustainable development is we look after the oceans to essential to the future of Thai how we manage our waste; Union’s business and our growth; from the responsibility we take it is fundamental to being for our workers to building a responsible corporate citizen brighter futures for the communities and it is how we will achieve our around our key sites. vision of being the world’s most trusted seafood leader. The backbone of our sustainability strategy is the ability to fully trace As a global seafood leader, we our seafood – from catch to have a responsibility to set consumption. With full traceability the standard for social, environin place, we will be able to mental and economic performance identify, investigate and improve across our operations and into our performance on key issues such as supply chains. Recognizing this labor and responsible sourcing. responsibility to show leadership, we heeded our stakeholders’ calls While this work is designed to with SeaChange®, Thai Union’s have a positive impact on the sustainability strategy with seafood industry, the milestones measurable commitments to we achieve under our programs delivering real, lasting changes in will also deliver against the United the way we operate. SeaChange® Nations Sustainable Development aims to drive a positive transforGoals (SDGs) and is guided by mation throughout the global our commitment to the UN Global seafood industry. Compact. We think of SeaChange® as a journey that covers every aspect of the seafood business: from how “The backbone of our sustainability strategy is the ability to fully trace our seafood – from catch to consumption.” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 33 G4-23 Sustainable seas, Workers are safe, Legal and licenced now and for future legally employed vessels, operating generations and empowered responsibly SAFE AND RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE PEOPLE AND LEGAL LABOR SOURCING OPERATIONS COMMUNITIES Providing safe, legal and Traceability is the key The way we operate At Thai Union we take freely-chosen employment to improving the must be environmentally responsibility for in our own facilities and in transparency and responsible and show improving the lives of supply chains is critically operational practices a duty of care for those living and important to Thai Union. of the entire seafood our workers. working in the regions supply chain. in which we operate. Fair Labor Goals Responsible Sourcing Responsible Operations People and Communities and Roadmap Goals and Roadmap Goals and Roadmap Goals and Roadmap SeaChange® is an integrated plan of initiatives, organized into four programs, to drive meaningful improvements across the entire global seafood industry. Partnerships Good Governance Transparency and Collaboration Robust leadership, policies and We will remain transparent in We have and will continue to processes ensure our business all communications with actively seek out NGOs, is focused on delivering our stakeholders, customers and governments and industry sustainability objectives and the industry, sharing our learnings partners to work with us on is ethical across all its operations. and providing regular updates on initiatives designed to deliver our progress. against our overarching objectives. We will continue to share our findings so the entire industry can benefit from our experience and findings. 34 UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Thai Union is a member of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, and has been working to implement the commitments in the Global Compact’s Ten Principles since 2013. All of the principles have been incorporated into our Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct, which governs not only how our own staff operate but also how we would like our supply chain to operate. In this way, we are extending our influence and using business as a powerful force for change. Key Performance In 2016, under our SeaChange® the biosphere, society and the Achievement strategy, we focused on three of economy, but also culminating in the UN’s Sustainable Development how we can form partnerships to In 2016, we rolled our Business Goals (SDGs), contributing to the global contribution toward Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct broader societal change in areas sustainable development. Our out to our contracted first tier where we can have direct influence. milestones against each of our . suppliers, achieving over 75 However, our work contributes four programs under SeaChange® percent acceptance globally. to all 17 SDGs in a number of ways. will demonstrate our progress We have chosen to focus not only by 2020 and will contribute to on how our work contributes to the SDGs’ 2030 targets. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 35 Image credit: Stockholm Resilience Centre UN GLOBAL COMPACT ADVOCACY FOR THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LOCAL NETWORK GOALS In 2016, Thai Union continued Sustainability can only be In December, we agreed to its support to establish the UN achieved through collaboration contribute to a campaign by Global Compact Local Network and shared goals, and we see the NGOs, businesses and the UN in Thailand. In June we joined value that work around the SDGs Global Compact Network UK to with 14 high-level representatives can bring. In October, Thai Union encourage the UK Government to of key Thai businesses to discuss joined leaders from the largest support the UN SDGs. The letter . the establishment of Global seafood businesses around the was delivered to the Prime Minister Compact Network Thailand world in the Keystone Dialogues of the UK in advance of the World (GCNT) and identify our focus to bring science and industry Economic Forum meetings in areas. The meeting marked an leaders closer together through Davos in January 2017. effort among the Thai business the Seafood Business for Ocean sector to collaborate on bringing Stewardship initiative. The initiative, businesses together and operate based on research conducted by under the Ten Principles of the UN the Stockholm Resilience Centre, Sustainability can only be Global Compact. In addition, in aims to demonstrate leadership achieved through May we supported the UN Global on sustainable seafood produccollaboration and shared Compact Network Australia in tion and supporting a healthy goals, and we see the . their discussion on Addressing ocean. The initiative will actively Adverse Human Rights Impacts: contribute to SDG 14 to conserve value that work around Grievance Mechanisms and and sustainably use the oceans, the SDGs can bring. Remedy. seas and marine resources. 36 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Sustainability governance flows all the way from the top of the organization. Board of Directors The Board of Directors is composed of an experienced team of managers, including several members of the Global Leadership Team. The Board of Directors meets eight times per year. MR. KRAISORN CHANSIRI MR. CHENG NIRUTTINANON MR. THIRAPHONG CHANSIRI Chairman Executive Chairman President and CEO MR. CHUAN TANGCHANSIRI MR. KIYOTAKA KIKUCHI MR. RITTIRONG BOONMECHOTE Executive Director Director President, Global Frozen and Related Unit MR. SHUE CHUNG CHAN MR. RAVINDER SINGH GREWAL SARBJIT S MR. SAKDI KIEWKARNKHA Executive Director Director Independent Director DR. THAMNOON ANANTHOTHAI MR. KIRATI ASSAKU MR. NART LIUCHAREON Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 37 Global Leadership Team The Global Leadership Team is composed of our business leaders from across the organization, including the Group Director of Sustainable Development and Group Director of Innovation as advisors. The Global Leadership Team meets four times per year, and the Group Director of Sustainable Development reports to the Global Leadership Team quarterly on sustainability issues and progress. MR. CHENG NIRUTTINANON Executive Chairman Risk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee is a subcommittee of the Board of Directors, and the Group Director of Sustainable Development sits on this committee and updates quarterly on key sustainability risks and tracking progress. MR. KIRATI ASSAKU Independent Director/Chairman, Risk Management Committee Global Sustainability Committee The Global Sustainability Committee, chaired by the Group Director of Sustainable Development, brings together team members across functions and locations throughout the world. The Global Sustainability Committee meets twice per year. The subcommittees lead their work streams throughout the year, reporting on progress at the biannual Global Sustainability Committee. There were four subcommittees for sustainability in 2016: DR. DARIAN McBAIN Group Director for Sustainable • Code of Conduct Implementation Development/Chairperson, Global • Data Collection and Reporting Sustainability Committee • Corporate Social Responsibility • Sustainable Packaging Global Environmental, Health and Safety Committee A committee comprised of representatives from our plants around the world to address key environment, health and safety issues. MR. COMGRIT SORCHOM Group Director for Environmental, Health and Safety/Chairman, Global Environmental Health and Safety Committee 38 G4-20, G4-21, G4-26 corporate challenges. Given our business as a whole – our ‘material STAKEHOLDER global scale of operations, our issues’ – including those related ENGAGEMENT material issues and impacts are to environmental, social and complex and transcontinental. governance risks. Building We engage regularly with our Thai Union carried out a materiality on the stakeholder feedback key stakeholders, allowing us to assessment, which analyzed our from the December 2015 understand and prioritize our worldwide operations, to identify materiality assessment, we sustainability risks and define and prioritize the most important developed our SeaChange® appropriate responses to emerging issues to our stakeholders and the sustainability program. How did we engage our stakeholders in our SeaChange® review? G4-25 What did our stakeholders tell us about our SeaChange® program? SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 39 G4-20, G4-21, G4-26 Transparency was one of the key primary communications tools tatives, and regulators; speaking themes that we addressed with – Thai Union’s website and the events and other opportunities our stakeholders, both internal SeaChange® website. We also to share our position on key . and external in 2016. We take ran an extensive program of issues publicly; and a formal pride in the transparency of our face-to-face engagement with consultation process to engage communications with stakeholders, internal and external stakeholders. stakeholders in the development customers and the industry. We This included a series of meetings of SeaChange®. brought to life our transparency across the globe with key approach through updates to our customers, civil society represenWhat was the process to gather stakeholder feedback? G4-24 TYPE OF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Tailored Reporting Events Corporate Online Site Our stakeholders strategy (e.g. newsletter, Trainings (internal, Microsite sustainability consultation visits presentation emails) external) campaign Thai Union management Thai Union staff Thai Union legal staff Consumers (1) Customers Industry associations/lobbyists International organizations (UN, Interpol, etc.) NGOs/foundations Policy makers/regulators (2) (3) Shareholders/investors Suppliers Think tanks (1) sales teams / (2) personalized emails & letters / (3) investor relations team 40 G4-20, G4-21, G4-27 FEEDBACK FROM THAI UNION’S STAKEHOLDERS Our stakeholders Issues Thai Union responses • Improvement of business performance • Transparency and governance • Good governance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, • Transparency of information tax policy and reporting) • Investor Relations Communications team, quarterly face–to-face investor updates with a sustainability briefing INVESTORS • Social and environmental responsibilities • Climate change and environmental protection • Fair trade • Responsible sourcing (traceability, viability) • Consistency expectation • Code of Conduct • Increasing orders • Supplier audits and capacity building SUPPLIERS • Product quality (health and nutrition) • Innovation and product responsibility • Food safety (quality food safety) • Service quality • Increased customer communication • Competitive price and face-to-face meetings on sustainability held globally • Offering more sustainable alternatives to meet customer demands • Social and environmental responsibilities • Responsible sourcing CUSTOMERS • Eco-labelling (e.g. MSC, dolphin safe, • Climate change and environmental ASC, BAP, carbon footprint of products) protection • Eco-labelling • Innovation and product responsibility • Competitive price (quality, food safety) • Food safety • Product quality (health and nutrition) • Social and environmental responsibilities • Responsible sourcing END-CONSUMERS • Eco-labelling (e.g. MSC, dolphin safe, • Climate change and environmental ASC, BAP, carbon footprint of products) protection • Fair compensation and benefits • Human rights and fair labor practices • Fair labor practices • Human capital development • Safety and wellness • Management program • Career development and opportunity • Global program of harmonization • Career security of work standards • Work-life balance • Brand ambassador program EMPLOYEES and Thai Union Global rollout • Fair compensation and benefits • Human rights and fair labor practices • Fair labor practices • Human capital development • Safety and wellness DAILY/MIGRANT WORKERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 41 G4-20, G4-21, G4-27 Our stakeholders Issues Thai Union responses • Legal compliance • Transparency and governance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) • Social and environmental responsibilities • Climate change and environmental • Partnership in community development protection COMMUNITIES • Socioeconomic development • Communities • Legal compliance • Transparency and governance • Participation in government programs (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) GOVERNMENT • Social and environmental responsibilities • Climate change and environmental • Marine conservation protection • Participation in social and environmental • Communities programs • Transparency of information • Transparency and governance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, NGOs tax policy and reporting) • Regulatory compliance • Transparency and governance • Transparency of information (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) • Social and environmental responsibilities • Climate change and environmental INTERNATIONAL • Participation in social and environmental protection ORGANIZATIONS • Communities programs • Social and environmental responsibilities • Climate change and environmental • Marine conservation protection • Participation in social and environmental • Communities programs ACADEMIA • Transparency of information • Transparency and governance • Timeliness of information (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) MEDIA 42 G4-19 In 2016, our strong performance MATERIAL ISSUES in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Emerging Markets In 2016 in addition to our engage“Materiality” metric was ranked . ment with external stakeholders, “Best-in-class.” The DJSI is among we also ran a global program the most highly regarded metrics with our internal stakeholders that evaluate global companies on to assess our most material issues their sustainability performance. based on risk. The key material issues identified as risks are elevated to our Risk Management Committee for quarterly progress monitoring and Board oversight. By combining the outcomes of our internal and external stakeholder analysis, the resulting materiality assessment helped us prioritize our sustainability risks and defined appropriate responses, which are reflected throughout our sustainability strategy, SeaChange®. Thai Union staff attend a risk workshop to help the company prioritize our sustainability risks and define appropriate responses. G4-23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 43 OUR OPERATING PRINCIPLES AND We recognize how important openness is TRANSPARENCY in building stakeholder trust. Thai Union, through our SeaChange® program, works on a series of operating principles that guide what we do and how we work. Good Governance SeaChange® has the support of the entire Thai Union organization, from top to bottom and across all our markets. We have put together a strong team of experts who provide robust leadership, backed up by policies and processes, to ensure SeaChange® fundamentally changes the way the global seafood industry operates. Transparency We recognize how important openness is in building stakeholder trust. We are committed Thai Union workers in Samut Sakhon listen to a representative from Issara Institute, one to being fully transparent in our of many leading organizations Thai Union partners with to address issues affecting the communications with our seafood industry today. stakeholders, customers and the entire industry. We share our learnings and provide regular GOVERNANCE To minimize the risk of any unethical updates on our progress. conduct within the boundaries of Thai Union recognizes the our business and supply chain, Partnership importance of good corporate Thai Union has taken several and Collaboration governance to support sustainable measures to strengthen our We are proud to be working with business growth and gain internal controls. These initiatives some of the leading organizations acceptance in the wider domestic also help solidify our position as on the issues affecting the industry and international markets. a global seafood leader. . today. We actively seek out NGO, government and industry partners Any association with corruption, United Nations Global to contribute their expertise and illegal conduct, fraud and economic Compact insights to our programs. crime would have an adverse Since joining the United Nations impact on our company's reputation, Global Compact (UNGC) in staff morale and business relaJune 2013, we have aligned our tionships. Any evidence of these strategies and practices with unethical practices could result in universal principles on human exclusion from contracts financed rights, labor, environment and by institutions that blacklist anti-corruption. We have also suppliers involved in bribery. And taken positive steps to advance such behavior could potentially the UN Sustainable Development impact Thai Union’s future earnings Goals (SDGs). and cause higher risk premiums for debt or equity. 44 Corporate Governance Policy Thai Union has a strict Corporate Governance Policy in adherence to our membership in the Stock Exchange of Thailand. Our Corporate Governance Policy is regularly reviewed and improved to ensure the duties of Thai Union’s Board of Directors are performed effectively and consistently. Any violations of this policy will result in disciplinary action in accordance with Thai Union’s rules and regulations. Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct In 2015, we launched our revised Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct, outlining our values, principles and guidelines in a variety of areas, particularly how we conduct business activities. Our anti-corruption efforts are described in this new Code; specifically, Thai Union prohibits all forms of bribery, corruption, Our Code of Conduct is communihave their rights protected and extortion, embezzlement, money cated to all Thai Union employees defended according to applicable laundering and insider trading. and is publicly available on our international and national legal The Code also details our website. All employees are trained protections, as well as the policy policies regarding competition on Thai Union’s anti-corruption outlined in the Code of Conduct. and competitor information, policy and procedures, which aids financial records, reporting the development of a culture that We have also established a concerns and non-retaliation. is conducive to good corporate two-way communication channel governance. for stakeholders and other involved parties to express their Further, since launching the Code opinions and report complaints of Conduct, all contracted tier-1 of unfair treatment by Thai Union. suppliers are subject to signing The Chairman of the Audit an acknowledgement of it. Committee or General Manager Audit Unit are designated as the Whistleblowing and point of contact to receive Complaints complaints relating to Corporate Thai Union provides both electronic Governance and the Code of and postal submission channels Conduct from all groups of for cases of whistleblowing and stakeholders. The Audit Commit. other complaints not related to tee reviews the complaint reports products. Any whistleblowing every quarter and provides employees or other individuals a summary report to the Board hired for work by Thai Union will of Directors. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 45 PROGRESS WITH websites and other publicly available The statement disclosed activities TRANSPARENCY sources by a team of Transparency undertaken by Thai Union to International researchers. Thai eliminate slavery and human In 2016, Thai Union ranked as Union was among 23 companies trafficking from its supply chains the top seafood company and that provided feedback to and business operations. one of the top 25 emerging validate the initial result of It includes the company’s markets companies with best the Transparency International commitment to actively support disclosure practices and research team. and respect internationally transparency standards in recognized human rights, and a report from Transparency Thai Union ranked 21st with leverage its leadership position International. a score of 5.6 out of 10 higher to detect and eradicate abuses than the average of 3.4 and in the seafood industry. The Transparency in Corporate is one of 25 companies scoring Reporting: Assessing Emerging 5.0 or higher. Thai Union’s Modern Slavery Market Multinationals report Act Transparency Statement evaluated the disclosure practices In addition, Thai Union was one was reviewed by the Thai Union of 100 major emerging market of only 16 seafood companies to Board of Directors and signed multinationals headquartered reach the “Very Good” transparency by the Chief Executive Officer in 15 countries and active in 185 rating level by Seafood Intelliand Executive Chairman, to countries. It assessed the public gence’s Top 100 report, based on demonstrate good governance disclosure practices on three publicly disclosed data in 2016. and corporate commitment. The dimensions: first, the reporting statement is publicly available on of key elements of their antiModern Slavery Act the Thai Union website at http:// corruption programs; second, Transparency Statement tu.listedcompany.com/newsroom/ the disclosure of their company In June 2016, Thai Union 20160615-tu-modern-slavery-en.pdf. structures and holdings; and, published the company's first third, the disclosure of key Modern Slavery Act Transparency Promoting Transparency financial information on a countryStatement, in support of the UK in the Seafood Supply by-country basis. The information Modern Slavery Act 2015. Chain was gathered from corporate We continued to promote positive change in the seafood industry, sharing our experiences and speaking at a number of leading human rights conferences and forums, including Trust Forum Asia, Innovation Forum, and the United Nations (UN) Human Rights Asia Regional Forum on Business and Human Rights, Concordia Summit and Trust . Women Conference. At the Trust Women Conference, Thai Union was shortlisted for the inaugural Stop Slavery Awards. Dr. Darian McBain, Group Director of Sustainable Development at Thai Union, speaks at the Trust Women Conference in London in December 2016. 46 PARTNERSHIP AND COLLABORATION Thai Union continued to support the Along with transparency and Life Below Water. SeaBOS will UN Global Compact Network Thailand good governance, partnerships focus on sustainable stewardship (GCNT) in 2016. and collaboration are fundamental of fisheries, labor conditions to our SeaChange® strategy and on vessels and oceans plastics, form the third pillar of our operating among other efforts, which are principles. In 2016, we further firmly grounded in scientific developed numerous partnerships evidence. More details about and collaborations across the the collaboration can be found at industry, with civil society and http://keystonedialogues.earth. through multi-stakeholder initiatives. In 2016, Thai Union continued Industry Collaboration to participate in the Seafood Task In November, Thai Union joined Force, which grew significantly seven other of the world’s largest throughout the year. In June, seafood companies, called Keystone we reached our goal of fully Actors, to form the Seafood auditing the labor conditions Business for Ocean Stewardship and traceability of our shrimp (SeaBOS) collaboration, which feed supply chain, from vessel to was published in a 2015 paper by feed production. The audits were the Stockholm Resilience Centre. conducted in compliance with This collaboration represents one the Seafood Task Force. of the most important agreements between business and science as We also continued to work with it addresses the most pressing some of our most valued needs to protect the ocean and customers to provide solutions deliver against the United Nations to our most material issues, many Sustainable Development Goal 14, of which challenge the entire SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 47 seafood sector in Thailand. and Thai Union Europe (TUE) funds and foundations, as well We announced a partnership were all audited against this as through a self-imposed tax with Nestlé, Verité, Southeast standard by MRAG US and on imported crab and COSFF is Asian Fisheries Development achieved full compliance for 2016. one of the top contributors to Center (SEAFDEC) and the Thai We also supported ISSF in several the Council. We participated in Department of Fisheries (DOF), other areas, such as advocacy the Council’s Labor Task Force in and together we will renovate a to the Regional Fisheries Manage2016, and were active in supporting Thai fishing vessel to demonstrate ment Organizations (RFMOs) the control document initiative in international standards for human to bring about wider change in Indonesia to ensure compliance rights, worker conditions and the tuna industry. with minimum size regulations. safety. The demonstration vessel More information about the NFI will be sailed to ports around Thai Union, through Chicken Crab Council can be found at Thailand to train fishers, captains, of the Sea Frozen Foods, is http://www.committedtocrab.org. boat owners and other interested an active and ongoing member parties. of the NFI Crab Council. The Crab Thai Union is working with Council is an association of U.S. FisheryProgress.org to report all With Mars Global Petcare, seafood companies, focusing Fishery Improvement Projects the DOF, USAID Oceans and on crab management through (FIPs) the company is involved in. Fisheries Partnership, and satellite funding fisheries improvement The platform was developed company Inmarsat, Thai Union set projects and market leadership. to take FIP criteria from the out to develop scalable end-to-end Throughout five countries in Asia, Conservation Alliance for Seafood traceability systems, trial cuttingthe NFI Crab Council sponsors Solutions (CASS) and serve as edge mobile technology to combat sustainability projects to a backstop for legitimate FIP IUU fishing from the point of preserve crab as a popular, reporting. The advisory committee catch, pilot eLogbook and fleet plentiful seafood item as well as for the project includes WWF-US management applications, and an important economic resource and the Sustainable Fisheries improve crew welfare and labor for dependent livelihoods. The Partnership (SFP), while the compliance through enabling Crab Council uses an innovative website is managed by FishChoice worker voice at sea. mix of funding through major on a day-to-day basis. In 2016, Thai Union is a founding and active member of the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF), an organization that uses science-based initiatives for the long-term conservation and sustainable use of tuna stocks, reducing bycatch and promoting ecosystem health. More general information about the work of the ISSF can be found at http:// iss-foundation.org. In 2016, Thai Union again participated in the annual external audit on conservation measures and compliance with the ISSF resolutions. Thai Union, Chicken of the Sea, 48 Thai Union and Chicken of the Sea acted as beta testers for the new website, providing feedback on usefulness of information and ease of use. Civil Society Collaboration Our partnerships with civil society continued to benefit both Thai Union and the communities we work with throughout 2016. We Thai Union and the Mirgrant Workers Rights Network (MWRN) collaborate to co-host a collaborated with the Migrant labor rights training session for workers in Thai Union's plant in Samut Sakhon in 2016. Workers Rights Network (MWRN) in Thailand to conduct a social the development and delivery of Partner to roll out their worker mapping exercise of all our pre-departure training in countries hotline in our facilities and factories. The mapping exercise of origin so workers understand increasingly throughout our focused on two key areas: improving their rights in Thailand before supply chains. The Labour Rights worker outcomes and respecting they arrive. Promotion Network Foundation human rights – specifically ethical (LPN) continued supporting our recruitment practices and providing We also set up Welfare Committees efforts to train workers in Thai Union workers with a voice. in our factories in 2016, enabling factories on human and labor a united voice for both local and rights. LPN also helped develop We announced our Ethical Migrant migrant workers to raise concerns our preschool program for children Recruitment Policy in April and with management. of our migrant and local workers worked throughout the year to in Thailand. And we published establish safe and legal migration We continued working with the more than 10,000 booklets on paths for our workers, including Issara Institute as a Regional worker rights in Thailand, both in Thai and Myanmar languages. In Europe, our partnership with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) continued throughout 2016, and the first WWF and Thai Union Europe partnership report was published in October. Significant achievements include finalizing an environmental risk assessment across all wild-caught species, advocacy for better fisheries management, improvements on traceability as delivered through the can tracker program, and a group-wide commitment to move branded tuna sourcing toward Marine Stewardship Council Thai Union and the Labour Rights Promotion Network Foundation created and distributed certification. booklets to inform migrant workers on their labor rights and human rights in 2016. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 49 Material Issues and Challenges in 2016 Greenpeace Tuna Stock Status Abuse of Labor In 2016, Greenpeace continued Our work with the International in the Seafood Industry to challenge Thai Union to be Seafood Sustainability Foundation Labor conditions in the seafood a leader in the seafood industry; (ISSF) continued to be of vital industry continued to be a risk we have taken this challenge very importance in 2016, especially to the business and significant seriously. To show transparency with regards to the status of tuna concern for the industry. Many in our approach, we published stocks. As reported by the ISSF in projects were put in place to our response to the Greenpeace their Status of the Stocks report address these issues as outlined tuna asks on our website (see: linked below, although skipjack in this section, including the work http://www.thaiunion.com/en/ tuna remained abundant across with MWRN on social auditing, newsroom/press-release/143/ most oceans, concerns were worker voice and recruitment; the our-response-to-greenpeace). raised about the stock status of work with the Issara Institute to yellowfin tuna in the Indian Ocean provide an independent hotline There are no quick or easy and bigeye tuna in the Westernfor workers as well as access to solutions when it comes to Central Pacific. We immediately remediation, and work with LPN sustainability, but we are working took measures aligned with the on raising knowledge of migrant tirelessly and investing significantly Indian Ocean Tuna Commission worker rights. to achieve real changes that will recommendations to reduce benefit the marine environment yellowfin catch, lobby RFMO’s Thai Union invited the Associated for all. Therefore, we developed to adopt robust harvest control Press to visit our shrimp processing SeaChange®, our global sustainrules and harvest strategies, and facilities in 2016, to follow up ability strategy. We continue to we maintained full compliance on their Pulitzer Prize winning talk with Greenpeace to try with the ISSF Conservation research and reporting into labor to develop an approach that Measures. Stock status will also abuses in the seafood sector. addresses these issues jointly be addressed through the fishery They noted in an article published and with the rest of the industry. improvement projects program in September that Thai Union we announced in December. For had clearly improved working further details on the latest status conditions, but challenges remain. of the tuna stocks, see: http:// In 2016 Thai Union was shortlisted iss-foundation.org/about-tuna/ for the inaugural Thomson status-of-the-stocks. Reuters Foundation Stop Slavery Award, and spoke on several platforms to raise the issue of human trafficking, debt bondage There are no quick or easy solutions when it comes and forced labor. By working across the industry, with the Royal to sustainability, but we are working tirelessly Thai Government and other and investing significantly to achieve real changes . regulators, civil society and the that will benefit the marine environment for all. media, we will continue to provide solutions and advocacy for human rights in the seafood sector. 50 Safe and Legal Labor 05 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 51 We are determined to promote safe and legal labor practices in the global seafood industry. To do our part, in 2016 we rolled out Thai Union’s new Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct, which launched the previous year, to our global suppliers. The Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct strictly forbids any abuses of labor or human rights in Thai Union’s supply chain and those of our suppliers. This will help ensure workers in our supply chain have safe and freely chosen employment and that human trafficking is not tolerated. In 2016 we also continued to improve our recruitment and working practices in our own facilities, and we further invested in global talent development. 52 Safe and Legal Labor New employees are informed of THAI UNION BUSINESS the Code on their first day of ETHICS AND LABOR CODE employment either during OF CONDUCT orientation by HR or by their supervisor. The Code is available Thai Union continues to adhere on Thai Union’s corporate website to our revised Business Ethics and and available in 19 languages. Labor Code of Conduct, which was released in 2015 to promote In 2016 a sub-committee of the a higher level of accountability Global Sustainability Committee and transparency throughout was established to facilitate the our supply chain. The Code is implementation and dissemination designed to guide the actions of the Code and to ensure the of our employees and suppliers to Code’s successful rollout to be consistent with our corporate Thai Union supply chains. Any values. It also serves as a frame contracted suppliers that wish to of reference for our employees conduct business transactions and suppliers to understand Thai with Thai Union must sign Union’s expectations of integrity an acknowledgement of the Code, throughout our supply chain and whereby they accept to strictly those of our suppliers. follow our mandatory principles and zero-tolerance policy In 2016, Thai Union employees for human trafficking and forced . worldwide signed an acknowllabor. The Code also applies to edgement of Thai Union’s any sub-suppliers employed expectation for employees to by primary suppliers in business uphold the Code’s commitments. with Thai Union. Thai Union workers receive an overview of our Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 53 HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICAL LABOR PRACTICES At Thai Union, we are determined to promote safe and legal labor practices in the global seafood industry. It is not only the right thing to do, but consumers and civil society increasingly expect businesses to demonstrate respect for human rights across their supply chains. Therefore, being able to manage these issues effectively will help Thai Union be a leading global seafood company and continue to gain our stakeholders’ trust and confidence. The seafood industry is generally labor intensive and has a complex supply chain with many stakeholder groups involved. The industry faces real challenges like human trafficking, human rights abuses and labor exploitation. In most cases, these issues occur outside the direct operational control of a single company, and the complexities of the seafood industry prevent any single company or institution from solving them alone. 54 In 2015, we conducted a Human Rights Due Diligence process to help Thai Union identify, visualize and manage any potential human rights risks early on in our fisheries supply chain. In 2016, in addition to our fisheries supply chain, we also conducted the Human Rights Due Diligence process in our packaging, food ingredients and shrimp supply chains. While the risks and challenges associated with each step in our supply chain may vary regionally, this process will continue improving our global ability to promote human rights within our supply chains. Since launching our Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement last year and the new Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct in 2015, we continued making progress in support of these policies throughout 2016. We While the risks and challenges associated with each improved and expanded our due step in our supply chain may vary regionally, this diligence processes to identify, process will continue improving our global ability to prevent and mitigate any adverse human rights impacts we may promote human rights within our supply chains. have, using the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and our corporate risk management By conducting a pre-assessment practice to pre-assess all potential framework as critical resources at the beginning of our supplier Thai Union suppliers upon along the way. procurement process, we can acknowledgement of Thai Union’s identify and mitigate many of Code of Conduct. The preAs part of Thai Union’s human these risks, including human assessment is administered by rights due diligence process, rights risks. SAQ either electronically or as we conducted a human rights a physical inspection, as applicable. assessment across different parts In 2016, Thai Union engaged Only suppliers that pass the of our business to identify any SGS to support the development pre-assessment will qualify to do potential human rights related of a social compliance Selfbusiness with Thai Union. Those risks. In 2016, the assessment Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) that fail the pre-assessment will covered three key areas: for Thailand. The SAQ looks at have an opportunity to undergo Thai Union’s Business Ethics and a supplier performance improveSupplier Approval Process Labor Code of Conduct and all ment program, which helps Each raw material purchased by applicable regulations, as well as suppliers develop their practices Thai Union from a supplier poses our capacity building efforts with to meet Thai Union’s social different risks and challenges. suppliers. It is now standard compliance requirements. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 55 Migrant Worker Recruitment we developed and implemented . Migrant labor is ubiquitous around a global HR Scorecard to monitor the world. Thai Union supports key indicators such as diversity, migrant labor to enhance people’s equal remuneration and freedom lives and livelihoods as it often of association. provides a good opportunity for workers and their families to access a better income than available in their home countries. Still, migrant workers are exposed to a variety of vulnerabilities, including exploitation, human rights abuses and human trafficking – Thai Union, however, seeks to ensure migration occurs safely and legally. In 2016, we issued and implemented an ethical migrant worker recruitment policy and an identification process of high-risk areas where close monitoring and mitigation measures must be in place to prevent human rights violations. Our intent is that these initiatives will help protect the human rights of migrant workers and avoid instances of bonded or forced labor or human trafficking. Specifically, the initiative’s aim is to ensure migrant workers receive full disclosure prior to hire, that they are provided a safe and healthy work environment, and that they have freedom of movement. Ethical Labor Practices Since the launch of Thai Union’s Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct and our commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles, Thai Union has developed and implemented different initiatives to ensure our 2020 milestones for Safe and Legal Labor are met. For example, in 2016 our materiality analysis identified key labor indicators and 56 CASE STUDY THAI UNION LEADS IN OPTING FOR ZERO-RECRUITMENT FEES POLICY Thai Union’s workforce in Thailand is composed of workers primarily from Thailand, Myanmar and Cambodia, recruited locally or directly through formal channels engaging licensed recruitment agents in Cambodia and Myanmar. So, Thai Union eliminated recruitment fees for all workers in its factories and processing plants in This initiative is the result of a shared commitment April 2016, effective for all future recruitment of to improving working conditions for all Thai workers both from within Thailand and overseas. Union staff. The company has led the way in adopting stringent policies and rules within The move follows Thai Union’s continued the Thai seafood industry to show everyone that development of an ethical migrant worker these changes are possible, but it is essential to recruitment policy and was welcomed by have partners such as MWRN who can help Thai the Migrant Workers Rights Network (MWRN), Union see the workplace through the eyes of whose mapping of all Thai Union’s factories employees. Thai Union has also shared information and processing plants during 2016 highlighted on the project with governments including the challenges in recruitment as requiring an urgent Royal Thai Government Ministry of Labor and response. ministries in CLMVT countries, members of Parliament from the European Union, and Thai Union is focused on reducing the potential the International Organization of Migration for abuse and extortion by agents and brokers (IOM) to help demonstrate progress in practice. in recruitment of migrant workers. By committing significant resources and time to dealing directly Thai Union has been working with MWRN’s and building stronger relationships with recruitment leadership since 2013 to address migrant worker agents in Cambodia and Myanmar, Thai Union concerns about conditions in Thailand’s major has been able to map out recruitment processes export factories. Since January 2016, Thai Union more effectively, with MWRN providing oversight and MWRN formally launched a cooperation and supervision, thereby reducing costs and project to validate progress in addressing complexities. remaining concerns in migrant workers’ conditions in these factories. Thai Union’s ethical migrant recruitment policy has been applied to the use of agents for all Additionally, Thai Union works in close collabomigrant worker registration processes in Thailand, ration with Issara Institute, an independent NGO such that our workers cover no additional costs based in Asia tackling issues of human trafficking should Thai Union choose to utilize agents for and forced labor in global supply chains through these processes. This policy was extended to all data, technology, partnership, and innovation. foreign recruitment in 2016. Together, Issara and Thai Union are working to use technology such as hotlines and migrantOne of the key platforms in developing a truly focused smartphone apps to increase visibility . sustainable future is the need for all employees of labor risks across their supply chain, and to have access to safe and freely-chosen employcapture feedback from thousands of workers to ment. Debt bondage resulting from recruitment understand how their working conditions could has no place in Thai Union’s workplaces. be improved. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 57 CASE STUDY Companies too can reduce numerous costs related to cash payments surrounding payroll THAI UNION CONTINUES ITS and supplier payments. The benefits of digital TRANSITION TO DIGITAL PAYMENTS payments include lower transaction costs, which WORLDWIDE creates capital for more productive endeavors such as investment and business growth; heightened transparency and lessened risks Recent research has indicated that access to of theft and fraud in comparison to cash-based financial services can help the world more payment practices; and increased inclusion in effectively and efficiently achieve the United formal financial systems, generating more access Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). to capital, new business opportunities and new Yet, more than 2 billion people around the globe markets. continue to lack access to financial services, finding themselves excluded from the formal Increasing evidence shows that in addition to financial system and left at the margins of improving efficiency for companies and society. contributing to job creation and economic growth in line with SDG 8, the digitization of Digital financial services in particular have payments has important benefits for individuals, a proven ability to expand the delivery of basic too. In light of this, in 2016 Thai Union continued financial services to the poor through innovative to transition workers across our operations technologies like mobile-phone enabled around the globe to electronic payments. Now, solutions, electronic money models and digital 100 percent of our workers in Thailand receive payment platforms. A 2016 report released by payments electronically. This includes our the McKinsey Global Institute demonstrates plant-level workers, some of whom are migrants, how digital financial services can drive financial prompting many to get bank accounts for the inclusion and economic growth simultaneously. first time. Meanwhile, research conducted by Moody’s between 2008 and 2012 showed the increased Moving forward, Thai Union is committed to looking use of digital payments added $983 billion (USD) at how to further scale up digital payments in global economic growth, the equivalent to across our operations, as well as examine financial creating 1.9 million jobs. Additionally, digital education and gender finance initiatives to help . payments are even able to help empower women improve the lives of our workers. For example, by giving them more control over their family’s offering financial literacy programs could raise finances, increasing their personal security, as our employees’ awareness of the benefits of well as enhancing their economic opportunities. accumulating savings and ability to do so. 58 Responsible Sourcing 06 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 59 Traceability is the key to improving the transparency and operational practices of the entire seafood supply chain. We aim to achieve full digital traceability by 2020, which will dramatically reduce the risk of Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) Fishing and will help ensure vessels comply with safe labor conditions. This means tracking products back to source, allowing us to monitor the operations, actions and labor conditions of our suppliers. Additionally, we are moving toward having 100 percent of our branded tuna either Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certified or engaged in a fishery improvement project, with a minimum target of 75 percent by 2020. 60 Responsible Sourcing and fish stock depletion, an environSUPPLY CHAIN mental risk. MANAGEMENT Our supply chain management Given the complexities of approach primarily focuses on the seafood industry, Thai Union the sourcing of raw fishery and recognizes the importance aquaculture materials as these of proactively addressing both processes have the highest emerging and ongoing issues in potential to carry risk. our dynamic business environment. Being able to fully understand Digital Traceability and effectively manage our supply To help prevent these risks, in 2015 chain risks will not only help us Thai Union started developing and gain the trust and confidence of implementing an in-house supply stakeholders; it will also increase chain mapping system that our competitiveness. From sourcing digitalizes our supplier information of materials, to production in database. The digital mapping our facilities, to delivery to our system provides better visibility customers, supply chain into our supply chain, which helps management is key to Thai Thai Union conduct an effective Union’s sustainability strategy. risk analysis. Like most sectors, the seafood In 2016, we brought our digital industry has inherent risks that mapping system to Thailand, Thai Union actively works to where we are focusing on mapping prevent. They include Illegal, our shrimp and general procurement Unreported and Unregulated processes. We will disseminate (IUU) fishing, which is a legal this digital mapping system to What is Traceability? compliance risk; labor and human Thai Union entities in other regions rights violations, a social risk; starting in 2017, with priority given to aquaculture species, due to the complexity of the aquaculture supply chain. Thai Union conducts an annual spend analysis across different procurement categories to identify which of our suppliers are critical to the continuity of our business. Since the digital mapping data helps us visualize the structure and characteristics of our supply chain, we will use it to help identify our critical suppliers. This information will help us develop the . right procurement strategies to engage and work collaboratively with our suppliers so we can collectively address our risks. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 61 CASE STUDY SPEND ANALYSIS OF GLOBAL NON-FISH PROCUREMENT Since 2015, Thai Union has conducted a spend implementing a joint initiative across different . analysis across different categories of non-fish facilities to work towards a more efficient and procurement including packaging, ingredients integrated procurement network, as well as set and logistics where generally procured by effective measures for supply chain risks Thai Union facilities worldwide. Based on management and efficiency gains. the analysis result, Thai Union is developing and 62 Supplier Assessment All Thai Union contracted suppliers Process globally are subject to internal Since launching our updated or third-party audits at any point Business Ethics and Labor Code during the procurement cycle – of Conduct in 2015, we have not just the ones with a high-risk started formalizing a supplier profile. We randomly select . approval process. This helps a percentage of our suppliers to ensure we procure from qualified verify their capacity to strictly suppliers that meet Thai Union’s follow our Code and to help avoid procurement criteria, including non-compliance. environmental, social, legal compliance and governance aspects. We evaluate suppliers against our procurement criteria at all stages of the procurement cycle – including prospective and existing suppliers. All prospective contracted suppliers must acknowledge and sign our Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct. In Thailand, prospective suppliers will then be pre-assessed to determine whether they meet Thai Union’s requirements by completing a one-time SelfAssessment Questionnaire (SAQ). Those that pass the SAQ are confirmed as approved suppliers, and procurement can begin. A local purchasing committee will evaluate suppliers and determine their ratings on a rolling basis. Any suppliers identified as highrisk – especially those associated with environmental, social and governance issues – will receive a third-party audit to verify their ability to meet Thai Union’s Code. High-risk suppliers that do not pass the audit have an opportunity to undergo a supplier performance improvement program to meet our compliance requirements. If at the end of the program the gaps are closed, procurement can resume; if the gaps remain, procurement is discontinued. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 63 CASE STUDY SUPPLIER CAPACITY BUILDING AND AUDIT IN THAILAND (SHRIMP AND GENERAL PROCUREMENT) Since the launch of Thai Union’s Business Ethics any emerging and ongoing social compliance and Labor Code of Conduct in 2015, all contracted issues. tier-1 (direct) suppliers are subject to signing an acknowledgement of the Code. They are Any suppliers that do not meet our requirements also subject to an assessment confirming their have an opportunity to undergo a supplier compliance with the Code. performance improvement program. In 2016, 100 percent (209 suppliers) of our critical tier-1 . To ensure suppliers understand and can comply suppliers were trained and over 90 percent of with the new Code, Thai Union established our critical tier-1 suppliers were audited against a supplier capacity building program. The program the Code. We expect 100 percent of our critical creates awareness of the Code and addresses tier-1 suppliers to receive audits by mid-2017. Thai Union’s suppliers, representing a range of procurement categories, attended our Supplier Social Compliance Training in Bangkok in 2016. 64 Tuna Commitment FISHERY RAW MATERIAL In 2016, we announced an SOURCING AND FIPs ambitious strategy to ensure 100 percent of our branded tuna Thai Union realizes that the growth is sustainably sourced, with of our business is not only about a commitment of achieving the growth of our revenue but a minimum of 75 percent by 2020. also about being mindful of tomorrow. As our business Tuna is a highly nutritious and expands across the globe, we are extremely versatile source of determined to continually explore protein for millions of people opportunities to minimize any globally. In fact, more than four social and environmental impacts. million metric tons of tuna is caught every year around Our vision is to be the world’s the world for consumption, and most trusted seafood leader, accounts for nearly 17 percent caring for our resources to nurture of global protein consumption. generations to come. We are It is no surprise then that tuna committed to the long-term features so widely in Thai Union’s sustainability of the fishery raw product portfolio. materials used in our products. We work in partnership with We use a range of tuna species our stakeholders to improve across our various brands – the health of the oceans and seek skipjack, yellowfin, albacore and to minimize adverse impacts of bigeye – all of which are wild fishing on the wider ecosystem. caught in the Pacific, Indian and Atlantic Oceans. Thai Union supports a number of organizations that take With tuna being such a focus, we a science-led approach to marine recognize that we have a responconservation, and we engage sibility to ensure: with suppliers, customers and NGOs to work toward Fishery • That the fish we use is Improvement Projects (FIPs). sustainably caught – by fully registered vessels that are not involved in illegal fishing and provide safe and legal labor to those on board; • The fish is fully traceable, from catch to consumption, and; • We are helping to maintain healthy stock levels so future generations can continue to enjoy tuna. For Thai Union, sustainably sourced tuna is tuna from fisheries that are certified according to standards by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) or are in FIPs SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 65 that move the fishery toward MSC certification. MSC certification is widely In 2016 Thai Union achieved 100 percent compliance recognized as being the best mark of seafood sustainability. with ISSF Participating Companies Audit by MRAG Americas against the ISSF’s Conservation Measures MSC uses scientific evidence to and Commitments. assess fisheries based on three criteria – sustainable fish stocks, minimal environmental impacts, and effective management of the fishery. As part of our new tuna strategy, Thai Union is investing $90 million in initiatives that will increase the supply of sustainable tuna. This includes establishing 11 new FIPs around the world. A FIP is a program to transform a fishery, ensuring sustainable fish stocks, minimized environmental impacts, and improved management of the fishery. For Thai Union, sustainably sourced tuna also means full traceability – the backbone of our sustainability strategy. Sustainable sourcing is only achievable if we can trace where our tuna comes from. Traceability allows us to address some of the most critical issues in our industry – combating Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) fishing, ensuring operational compliance on board vessels to manage bycatch, and stamping out illegal or forced labor. Every year, we will report on our . progress toward our target of 75 percent of our global branded tuna being sustainably sourced by 2020. 66 FISHERY IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS (FIPs) At Thai Union, we believe working with conservation groups and governments can be a powerful force to improve seafood sustainability and the overall health of our oceans. A Fishery Improvement Project (FIP) is a cross-sectorial initiative that utilizes the power of private and public sectors and civil society to address challenges in a fishery and incentivize positive change. We use the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) standard as a tool to measure progress, however, stakeholders in a FIP may also elect to address other fishery issues. When a fishery achieves all its FIP milestones, it will be up to the stakeholders to pursue full MSC Certification. FIPs are an important part of the Thai Union sustainability strategy, SeaChange®. For example, as part of our new tuna strategy, Thai Union committed to sourcing 100 percent of its branded tuna from fisheries that are either MSC certified or engaged in FIPs to move them . towards MSC certification – while the company aims to achieve a minimum of 75 percent by the end of 2020. Fishery Improvement Project 2020 Roadmap At Thai Union, we believe working with conservation groups and governments can be a powerful force to improve seafood sustainability and the overall health of our oceans. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 67 CASE STUDY SRI LANKAN BLUE SWIMMING CRAB (SLBSC) In July 2016, Chicken of the Sea Frozen Foods Harvest Control Strategy (COSFF) became the latest partner of the Sri The long-term goal of the harvest control strategy Lankan Blue Swimming Crab (SLBSC) Fishery is to maintain the biological and ecological status Improvement Project (FIP) with our supply of each fishery at a level consistent with internachain partner Taprobane Seafood Group. COSFF tionally agreed upon norms. (Thai Union North America) is co-financing the cost of researching and formulation of a harvest The harvest control strategy requires the formucontrol strategy for blue swimming crab (BSC) lation and introduction of new controls on BSC fisheries in Sri Lanka. The FIP commenced work fishing. These controls are being implemented in on developing a harvest control strategy for BSC the form of a voluntary code of conduct – a set in Sri Lanka during the reporting period with of best practices developed in consultation with fishing communities, the Department of representatives of 54 BSC fishermen’s cooperative Fisheries and Aquatic Resources and BSC societies within the fisheries. We will continue manufacturers. Other partners for the FIP collecting insights from fishing communities, include the NFI Crab Council, Santa Monica the seafood industry, regulatory authorities and Seafood through FishWise’s Responsible Vendors the BSC FIP throughout implementation, and Sourcing Programme (RVSP) and the International monitoring and evaluation. These insights will Labor Organization’s (ILO) Local Empowerment inform us of the voluntary code’s impact and through Economic Development (LEED) Project. they will help shape a mandatory regulation The aim of the FIP is to ensure the sustainability governing BSC fishing, which will be submitted of two Sri Lankan blue swimming crab fisheries, in 2018. one in Palk Bay and the other in the Gulf of Mannar. The strategy will employ a size-selective approach to fishery management, which prohibits or restricts gear type, mesh size, minimum catch size for export, and/or spatial size of fisheries. The BSC fisheries will be managed monthly at the local level – i.e. village, divisional or district level in collaboration with central government authorities. Collaborative Fishery Management Plans Collaborative fishery management plans for the BSC fisheries will be developed and implemented by fishing communities, BSC manufacturers, the Seafood Exporters’ Association of Sri Lanka, who are an Association member of the FIP, and . government agencies and authorities. They will reference the voluntary code of conduct, the regulation for BSC fisheries in Sri Lanka, and the harvest control rules and tools. Watch: Shared Value Partnerships in Sri Lanka* *This film is being used with the permission of the Australian Government. DFAT provided funding to the cooperative to build the crab factory as part of one of its development projects in Sri Lanka. 68 Thai Union has an aspiration to But the majority of our aquaculture AQUACULTURE RAW source products from locally or products are still sourced from MATERIAL SOURCING internationally certified facilities. suppliers. To ensure our aquaculOur goal is to source our aquaculture ture suppliers’ procurement Aquaculture is considered one of products from sustainable practices operate to a uniform the fastest growing food production aquaculture operations, and we global standard, we drafted systems. In many countries, will outline and announce specific the Thai Union Aquaculture aquaculture exports continue to milestones for sourcing in 2017. Responsible Sourcing Guidelines rise in volume and value. Filling in 2016. The Guidelines address the gap between fishery product Thai Union has a vertically key social, environmental and supply and demand, aquaculture integrated supply chain for some food safety issues associated with yields nutritious food, it provides components of our aquaculture farmed seafood, and will be rolled employment opportunities, and it production process, meaning we out in 2017. They will also help our contributes to local economies – own internationally certified facilities supplier farms work towards particularly in rural areas. that are part of our aquaculture internationally credible aquaculture supply chain. For example, certifications such as BAP, Aquaculture typically involves Thai Union has some Best Aquaculture Stewardship Council a complex supply chain with Aquaculture Practices (BAP) (ASC), GLOBALG.A.P., and the many stakeholders, ranging from certified farms, a hatchery and a Southeast Asian Shrimp Aquaculture farms to hatcheries, aquafeeds to feed mill in Thailand. Improvement Protocol (SEASAIP). vessels. At the same time, worldwide consumers are increasingly aware of social and environmental issues and seek responsibly sourced products. Companies Thai Union has an aspiration to source that effectively manage and demonstrate transparency in their products from locally or internationally aquaculture supply chains will certified facilities. differentiate themselves in the aquaculture product market. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 69 The majority of aquaculture species processed at our facilities are shrimp and salmon. Thai Union continues to support our suppliers to help them meet international aquaculture standards. 70 Traceability is the backbone of and address environmental our seafood sustainability strategy. AQUACULTURE footprints and labor issues. Working toward full digital IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS Through aquaculture improvement traceability will not only improve (AIPS) projects (AIPs), Thai Union has transparency for our consumers, invested in and supported our but also helps us effectively In the past years, civil society has partner farms and facilities to address the risks within our supply expressed a growing concern over work toward an international . chain. Since 2015, Thai Union has adverse impacts of aquaculture. certification such as Best been developing and implementing This is coupled with an increasing Aquaculture Practices (BAP) and an in-house digital traceability demand for seafood from certified Aquaculture Stewardship Council system for aquaculture products facilities that properly monitor (ASC). sourced from Thailand. The system will be disseminated to other regions beginning in 2017. To further address the need for sustainable aquaculture feeds, Thai Union is exploring potential alternatives to replace fishmeal used in aquafeeds with more sustainable and traceable sources of protein. This will help minimize a negative impact on wild fish stocks; eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated . (IUU) fishing; and effectively manage social compliance issues – especially human rights and any labor abuses on fishing vessels. Thai Union is a proud member of the Seafood Task Force, an industry-led coalition tackling human rights and environmental issues in Thailand. Each member organization commits to supporting progress against the Task Force objectives. Website: http://www.seafoodtaskforce.global/ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 71 CASE STUDY SHRIMP BUSINESS SUPPORTING AIPS IN THAILAND Thai Union has provided a capacity building program to our partner farms to help them improve their farm management practices to meet BAP, SEASAIP and ASC standards. We also assist farms to address key technical aspects such as biosecurity, . disease control and water management to improve the productivity and avoid any non-compliance. Status of AIPs in Thailand Number of farms that Number of farms certified Name of undergo AIP or according to international the standard pre-assessment against aquaculture standards in 2016 standard requirements BAP 13 19 SEASAIP 0 1 ASC 4 0 72 Responsible Operations 07 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 73 Thai Union has many initiatives in place to help ensure we operate responsibly. We have programs that contribute to net-zero emissions, and we use innovative and robust management practices to reduce our water and electricity consumption. We also take workplace health and safety very seriously. 74 Responsible Operations CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The Paris Agreement provides a way forward for governments and society to find effective policy solutions and culture changes that drive low-carbon business and consumer choices. Currently, climate change is a global challenge involving economic, social and environmental issues. we are also committed to ocean the communities in which we work Oceans are also directly linked stewardship with a focus on and the environment; and thus, with climate change, whether climate change. we are doing our part to minimize through warming sea surface climate change. temperatures, rising sea levels, In accordance with Thai Union’s or ocean acidification. As our vision to be the world’s most Thai Union saves energy through business relies on the oceans trusted seafood leader, we place four main initiatives: for wild-caught fish as well as great importance on managing for livelihoods for those living our energy consumption. In doing 1) Improving operational efficiency close to or working on the oceans, so, we reduce our impact on in our production lines; 2) Investing in more efficient equipment and processes; 3) Developing and deploying innovations or new technologies, and; 4) Promoting renewable energy. To reduce energy consumption in our business operations, Thai Union established an assessment program in 2016 that studied the top five opportunities for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and developed relevant action plans. The assessment program summarizes how we will execute our GHG strategy. There are six modules in our GHG strategy. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 75 Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions In 2016, we challenged ourselves to reduce Thai Union’s GHG emissions by 30 percent per ton of production by 2020. We are using Thai Union’s 2016 scope 1 and 2 levels as a baseline. In FY16, our scope 1 GHG emissions intensity was 0.55 (376,036/688,949) ton CO2eq per ton of production. Our scope 2 emissions intensity was 0.27 (182,698/688,949) ton CO2eq per ton of production. The total scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity was 0.81 (558,734/688,949) ton CO2eq per ton of production. About 86 percent of our GHG emissions came from our use of fuel. For example: • Coal and bunger oil in steam production (32 percent); 2020 TARGET • Purchased electricity (33 percent); Reduce GHG emissions by 30 percent per ton of production* • Cryogenic freezing process *compared to the base year, 2016 (11 percent), and; • Wastewater treatment plant’s anaerobic reactor process (10 percent). 76 Our Commitments by 2020 • We will achieve our overall 30 percent CO2 reduction target by 2020 (ton-CO2eq per ton of production) against our 2016 baseline, with a focus on scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. • We will seek alternative fuel sources with lower CO2 emissions and improve boiler efficiency to reduce CO2 from our steam production process. • We will promote use of renewable energy sources, for example solar panels and windmills, instead of purchasing electricity produced by fossil fuels such as coal, diesel and natural gas. • We will improve our cryogenic freezing process by conducting process optimized solutions to reduce liquid carbon dioxide usage; and we will conduct a feasibility study exploring the use of liquid nitrogen instead. • We will explore optimizing the way we recover methane from our wastewater treatment plant’s anaerobic reactor. For example, we will investigate the heating boiler, electrical generation, etc. Beginning in FY15, we implemented more than 40 GHG reduction Biomass Boiler Project at projects in Thailand for scope 1 Songkla Canning Company and 2 emissions, the majority of Initiated in 2015, the biomass which focus on energy efficiency boiler project at Songkla Canning (53 percent of total projects) and Company contributed to the bulb replacement (31 percent reduction of 0.00961 CO2eq of total projects). We invested per ton compared to the previous 94 million Thai Baht in our GHG year’s steam production emissions. reduction projects, with a cost By using biomass instead of . savings of approximately 89 bunger oil in 2016, we reduced million Thai Baht. Moreover, we our fuel consumption by 124,570 GJ reduced our GHG emissions by and saved approximately about 40,199,000 kg CO2eq. 71 million Thai Baht. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 77 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND EFFICIENCY Energy consumption remains the most challenging environmental issue associated with our operations both at production sites and offices. About 65 percent of our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions result from our use of fuel in steam production and electricity. Therefore, we track our facilities’ scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions level on a monthly basis and provide regular reports to management. In 2016, our total energy consumption was 6.46 GJ/ton, 5.9 percent higher than our 2015 performance. This is due to a variance in the business types of reported companies in 2015; for instance, fishing fleet vessels consume a large amount of energy per tonnage compared to other businesses. Our Energy Efficiency Strategy in Thai Union’s Plants Includes • Increasing line productivity; • Conducting Operational Efficiency (OE) and Quality Control Circle (QCC) projects to identify measures to increase efficiency; • Investing in more energy efficient equipment, e.g. High Efficiency Motor (HEM), Chiller High Efficiency, and High Efficiency Fan Blade; • Heat recovery; • LED replacement, and; • Exploring and analyzing renewable energy investments. 78 WATER CONSUMPTION AND CRISIS As the earth’s temperatures continue to rise, we can expect significant and potentially devastating impacts on our fresh water supply. Thus, responsible water management is critical to the future of Thai Union’s business, especially in waterstressed areas where we operate. We facilitate sustainable management of water catchments around our factories by improving water use efficiency and wastewater discharge quality. In 2016, Thai Union’s total water consumption was 11,942,635 m3, of which 8,253,680 m3 came from municipal water – our major water source, though there are others as well. In 2014, we mapped 15 of our key factories and facilities against areas with watershed stress. 2020 TARGET Thai Union’s municipal water Reduce water consumption by 20 percent consumption in the European per ton of production* Union and Africa was 1,146,593 m3, *compared to the base year, 2016 1,200,974 m3 and 1,692,875 m3 in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. Our municipal water consumption in the U.S. was 514,548 m3, 480,495 m3 and 512,106 m3 in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. Water reuse and recycle project at Thai Union Group PCL The facilities and production processes at our frozen food factory, Thai Union Group PCL (Thai Union Factory, or TUF), consumes one of the highest amounts of water of all our factories. The total amount of water consumed is around 7,500 m3/day, with a wastewater discharge of around 6,500 m3/day. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 79 Since 2015, we have had a wastewater treatment plant to reuse and recycle water and reduce our intake from the municipal water supply. In 2016, 2.5 percent of TUF’s total water consumption – or 64,168 m3 – came from reused and recycled water. This contributed a savings of 1,525,475 Thai Baht in 2016. We reuse water to clean the . outside of the factory and for gardening, and we recycle water for use in the boiler and wastewater treatment system. ELIMINATING WASTE Waste is directly linked to our consumption and production system and can affect people’s health and environment. For example, landfills are an important source of methane emissions, which is a powerful greenhouse gas contributing to climate change. Runoff from landfills can contaminate ground water and soil, which can then enter the food chain. Waste in landfills represents a substantial loss of materials or yield, along with all the other inputs used in production and distribution. Our waste elimination strategy is to maximize the use of our materials and resources, reduce the amount of waste generated, and keep materials out of landfills. We minimize our waste during production processes and find opportunities to use byproducts for other purposes. For example, 2020 TARGET we use sludge from our wastewater treatment plant as organic 20 percent . fertilizer, we produce biogas for Reduce waste to landfill by electricity and use it for electricity, per ton of production* and we produce steam from *compared to the base year, 2016 mixed diesel and vegetable oils. 80 SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING Packaging is an important component of any product and contributes significantly to a company’s overall environmental impact. By developing and implementing sustainable packaging initiatives, Thai Union’s overall environmental footprint and associated costs can be reduced. At Thai Union, sustainable packaging starts with the selection criteria of packaging materials. Our Policy Aims to: • Reduce/minimize the overall package to product ratio; • Reduce the carbon footprint of packaging through new innovations through the weight and composition of packaging materials, packaging sizes and logistics; • Reduce the amount of packaging going to landfills by utilizing packaging materials with readily available recycling streams or other end-of-life options; • Utilize recycled materials, where available, and close the recycling loop; • Source from and leverage the expertise of packaging suppliers that demonstrate excellence in sustainable packaging and operations; • Research innovation in product packaging and utilization by consumers; and communicate and encourage appropriate end-of-life packaging handling to our consumers, particularly with a view to reduce plastic waste that ends up in our oceans. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 81 By developing and implementing sustainable packaging initiatives, Thai Union’s overall environmental footprint and associated costs can be reduced. Our Key Initiatives of the process, Thai Union will lid (PP lid) through a bioconduct Life Cycle Assesssourced solution (50 percent 1) Thai Union has started to ments (LCAs) during the seaweed/50 percent PP lid). formalize a process for development of new packaging. sustainable packaging for new For example, we have conducted 3) We are researching ways to product development. This a preliminary LCA to assess reduce the thickness and process will ensure that the CO2 footprint of steel weight of cans to decrease . potential new packaging is not versus plastic packaging. the quantity of material used. developed if its environmental Our goal is to deliver a product footprint is larger than that 2) We are researching using of the same quality, but of the existing packaging it is seaweed plastic as an opportunity lighter. meant to replace. Also as part to replace our current plastic CASE STUDY THAI UNION EUROPE Packaging weight reduction has not only a positive environmental impact; it also has a direct impact on cost reduction. In 2016, Thai Union Europe (TUE) carried out a successful pilot at ESIP, TUE’s plant in Portugal, aimed at decreasing the steel packaging thickness of 80 gram cans. TUE will roll out a steel packaging thickness reduction plan on 80 gram cans at its France-based Douarnenez plant in 2017. Each steel can’s weight will decrease from 18.5 grams . (0.635 oz) to 17.9 grams (0.60 oz). Combined, the 12.8 million steel cans impacted by the project will have a total savings of 7.7 tons of steel. 82 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY In 2016, our journey to “Building a Trusted Workplace in Health and Safety” continued with a focus on Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S) competency improvement and establishing systematic and standard-driven operations within Thai Union. These initiatives will serve as the foundation of our EH&S programs moving forward. The strategic circle pictured on the following page demonstrates our improvements to Thai Union’s EH&S program and our progress in implementing them. We continue to not only improve the coverage of our key reporting indicator – our employees’ lost-time injuries frequency rate (LTIFR) – but also the quality of data. In 2016, our LTIFR was 0.75 per 200,000 hours worked. With better coverage, we were able to maintain the occupational illness frequency rate for employees at zero, and we decreased our employees’ lost-time injuries Thai Union workers attend an Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S) meeting in 2016. severity rate (LTISR) to 7.09 per 200,000 hours worked in 2016, down from 8.50 in 2015. In 2016, we also successfully kept contractors’ lost-time accident rate at zero for their 2,430,099 hours worked at Thai Union sites. In 2016, our journey to “Building a Trusted Workplace in Health and Safety” continued with a focus on Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S) competency improvement and establishing systematic and standard-driven operations within Thai Union. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 83 84 It is your responsibility, on behalf of our company, to make sure that our workplace is safe for our employees, and when it comes to environmental issues, to ensure that we fully comply with all relevant laws and regulations… We do this because we are fully committed to EH&S. You can see in our new vision that we want to be the most trusted seafood company in the world. When we talk about trust, we have to start with our own employees. Our employees must trust us first. They must feel that the workplace is safe. They must feel that the company is taking good care of every one of our employees, and especially their safety. — Thiraphong Chansiri, CEO EXTERNAL RECOGNITION • Songkla Canning PCL: Outstanding National • Chicken of the Sea, Georgia Plant: Leadership Occupational Health and Safety Award in Safety Award, from the Georgia Safety, (Diamond Level) for six consecutive years, Health, and Environmental Conference from the Department of Labour Protection and the Georgia Chapter of the American and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, Thailand. Society of Safety Engineers, USA. • Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd., Songkla Branch: • Indian Ocean Tuna Ltd.: Best Safe Workplace, Commencing Level, 1st year (certified hours from the Ministry of Labor and Human of 538,506 between 1 November 2014 and 31 Resources Development, Seychelles. March 2016) zero accident campaign, from the Ministry of Labour and the Thailand Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (Public Organization), Thailand. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 85 Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate for Employees (2012-2015) per 200,000 Hours Worked 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Group 1.2 0.79 0.77 0.68 0.75 Asia 0.60 0.57 0.67 Europe and Africa 2.25 1.72 1.47 North America 0.44 0.43 0.13 Number of Reported 1 1 18 30 39 Sites The above figure for 2016 includes factories, our logistic center and warehouses, our research center, aquaculture farms, shrimp hatcheries, and offices operating under Thai Union Group PCL; Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; Songkla Canning PCL; Asia-Pacific Can Co., Ltd.; Yuech Chang Canned Food Co., Ltd.; Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd.; Pakfood PCL; Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd.; Thai Union Graphic Co., Ltd.; Thai Union Europe SAS; MerAlliance SAS; King Oscar AS; Tri-Union Seafoods LLC; Tri-Union Frozen Products Inc.; and US Pet Nutrition LLC. Safety Improvement in Our Supply Chain As part of our Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct, we are determined to improve the safety of our supply chain. Our key initiatives in 2016 included: • Consultancy of safety improvement for suppliers; • Safety management assessment on suppliers’ sites; • Competency improvement for suppliers, and; • Subsidizing the capital needed for safety improvements. 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 87 The modernized tuna manufacPROCESS INNOVATION turing process results in a significant processing time In 2016, Thai Union introduced reduction for thawing until process innovations to enhance canning. The pre-cooking process product quality and improve has been changed from batch sustainability through increased cooking to continuous cooking, utilization of raw material, and could be reduced to decreased processing time, and significantly decrease steam, reduced steam utilization through water and energy consumption. alternative heating and steam Ongoing steam recovery . recovery processes. research initiatives are underway to further reduce energy use In 2016, Thai Union’s Global and the carbon footprint of Thai Innovation Incubator (GII) Union’s tuna products. implemented a modernized tuna manufacturing processing line at three manufacturing sites. Through a high degree of automation and sophisticated engineering, the automated manufacturing In 2016, Thai Union introduced process innovations to process is revolutionary for enhance product quality and improve sustainability the tuna canning industry. through increased utilization of raw material, It reduces the labor required decreased processing time, and reduced steam to produce tuna products and utilization through alternative heating and steam enables a higher yield of raw recovery processes. material and recovery of highvalue human food ingredients from Thai Union’s tuna byproducts – all significant economic benefits. The improved processes also have a positive impact on the sensory and nutritional quality of our tuna products. And, the efficient processes benefit the environment, with shorter processing times and lower steam, water and energy consumption, contributing to a lower carbon footprint. Further, once the modernized tuna manufacturing process is at full capacity, it is expected to increase gains in efficiency. 88 People and Communities 08 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 89 Thai Union has worked together with private sector peers, local government, international organizations and civil society bodies to address social and environmental problems. Through our social enterprise programs, we are working to deliver sustainable benefits to local communities where we operate. This includes cleaning marine environments, helping to end hunger by providing food donations and nutritional information, and educating children. 90 People and Communities we should behave toward one HUMAN CAPITAL another, despite our differences in background and culture. We have INVESTMENT three values of attitude – passionate, Our dedication to employee humble and respectful – and three development is underpinned by values of action – responsible, the philosophy that every employee collaborative and innovative. is valuable to the Thai Union Group. Each employee contributes To become an industry leader differently, but all in meaningful that creates change and makes ways. As such, we provide a positive difference to our employees with development consumers and customers, and opportunities that vary depending to effectively deliver our business on their needs and readiness. results, we must consistently apply our core values across In 2016, we focused our training our work. and development efforts on aspects of soft skill development We introduce our vision, mission and operational excellence, as and core values to employees and these areas are very important to stakeholders through a variety helping Thai Union achieve our of methods such as town hall business results. meetings, workshops, trainings and orientation programs, focus In September 2015, we began groups, our coaching program, investing significant time and digital platforms, etc. resources across the Group to deploy our new corporate vision, We believe these core values will mission and values. We are doing drive a high performing culture this so our employees and and set an example for what good stakeholders around the globe leadership looks like. Therefore, understand the “Thai Union Ways” the values are integrated throughout of conducting business, which our human capital management place great emphasis on resources, processes, such as our performance people and the environment. management, leadership development and selection process. Thai Union’s Big Six Values create a common platform showing how Our values also enhance Thai Union’s operational excellence development programs such as lean management initiatives, our quality control circle and waste management. Together, our Our dedication to employee development is values and operational excellence underpinned by the philosophy that every development programs will help employee is valuable to the Thai Union Group. us better manage our costs, drive . productivity, ensure quality of our products, and demonstrate our commitment to sustainable development. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 91 CASE STUDY IMPLEMENTING OUR VALUES TO GUIDE US TOWARD A SUSTAINABLE AND PROSPEROUS FUTURE TOGETHER Development of our people is both the core provides various development programs of our human resources strategy and also including cross-functional projects, stretch a continuous focus for senior management. assignments, job rotations, international exposure programs, coaching and feedback mechanisms, Our culture is rooted in Thai Union’s Big Six and classroom training programs. Values, which means we are a team of passionate, humble and respectful individuals driven by Our next step in effective management of a responsible, collaborative and innovative a diverse workforce is the full implementation approach to our work. of our global Human Resources Information System (HRIS), which will centralize our In 2016, we started to consolidate our global employees’ information and master data. This . human resources systems; this was an investment will increase our efficiency, improve our ability in our most important asset – our people. We to handle a global workforce, and encourage view talent development as essential to meeting collaboration across international teams through our ambitious targets. To that end, Thai Union enhanced access to talent information. 92 (LPN), Thai Union built on past and expatriates – volunteer as CSR AND COMMUNITY efforts, and planned workshops teachers. This program compleINVESTMENT to be held in 2017 for migrant ments Thai Union’s development workers to learn about education of preschools in local schools for Education Rights Program, rights and Thai school enrollment the children of migrant workers. Supporting Childhood procedures so their children Education have access to formal education. In 2016, Thai Union and LPN The fishing industry continues Additionally, Thai Union opened expanded our children’s to face challenges in achieving our third preschool for children of education rights program to equality and fair treatment of our migrant and local workers in cover additional issues – including migrant workers in Thailand, Thailand. These schools help the labor rights – for migrant worker stemming from informal and children enter the Thai education communities in Samut Sakhon, illegal labor practices such as system so they can progress to Thailand. Together, we developed human trafficking, forced labor, primary school. They also ensure booklets with useful information child labor and debt bondage. the children are safe during the on children’s education rights, Thai Union has many initiatives day, providing their working child labor, online endangerment, underway to help protect the rights parents with real peace of mind. human trafficking and an of migrant workers in Thailand. emergency number to report Thai Union also recognizes violations. The program aims to We aim to prevent instances of education is an important ensure migrant workers understand child labor and trafficking by foundation for a better life. their rights under Thai law, the ensuring our migrant workers in To help boost the English language risks of human trafficking and Thailand understand their rights. skills of migrant workers’ children how to protect themselves. LPN For instance, migrant workers and other students in the commudistributed 5,000 booklets to with children in Thailand often nities we work, Thai Union created migrant workers in 2016, and in lack access to education due to an informative English teaching 2017, LPN will offer the training insufficient knowledge about the program at Wat Sri Suttharam program and distribute the Thai school system. So, in collabSchool in Thailand, where one of booklets to all Thai Union workers. oration with the Labour Rights our preschools is located. We had Promotion Network Foundation 29 employees – both Thai nationals Mr. Sompong Srakaew, Director of the Labour Rights Promotion Network Foundation (LPN), speaks to our workers at a training session co-organized by Thai Union. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 93 Science Camp for Local Children Thai Union organized a science camp for children from three schools in Thailand: Ban Kok Khok Witthaya School, Ban Sok Tae School, and Ban Khok Yai School. Held at the Ban Kok Khok Witthaya School in Burirum province, 64 scientists from Thai Union’s Global Innovation Incubator led the program to teach children basic science and logical thinking skills. Ensuring the Longevity of the Marine Ecosystem by Protecting Turtles Since 2012, our subsidiary Mareblu has supported turtle conservation at the Sea Turtle Recovery Center in Italy’s Lake Salso’s Oasis through a partnership with Legambiente, a non-profit organization. In 2016, Mareblu continued to support the Center by donating funds to purchase various veterinary equipment and instruments, lamps for sterilization, medicines and other materials. Providing Humanitarian Relief to Those in Need Since 2011, we have donated food to victims of natural disasters, working closely with partner organizations to ensure our donations reach those in need. In 2016, Thai Union donated 10,000 cans of sardines to support flood victims in the creating value for the business. Top photo: A Thai Union worker distributes donated food as central region of Thailand. Since 2013, we have partnered with part of our humanitarian relief Additionally, Chicken of the the Right Livelihood Foundation outreach efforts to support flood Sea donated 50,000 single-serve on our Creating Shared Value victims in the central region of Thailand. cans and pouches to help the flagship project. victims of flooding in Louisiana. Bottom photo: Students receive Many important spawn and free packets of Fisho during ChilCommunity Engagement nursery grounds for marine life dren's Day at one of Thai Union's sponsored preschools in Samut As a global seafood company, are found along coastlines in Sakhon. Thai Union has an opportunity close proximity to local fishery to create long-term positive value communities. By working with for society while simultaneously these communities, Thai Union 94 can promote the conservation of Promote Environmental marine resources while enabling Awareness self-sufficiency within the To promote environmental communities. awareness, Thai Union established our Garbage Bank program in In 2016, Thai Union supported 2014. This allows us to encourage a local community in Chumphon, staff involvement in an Thailand through the establishenvironmental initiative and raises ment of sustainable fishing funds to support local communities. activities. This initiative created The program is designed to: awareness among local community members about 1. Improve the awareness sustainable marine resource and ability of Thai Union’s management, and it promoted staff to identify waste, both at sustainable fishing methods and the workplace and at home; eco-tourism – both of which help generate income for the local 2. Reduce plastic waste in community. the community; Thai Union also works with 3. Use income from the program the International Union for to support social projects, and; Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to enhance community capacity 4. Promote collaboration among and develop sustainable fisheries supervisors, officers and staff in in Pathiw Bay, Chumphon, the facility. Thailand. The project aims to strengthen the resilience of In 2016, the Garbage Bank communities and the ecosystems generated 13,336 Thai Baht by they depend on. We involve selling collected plastic waste. The authorities and local academic revenue supported educational institutions to develop knowledge, materials for the children of Thai capacity and long-term plans for Union workers. integrated coastal resources management. In 2016, Thai Union supported a local community in Chumphon, Thailand through the establishment of sustainable fishing activities. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 95 2016 CORPORATE Summary (in Thai Baht) PHILANTHROPY Covered in this report: 1. Charitable Donations 105,922,225 2. Community Investments 5,941,331 Philanthropic giving on behalf of Thai Union companies in Thailand, 3. Commercial Initiatives 5,854,915 Vietnam, USA and Norway; and Thai Union Europe (including Total 117,718,471 Thai Baht Germany Group). Source: Thai Union Group Corporate Account In Kind Donations (Exchange rate: 1 EUR = 39.03 Thai Baht and $1 USD = 35.28 Thai Baht) 1. European Seafood Investment Portugal food donation 9,081 EUR or 354,431 THB 2. John West Holland BV food donation 8,335 EUR or 325,315 THB 3. Mareblu food donation 17,000 EUR or 663,510 THB 4. Petit Navire and Thai Union Europe (TUE) food donation 118,754 EUR or 4,634,968 THB 5. John West UK food donation 6,219 EUR or 242,727 THB 6. Tri Union (Chicken of the Sea International) food donation 80,000 USD or 2,822,400 THB 7. Thai Union food donation 333,696 THB 8. T-Holding pet food donation 310,800 THB Total In Kind 9,687,847 Thai Baht 96 HEALTH AND WELLNESS As the world population growth nears an expected 9 billion people by 2030, demographic shifts and inevitable growth in aging populations will likely result in changing lifestyle and food consumption patterns. For instance, health and wellness is becoming increasingly important to consumers. The rising double burden of malnutrition and obesity in a changing global nutrition landscape emphasizes the importance of good food choices to address current and future health concerns. Guided by our corporate strategies, Thai Union’s commitments to Through the fundamental we conduct research and achieving our corporate vision for scientific understanding of raw development, and we collaborate health and wellness: materials from traceable sources, with multi-disciplinary, well Thai Union is developing respected and credible scientists 1. New discoveries and key innovative food products to and institutions. For example, findings from all research meet an evolving consumer we investigate underutilized projects across platforms will demand for sustainable and byproducts to identify potential be distilled and integrated to healthy nutrition. Thai Union’s health and nutrition benefits. form relevant knowledge. groundbreaking research Ultimately we will add a new health This knowledge will build the frequently results in the and wellness category, which will capability of product creation, incorporation of health and be a high economic value product process development work wellness values in our products line, to Thai Union’s portfolio. streams, and pipelines to meet to benefit Thai Union’s customers consumer and market demands. and consumers. Thai Union’s vision to be the world’s most trusted seafood 2. Research outcomes will Innovation is vitally important leader helps ensure that we care transform the next generation to our socially responsible and for our resources to nurture of products to better suit sustainable corporate policies generations to come. A healthy specific age groups, health and practices, growth and diet and balanced nutrition is conditions and socioeconomic development. Through cuttingimportant throughout every stage levels. edge science, Thai Union’s of life. Therefore, we commit to innovations support smarter developing superior quality and 3. To maximize the value of utilization of fishery resources, innovative products based on fishery resources, underutilized optimization of processes and credible science with the best byproducts will be investigated technology, value creation of nutrition for consumers’ health for potential health and byproducts, and healthier and wellness regardless of age, nutrition benefits. societies. gender, income or culture. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 97 4. To address health and safety Thai Union is also developing had nutrition claim labels; issues throughout the launch an innovative tuna sausage an increase from the previous of innovative products, our that provides consumers with year’s 20 percent. At Thai Union, . operations will be managed a nutritious, low fat, tasty we continuously improve our using a credible scientific alternative in a consumer market products to be healthier for database as well as supply dominated by unhealthy options. the wellbeing of consumers chain safety and quality It is a great choice for the growing worldwide. control mechanisms. health conscious consumer market looking for convenient 5. We will empower consumers to products to fit active lifestyles. make healthy choices by It will initially launch in Thailand, providing honest, accurate and reaching target consumers in reliable nutrition information. convenience stores. We will also provide labelling that is consistent with scientific evidence and complies with Our social innovation has had regulatory requirements. two focuses: meeting the global trend for healthy nutrition and Product Innovation in 2016 conforming to nutrition labelling Thai Union has developed schemes for a healthier society. a patent pending process for The nutrition facts for all new Thai delivering a new tuna product to Union products are as transparent consumers in a convenient format as possible. In 2016, 100 percent for busy lifestyles. By redefining of our new products had nutrition the tuna format, due to launch in fact labels; an increase from 2017, we are opening new channels, 65 percent in 2015. In 2016, outlets and customers for Thai Union. 40 percent of our new products 98 MENU Performance Summary 09 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 99 Thai Union discloses its sustainability performance on an annual basis, including our yearly disclosure of global data, reporting against our commitments and materiality. 100 THAI UNION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Performance Data Unit 2015 2016 Business Overview Total revenue Million Baht 125,182.81 134,375.11 Total cost Operating cost Million Baht 118,366.04 127,569.85 Employee wages and benefits Million Baht 12,802.27 10,795.08 Cash paid for interest expenses Million Baht 1,234.16 1,009.31 Dividend paid Million Baht 2,719.99 2,982.06 Cash paid for corporate income tax Million Baht 1,070.65 1,706.59 Asia Million Baht 321.72 117.47 EU & Africa Million Baht 573.50 1,103.80 North America Million Baht 175.44 485.32 Corporate philanthropy and citizenship Million Baht 137.15 117.72 Innovation and Product Responsibility Percentage of marketed new products with % 95 100 nutritional labels R&D spending as percentage of sales % 0.19 0.22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 101 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Performance Data Unit 2015 2016 Production Ton 666,117 688,949 Traceability and IUU Proportion of tuna purchased from PVR listed % 93% 95% vessels for all fishing gears Climate Change and Environmental Protection GHG Emission Total GHG intensity (2) Ton-CO2eq/Ton 0.82 0.81 Production Total emission Ton-CO2eq 545,690 558,734 Scope 1 (1)(2) Ton-CO2eq 384,966 376,036 Scope 2 (1)(2) Ton-CO2eq 160,724 182,698 Energy Management Total energy intensity GJ/ton production 6.1 6.46 Total energy consumption GJ 4,065,203 4,447,223 Total direct energy GJ 2,950,612 3,154,753 Fuel oil GJ 854,797 897,282 Natural gas GJ 153,060 163,127 Diesel GJ 506,540 573,836 LPG GJ 143,956 254,389 Coal GJ 1,201,318 1,115,070 Gasoline GJ 2,075 2,353 Biogas GJ 27,003 20,220 Wood pellet GJ 58,812 128,474 Palm kernel shell GJ 3,051 Total indirect energy (Electricity) GJ 1,114,591 1,292,470 Water Water withdrawal intensity m3/ton production 13.94 17.33 Water withdrawal m3 9,291,126 11,942,635 Public water (Municipal water) m3 7,365,044 8,253,680 102 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE (continued) Performance Data Unit 2015 2016 Other 1,926,082 Surface water m3 2,517,219 Ground water m3 1,104,698 Rainwater collected by organization m3 67,039 Recycled/reused water m3 1,102,724 Waste Waste to landfill Ton 39,999 Waste to landfill intensity Kg/TonFG 58.06 Remark: (1) GHG emissions based on report of i) GHG calculation standard, methodology, emission factors and GWP referred to IPCC 2006, WRI GHG protocol and ISO 14064. ii) The operational control approach for emissions. (2) All greenhouse gas included in the report. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE Performance Data Unit 2015 2016 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) Cases per 0.68 0.75 – employees 200,000 hours worked Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) Cases per 0.37 0.00 – contractors 200,000 hours worked Remark: G4-22 (1) 2015 contractor includes only Thai Union Factory, Songkla Canning, Thai Union Feedmill (2 factories), Pakfood (4 factories + office) (2) 2016 contractor includes only Thai Union Factory, Songkla Canning, Thai Union Feedmill (2 factories), Pakfood (4 factories + office), Chicken of the Sea International (factory), USPET (factory), COSFF (offices) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 103 PEOPLE PERFORMANCE Performance Data Unit 2015 2016 Human Capital Development Developing Talent Total workforce People 39,864.00 49,177.00 Full time employee (FTE) People 11,623.00 13,381.00 Daily staff People 28,241.00 35,796.00 Average hours of training per year by Group company Hrs/Employee 26.28 17.81 Average amount spent on training and development Thai Baht 4,004.65 4,278.85 per full-time employees Human capital return on investment Thai Baht 9.79 12.26 Attract and Retain Talent Employee satisfaction survey Percentage 72.67 66.04 employee satisfaction Total employee turnover rate (per FTE) % 14.85 14.43 Asia region % 13.32 14.33 US region % 21.00 10.50 EU region % 15.00 6.93 Diversity Gender distribution by level Total management People 765.00 1,148.00 Total management female ratio % 42.00 37.80 Total management male People 447.00 714.00 Total management female People 318.00 434.00 Management male People 447.00 714.00 Top management People 17.00 17.00 Middle management People 100.00 161.00 Junior management People 330.00 536.00 Management female Total people 318.00 434.00 Top management People 4.00 3.00 Middle management People 35.00 47.00 Junior management People 279.00 384.00 104 PEOPLE PERFORMANCE (continued) Performance Data Unit 2015 2016 Total non-management People 7,671.00 11,892.00 Non-management female ratio % 61.00 55.61 Non-management – male People 3,025.00 5,279.00 Non-management female People 4,646.00 6,613.00 Proportion of local hiring of senior management % 55.55 80.00 (for headquarters only) People 294.00 2,578.00 Freedom of association number of employees represented by an independent trade union Percentage per 24.52 19.26 in Europe total workforce in European operations Number of consultations/negotiations with trade Number 12.00 26.00 unions in Europe over organizational changes of sessions Remark: G4-22 (1) There is no restatement of previous year performance. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 105 106 MENU GRI Content Index and UNGC COP 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 107 Thai Union’s Sustainability Report 2016 is in alignment with GRI Guidelines, and the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP). 108 GRI CONTENT INDEX AND UNGC PRINCIPLES COP GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Page Number External Standard Description (or Link) Assurance Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from CEO 8-11 ORGANIZATIONAL PEOPLE G4-3 Name of the organization 114 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 24-27 http://www.thaiunion.com/ G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters en/contact G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 16-21 http://investor. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form thaiunion.com/ G4-8 Markets served 22 G4-9 Scale of the organization 11-21, 103 G4-10 Total workforce 103-104 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective 104 bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 14-15, 22-23 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period in size, 104 structure, ownership, supply chain G4-14 Precautionary Principle 32-33 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental 34-35 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of association 46-48 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Refer to page G4-17 Subsidiaries Company(1) 57 of Annual Report 2016 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect 6-7 boundaries (1) In 2016, Thai Union’s reporting coverage covers all subsidiary companies. The subsidiary companies are defined by the percentage of the company ownership over 50%. Please refer to the annual report 2016 page 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 109 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES (continued) General Page Number External Standard Description (or Link) Assurance Disclosures IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES (continued) G4-19 Material aspects 42 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 38-41 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 38-41 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided 102, 104 in previous reports G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting 33, 42 periods in the scope and aspect boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 39 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 38 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 38-39 G4-27 Topics and concerns that have been raised through 40-41 stakeholder engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 6-7 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report(1) 6-7 G4-30 Reporting cycle 6-7 G4-32 GRI Content Index 6-7 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 36-37 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization values, principles, standards and norms 43-48 110 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Materials DMA and Page Number Omissions External Description Aspects Indicators (or Link) /Notes Assurance ECONOMIC Economic G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 43-45 performance Approach G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and 100 distributed ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 33, 74 Approach G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 77, 101 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 75,101 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 76 Water G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 33, 78 Approach G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 101-102 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by 78, 101-102 withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water 79 recycled and reused Emissions G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 33, 74 Approach G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 75, 101 emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 75, 101 emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 75 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 76 emissions Effluents G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 33, 79-80 and waste Approach G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 102 method SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 90 Approach SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 111 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES (continued) Materials DMA and Page Number Omissions External Description Aspects Indicators (or Link) /Notes Assurance SOCIAL (continued) LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK (continued) Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee 103 hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Occupational G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 83 health and Approach safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occu85, 102 pational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Training and G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 90 education Approach G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per 103 employee by gender, and by employee category Supplier G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 54, 62 assessment for Approach labor practice G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were 44, 54, 62 screened using labor practices criteria HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 33-34, 52-53 Approach G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant 44, 54 investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on 63 human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Freedom of G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 33-34, 52-53 association Approach and collective G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in 104 bargaining which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Forced or G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 32-34, 52-53 compulsory Approach labor 112 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES (continued) Materials DMA and Page Number Omissions External Description Aspects Indicators (or Link) /Notes Assurance SOCIAL (continued) HUMAN RIGHTS (continued) Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as 55-57 compulsory having significant risk for incidents of labor forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Supplier G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 54, 62 human rights Approach assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were 44, 54, 62 screened using human rights criteria SOCIETY Local G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 33, 92 communities Approach G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented 92-95 local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs AntiG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 32, 42-45 corruption Approach G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of opera44-45 tions asessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on 44 anti-corruption policies and procedures Supplier G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 61 assessment Approach for impacts G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were 62-63, 71 on society screened using criteria for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative 71 impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Product G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 64, 68, and service Approach 96-97 labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information 65, 69, 100 required by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 113 FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR DISCLOSURES Materials DMA and Page Number Omissions External Description Aspects Indicators (or Link) /Notes Assurance Procurement/ G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 60, 64, 68 sourcing practices FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from 65, 69, 101 suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which 65, 69, 101 is verified as being in accordance with credible, internationally recognized responsible production standards, broken down by standard UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES (UNGC) UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) Boundary Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection 34-35, of internationally proclaimed human rights 50-57, 63 Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit 34-35, in human rights abuses 50-57, 63 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 34-35, 50-57, and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 104 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 34-35, 50-57 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor 34-35, 50-57 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 34-35, 50-57, occupation 103 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 34-35, 72-81 environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 34-35, 64-71 responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 34-35, 72-81 environmentally friendly technologies Anticorruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 34-35, 43-45 including extortion and bribery thaiunion.com
