United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress, 2016 I am pleased to confirm that Ooredoo Maldives reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Vikram Sinha Chief Executive Officer About Ooredoo Maldives Ooredoo Maldives became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in February 2012 and this report is the first Communication on Progress (COP) Report issued by the company. The reporting period is for the year February 2016 till February 2017. Ooredoo Maldives Plc. is a leading international Its networks, services and investments into new growth communications company delivering mobile, fixed, opportunities all demonstrate the transformative power of broadband internet and corporate managed services Ooredoo for its customers and their communities. Their tailored to the needs of consumers and businesses. work to drive the local telecommunication market to reach Guided by its vision of enriching people’s lives and its international standards, combined with Ooredoo’s belief that it can stimulate human growth by leveraging aptitude for introducing innovative and beneficial communications to help people achieve their full products and services helped the company achieve the potential, Ooredoo has transformed the favorable position it has in the market today. telecommunications industry for the people of the Maldives. Another important highlight of the year was the launch of Mobile Money services to the Maldives; an easy-to-use, Over the past year, the company transformed from a safe, and affordable alternative to traditional financial telecommunications company to a full-fledged ICT management services. The company was the first to pilot company enabled by its recently acquired ISP license. With the service in the country, and will continue to further an aim to open up the opportunities of the digital age to develop this mobile gateway to a world of unmatched all communities and businesses across the Maldives, convenience, ease and security to the people of Maldives. Ooredoo continues to invest in bringing the world’s latest technologies and innovations to the nation. In the coming year, Ooredoo is focused on rolling out high speed broadband services across the Maldives. Enabled by the additional capacity from its nationwide Combined with its nationwide 4G+ network, this holds submarine cable, Ooredoo successfully launched the great promise for businesses which are spread across the largest and only nationwide 4G+ Network in the Maldives, Maldivian archipelago, which will get connected to bringing to life their vision of connecting all local Ooredoo’s globally renowned corporate services and endcommunities to the socioeconomic opportunities opened to-end resort solutions. The company will continue to up by high speed internet connectivity. The company support the needs of the local communities to fully utilise initiated this important network upgrade in December the benefits of the digital age, and connect customers to 2016 to accommodate for increasing communication exciting new opportunities for social and economic needs from local communities and businesses across development. Maldives. Ooredoo: A Community Focused Company that Cares and Connects As a community-focused company, we are guided by a vision of using our services to enrich people’s lives and stimulate human growth. We believe in the power of mobile technology, specifically mobile broadband, as an enabler, to bring about social and economic progress. Ooredoo has made a strong commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (Global Goals) – a series of 17 ambitious goals to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change for everyone by 2030. The reach of mobile technology, particularly into under-served communities, is unprecedented and it can help make a direct contribution to nearly all of the issues the goals address. Ooredoo is passionate about mobile technology as a tool to effect positive social and economic change, and will continue to work hard in contributing to the sustainable development of the local communities, with special focus on Good Health, Gender Equality, Infrastructure & Innovation, Quality Education and Climate Action. Some of the key initiatives and contributions that were carried out over the past twelve months under our corporate social responsibility program includes; Good Health Ooredoo celebrated its 11th anniversary by donating digital solutions for the disabled society. These solutions include 15 electronic wheelchairs for young children with disabilities, which allow for more comfort, enhanced mobility, and the opportunity to maximize their independence. Access to internet has the potential to connect communities to a world of knowledge, and exciting new opportunities for social and economic development. As such, Ooredoo partnered with Huawei to donate 500 USB Modem’s, with a free internet plan for a year. With the assistance of Sadaqat Foundation, the modems will be provided to humanitarian and non-profit agencies that require communication support. Ooredoo continued to play a key role in promoting a healthy lifestyle across its communities in the Maldives. High impact initiatives include PSG coaching clinic and Fans Do Wonders campaign held under Ooredoo group’s partnership with Paris Saint Germaine. Ooredoo Maldives was also the official sponsor for the largest football league in the Maldives, the Dhivehi Premier League by Football Association of Maldives. Gender Equality On 25th February 2016 at the Mobile World Congress in Ooredoo has also begun a Gender Diversity Program Barcelona, Ooredoo Maldives became one of the first within the workplace, to ensure equal opportunity to both GSMA operator members to endorse the Connected men and women employees through facilitation of a Women Commitment Initiative aimed at reducing the gender diverse environment. Ooredoo believes that it mobile gender gap. Ooredoo is also committed to makes complete commercial sense to support increased supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development participation by women in today’s workforce, with gender Goal to achieve gender equality and empower all women diversity at work leading to better business performance. and girls. Some key areas that Ooredoo is already Some of the ongoing initiatives to promote gender focusing on to reduce the mobile gender divide include; diversity at work includes the incorporation of gender improving digital literacy among women and girls through diverse policies from recruitment stage and throughout educational programmes and interactive content, the work life cycle. strengthening gender diverse policies within the workplace to ensure equal opportunities to women and men, as well as engaging and supporting women and girls to contribute to and succeed in the technology field. In 2016, Ooredoo partnered with local NGO Women on Boards to empower the next generation women to fill top hierarchy positions at all levels of the Maldives by unleashing their economic power. Additionally, the company held programs to create awareness on internet safety, and coordinated a “Science and Technology” evening to create interest in STEM subjects among young girls and boys. Quality Education Across our global footprint young people face a range of issues, including high unemployment and a lack of education opportunities. Ooredoo is doing its part to support the growing number of young people who are turning to mobile and online solutions as a way of overcoming these challenges to further their own learning and development. In Maldives, Ooredoo launched a cloud based education solution, powered by Microsoft in Education. Under its corporate social responsibility, the company provided Ooredoo Smart Campus to a local educational institute which provides free courses to students, allowing Maldives Polytechnic to expand the reach of their free education to all students across Maldives. This was nominated for a Glomo Award in the field of Mobile Innovation in Education. The company also launched a Youth Ambassador Program, a development program that guides the next generation of entrepreneurs and industry leaders in achieving their full potential in a digital world. Infrastructure & Innovation As part of our commitment to Digital Maldives, Ooredoo is Microsoft in Education) to a local educational institute working towards connecting all communities to smart which provides free courses to students, allowing solutions which provide new opportunities for Maldives Polytechnic to expand the reach of their free development. To facilitate these opportunities for all local education to all students across Maldives. communities, Ooredoo invested in mega infrastructure To foster innovative solutions, Ooredoo and UNDP and network upgrades including a nationwide submarine partnered to host Miyaheli, the first Social Innovation cable and expanded its 4G+ network across the country. Camp in Maldives. The camp supported new, alternative, Under its Smart City umbrella, Ooredoo also introduced and exciting ideas from youth to improve their free Wi-Fi hangout areas across prime spots in the capital communities for the better. The company also launched a city including hospitals, ferry terminals, youth center, Youth Ambassador Program, a development program that café’s etc. The company also provided Ooredoo Smart guides the next generation of entrepreneurs and industry Campus (its cloud based education solution powered by leaders in achieving their full potential in a digital world. Disaster Relief As an active supporter of GSMA’s Humanitarian Connectivity Charter, demonstrating the commitment of the mobile industry to support customers and responders before and during humanitarian emergencies, Ooredoo remains committed to implement the disaster response initiative to ensure effective and predictable response during times of crisis. Ooredoo is among the first corporates in the Maldives to volunteer their support in times of crisis; such as the water crisis in Male’, the devastating earthquake in Indonesia last year, the mecca crane collapse, the stampede in mina, and the power crisis in Thinadhoo. The company has contributed both in terms of monetary donations, active participation as volunteers during recovery efforts, and by utilizing mobile technologies to provide support to those affected. This also includes the provision of free calls to get in touch with friends and family, creating awareness to bulk messaging, using location based technologies to track recovery vessels etc. 3.0 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4.0 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Health & Safety At Ooredoo we are committed to our employee’s health and safety and expect all employees to take appropriate actions and promptly report incidents that are likely to result health and safety concerns. The Company issues personal protective equipment and have safety work instructions for all hazards activities. Fair Treatment & Workplace without Harassment Our policies and procedures are designed to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and in a consistent manner, in the context of assigning work, remuneration, career development or other employment related matters. 4.1 Implementation. The Company policy prohibits harassment of any form in the work environment and does • Company policies and procedures are not accept retaliation or retribution against shared with all employees following any employee who has lodged such a the signing of employee contacts, and complaint. during the induction program that is carried out for all new joiners. Medical Insurance & Retirement Benefits • Annual First Aid Trainings, Maritime Ooredoo provides its permanent employees Trainings and Fire & Safety Trainings and their immediate family with medical care. conducted for relevant staff members. Employees are enrolled in the company’s • All employees are given medical medical insurance scheme on completion of insurance, and registered under the probation period. The company has been retirement benefit fund. successfully providing medical insurance to staff since 2005. 4.2 Measurement of Outcomes • Introduction of policy on whistle blowing to ensure the receipt, analysis and processing of reports of violation of laws, regulations, policies, decisions, instructions, code of conduct or ethics in the company, in addition to the problems that occur in the system of internal control, maintain the • The whistle-blower reporting is controlled confidentiality of company information and by the Internal Audit Department of fraud attempts. Ooredoo Maldives, information related to • This includes any errors that may have a the whistle blower and reported issues will negative impact on the company, group, be kept confidential. employees, customers, investors, • No reports have been filed since the system shareholders or others in general has been implemented. 5.0 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Equal Opportunity to all Applicants and employees shall have equal Maldives is a signatory to the United opportunities in employment, training, or Declaration of Human Rights, and Ooredoo promotion irrespective of their race, colour, complies with all local laws and regulations marital status, parental status, ancestry, and respects the culture, values and human source of income, religion, gender, age, rights throughout our operations. national origin or handicap. 5.1 Implementation. • This includes any errors that may have a negative impact on the Company, group, • Company policy clearly adheres to the employees, customers, investors, Maldives Employment Act to guarantee the shareholders or others in general. The elimination of forced and compulsory whistle-blower reporting is controlled by the labour, the effective abolition of child Internal Audit Department of Ooredoo labour, and the elimination of Maldives, information related to the whistle discrimination in respect of employment blower and reported issues will be kept and occupation. confidential. 5. 2 Measurement of Outcomes • Employee Engagement Survey carried out • Introduction of policy on whistle blowing to on an annual basis, through which ensure the receipt, analysis and processing employees are able to report any of reports of violation of laws, regulations, discomforts, distresses or wrongdoings on a policies, decisions, instructions, code of confidential basis. The survey is carried out conduct or ethics in the company, in by an external party to ensure its addition to the problems that occur in the confidentiality, and reviewed by HR, system of internal control, maintain the management and Ooredoo group. No confidentiality of company information and relevant reports have been filed since the fraud attempts. systems have been implemented. 6.0 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 6.1 Implementation 6.2 Measurement of Outcomes • Ooredoo continues to implement green • Introduction of policy on whistle blowing practices in their internal and external to ensure the receipt, analysis and dealings, in order to reduce the processing of reports of violation of laws, company’s carbon footprint. This includes regulations, policies, decisions, the introduction of e-Bills, installation of instructions, code of conduct or ethics in eco-friendly lighting, and more. the company, in addition to the problems that occur in the system of internal • In helping to protect our planet, Ooredoo control, maintain the confidentiality of was the first company in Maldives to company information and fraud attempts. introduce the modern Single Radio Access Network (RAN) equipment. 100% of our • This includes any errors that may have a sites have now been modernized with negative impact on the Company, group Single RAN equipment, successfully employees, customers, investors, saving 54% in electricity consumption and shareholders or others in general. The 80% in carbon footprint. Ooredoo was whistle-blower reporting is controlled by also the first in South East Asia to start the Internal Audit Department of utilizing Easy Macro technologies, which Ooredoo Maldives, information related to has a carbon footprint of zero. the whistle blower and reported issues will be kept confidential. • Company-wide “Go Green” program carried out to encourage environment • No relevant reports have been filed since friendly practices and to reduce wastage the systems have been implemented. of resources such as electricity, water, paper etc. Go Green program well received by employees, leading to a significant reduction in electricity charges. 7.0 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We have various policies’ in relate to corruption which includes: Suppliers Conflict of Interest Employees must interact with suppliers or Employees shall not practice any business or vendors with honesty and integrity. trade, which is in conflict with their duties, or Decisions to purchase products and services with the Company’s interest or which may shall be based on the company’s interest, cause the employee to have direct or indirect taking into account factors such as quality, interest in any contracts or works related to price, performance, suitability, and the Company’s activities or to which the reliability. Employees who are required to Company is a party. engage in dealings with regard to purchasing of assets, items and equipment’s or obtaining services from suppliers, vendors and service providers should avoid conflict of interest or appearance of any conflict of interest. 7.2 Measurement of Outcomes • Introduction of policy on whistle blowing • Employee Engagement Survey carried out to ensure the receipt, analysis and on an annual basis, through which processing of reports of violation of laws, employees are able to report any regulations, policies, decisions, discomforts, distresses or wrongdoings instructions, code of conduct or ethics in on a confidential basis. The survey is the company, in addition to the problems carried out by an external party to ensure that occur in the system of internal its confidentiality, and reviewed by HR, control, maintain the confidentiality of management and Ooredoo group. company information and fraud attempts. This includes any errors that may have a • No relevant reports have been filed since negative impact on the Company, group, the systems have been implemented. employees, customers, investors, shareholders or others in general. The whistle-blower reporting is controlled by the Internal Audit Department of Ooredoo Maldives, information related to the whistle blower and reported issues will be kept confidential. Connect with us, OoredooMaldives T:929 | E: 929@ooredoo.mv | ooredoo.mv
