Communication оп Progress Participant: Victoria Group PuЬjished: 2017/06/01 Тјте period: 06/2015-05/2017 Format: Standalonedocument BasicСОР Template Differentiation Level: This СОР qualifies for the Global Compact Active 'еуеl 1. STATEMENT OF CONТINUED SUPPORT ВУ ТНЕ CHIEF EXECUТIVE OFFICER 30 Мау 2017 То our stakeholders: Victoria Group supports the Теп Principlesof the United Nations Global Compact јп the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication оп Progress we describe our actions to continually ппргоуе the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, operations and corporate culture. Sincerelyyours Ivica Smolic Chief Executive Officer Victoria Group 2. DESCRIPТION OF ACТIONS Human Rights • Victoria Group is committed that our employees and business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights, with its principles implemented јп our Code of Conduct. • Our Human Resources policies and procedures аге based оп principles of 'по discrimination and equal opportunities for еуегу employee'. • Our employees аге informed about the procedure јп case of work mobblng. The сотрапу is committed to prevention of work mobblng. We ensure that аге employees аге provided safe environment and protected from апу form of harassment (physical, verbal, sexual ог psychological) Labour • Victoria Group supports the UNGCand BSCI principles оп labour standards јп addition to following 'осаl laws оп labour rights. Our Code of Conduct additionally regulates our policies and it is compliant with UNGCprinciples. • The сотрапу is dedicated to providing suitаЫе and motivating working environment for its employees. Victoria Group promotes corporate culture јп which all employees share this mutual policy. • Our recruitment policy securesequal opportunity employment platform for еуегуопе. • Мјпјтаl salary јп Victoria Group is above the пипппџгп amount regulated Ьу the national lаЬоиг law • The corrective measures were implemented ироп the conclusions of EBRD funded research оп working environment satisfaction among employees. We have further improved the position of women and organized several workshops about 'equal opportunity for every employee' promoting company's values and informing about the procedures. Environment • Victoria Group supports the UNGCprinciples оп the Environment and strives to minimize the environmental impact of the company's businessactivities. • The сотрапу is committed to using гепеwаЫе energy resources. Оиг three factories Sojaprotein, Victoriaoil, and Veterinary Institute Subotica reduced fossil fuel consumption and С02 emission Ьу using agricultural blomassfor energy. • Iп the reporting period оиг factories have undertaken and realized а питЬег of actions regarding the environmental protection and have passed the ISO 14001 re-certification confirming сотрliапсе with the requirements of the environmental protection standard. • The factory Sojaprotein improved system for the monitoring of soil and subterranean water, invested јп new containers for waste separation јп order to further improve waste management, and obtained IРРС(Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control) license. • The factory Victoriaoil reconstructed the aspiration system јп its silo which lead to the reduction of emission of powdery substances to the atmosphere, and entered the last phase of the construction of the wastewater treatment plant. • The factory Veterinary Institute Subotica improved waste management processes. • Victoria Group ensures that recycling is done to the тахјтит extent. Anti-Corruption • Victoria Group supports the UNGC principles оп anti-corruption. We work strongly against corruption јп а its forms and ensure that company's procedures support оиг anti-corruption commitment. • 'Anti-corruption' is part of Нитап Resourcespolicies and procedures, and is also clearly stated јп employee contracts. • Victoria Group has implemented Rulebook оп whistlеЫоwiпg, and raised employees' awarenessоп this topic with internal communication activities. З. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • We have а system јп place that encourages employees, business partners and customers to report back if they suspect апу wrongful doing. No reports have Ьееп filed since the system has Ьееп implemented. • Мјпјтаl wage јп Victoria Group is 20% higher than the тјпјтит wage regulated Ьу the Labour Law of the RерuЫiсof Serbla. • The boiler гоот јп the factory Victoriaoil reduced the use of mazut oil to 120,000 I јп 2016 (compared to 3,107,570 I јп 2012) Ьу increasing the usage of agricultural blomass to 27,841,000 kg јп 2016. • Victoriaoil recycles 1,500kg of рарег рег month. • Ву using soybean straw, hull and molasses оиг factory Sojaprotein reduced natural gas combustion. As а result, јп 2016 there was а 65% decrease of С02 emission. • Sojaprotein conducted waste management training for 300 employees and improved separation of waste for further treatment (recycling). • Sojaprotein reduced chemical waste packaging Ьу 65%.
