Making Sustainability a Lifestyle Tristar Group Sustainability Report 2016 ABOUT THE REPORT, SCOPE & BOUNDARY Welcome to our fifth REPORTING FRAMEWORKS consecutive annual We report progress across our focuses on our governance structure, services and geographic locations in management systems, business strategy sustainability report where accordance with the United Nations and collaboration with internal and we have highlighted our Global Compact (UNGC) 10 universal external stakeholders. We reiterate Group’s sustainability activities principles related to covering human our unwavering commitment to rights, labor, environment and antiembracing and advocating sustainable and progress from January corruption. development through the 10 principles 2016 to December 2016. The of the UNGC. This sustainability theme of this report “Making We have reviewed material topics report also serves as our annual important to Tristar and its stakeholders ‘Communication on Progress’ to the Sustainability a Lifestyle” in relation with the ever-changing UNGC to whom we are signatories focuses on our aspiration to external environment. The report since 2011. take sustainability to the next level where it becomes an REPORTING BOUNDARY integral part of our everyday Under this report our Sustainability business vertical of the Tristar Group life. This report details our performance is measured for our global and is also covered in this report. approach to incorporating service portfolio across the following 13 countries: UAE, Oman, Kuwait, Qatar, We recognize the importance of sustainability into business Pakistan, Guam, Haiti, South Sudan, managing complex oil and gas logistics planning and decision Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Central operations around the world. Keeping making. African Republic (CAR) and Kingdom of people and assets safe, and being good Saudi Arabia (KSA). From the previous stewards of the environment would year of reporting in 2015, we have remain integral part of our discussion in added Tanzania to our scope. We have this report. specifically marked data applicable to the country from which it was available Making sustainability a lifestyle and received. In the coming years therefore takes a lifelong commitment. we aim to further improve our data It is an opportunity for businesses and availability from each country. individuals to adopt actions that can help them reduce their environmental The Shipping Division, which after a impact and make our planet earth a recent expansion, has become a major better place for future generations. FEEDBACK AND SUGGESTIONS As always we welcome your input. Please send your valuable feedback and suggestions to Arthur Los Banos, Corporate Communications Manager on arthur@ tristar-group.co. TABLE OF CONTENTS Group CEO Message 4 Key Sustainability Highlights 6 SECTION 1 Who We Are 8 SECTION 2 Stakeholder Engagement 12 SECTION 3 Our Sustainability Framework 16 SECTION 4 Our People 18 SECTION 5 Our Environment 22 SECTION 6 Corporate Gorvernance 26 SECTION 7 Our Society 32 SECTION 8 Our Operations 38 WHAT’S NEXT 43 NOTE OF THANKS FROM CSO 44 glossary of terms 45 Group CEO Message “It gives me immense pleasure to launch our fifth consecutive Sustainability Report with the theme “Making Sustainability a Lifestyle”. Our journey towards Sustainability commenced with the inception of Tristar in 1998 and our aim is for continual improvement year after year.” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 4 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co We have instituted various community as per U.S. Green Building Council Last quarter of 2016 outreach projects during last five years specifications. One of them is our Jebel where we operate be it in Africa, in Ali Free Zone ( JAFZA) warehouse, was a period of CSR the Pacific island of Guam or in the a multi-functional petrochemical awards for Tristar: Middle East. Our aim is to ensure that platform, which became fully our stakeholders benefit from our operational in September 2016. We received from the sustainability initiatives such as our chairman of Dubai Chamber, Road Safety Awareness Campaign, Outside the UAE we have been Majid Saif Al Ghurair, sharing of best practices, conserving the consistent in our community the CSR Label which environment, adopting green solutions, engagement projects in Guam such acknowledges our CSR promoting education, investing in as the annual Coastal Clean-up and and sustainability efforts in people, generating employment, Adopt-A-School projects. making Tristar a responsible volunteering for disaster relief, and business. Tristar was one of much more. In Haiti, we went beyond our the 21 companies recognized contractual responsibilities with our during the awarding With our corporate headquarter in customer by helping out in the relief presentation on October 26th. UAE, we would like to strengthen our efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane sustainability initiatives in the UAE as Mathew in October 2016. the Ministry of Economy announced the implementation of the national In the long-term, we are preparing to The Arabia CSR Awards on strategy for 2017 as the ‘Year of Giving’ live up to the Paris Climate Summit of October 20th recognized by strengthening social responsibility in 2015 “to limit the rise in average global our road safety campaigns the private sector and by promoting the temperature to well below 2°C”. The for heavy duty drivers and spirit of volunteering. The government COP 21 Agreement or Paris Climate senior high school students in is keen on building a systematic CSR Summit offers new opportunities for the UAE. We were awarded methodology by putting key indicators renewable energy sources, cleaner under the Partnerships and into place that measure progress and fuels, resource optimization, energy Collaboration category. their benefit to society. efficient operations, innovative logistics solutions and automation. Our thrust We see the year 2017 and beyond this year is to develop a long-term full of partnership opportunities with roadmap for Tristar’s carbon neutral On October 24th, we the government and like-minded operations. received the Maritime organizations to advance sustainability Standard Awards under goals and ensure a brighter tomorrow At the end I want to assure our the CSR category in the for generations to come. stakeholders that being a responsible shipping industry. business, our focus towards safety, Our mission is to respect and serve environment and the community shall communities in which we conduct be unwavering as we are committed our business. Our aim is to be a good to making sustainability our lifestyle. I The Moorhen Habitat corporate citizen and a responsible thank you for your tremendous support Preservation project in business. Our sustainability initiatives as only together we can do much more Guam recognized by the US and accomplishments are always in line in days and years to come. Environmental Protection with our Vision, Mission and Values Agency remains a strong CSR and we believe that giving back to the pillar in the island. community in areas which we operate. We have opened two facilities in the UAE that are certified to EUGENE MAYNE The head of the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Group CEO peacekeeping mission in Environmental Design) Gold standard Haiti commended Tristar team for ‘their exceptional support’ during Hurricane Mathew in his note to Tristar. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 5 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co Key Sustainability Highlights 2016 CSR Gold Medal for winning 2nd time awarded 2nd time most in 5 consecutive years CSR Label by Dubai commendable the RoSPA of UK Chamber’s Sustainability Partnerships and Occupational Health and Network Collaborations award from Safety Award Arabia CSR Network Launch of 4th Safety Award from CSR Award from consecutive Lloyd’s List for Middle Maritime Standard for sustainability report East and Indian Middle East and Indian Subcontinent Subcontinent ISO 6th consecutive year for conducting blood Upgrade of Tristar ISO 9001:2008 and donation at Tristar head office and overseas ISO 14001:2004 systems to the latest ISO locations on the occasion of World Blood Donor 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 standards Day under the theme “Blood connects us all” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 6 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co TOASTMASTERS 80 business leaders and managers attended ‘The Launch of Tristar Role of Leadership in Happiness Program Fleet Safety Management’ seminar at Dubai Chamber organized by Tristar 4 consecutive years of Tristar Toastmaster Club, which is part of an international nonprofit educational organization that operates clubs worldwide for the purpose of helping members improve their communication, public speaking, and leadership skills 2nd year of afternoon Logistics support for the stretch exercise program Can Collection Drive to for office staff Emirates Environmental Group Operation of 2 facilities the chemical storage Commissioning of 6 brand new MR tankers facility in JAFZA and warehouse in Jebel built to the latest specification to make Ali Industrial Area 1 – which follow LEED them safer and environment friendly (Leadership in Environment and Energy Design) Gold standard SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 7 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co 01 WHO WE ARE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 8 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co We offer a comprehensive list of We recognize the responsibility that Tristar is a leading services to cater to the needs of comes with managing complex oil international liquid petroleum and chemical industries, and gas operations around the world, both in the region and globally. and we understand the gravity of logistics solutions potential consequences of failing to provider. Our core expertise lie in handling operate safely. Keeping people and hydrocarbons, lubricant, chemicals assets safe and being good stewards and industrial gases. With operations of the environment are paramount to that span across more 16 countries running our business. We operate in a we use a systematic approach towards few conflict-heavy countries to support conceiving and executing customized organizations working to keep the solutions. We provide one-stop shop peace. It is our job to find solutions to kind of solution with dedicated facilities bring fuel to people living in difficultincluding but not limited to road to-reach geographical areas. Our transport, warehousing, ship owning operations strive to create and foster and chartering, fuel farms, turnkey fuel good relations with local communities operation, into plane aviation refueling, by providing basic education amenities, chemical distribution, polymer bagging, creating opportunities and building drumming and ISO tank cleaning. trust. Vision Mission To be a globally recognized To develop and retain a liquid logistics company, offering qualified workforce to offer superior services without preeminent customer service, compromising our values and grow shareholder value and commitment to manage our respect the communities business to the highest health, in which we conduct our safety and environmental business. standards. core Values & business principles • We believe in honesty, integrity and fairness in all Never say “No” to our customers. aspects of our business. • We shall develop good business relationship with our • We shall respect the rights of our employees, while also suppliers and maintain long-term relationships with providing good and safe working conditions for them. them. • We shall conduct our business in a socially responsible • We shall not encourage any untoward payments, while manner consistent with local regulations as deemed fit conducting our business. for a good corporate citizen. • We shall protect the investments of our shareholders • We shall win and develop the loyalty of our customers and work toward providing them acceptable returns. by offering prompt, reliable and preeminent services. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 9 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co The adoption of best practices is at the giving back to the communities where aware of potential dangers on the road. core of the company’s business strategy. we operate. We take our responsibilities We have therefore initiated several Year-on-year, we have implemented to our people, to society and to the road safety awareness campaigns in best practices, learned from business environment very seriously, and align collaboration with authorities and partners worldwide in the areas of all our activities with the relevant legal experts for our own drivers as well as safety, quality, sustainability and service and international standards. In 2011, the business community and society excellence. we signed with the United Nations at large. We are also conscious of our Global Compact which is a set of carbon footprints and are positioning It is our mandate to drive our business principles covering human rights, labor, the company to gradually and with the highest ethical standards and environment and anti-corruption. efficiently reduce its emissions. socially responsible manner while As a major logistics provider we are Fuel FarM ManaGeMenT sHip oWninG & TurnKeY Fuel operaTion supplY operaTion TRISTAR CORE SERVICES roaD specialiseD TransporT WareHousinG cHeMical inTo plane DisTribuTor reFuelinG lube DisTribuTor SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 10 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co O WE AR AT WE DO W WE DO WH E WH HO Operating Delivering Value to Providing Essential Responsibly Our Host Regions Services • Fully integrated logistics • We bring lasting benefits • Safety is our top priority. solution provider. to the communities • We assess and mitigate where we operate. • Our services are part of environmental risks. society’s everyday need. • We create value through • We abide by the law and local employment, • Our logistics business UNGC 10 principles. procurement and transports commodities training. • We win hearts and minds to the places that need of our customers. them most. • We make significant payments to • We protect shareholders’ • We operate in a few governments through investment. conflict-heavy countries taxes and other levies. to support organizations • We collaborate with working to keep the • We invest in health, stakeholders and local peace. safety and development communities. of our staff, suppliers and communities within. uae HQ (Transport, Warehouse, Shipping & Chemical Distributor) paKisTan (Transport) QaTar (Transport & Warehouse) oMan (Transport & Shipping) Ksa (Transport & Warehouse) KuWaiT (Transport) souTH suDan (Turnkey Fuel Supply & Aviation) GuaM (Fuel Farm Management) HaiTi Turnkey Fuel Supply & Supply Farm KenYa (Transport & Lubricant Distribution) liberia (Transport & Aviation) car (Turnkey Fuel Supply) MauriTius (Shipping) Dr oF conGo (Turnkey Fuel Supply & Fuel Farm) uGanDa (Transport) TanZania (Transport) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 11 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co 02 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 12 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co Developing and We understand that stakeholders Across our global activities, we have high expectations in us and we continued to actively engage with maintaining are determined to remain a safetystakeholders for common issues, mutually beneficial conscious and responsible employer, for example: in several areas of our neighbor, partner and operator. operations, we worked to promote relationships with road safety through our 6S Golden a broad range We believe that a constructive Road Rules campaign. We value our approach to engagement, regardless relationship with stakeholders and will of stakeholders, of stakeholders’ views, is essential. continue to create value for them. who are directly We conduct a materiality assessment to establish what is material to our Integrated sustainability thinking is a or indirectly annual sustainability reporting. key driver towards the achievement influenced through This ensures that our approach of our strategic objectives. This means towards sustainability reporting is managing the social impacts of our our services and a true reflection of the needs and business and ensuring integrity of operations, is expectations of interested parties and human and labor rights within our the external environment. sphere of influence in the supply chain. fundamental to our We monitor risks and opportunity business success. This reporting year we also engaged factors in the field of sustainability with our internal and external management, such as global policies, stakeholders to gauge their views. We regulation trends, changes in the obtained stakeholder feedback in a business environment and an analysis variety of ways including town hall of prospects. As per the theme of this meetings, board meetings, one-onreport “Making Sustainability a one discussions, surveys, conference, Lifestyle” we shall continue to fulfill industry forums, and emails, among social needs and further improve our others. This open-door approach on sustainability efforts. stakeholder engagement supports our commitment to building transparent and constructive relationships with our partners in order to deliver sustainable services. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 13 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co STAKEHOLDER IMPACT AREAS employees customers suppliers legal authorities • Job security • Customer satisfaction • Economies of scale • Compliance and • Occupational health • Safety and • Value for money governance and safety compliance • Transparency • Occupational health • Diversity and equal • Customer privacy • Long term contract and safety opportunity • Cost efficiency • Local purchases • Labor standards • Employees’ benefits • Business continuity • Health and safety • Contribution to the • Career development • Automation/ economy • Local hiring Digitalization • Public private • Work-life balance • Innovation partnership • Job satisfaction shareholders Media non-Governmental communities/ organizations (nGos) General eMploYee public • Corporate Tristar initiatives • Impact on • Emissions governance in the area of environment • Water • Financial sustainability as key • Financial/non• Energy sustainability input for regional financial support • Effluent and waste • Economic and social and local news items • Community • Job creation stability development • Security in high risk • Brand image countries • Occupational health • Community and safety programs SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 14 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co MATERIAL ASPECTS FOR 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR RIGHTS OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY Communities Legal Authorities Employees NGOs Employees Customers Legal Authorities Suppliers Suppliers Media NGOs Shareholders Legal Authorities ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE PRODUCTS & SERVICES Legal Authorities Communities Customers Media Customers Suppliers NGOs Shareholders Shareholders Shareholders ENERGY EMISSIONS SOCIETY & LOCAL COMMUNITIES Suppliers Suppliers Communities Shareholders Shareholders NGOs Media Communities NGOs INNOVATION COMPLIANCE TRAINING & EDUCATION Customers Legal Authorities Employees Suppliers Shareholders Customers Communities Customers Suppliers Communities SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 15 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co 03 OUR SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 16 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co These values place the highest priority We aim to fulfill our social responsibility At Tristar on maintaining ethical standards, as a corporate global citizen as well as we define respecting the law, supporting carry out business activities to protect universal human rights, protecting shareholder value and deliver them sustainability the environment, and benefiting the reasonable returns. as putting our communities where we work. Our focus on sustainability is integrated into key We have formulated a framework to Core Values business policies and processes which guide our approach to sustainability into action. provide a standardized approach that and have been reviewing it to address enables us to identify and manage proactively the concerns of our our safety, environmental, social and stakeholders as well as enhance their financial performance. We empathize well-being. Our engagement with with the direction of UN’s Sustainable stakeholders and our materiality Development Goals (SDGs) and are assessment gave us insights into issues determined to align our business relevant to our business and to our activities with this framework. The stakeholders and identify possible areas 10 principles of the UNGC act as of engagement. guidelines for our sustainability framework. WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY WORK LIFE BALANCE FAIR LABOR PRACTICE ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT GHG REDUCTION ECONOMIC VALUE ADDITION ENERGY people SERVICES & EFFICIENCY FACILITIES WASTE COMMUNITY plan cieTY MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT eT so Vision, WATER Mission & STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT Values ENGAGEMENT Ha b us in in c Y es pl s sup ETHICS & COMPLIANCE TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EFFICIENCY PROFITABILITY & GROWTH OPTIMIZATION INFORMATION DISCLOSURE BEING AGILE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 17 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co 04OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 18 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co With the changing times, Human Resource functions at Tristar are adapting with upcoming trends in the industry to cope with expectations of employees. We at Tristar believe that HR plays an Digitization clearly associates itself important and strategic role in the way with the overall business goal of an it shapes the future of the organization organization, as it implies that HR is by harnessing its intellectual capital – its not an administrative function but people! is accountable for delivering more strategic and revenue driven results. As HR, we have to think about various ways to encourage people to connect, Training and skills development collaborate, debate, learn and ‘ideate’ comprises a broad range of activities at from each other’s experiences. We Tristar, including formal and informal are working towards capitalizing on training, job-rotation, traditional classe-learning modules with social features room courses. Induction training for as they encourage cross functional newly recruited people is done by the learning and collaboration. use of online portals like the Tristar Intranet and Tristar Planet. Though almost all HR processes still call for human intervention, digitizing some The importance of training is stressed could prove to be helpful to both the by a growing gap between existing organization and employees. Future competencies and skills and those trends and technological innovations competencies and skills that are are encouraging to say the least as they required to meet future challenges. will standardize and simplify tedious Evaluation of the outcome of the HR processes like induction, leaves and training activities is also done by a gap reimbursements, to name a few. analysis and a description of how to close the gap. “Overall, 2016 was a year of moving away from the traditional ways of Our focus will be on e-learning as it managing workforce. Moving forward offers possibilities of training that are we will see the rise of more flexible, less restricted by space and time and networked way of functioning through which can be used for both general the use of technology and above all training or more specific purposes innovative ways of retaining talent…” or for specific groups of staff in our regional offices. It also has potential Tina M. Katara for use across countries since the same Group HR Manager e-learning can be developed at relative low costs compared to traditional training. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 19 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co tristar diversity overview 2016 767 214 85 101 102 42 UAE SOUTH SUDAN KUWAIT OMAN SAUDI ARABIA GUAM Afghanistan 3 Bangladeshi 6 Bangladeshi 11 Bangladeshi 8 Indian 32 Filipino 4 Bahraini 1 Ethiopian 1 Egyptian 3 Indian 46 Jordanian 3 FSM 2 Bangladeshi 34 Indian 88 Indian 54 Omani 26 Nepali 3 Indian 2 British 1 Kenyan 5 Kuwait 1 Pakistani 20 Pakistani 52 PALAU 1 Commorian 1 Nepali 6 Nepali 4 UK 1 Saudi 7 US 33 Emarati 2 Pakistani 2 Sri Lankan 12 South 5 Sudanese Filipino 14 South Sudan 106 French 1 Indian 476 Indonesia 7 Nepali 22 Omani 1 Pakistani 187 45 21 20 135 3 CAR HAITI QATAR KENYA CONGO Palestinian 1 Comorienne 1 Indian 19 Indian 14 Indian 16 Congo 1 South Sudan 1 Indian 41 Kenyan 1 Nepali 5 Kenyan 119 Indian 2 Sri Lankan 14 Kenyan 1 Nigerian 1 Sri Lankan 1 Syrian 1 Nepali 2 training hours (uae operations) 2015 2016 No. of Employees Average Training Total Training 20 19 Trained Training Hours Hours Hours TANZANIA UGANDA Indian 2 Indian 17 243 17 4,228 20,441 Tanzanian 18 Nigerian 1 207 16 3,312 S. Sudanese 1 14,520 Office Staff Office Staff Office Staff 523 31 16,213 255 7 467 24 11,208 PAKISTAN LIBERIA Pakistani 255 Indian 6 Nepali 1 Field Staff Field Staff Field Staff Office & Field Staff SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 20 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co Career Progression CASE STUDY Tristar is an Equal Opportunity Employer. It is the policy of Tristar to recruit, programs, both internal and external, by myself. In the middle of 2016 I was hire and promote into all job levels, which promulgate such policies and assigned at customer operations in employees and applicants for practices. the night shift assisting the customer employment without regard to race, supervisor inside JAFZA. My good color, religion, ancestry, national Rajeesh Mottukkante joined Tristar work was recognized and appreciated origin, age, gender, marital status, in November 2010. He started his by my seniors and I was promoted to sexual orientation, disability or veteran career as a helper (non-administrative) Operations Assistant.” status. These factors do not affect and now has come a long way as the way we administer personnel Operations Assistant. In October 2016, Rajeesh obtained his actions, activities or programs such as light vehicle license. compensation, promotion, benefits or “I started with Tristar as a helper in training, unless where so required by the yard. Then I was assigned to be an “I would like to thank Tristar for helping the local labor laws. office boy for almost five years. I was me personally as well as professionally given the opportunity to learn transport to achieve my goals. I will always be In support of our commitment to operations, basic computer usage and thankful to Tristar, to my manager and equal opportunity employment, I also learned about billing activities the seniors.” Tristar regularly participates in which later on I was assigned to do SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 21 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co 05 OUR ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 22 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co Water is at the core of sustainable development and is critical for human survival. Water use has been growing at more than twice the rate of the population increase in the last century. There is enough freshwater on the on water conservation in work areas, planet for seven billion people but offices, kitchen, washrooms and staff too much of it is wasted, polluted and accommodation. We have also installed unsustainably managed. As per the flow meters at various usage points to United Nations factsheet around 1.2 analyze monthly consumption trends billion people, or almost one-fifth of and take necessary measures. the world’s population, live in areas of physical water scarcity. It is predicted In the Pacific island of Guam our team that by 2025 about 1.8 billion people launched an innovative project for will be living in countries or regions collecting rainwater. When it rains the with absolute water scarcity while two water inside the terminal is processed thirds of world population could be in the oil-water separator. The collected under stress conditions, particularly in oil is stored in the slop tank, while the the Middle East and North Africa. clean water is pooled in a basin. The water is pumped back into the water As a responsible business with major storage tank using a suction pump from operations in the Middle East and the basin and is subsequently used to African regions, we understand business clean the tank and the pipeline while and environmental risks related to the rest of the water is stored. water scarcity and we are committed to promote efficient and effective Other environmental initiatives for water management initiatives among the group included tyre retreading, our business units. We have therefore use of vehicle GPS system and implemented several initiatives to Journey Management to economize reduce water consumption during our fuel consumption, staff carpooling, routine operations. site remediation program (Africa operation), induction of new vessels In the UAE, we strictly follow a in shipping division with lower fuel permit system for controlled usage consumption, use of skylight and of water for washing of our fleet natural ventilation in warehouses to which is a major source of our water save energy, zero catastrophic/major/ consumption. The permit system moderate environmental incidents, tree helps to regulate and reduce water plantation, use of ultra-low sulfur diesel consumption used to wash heavy (in UAE, use of responsibly produced vehicles. We have also invested on papers for printing in UAE operations) a fully automated vehicle washing and more. system with the latest technologies to reduce water consumption and We remain committed to minimize our reuse waste water after treatment. environmental footprints while creating Further initiatives that supported value for the society. our water reduction achievements include various awareness sessions SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 23 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co environmental data 2016 2015 2016 GLOBAL OPERATION CONSUMPTION WATER ELECTRICITY FUEL PAPER 134,700 KL 2,459 MWH 12,588 KL 8,687 KG Uganda N/A 480 N/A 7 7 11 395 125 KSA 360 550 21 24 1,063 1,488 72 90 Qatar 1,200 904 47 44 198 204 144 195 CAR 2,030 8,150 945 216 301 536 361 450 Tanzania N/A 150 N/A 17 N/A 226 N/A 16 Kenya 0 420 14 24 1,500 1,320 240 140 South Sudan N/A 5,970 N/A N/A 866 876 1,500 121 Kuwait 1,243 960 N/A N/A 1,114 1,047 150 125 Oman 274 2,542 171 90 8 8 280 275 Guam 3,901 5,392 418 417 67 61 352 305 Pakistan 370 425 28 36 39 40 30 33 UAE 38,639 35,299 1,897 1,333 4,918 6,614 3,375 5,952 Haiti 81,600 73,458 39 250 178 158 1,080 860 OVERALL ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE TRISTAR UAE GHG DASHBOARD (EMISSIONS IN TONS CO2e) 150000 25000 134,700 22,228 129,617 120000 20000 18,645 17,852 90000 15000 13,027 60000 10000 30000 5000 4,676 3,464 10,260 12,588 7,979 8,687 2,459 3,585 119 149 0 0 Water Electricity Fuel Paper Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total GHG (KL) (MWH) (KL) (KG) Scope 1 Direct emissions from UAE sources owned and operated by Tristar Scope 2 Indirect emissions through purchased electricity and water Scope 3 Emissions arising from waste disposal process SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 24 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co Tristar’s Eco-friendly Green Buildings CASE STUDY We are looking at Tristar to go into eco-friendly infrastructure facilities as we believe the future is green. As part of our commitment to switch over to ecofriendly infrastructure facilities, we had launched the operations of resource efficient green buildings in 2016. This includes our newly commissioned of ASHRAE (American Society for and cooling units used in the building multifunctional petrochemical facility Heating, Refrigeration and Airhave approved rating. Establishment in Jebel Ali Free Zone ( JAFZA) and conditioning) standard. Heat recovery of no smoking policy within project complete revamping of our existing wheels with efficiency of 70%+ for building supports the air quality. We warehouse in Jebel Ali Industrial Area, Fresh Air Handling Unit (FAHU) are also encourage employees to seek Dubai. installed at the facilities to target for alternative transportation and to energy savings. support this, four bicycle racks and As an initiative toward sustainable one carpool parking bay are provided development, the design and FAHU’s are provided with airflow at the facilities. Waste segregation and construction of both projects were measurement devices to monitor waste management strategies are in aligned with the Leadership in Energy fresh air supply. Regulated lighting place at both facilities to collect and and Environment Design (LEED) rating levels for interiors and automatic recycle different sources of waste. system by the U.S. Green Building daylight controlled areas within The Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) Council. Such buildings are resource warehouse contribute further to the is designed to treat effluent water to efficient and use less water and energy, energy saving. Low flush flow sanitary reusable standard thereby not only leading to reduced carbon footprints. fixtures installed at the facilities meet reducing hazardous waste but also There are four different LEED rating minimum plumbing requirements of water consumption in our operation. levels namely Certified, Silver, Gold the building, thereby reducing daily and Platinum; while we have targeted water consumption. Despite sizable amount of investment Gold level for both projects. From in both projects we believe there is the design, construction material Solar water heating technology is used business case for Tristar to go further and operation of these facilities it for domestic hot water requirements. into eco-friendly infrastructure is ensured they remain resource HVAC and refrigeration systems of facilities as we believe the future is efficient. the green facilities are with non-CFC green. refrigerants and zero Ozone Depleting Both project designs comply with Potential (ODP). Each light fixture, the relevant mandatory provisions electrical appliance, sanitary ware SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 25 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 26 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co It essentially involves managing the Transport & Warehousing, Shipping, Corporate business with a Code of Ethics, ensuring Fuel Farm, and Turnkey Operations. A Governance is regulatory compliance, overseeing Country Representative is in-charge of policy matters and balancing the the business as well as operations in a framework interests of stakeholders such as each jurisdiction who in turn reports of rules and employees, shareholders, customers, either to the Head of the particular suppliers, financiers, government and Business Line or to the GCEO. practices by the community. which a company The Group Chief Administrative Officer Since its inception in 1998, Tristar is (GCAO) heads support functions is directed and committed to maintain a culture of including HR, IT, Business Excellence, controlled. ethical behavior and compliance in Corporate Communications and line with our Core Values and Business Procurement. Matters related to Principles. Our aim is to demonstrate a Sustainability, including health, safety, good corporate governance approach environment, quality, CSR and the in our journey to excellence. socio-economic impact of Tristar come under the purview of the Chief Our Group Chief Executive Officer Sustainability Officer (CSO), who (GCEO) drives the general management coordinates with relevant stakeholders and controls the business affairs of the and international organizations on key company. As a member of the Board sustainability matters. of Directors, he shares the executive role with four senior executives of We have a well-established Finance the parent company. They meet Department which manages the entire periodically to discuss strategy, approve process of budgeting, monitoring, budgets, review financial results and analysis and reporting of financials develop the roadmap. for each entity using the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System. We Tristar has a well-established are subject to external financial audits organization chart for the diversified at the end of every year while internal business in all 16 countries in which audits and customer audits happen we operate. There are four distinctive across the year. Business Lines which are headed by General Managers including Road SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 27 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co organizational chart COUNTRY OPERATIONS GM DR Congo peace KeepinG Mission • Oversee local operations with GM of Fuels GM South Sudan • Country profit and loss GM Haiti • Local business development • Manage all country operations GM CAR GM Guam Fuel FarM • Country profit and loss GM Kenya • Local business development CM Uganda • Manage all country operations CM Qatar roaD TransporT & WareHousinG CM Oman • Strategy and implementation • Profit and loss GM KSA • Business development GM Pakistan • Manage all country operations GM RT&W for GCC GROUP GLOBAL OPERATIONS CEO GM Shipping sHippinG • Strategy and implementation • Profit and loss • Management of ocean and coastal shipping operations GM Chemicals cHeMicals • Strategy and implementation • Profit and loss • Management of all chemical operations GM AFAL lubricanTs • Strategy and implementation • Profit and loss • Management of lubricants operations CORPORATE FUNCTIONS Group Chief Heads support functions including Administrative Officer HR, IT, Business Excellence, Corporate Communications and Procurement. Also supports business strategy and planning. Chief Sustainability HSEQ policies and compliance, and Officer strategy and implementation Business Development Global business development (except Office Shipping and Tender Preparation) GM of Fuels Oversee all Fuel Operations, Turnkey, Aviation and Fuel Farms. Management of operational efficiency, quality and improvement SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 28 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co tristar commitees In order to execute proper governance and to meet the expectations of our stakeholders, Tristar relies on a number of committees with each committee assigned to specific areas of our business ranging from the company’s sustainability efforts, business strategy, financial reviews, and operational excellence to safety procedures. boarD acTiViTies eXecuTiVe ManaGeMenT coMMiTTee The board is accountable for ensuring that our TrisTar The GCEO chairs the products and people are coMMiTTees Executive Management safe, the environment is Committee every month, protected and human rights which aims to foster alignment are respected. They have among different businesses ultimate accountability for and support functions. It also the achievement of the 2020 serves as a forum to review business strategy. the most pressing issues of the organization. sTraTeGY/proFiTabiliTY business perForMance csr sTeerinG coMMiTTee coMMiTTee coMMiTTee This committee is assigned The monthly performance review Our Group structure comprises of with monitoring and meeting (MPRM) takes place a Corporate Social Responsibility managing our corporate among our business leaders and Steering Committee (CSRSC) that objectives and tracking the Finance and Strategy Delivery oversees CSR and sustainability progress against our targets. Office (FSDO) analyzes the measures for the group as a whole strategic performance, whereby while ensuring their implementation decisions can be taken and acted on a day-to-day basis. upon immediately. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 29 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE On the business front we have many Notable among our accomplishments and operations a major contributor to success stories to showcase: in 2016 was the acquisition of Abu group revenues. Over and above this, • Tristar recorded a 16% growth in Dhabi-based Emirates Ship Investment our efforts are on to crystalize aviation EBITDA over 2015 Company (Eships) for USD 90 million in projects in Africa that will support • Completed a first time business March 2016. developing and growing our aviation acquisition business in the continent. We will be • Awarded two long turnkey fuel Low oil prices and a slowdown in the looking to commission fuel storage contracts in Liberia and Central global economy remained our key facility in Haiti in Central America in the African Republic business challenge for 2016. General near future. • Commenced building our own slowdown in KSA, a key market, the facilities in Abu Dhabi and Oman ongoing civil war in South Sudan, and Global projections for 2017 indicate • Commissioned a multi-purpose the strong US dollar have been some that the challenging economic logistics facility in Jebel Ali Free Zone of the major challenges that have put environment will prevail. By embracing ( JAFZA) pressure on our performance in 2016. our 2020 strategy, we remain • Commencing construction of a committed to grow shareholder value manufacturing facility in Hamriyah Our focus will be to successfully execute and converting those challenges into Free Zone, UAE, for surfactants and two major turnkey fuel contracts opportunities. Calcium Alkyl Benzene Sulphonate secured in Africa and to grow our (CABS). shipping revenues to make ship owning Group Financial HiGHliGHTs (usD) 2015 2016 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE PAYMENT TO GOVERNMENT’S EMPLOYEE WAGES & BENEFIT GENERATED 309.1 314.8 3.1 15.3 40.5 40.2 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT OPERATING COSTS ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 0.1 0.1 201.5 338.9 57.4 38.3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 30 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co Tristar acquires Eships in USD90 million deal CASE STUDY Notable among our accomplishments in 2016 was 100 percent acquisition of Abu Dhabi-based Emirates Ship Investment Company (Eships) also known as Eships from Egon Oldendorff GmbH & Co. KG, a company of the Oldendorff Group for USD 90 million in March 2016. This was a first time acquisition for to have found a good new home for chemical carriers, LPG carriers, as well Tristar and was recognized as the ‘Deal ESHIPS and its employees with Tristar. as coastal oil tankers and supply boats. of the Year’ at the annual Seatrade Tristar has a long term perspective regional shipping awards in October and will now take ESHIPS forward and The acquisition of ESHIPS will further 2016. develop it as a tanker company.” stated strengthen Tristar’s international Peter Bagh, COO of German dry bulk operations in line with our vision to be Under the terms of this deal, Tristar owners Oldendorff Carriers. a globally recognized liquid logistics acquired a fleet of seven ocean going company. chemical tankers which includes two In a related move Tristar has taken the LPG tankers under long term time delivery of its six brand new 50,000 “This acquisition is a perfect fit to our charter to an oil major. These vessels MT clean petroleum product tankers longer term plans to diversify revenue will be phased into the company’s from Korean builder Hyundai Mipo and make ship owning an integral existing fleet and then fixed out long Dockyard at cost of USD200 million. part of our strategy to build a fully term in line with company policy. Later in the year Tristar also acquired integrated liquid logistics business.” two more MR tankers and chartered “Oldendorff has made a strategic to an oil major for a 5-year period. By Eugene Mayne decision to focus on the dry cargo end of 2016, the group owns a fleet of Group CEO of Tristar shipping business and is very pleased 22 vessels which include MR tankers, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 31 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co 07 OUR SOCIETY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 32 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co We contribute to local communities Environment Day (WED) and in Creating value through jobs, talent development, 2016 most of the overseas locations, for society is knowledge transfer, taxes, purchases, particularly our African operations, investments, charitable giving and conducted an awareness campaign on an integral employee volunteerism. Since its the illegal trade of wildlife which was element of our establishment in 1998 Tristar has been the WED theme for the year. initiating various community outreach sustainability programs focusing on health and The CSR initiatives by the company vision. safety, education and environmental were recognized with three awards protection. which were all handed over during the last quarter of 2016 to our headquarters Every year Tristar celebrates World in the UAE. Below are highlights of our projects and regular programs launched across the Tristar Group during the reporting year: GLOBAL NETWORK Tristar Uganda has symbolically Tristar Guam took part in the Tristar Haiti brought cheers, celebrated WED by visiting a wildlife annual Adopt A School program distributed toys and served park while most of the overseas and refurbished Captain B. Price refreshments to needy children in locations planted trees which has Elementary School in Mangilao, a Christmas gathering organized by been a practice every June. Guam. For three days, August 6, 7 OAPA-NGO. The country suffered and 13, Tristar volunteers repainted heavily from the devastation left various areas such as hallways, behind by Hurricane Mathew in the sidewalks, fences, and the parking first week of October. lot. In addition, they cut the grass around the campus in preparation for the 2016 school year opening. Tristar Pakistan team continued Tristar Oman team had set up The shipping business organized their partnership with the National an information booth at the a full scale oil spill emergency drill Highway Authority and Motorway International Maritime College on June 16th off the Port of Fujairah Police to organize road safety camps Oman in Sohar on April 24th during with authorities, ship management for commercial drivers in Karachi. the exhibition on ‘Human Capital partners and charterers in preparation Trends in the Maritime and Logistics for any unforeseen situation in the Sectors in the GCC”. near future. They also organized the annual Shipping Safety Day on December 4th gathering of ship crew, officers, ship management partners, charterers and Tristar management. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 33 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co UAE Tristar has supported the pedestrian safety awareness campaign of Dubai’s Roads and Transport Authority (RTA) by hosting the kick-off drive at its labor accommodation in Jebel Ali Industrial Area No. 3 on February 26th. Six labor camps near the Tristar building also supported the campaign by sending their workers to collect Pedestrian Safety handbooks which were printed in English, Arabic, Hindi and Urdu. The participants also received free medical check-up from an event co-sponsor medical company. Tristar celebrated World Blood Donor Day on July 21st in collaboration with the Dubai Blood Donation Centre of the Dubai Health Authority. The year’s theme was ‘Blood connects us all’, highlighting the common bond that all people share in their blood. According to the World Health Organization, blood is the most precious gift that anyone can give to another person – the gift of life. Tristar has committed to fund the activities of Al Jalila Foundation for five years. Tristar Group CEO Eugene Mayne signed an agreement with Dr. Abdulkareem Sultan Al Olam, CEO of the foundation, and witnessed by Sulaiman Baharoun, Senior Fundraising Manager of the foundation. Al Jalila Foundation promotes medical education and research by investing in the UAE’s medical treatment capabilities; it provides scholarships to nurture a home-grown generation of medical professionals and supports ground-breaking research that addresses health challenges prevalent in the region. The foundation is fully funded by the generosity of donors. 100% of funds donated to Al Jalila Foundation are invested into medical research, education and treatment in the UAE. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 34 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co UAE Tristar in partnership with Dubai Management’ at the Dubai Chamber as well as best practice and advice to Chamber’s Center for Responsible building on October 25th. help and to develop strong road safety Business (CRB) and the Royal Society culture in their respective organization. for the Prevention of Accidents or The seminar supported by Tristar It also helps individuals who drive to (RoSPA) conducted a seminar on ‘The provided business leaders and work and to understand the influence Role of Leadership in Fleet Safety managers the knowledge and skills they have on driver behavior. Tristar provided logistics support to the across the UAE. Tristar volunteers were individuals at the Al Barsha Pond Park Emirates Environmental Group (EGG) assigned to weigh, record and load cans on October 29th. for its Can Collection Drive 2016 held brought by companies, schools and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 35 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co CSR AWARDS The Tristar Group’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives received three different awards during 2016. On October 24th, Tristar received the Maritime Standard Awards for its projects in the UAE, Pakistan, the Pacific Island of Guam and Haiti which are focused on road safety, education, health and the environment. Tristar won the Partnerships and Collaboration Category On October 26th Tristar received the CSR Label certificate award given by the Arabia CSR Network on October 20th for from Dubai Chamber, The CSR Label has been designed Tristar’s ‘Let’s go home safely’ road safety campaign before to provide a diagnostic model, as well as a learning senior high school students in partnership with UK-based and development tool that will help companies define Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA). and improve their CSR strategy, related policies, and management practices. This is the second CSR Label awarded to Tristar. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 36 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co HURRICANE MATTHEW CASE STUDY Matthew wrought widespread destruction and catastrophic loss of life during its journey across the Western Atlantic, including parts of Haiti, Cuba, Dominican Republic, the Lucayan Archipelago, the southeastern United States, and the Canadian Maritimes. Tristar was awarded a Turnkey Fuel and major roads, and the flooding of external support in order to supply Operations contract for fuel supply homes. the unforeseen fuel demand by service to the peace keeping mission the peacekeeping mission and its in Haiti, Central America. Tristar Haiti Team upon monitoring agencies. the movement of Matthew from Tristar inaugurated its service in April weather alerts positioned all vehicles, The Tristar team also moved 2012 in Port-au-Prince followed by fuel trolleys and other lose items in equipment and fuel stock to other other regional fuel sites in the island. a safe place to prevent them from regions of Les Cays and Miragoane being blown away. When Matthew where the impact of the hurricane was In October 2016, Haiti was hit by had passed there was very minimum heavy. a Category 5 Atlantic hurricane damage to Tristar assets in all fuel codename Matthew. Category 5 is sites in the island. Fuel demand The proactive actions were termed as “catastrophic” having wind and consumption at Jeremie region appreciated by the peacekeeping speed above 155 mph and causing where Tristar has a fuel site abruptly mission’s top officials with the head complete roof failure on many increased three times which Tristar sending a commendation letter to the residential and industrial buildings. was able to manage without any single team for ‘their exceptional support’ Collapse of many wide-span roofs and failure. and observed that Tristar ‘continued walls, especially those with no interior to deliver vital supplies of fuel supports, is common. The aftermath Tristar was the first contractor to throughout the Mission.” of the Category 5 hurricane also move diesel and jet fuel trucks to includes the destruction of vegetation Jeremie region without waiting for SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 37 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co 08 OUR OPERATIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 38 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co Keeping people and assets safe, and being good stewards of the environment are critical to running our global operations. We recognize the responsibility that from various operations under the chair scale fire drill in March 2016 at the comes with managing complex oil of Group CEO to meet and review HSE Bangui depot. While the Tristar fire and gas logistics operations and performance at strategic level. commander contained the imaginary our commitment on achieving zero situation through timely evacuation incidents. The charter through which The Tristar Group celebrated its annual and attending injured staff, combat we manage our operations is called Safety Day on March 1st with the team from Senegal Fire Wings reached Health, Safety and Environment theme: Zero is Possible. The head the site and took control of the fire. (HSE) Management System, which office in Dubai, UAE, together with its emphasizes occupational safety, risk 15 overseas locations, simultaneously In April 2016 a team of safety and management, emergency preparedness conducted a town hall meeting with quality specialists from a state-owned and environmental performance. customers, suppliers, regulators, company, a global leader within the corporate neighbors and community chemical and petrochemical industry, Throughout 2016 we continued to institutions wherein various safety conducted an audit of Tristar Qatar in develop a strong safety culture to issues were discussed. An interactive line with their Responsible Care Global deliver superior safety performance session was held with three different Initiative. As per report the auditors by having dedicated and engaged groups (operations, workshop and were convinced of the existence of a leadership working with a committed warehouse teams) which came up with fully functioning HSE management and skilled workforce. Overall, HSE action plans on how materialize the system and assurance on its reliability. performance was strong through 2016 theme in their respective areas. with reductions in serious incidents and Tristar operations in Oman also workforce recordable injuries. Throughout 2016 Tristar continued received multiple recognitions from to invest heavily into education a global oil company during their An increased focus on leadership and awareness campaigns for their hauliers’ meeting in Oman. Tristar visibility, frontline supervision, safety employees in a push to reduce UAE operations were named Best ownership, intervention, barrier accidents. One of the global gas Business Support while Tristar Oman thinking and HSE online reporting companies recognized Tristar for “10 operations received Most Creative and with our intense focus on prevention years in partnership and more than 6 Improved Haulier; Best Support in Road continued to enhance our safety million km’s accident free.” Transport; Best Practice; and Best HSE performance. A key highlight was the Support. formation of Global HSE Committee Our Bangui operation in Central which comprised of country heads African Republic also conducted a full SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 39 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co In February 2016 a full scale mega emergency drill was conducted at the head office in Jebel Ali in Dubai with Dubai Civil Defense, police and ambulance. The HSEQ Department activated fire alarms and called authorities for actual response on a scenario involving a petroleum tanker fire. Internal coordination from Tristar emergency team and response from authorities was timely and effective to bring entire situation under control within less than an hour. Tristar operations in Haiti organized trainings in Port-Au-Prince depot. First was the HSE Refresher Training followed by the Aviation Refresher Training. Two faculty members from the UN Environment Compliance Unit the end of the most recent outbreak Propeller and Trim Optimization and UN Fuel Unit delivered separate of the Ebola virus disease in Liberia System. lectures on ‘Environmental Compliance’ and noted that all known chains of and ‘Safety Culture’ at the HSE course transmission have been stopped in In March 2016 Tristar confirmed which was attended by 25 ground staff. West Africa. its acquisition of Abu Dhabi-based Emirates Ship Investment Company Last year and the first half of 2016 have Year 2016 witnessed the remarkable (Eships) from Egon Oldendorff GmbH been a particularly challenging period growth of the Tristar shipping business. & Co. KG, for USD90 million. Under for Tristar South Sudan as they had to In late 2013, Tristar reached an the terms of the deal, Tristar acquired operate in conflict-heavy country to agreement with an oil major and placed a fleet of seven ocean-going chemical support organizations working to keep a firm order worth USD 200 million tankers including two LPG tankers the peace. Fuels and lubricants were for six new MR (50,000 MT) clean under long-term time charter to an oil being moved by Tristar Tankers, Barges petroleum product tankers. Starting major. This acquisition of Eships and and Pusher, along with the Landing May 2016, Tristar took the delivery of the new building program, together Craft Trailers (LCTs), to support logistics first five brand new MR tankers with with its existing coastal fleet, brought need of peacekeeping missions. the sixth tanker in November 2016. Tristar-owned shipping fleet strength Notwithstanding the rainy season and Built to the latest specifications with to more than 22 vessels. With these interruptions due to the conflict, the an improved hull form design, the acquisitions Tristar is expanding its projects for augmenting the storage new tankers will operate with lower investment portfolio in the Marine capacities were completed in record fuel consumption, making them sector to diversify its business portfolio time. In order to provide secure and environment friendly to operate. They and to position the company as a major comfortable accommodation to staff, are also fitted with additional fuel player in the clean product tanker the construction of a new facility at saving equipment such as Propeller segment. the Juba site was completed for Tristar Boss Cap Fins, New Profile Technology supervisors and technicians. A twoday JIG International Training was also conducted in Juba by a safety consultant in June 2016. The training focused on Aviation Operations, Safety, Maintenance and Quality Control Management. Tristar was awarded a Fuel Contract in Liberia, West Africa, for Ground Fuel Supply and Services. Operations commenced on June 1st on short notice with 35 sites located in and around the capital Monrovia and five outstations spread over Liberia, the farthest site being located 900 kilometers away from Monrovia. The World Health Organization declared in January 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 40 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co tristar driving simulator CASE STUDY Till date, most of drivers have successfully completed the advance modules of the Tristar-simulator course. The operations department of Tristar has observed an improved road safety behavior among drivers, as well as optimized fuel consumption, maintenance and tyre wear. As per World Health Organization features of simulator are: requires special expertise and control (WHO) about 1.25 million people die • 180 degree visual display through 3 by drivers. The simulator is also each year as a result of road traffic LED screens capable of creating different weather crashes. Without sustained action, • Mock Up Simulator Cabin with real disturbances such as sandstorm, fog road accidents are predicted to cabin interiors and even rain that drivers experience become the seventh leading cause • Realistic Audio Queues for occasionally on roads. Drivers are also of death by 2030. Being a leading environment, engine, traffic, etc. prepared to control their vehicles in player in road transport business we • 3D Electric Motion Platform giving case of tire burst which is part of the understand the gravity of potential realistic driving experience: different simulations aside from the consequences of road crashes and are • X Axis: Giving Motions of turns weather disturbances. The simulator committed to give utmost importance and tilts has therefore become an effective and to this subject through learning, • Y Axis: Giving Motions of safe driving instruction mechanism coaching, adopting good practices Accelerations and Braking as drivers experience a crash and innovation. • Z Axis: Giving Motions of jumps, without being injured and damaging etc. properties. Further to defensive driving training, • Each driving session is recorded RoSPA driver development course, and can be replayed by trainer to The simulator can also be used to and on road coaching of commercial address mistakes committed by the test vision and color identification drivers, in 2016 the organization driver capabilities with advanced parameters introduced an innovative training • Feature available for city driving, to measure reaction time and decision module based on custom-built highway driving, hill driving and making. Local language is key to simulator. We selected one of the night time driving effective training of drivers and this leading simulation companies being • Selection of correct gear, speed, feature is built in the simulator with one of the largest manufacturers of RPM and clutch application is also audio visuals in local language. Training Simulators. The simulator recorded was highly realistic which is the Initial score of driver as calculated replica of heavy vehicles on the The simulator provides an actual by simulator is analyzed by driver road. The simulator is good for animated road simulation from trainer to focus on their improvement induction training, refresher training, the company’s Jebel Ali head office areas. Remedial trainings and re-tests and evaluation of existing drivers through UAE roads. The software are then conducted for those whose to sharpen their skills in the most is specially designed to give the training results demand improvement scientific way. Some of the salient feel of a loaded road tanker as this in critical aspects. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 41 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) The Sustainable Development Goals Nations and involving governments, with the directions of the UN and we (SDGs) is a set of 17 “Global Goals” businesses and civil society, the are determined to align our business to mobilize efforts to achieve the SDGs call for action by all countries activities with this framework on long Sustainable Development Agenda to improve the lives of people term basis. by 2030. Spearheaded by the United everywhere. At Tristar we empathize 11/17 Pursuing SDG 2016 sDG pursuinG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 42 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co WHAT’S NEXT Engage local communities in Africa to initiate a social enterprise program with long-term sustainable and measurable goals. Develop capabilities Enhance to monitor and engagement with consequently control stakeholders with our GHG emissions interactive sessions from each delivery on safety and trip that we make. sustainability. Enhance our Continue collaboration GHG monitoring with local authorities and offsetting and RoSPA on road methodology and safety and expand our expand this to awareness project to our international business community. network. Explore renewable Explore and clean energy recycling options like solar opportunities in energy and bio fuel. our operations such as used tires. Develop local talent through training and work experience. Formalize happiness and wellness into employee wellfare programs. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 43 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co NOTE OF THANKS FROM CSO Doing things the Right Way! Reporting on our performance is a We take great pride in creating business key sustainability commitment for our cases for sustainability during 2016 organization. As the Chief Sustainability such as our new warehouses in Dubai Officer of Tristar I am aware that that are built as per LEED® Gold expectations of our customers, standard to complement our efforts partners, regulators, shareholders that are conducive for the planet as and communities have never been so well as our business. We know there’s high and we assure them to continue no short cut to sustainability. Balancing achieving our results in the Right Way. the needs of our employees, customers, shareholders and society makes us Over the past few years global markets sustainable. In recent years, we are and the business environment have making significant improvements in been experiencing wide range of our operations management towards challenges from geo-political and ERP, digitalization, technology and socio-economical to climate change. smart solutions to remain agile and As a global logistics company having competitive in coming years. complex operations and serving the “Thank you for taking downstream industry we have also In addition to creating value for society out time to read our faced similar challenges in the midst and the planet through our business, of rapid changes. However we have we are also supporting the local sustainability report overcome most of these challenges communities through our corporate which outlines our through bold decisions, collaboration, giving programs. We shall continue continued journey and innovation, and doing things in the to do right things not because of any Right Way. This further strengthens our laws or regulations but to spearhead approach to responsible belief that sustainability does make on sustainability issues. We are proud business.” business case even during difficult of our progress but we have to strive to times. be even better. I have every confidence we will meet our long and short term The year 2017 will be marked as The goals outlined in this report through Year of Giving in the UAE focusing collaboration, doing things the Right on social responsibility in the private Way and making sustainability our sector, promoting spirit of volunteerism lifestyle. Thank you once again for your and strengthening nationalism in the interest in Tristar. We welcome your youth. With our corporate headquarter comments on this report and additional in UAE, we extend our full support to content on our website and social this noble cause and are quite certain media sites. that it will accelerate sustainability efforts in the region at the government, private and individual levels. The subject of sustainability has been taken MUHAMMAD AKBER as voluntary in our region but we General Manager HSEQ and foresee that in coming years it may no Chief Sustainability Officer longer remain an optional subject. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 44 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co glossary of terms BDO Business Development Officer CAR Central African Republic CNG Compressed Natural Gas COO Chief Operating Officer CO2 Carbon Dioxide COP Communication on Progress CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CSRSC Corporate Social Responsibility Steering Committee CSO Chief Sustainability Officer EEG Emirates Environment Group ERP Enterprise Resource Planning ETP Effluent Treatment Plant GCAO Group Chief Administrative Officer GCC Gulf Cooperating Council GCEO Group Chief Executive Officer GHG Greenhouse Gas GM General Manager GPS Global Positioning System HSE Health, Safety and Environment HVAC Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning IMS Integrated Management System ISO International Organization for Standardization JAFZA Jebel Ali Free Zone Authority KM Kilometer KPI Key Performance Indicator KSA Kingdom of Saudi Arabia LCT Landing Craft Trailers LED Light-Emitting Diode LEED Leadership in Energy and Environment Design LLC Limited Liability Company LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas MR Medium Range NGO Non-Government Organization OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer RFID Radio-Frequency Identification RoSPA Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RPM Revolution Per Minute RT Road Transport RTA Roads and Transport Authority SDO Strategy Delivery Office SDG Sustainability Development Goals UAE United Arab Emirates UN United Nations UNGC United Nations Global Compact WED World Environment Day WHO World Health Organization WMS Warehousing Management System SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 45 MAKING SUSTANABILITY A LIFESTYLE www.tristar-group.co Jebel Ali Industrial Area No. 2 PO Box 51328, Dubai, UAE Tel + 971 4 899 7900 Fax + 971 4 884 1589 www.tristar-group.co
