Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -2Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -301 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Future challenges Stakeholders, strategy Sustainable sourcing Our own operations Sustainable solutions Employees and customers Our company Tables and goals 04 21 25 32 38 48 54 Results of the year 13 The challenge of a complex Our stations Our fuels Our employees Ownership and organisation Goals and development Our strategy for a supply chain 06 sustainable company 26 34 40 49 55 Turning challenges 22 Sustainable stations Our social responsibility Employee engagement Economy UN Global Compact into opportunities 14 High standards Input from stakeholders for suppliers 27 12 41 50 56 08 Transport and storage Sustainable collaboration Values for an equal society External commitments GRI index OKQ8 Scandinavia – a 16 driving force for sustainability Most material aspects 28 42 51 The environment Heath and saftey Our awards 10 18 Initiatives that give young Sustainability strategy and 44 52 people hope for the future goals Customer expectations and Compliance customer service 52 Reporting 53 Assurance -4Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -5Results of the year During 2016/17, we have developed a new sustainability strategy, with three main goals linked to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable development is a long-term process. Therefore, Our new main goals our strategy and goals have a long time perspective. We will • We will be in Top 50 on the Universum “Most Attractive continually follow progress with the help of indicators to Employer” ranking by 2025 ensure that we contribute to sustainable development. • We will be in Top 50 on the ”Sustainable Brand Index” by 2025 Our new sustainability strategy • We will reduce our CO2e emissions by 20 % by 2030 per We want to reduce our environmental impact and create a m3 of product sold (base year 2014/15) positive effect on society in an economic and responsible way. More information on our new strategy and goals can be found in Section 2 – Stakeholders, strategy and goals. Most important results of the year New strategy Social initiativ CO2e We have launched a new We have sponsored 1,152 Solvatten We have reduced CO2e emissions sustainability strategy and goals containers which provide clean with 24 % since 2014/15 linked to the UN’s sustainability water for more than 7,000 people in goals. Uganda Employee satisfaction Our employee satisfaction index Energy Sustainable Brand Index has risen to 3.12 We have reduced energy usage with We are now #1 on the Sustainable 8,6 % since 2014/15 Brand IndexTM for our industry in Financial result Sweden Best financial result ever of 960 MSEK -6Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -7Turning challenges into opportunities Over time, the fuel industry has played an important role in people’s lives. It has had a major impact on social development and democratisation across the world Transport services have built bridges between people and Since we do not produce any products ourselves, we can between continents. But today, our industry also has a refocus and adapt our offer quickly. The day we abandon key role to play in reducing the impact of climate change. fossil fuels altogether, we will find other solutions and Transport is responsible for around 30 % of total CO2e continue to be relevant and act as an enabler for people in emissions, and most experts predict that this proportion will motion – regardless of which transport solutions the future continue to rise until the year 2020. has to offer. In other words, our industry contributes to creating But to us, sustainability means more than the climate and opportunities while at the same time being part of the the environment. To remain a natural player on the market problem. We must show what we have to contribute as in the long term, we need a company which is sustainable in fossil fuels are phased out and replaced by sustainable every possible way. OKQ8 Scandinavia must be an attractive alternatives. This may be the greatest challenge ever for employer which provides staff with an opportunity to thrive. us but, at the same time, it is an opportunity to find new We must offer a comfortable, pleasant workplace where solutions. staff can take pride in what the company represents and what it achieves. We must also be the natural choice for At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we are determined to be part of the our customers. Overall, we must take a long-term approach solution, and we will achieve this by taking action ourselves to sustainability where the sum of all parts results in a as well as by working in partnership with car manufacturers, flourishing, progressive company. fuel producers, politicians, authorities, voluntary organisations, nations – and, not least, our customers. Major changes require the right political decisions. Global Together, we will be an important driving force which can agreements, such as Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement, influence political decisions and move development forward, support and drive the development of sustainable transport. At with the weight to implement important changes. national level, both Denmark and Sweden have adopted goals for achieving a fossil fuel-free vehicle fleet by 2050 and 2030 At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we regard challenges as opportunities. respectively. But much more remains to be done. Our politicians We can contribute to a more sustainable world while, at now have a unique opportunity to think big and creatively. the same time, maintaining and developing our role in Decisions being made now can make a huge difference and society and our position on the market. Our size enables provide the foundations for a sustainable future. us to encourage a large number of people to choose more sustainable alternatives, while we also have the influence In this year’s Sustainability report, we want to explain how to drive progress in this area. We insist on high standards we can contribute to reducing environmental impact and from our suppliers, and demand effective and sustainable contribute positively to society while, at the same time, products. ensuring economic growth. -8Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -9UN’s three sustainability goals that we choose to focus on OKQ8 Scandinavia – a driving force for sustainability emissions by 24 % per m3 of product sold, and reduced our an increasing number of people are sharing limited space energy usage by 8,6 % per m3 of product sold. in expanding towns and cities. By adapting our business activities and our offer, we are ensuring that we will be a We are also helping to drive progress towards increased natural element in the urban environment, the sustainable As a large company within the fuel sustainability by highlighting and promoting sustainable partner who makes everyday life easier for people. A concrete alternatives. HVO biofuel is now in demand as an alternative example of this is the non-fuel station, which we opened in industry we have a responsibility to fuel and, in partnership with E.ON, we are facilitating the Stockholm city in summer 2016. This focuses on the urban impact the society in a positive way move to electric cars by providing more charging points for our customers. customer who wants to hire a car, inflate their bicycle tyres or buy a freshly-prepared breakfast on the way to work. As one of Scandinavia’s most significant players in the fuel Goals and activities Another area of focus is our investment in social Current and future challenges will impact our future in ways industry, we are part of the problem that comes with the Of the UN’s 17 sustainable development goals, we have sustainability, where we strive to be an equal workplace with which we cannot predict. This affects OKQ8 Scandinavia’s use of fossil fuels. Our position and size mean that we have decided to focus on the following three areas: Reduced employees who enjoy working for us and who thrive and entire business strategy, and makes it imperative to continue and need to accept a great deal of responsibility. But it also Inequalities, Sustainable Cities & Communities and Climate develop in their jobs, and where differences are valued. We to develop it to meet challenges such as climate change, means that we are in a position to wield a great deal of Action. At the same time, we have developed three new longwant OKQ8 Scandinavia to be an inclusive company, which urbanisation and mobility, a growing middle class, limited influence. term goals that are linked to the three UN goals: helps to reduce exclusion and encourages diversity. natural resources, digitalisation and electrification, as well as the phasing out of fossil fuels. At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we have decided to take this on board. • We will be in Top 50 on the Universum “Most Attractive I am particularly pleased that this year we have been able to We will help to highlight the problem, but also seek out Employer” ranking by 2025 help vulnerable refugees through initiatives such as offering We prefer to regard major challenges as motivating opportunities and focus on solutions. For us, sustainability is not • We will be in Top 50 on the ”Sustainable Brand Index” by internships and creating new jobs, which have helped to ease opportunities. They force us to develop new operational simply a beautiful concept but something which is essential to 2025 the integration for people who are new to our communities. approaches on a continuous basis. With the right attitude our survival. We have made sustainability an integral part of our • We will reduce our CO2e emissions by 20% by 2030 per m3 Our Christmas donation to the Fryshuset Foundation, which and the right values, and by working in partnership with business and a priority for everything we do. of product sold (base year 2014/15) operates in Copenhagen and Stockholm, is another way in our customers and employees, colleagues in the industry, which we have helped to reduce exclusion among young people. researchers and politicians, we can find the answers to these Our starting point is the UN’s ten principles on social Sustainability in practice challenges. responsibility (the Global Compact). This means that we A natural part of our approach to sustainability is to work OKQ8 Scandinavia – a natural part of the community practice sustainability at all levels, with our employees actively to reduce ours and therefore also the world´s impact Our fundamental philosophy is to be an enabler for people Steffen Pedersen involved and contributing through their day-to-day work. on the climate. Since 2014/15, we have reduced our CO2e in motion. Today, this is more important than ever, since CEO, OKQ8 Scandinavia -10Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -11Interview: Jacob Stahl Otte, CEO, Energy and Oil Industry Association, EOF How will the fuel industry justify its existence in the future? “A high degree of mobility is a precondition for modern society, and this requires large, stable and safe deliveries of energy. Today, this energy mainly consists of petrol, diesel and bio fuels. But moving forward, cars will run on different forms of energy as the industry change our energy use in a more sustainable direction. As suppliers of energy, the industry can handle almost all types of transport energy, and the suppliers have the experience and the solutions to effectively and flexibly adapt transInitiatives that port power supply as new forms of energy become accessible and are in demand from customers. This is true, regardless of whether it is about bio fuels, give young people electricity, gas or something else entirely.” How can the fuel industry be part of the solution to major global challenges? hope for the future “Transport causes CO2e emissions, which are a source of global warming. As fuel distributors, the industry’s greatest challenge is to supply the products currently in demand while, at the same time, looking to the future and testing new, green forms of energy which can be a part of the future Jointly with the Fryshuset youth centre, solution. The industry contributes to making the transition to new forms of energy and their OKQ8 Scandinavia has launched an initiative distribution as efficient as possible. Meanwhile we also seek to participate in the debate around the to reduce exclusion among young people overall climate objectives with the knowledge and experience that the industry represents.” “No one knows with certainty which forms of energy This initiative is one aspect of our efforts to achieve the In Sweden, in addition to investments in sports and music, cars will run on in the future. But we do expect that it UN’s global goal of reduced inequality. As a first step, we we will also enable Fryshuset to accept more young new will be the case of a gradual transition towards new are donating just over SEK 200,000 to Fryshuset’s activities immigrants in its Stockholm Region operations. In Denmark, forms of energy. However, one thing is certain. The in Sweden and Denmark. This gift will be converted into we will be an important partner in establishing Fryshuset solutions of the future can only be found through concrete investments which reduce exclusion and help give in the country, partly through facilitating development collaboration across industries and country borders.” young people in Sweden and Denmark hope for the future. activities which increase self-esteem among young girls. -12Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -13Stakeholders, strategy and goals Identification and Our strategy for a prioritisation of aspects sustainable company Sustainability Input from OKQ8 Scandinavia’s goal is to create an rapport stakeholders effective, long-term approach to sustainability which also benefits our business We have carried out a materiality assessment on every Identification and prioritisation of aspects aspect of our operations to enable us to take a holistic We have defined the economic, environmental and social Stakeholder dialogue approach to what are, perhaps, our most important aspects of greatest concern to our operations and our & materiality challenges. stakeholders. assesment We see our sustainability work as a complex challenge. The materiality assessment is based on a dialogue with our Individual measures are not enough – sustainability must stakeholders, as well as on our own internal assessment of permeate the whole company and we have to consider many important areas. OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Council, different factors. As well as the impact on climate change, which consists of representatives from the whole company, we have to take into account the needs of stakeholders, has identified an initial list of aspects. This has been Strategy Most material business risks and opportunities, and trends in our field of developed on the basis of areas which are of significance to and goals aspects operation. To obtain a clear overall picture of our challenges the operation, staff, community and stakeholders. and opportunities, we have carried out an operation-wide materiality assessment with the help of internal experts. We The Sustainability Council’s and stakeholders’ assessment have also obtained input from our stakeholders. of the list has then allowed us to prioritise our most material aspects. The dialogue with our stakeholders has primarily taken The materiality assessment will provide guidance for our the form of individual interviews with representatives from each approach to sustainability, e.g. by indicating whether our stakeholder area. They have prioritised the aspects of greatest sustainability strategy and our goals are sufficient. It will also significance to them, and have also contributed their general provide guidance in our reporting procedures. views on the focus of OKQ8 Scandinavia’s sustainability efforts. -14Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -15A few specific issues emerged in our dialogue with we are flexible and can quickly refocus and adapt our our stakeholders, and we will highlight and respond range for new innovations. We want to be involved, driving to these. development and finding solutions to the challenges. But this requires that development is in phase in all areas of society, Input from Question so that there are vehicles on the roads that are actually ”Operating in the fuel and oil industry and, at the same capable of using new types of fuel. If we work in partnership time, aiming for sustainability poses a great challenge – with different sectors, politicians, scientists and civil society, how are you handling this, and the future demands on a we will be able to find solutions together and achieve the stakeholders sustainable transport sector?” Our response temperature target.” Question “We are well aware of the impact our sector has on the world ”How does OKQ8 Scandinavia enable us as customers to around us and, as a fuel company, we have a particular change to climate-smart vehicles?” responsibility for taking steps to reduce emissions that Our response We have close dialogue with the people impact the climate. At the same time, transportation is crucial to the development of our society, and the need will “Our aim is to offer the most sustainable alternatives who affect and those who are affected by not diminish. To ensure that we continue to be a relevant player in the future, we have to be involved in making possible to our customers. We do this by offering a wide range of biofuels and increasing the proportion of renewable our company – our stakeholders an active and concrete contribution to sustainable fuel fuels. We are encouraging a switch to fully renewable fuels, development. We do this on several levels, including by and are working in partnership with important players to working in partnership with other important players and achieve this as soon as possible.” The dialogue ensures that our sustainability work is relevant expertise. Consequently, we have carried on a systematic, onputting pressure on our suppliers to make improvements.” and going in the right direction. The dialogue with our going dialogue with our stakeholders who are contributing to Question stakeholders is primarily done through individual interviews our understanding of the company’s footprint and how we Question ”Ensuring that fuel is available in the event of a disaster is with representatives from the relevant stakeholder group. can contribute to sustainable growth. ”What is OKQ8 Scandinavia’s position in the rapid a vital social responsibility – how do you do this?” The stakeholders have prioritised the aspects which are transition to fossil-free required to meet the temperature most important to them. Furthermore they have contributed This approach ensures that all relevant views and aspects target in the Paris Agreement?” Our response with their view on the direction for OKQ8 Scandinavia´s are represented and that we receive feedback on and “Transport is essential for society to function, both on sustainability work. insight into our sustainability initiatives, activities and Our response an everyday basis and during a crisis. We have detailed presentations. The exchange helps us target our efforts in “As a player in the fuel industry, we have a major procedures for different types of crises. Provided that it is The many complex issues covered by the concept of the right direction. responsibility for ensuring that the climate change target is safe to do so, we will ensure access to fuel and have back-up sustainability require both a holistic perspective and focused achieved. Since we do not produce any products ourselves, plans for dealing with situations such as power outages.” Our most important stakeholders Impacts and challenges are opportunities • Customers • Governments • Employees • NGOs • Owners • Suppliers • Business partners • Media • Politicians Sustainable sourcing Sustainable operations Sustainable solutions • Industry associations Support the development of Reduce our own footprint Contribute to a more sustainable sustainable products transport sector and create a positive impact on society -16Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -17Strategy and goals Our Sustainability Council develops recommendations for The strategy and goals go hand in hand with our strategy, goals and activities for our sustainability efforts. participation in the UN Global Compact. The 10 principles The council’s recommendations are based on the materiality it sets out provide us with guidelines on how to deal with assessment, views expressed by stakeholders, our own impact human rights, working conditions, environmental issues and and on risks and opportunities. When a decision is made by anti-corruption measures associated with our sustainability the company’s management team, goals applicable to the goals. The principles reflect our own values and many of our part of the operations certified under the ISO 14001 will also decisions rest on them. be taken into account. Materiality assessment Our materiality assessment guides our development of sustainability strategies and goals Stakeholders priorities High priority Most material Climate change aspects Responsible supply chain Biodiversity Air quality and land use Ethics Spill and leakage Political decisions Sustainable stations The materiality analysis clarifies where Security Transparency New business areas Health and safety we need to focus our sustainability efforts, but also what we should prioritise Water use Diversity to ensure maximum impact Human Wide range of fuels rights Our sustainability efforts cover areas which we can and cannot The combination of the Sustainability Council’s and our Public relations Talent management affect. We do not have control over environmental trends so stakeholders’ assessments of the aspects, informs us as to Noise instead we must find a sustainable way to cope with them. On where we should prioritise our efforts and set goals. Customer satisfaction the other hand, the impact on the climate of our operations is something which we most certainly can control. Our most important aspects Ressource Circular economy • Climate change scarcity Partnerships Mega trends are among other things climate change, • Biodiversity, land use and origin urbanisation and mobility, resource scarcity, growing middle • Air quality Brand perception class as well as digitisation and electrification. • Political decision making Food range • New business models Low priority High priority By identifying the areas we need to focus on and prioritise, • Working environment and health of our employees we can ensure that our approach to sustainability is effective, and customers OKQ8 Scandinavia´s priorities in line with the interest of stakeholders, helps us to manage risks and also helps us turn challenges into opportunities. -18Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -19Sustainability strategy and goals OKQ8 Scandinavia’s sustainability strategy and goals are based on extensive analysis of the company Our aim is to be sustainable in the long term and, by leading the way, inspiring others to follow our example. means that we will support the development of sustainable products, reduce our own footprint and contribute to a more Strategy Challenges Goals and sustainable transport sector, as well as ensure that we have a opportunities We are convinced that we, as a company in fuel and positive impact on society. services, have an important role to play in the sustainable We want to reduce our environmental Inequality within and among We will be in Top 50 on the Universum development of our community. In a world where people are The general goals are linked directly to the UN’s global impact and create a positive effect countries must be reduced “Most Attractive Employer” ranking becoming increasingly mobile, we see many opportunities sustainable development goals. We have chosen three UN on society in an economic and by 2025 to create positive values which outweigh the negatives. goals where we believe we can make a real difference – responsible way Cities and local society must We want to help our customers act sustainably by offering reduce inequality, contribute to the sustainable society of be inclusive, safe, resilient and We will be in Top 50 on the ”Sustainable sustainable services and products while, at the same time, the future and combat climate change. sustainable Brand Index” by 2025 reducing our own footprint across the world. Sub-goals have then been developed for each prioritised Climate change and its impacts We will reduce our CO2e emissions by 20% New strategic focus aspect in the materiality analysis. An overview of our must be combated by 2030 per m3 of product sold (base year During the year, we decided to adopt a new sustainability sustainability goals can be found in section 8 Tabels. 2014/15) strategy with overall goals for OKQ8 Scandinavia. This -20Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -21Sustainable The challenge of a sourcing complex supply chain Sourcing of products and services at OKQ8 We intend to take responsibility for Scandinavia must pass through a critical sustainability throughout the entire and very thorough selection process supply chain – from raw material to finished product We have a number of strict criteria for both suppliers and • The importance of reliable, competent and financially products, with sustainability, quality and price being vital sound suppliers aspects in our choice. • The importance of long-term business relationships In order to ensure acceptable environmental and working Sustainable fuels • The importance of taking the impact of a product or conditions, we must know the origin of our products. From a We intend to accelerate the process of providing more To ensure that products and services at OKQ8 Scandinavia service on security, safety, health and the environment into sustainability perspective, it is primarily our fossil fuels which sustainable alternatives, and this means that we are working meet our strict requirements, we have developed a sourcing account (in accordance with our Security, Safety, Health and are responsible for a variety of risks, and that is where we are on extending the share of renewables in our fuels as far as policy, which controls our sourcing and signing of contracts. Environmental management system, ”How we do things”. constantly focusing our efforts to improve traceability. we possibly can. The more sustainable fuels are requested Ethical as well as environmental and health & safety considerWhere products or services have a significant impact on and used among our customers, the greater is our reduction ations must be taken into account in our sourcing activities. these issues, a supplier assessment will be carried out. Our direct suppliers are based in Europe, and we work closely of CO2e emissions and our environmental impact. with them to ensure that they comply with our Code of Our sourcing policy covers Focusing on our biggest impacts Conduct for suppliers and the UN Global Compact. Our For biofuels, there are clear rules about what is considered • The entire sourcing process, from planning to execution Fuels represent the biggest challenge in our supply chain. supply chain for fossil fuels is complex, proceeding through to be a sustainable fuel 1). All our biofuel suppliers and and follow-up Fuels also have the biggest impact on the environment, seven stages before the product reaches the customer. Since bio-products are certified in accordance with one of the • Our standards on ethics in all commercial relationships society and on the economy. we do not own refineries ourselves, we enter the chain at a European Commission’s voluntary systems or approved • Our social and environmental standards for suppliers (in relatively late stage. This means that the work involved in in accordance with one of the Member State’s national accordance with our Code of Conduct) For that reason, this chapter focuses on our fuels, what we as checking suppliers is particularly comprehensive, and also systems such as ISCC (International Sustainability and • Requirements on quality, price, delivery times and other a company do to reduce our environmental impact and how particularly important. Carbon Certification System). This includes, for example, a terms of delivery we can have a positive effect on society. requirement that the growers of raw materials must have At present, there are no clear and regulatory requirements systems and protections in place for biodiversity as well as on traceability in relation to raw materials for fossil fuels. At other environmental and social aspects. OKQ8 Scandinavia, however, we require that our suppliers Our supply chain carry out risk assessments and evaluate their subcontractors according to our Code of Conduct. Over and above our own OKQ8 Scandinavia offers four types of biofuels that are mixed in our fuels in different amounts; ethanol, RME 2), HVO 3) and checks, we also bring in independent third parties to audit biogas. These undergo at least eight stages before they Fossil raw Customers our suppliers. We prioritise ensuring that our suppliers apply reach the customer, and we become involved at stage five – materials • Private the same standards back in the chain in an effective way. storage at depot. Ethanol is made from plants such as wheat, Refining Raw materials OKQ8 Scandinavia • Business maize or sugar cane, while RME is a biofuel produced from • Refined products • Fuels • Additives • Lubricating oils We have not yet managed to achieve full traceability in rapeseed oil. HVO is produced primarily from vegetable oils the fossil supply chain. Our suppliers can often identify the and animal fats, and biogas from waste products such as countries from which the oil comes. However, in the final food waste, although it can also be derived from crops. We product, raw materials from a number of different original have full traceability back to the cultivated land, with the Renewable raw Stations and IDS sources are blended. Our suppliers primarily purchase crude exception of slaughter waste and residue, where we have materials oil from Russia and the North Sea. traceability back where the waste occurs, for example at the slaughter house. 1) Directive 2009/28/EC, Renewable energy directive 2) RME – Rapeseed oil methyl ester 3) HVO – Hydrotreated vegetable oil -22Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -23High standards for suppliers Ensuring that our suppliers comply with regulations on working conditions and the environment is a high priority for us and for our stakeholders That is why OKQ8 Scandinavia demands codes of practice approach, and the advantage that they apply even stricter Compact’s 10 principles. For example, the fuel must be which go further than the regulatory requirements. standards to our suppliers in many cases. produced without any breach of human rights. We also regard it as obvious that our suppliers carry out risk assessments Goals for fuel suppliers The first stage in selecting our suppliers is ensuring that they Our completed audits indicate that the system works well. and evaluations on their own subcontractors in accordance meet our basic requirements, along with the guidelines in the However, we have identified some risks and issues in the with our Code of Conduct or an equivalent Code of Conduct UN Global Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, working follow-up process on certain subcontractors, especially in of their own. With third-party certifications, such as ISCC conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. We then respect of gaps in knowledge further back in the supply (International Sustainability and Carbon Certification System), • We will assess fuel suppliers on the basis review any certificates, ownership, the size of the company chain for fossil fuels. We are making it a priority to work in and full traceability, we have confidence in the way in which our of our approved sustainability criteria by and the extent to which we judge that the supplier can meet partnership with the relevant suppliers to resolve this. renewable fuels are handled. 2017/18 our high standards. Annual negotiations New goals for fuels • High risk suppliers must be audited by a Finally, we carry out a risk assessment on the basis of country We have over 10 suppliers of fuel, of whom six supply fossil As part of the process of implementing our strategies and third party by 2018/19 and raw material. This is a meticulous process in which our fuels and five renewable fuels. As a result of our thorough, achieving our goals, we have developed a number of overall suppliers of fossil fuels go through a particularly critical ongoing checks and audits, we have confidence in all our goals and sub goals to help us contribute to a long-term examination, since they represent a high risk factor. Our current suppliers. Our annual sourcing procedure gives us sustainable development. One of the goals that we have contracts include our Code of Conduct for suppliers and our the opportunity to re-negotiate or terminate collaboration developed involves evaluating our fuel suppliers. This is intended sustainability requirements. with any supplier in the event of failure to comply with our to ensure that we are familiar with our suppliers’ risk profiles standards. To date, we have never had any reason to do this. and that we audit our identified high-risk suppliers. We are also Third party audits committed to developing a process for future risk evaluation A part from our own checks, we also use independent third Full traceability for renewable fuels and approval of our suppliers. One part of this objective involves party auditors with substantial experience and thorough Our suppliers of renewable fuels must also satisfy a number identifying and adopting criteria to use in our evaluations. knowledge of the fuel industry. This gives us a new angle of of our own assessment criteria, as well as the UN Global -24Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -25Our stations We want to be an enabler for people in motion – regardless of type of transportation Keeping a very close eye on how the world is changing and During the past year, we opened the first non-fuel station, a on our customers’ needs will enable our stations to meet the contribution to a sustainable society, where we are adapting demand. At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we carefully monitor trends to the growing city and its unique conditions. The station is in society, which affect our operations, or may affect them located in Stockholm city and offers a large car park with car in the future. Using our analysis of various trends, we have hire and a cycle pump with compressed air. In addition, it developed scenarios for how people can move around in offers good, basic and fresh food and refreshments for eating urban areas, in rural areas and between the two, with a time at home, on the move, or at the station. Our own horizon of up to fifteen years. Not all of the future scenarios will become a reality, but this does give us important clues We have also made significant investment for the heavier traffic and a better basis for identifying the products and services, to enable our customers to make informed choices and reduce which will be in demand in the future. It also prepares us their CO2e emissions. In Kallhäll, north of Stockholm, we have for the day when fossil fuels are no longer in demand – a opened our first station at which all of OKQ8 Scandinavia’s operations development which we will welcome, and intend to be fully renewable fuel alternatives for heavy vehicles are available; involved in. Diesel Bio HVO, as well as ED95 and biogas from E.ON. A concrete example of this type of social trend is that when OKQ8 Scandinavia’s station network consists of 272 stations new construction in major cities is being carried out, the in Denmark and 685 stations in Sweden. We have around 26 primary consideration is not cars but public transport, walking % of the petrol market in Sweden and 15 % in Denmark. In and cycling. People living in the cities will still have to move addition, we also supply a wide range of alternative products between different places, and we will continue to attract such as heating oil, lubricants and fuel for customers in customers through a well-tailored range of products and agriculture, the road transport industry, maritime transport services, which appeal to people on the move. Our urban and factories. All manned stations offer car accessories, We want to reduce our stations offer fuel, quick chargers for electrical vehicles and spare parts and tyre services. Many of the stations also have carwash facilities, among other services, which can be further workshops, indoor do-it-yourself carwash facilities, carwashes environmental impact in an developed. At traffic hubs, in addition to fuel, we can offer and car hire. Our shop range also includes food, refreshments economic and responsible way something to eat, as well as parcel collection and grocery collection points. and kiosk products. To meet the needs of commercial traffic, we operate and market Scandinavia International Diesel Service (IDS), with 31 stations in Denmark and 38 in Sweden. OKQ8 Scandinavia’s station Goal Case story: Drip Stop network To deal with the problem of spills that occur while OKQ8 Scandinavia’s station network consists of Installation of 30 quick chargers; 25 in Sweden people are filling their vehicle tanks with diesel, around 1,000 stations – manned, unmanned, IDS and and five in Denmark by 2018/19. DripStop has now been fitted to all our diesel pumps. Franchise in Denmark and Sweden. This is a stop function on the nozzle which prevents the last drops from dripping onto the ground. If the last • 272 stations in Denmark – Q8, F24 and IDS stations couple of drops go into the customer’s tank rather than • 685 stations in Sweden – OKQ8, OK, IDS and Volvo onto the ground, this will prevent at least 3,000 litres of Tanka diesel to be wasted. -26Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -27Sustainable stations Transport We are proud to present our concept for and storage sustainable stations, which use a 50 % less energy than traditional stations The greatest risk element in handling fuels is Our sustainable stations are optimised for the least possible station of the future, are being developed in collaboration with transport. Continuous training and compreimpact on the environment, and are an important element the Norwegian architectural firm, Snøhetta. in our goal of reducing our CO2e emissions by 2030. The hensive safety procedures are a vital priority sustainable stations offer renewable fuel and charging points Criteria for our sustainable stations for electric vehicles, however the stations themselves and their To meet our requirements for being a sustainable station, operation are also heavily influenced by sustainability in every we have several criteria. The frames are made from glulam We have a total of ten storage depots for fuel in Sweden Risk assessments at our facilities stage. We have a total of seven sustainable stations, and the beams, an energy-efficient and renewable material. Cold and Denmark, and access to additional facilities through In Sweden, we have been investigating our cooling water and eighth is now under construction in Nykvarn, Sweden. storage facilities, freezers and fast food refrigerators collaboration agreements with other companies. Our logistics fire fighting water to ensure minimal environmental impact use carbon dioxide or propane as the refrigerant, which in Sweden are quality assured under ISO 14001. On top of in the event of incidents such as fires. In both Denmark We are continuously implementing measures at our other generates significantly less environmental impact than that, we have adopted our own criteria to ensure that our and Sweden, we have carried out extensive work linked to stations to reduce our environmental impact. By installing fluoridated refrigerants. Energy for heating is produced onproducts are always transported safely. safety risks and risk assessments at our facilities. The results new sensors in all cooling and freezing units in our Swedish site from solar cells, solar panels, deep water and geothermal have been analysed in safety reports which we have also operation during the year, we have achieved a 20 % saving heat; the remainder comes from district heating. Sedum We carry out thorough risk assessments on the transport submitted to the appropriate authorities. in energy. In Denmark, a project is carried out to supply all green roofs insulate the buildings and also help to cool down and storage of fuel, and prevent incidents through training coolers at the cash desk with lids to reduce energy losses. surplus heat during the summer. and safety procedures. The transportation companies must Sustainable transports also carry out more extensive vehicle checks at least once To limit our environmental impact, we have asked our On top of this, we replaced 90 % of the light fittings at our a month, including checking tyres, ensuring that there transport providers to train their drivers in eco driving. stations in Sweden with LED fittings over the past year. In are fire extinguishers in the vehicle and that absorption This involves reviewing the choice of fuel, engines, fuel Denmark, we have replaced all indoor lighting and we are Goals for materials are available for dealing with spillages. Despite our consumption and optimising route planning. We follow carrying out ongoing replacement of the outdoor lights. comprehensive safety procedures, incidents are inevitable, up on the transport providers’ emissions on a quarterly We have already seen that these measures are generating sustainable stations but these, fortunately, rarely have serious consequences. basis, so that we can react rapidly if these increase to an substantial reductions in energy use and cost savings. unacceptably high level. Measures to reduce energy use An innovation for this year is that we have installed systems • In Sweden, we will build one new station In Denmark, we have the challenge that we use heating oil to monitor the energy consumption of all our stations. This that fulfils our sustainability criteria per to heat the depots. It is one of our priorities to reduce our enables us to rapidly identify any parts of our operations which are using abnormal quantities of energy, and take year. energy use, and we monitor the amount of energy used on a quarterly basis. Goals for logistic appropriate action. • In Denmark, stations that are undergoing In Århus, we have installed two hybrid heating plants and Our vision is a station which contributes to sustainable refurbishment must fulfil our sustainability five heat pumps, which will reduce the annual use of heating • We will reduce CO2e from distribution by development and an attractive townscape as well as criteria oil by 30,000 litres and cut our CO2e emissions by 100 tonnes 20 % by 2030 per km driven (baseline year providing a meeting point for people and solving their needs. per year. We still have a great deal left to do, but important 2014/15) improvement measures have been implemented. We believe that the stations of the future will have • We will reduce CO2e from depots by significantly different functions depending on their location. Reduced water use 20 % by 2030 per m3 dispatched product In major cities, they can offer additional services, which Another priority area is to cut down on water use in (baseline year 2014/15) facilitate people’s everyday lives, such as cycle and pram/ our carwashes. We are in the process of testing various stroller repairs, as well as facilities for carpooling or grocery technologies and solutions to see which give the best collection. In the countryside, stations are often gathering cleaning effect while also saving water. This can have a places for people living in the surrounding area, and are in an substantial impact given the large number of carwashes we ideal position to offer supplementary services such as the sale operate. At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we are continuously updating of fishing permits and parcel collection points. The sketches, our carwashes, always aiming to install the most effective which we hope can become a model for the sustainable technology available. -28Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -29CO2e emissions Category Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Direct CO2e – Scope 11) ton 2,841 2,891 4,047 Indirect CO2e – Scope 2 2) ton 11,881 12,454 17,692 Other indirect CO2e – Scope 3 3) ton 11,252 11,339 12,021 Total CO2e ton 25,974 26,684 33,761 Total CO2e per sold m3 kg / m3 8.17 8.33 10.70 1) Scope 1: Direct CO2e emissions from company controlled buildings and vehicles. 2) Scope 2: Indirect CO2e emissions from electricity and heat produced by another company. 3) Scope 3: Other indirect CO2e emissions that are not Scope 1 and 2. 4) The large reduction of scope 1 emissions is due to the fact that we no longer distribute fuel with own trucks in Sweden. CO2 emissions from activities The environment Category Stations and IDS Unit ton 2016/17 11,822 2015/16 12,473 2014/15 17,329 Distribution – CO2e ton 10,868 11,005 12,786 Production of lubricating oils – CO2e ton 953 1,006 1,188 It is at the final phase of our value chain, in Depots – CO2e ton 363 448 616 the use of our products, that the greatest Business travels ton 1,850 1,633 1,633 impact on the environment occurs Offices ton 117 120 209 Our own operation constitutes only a small part of our total Development of the environment impact Energy use impact, but that is where we have most control, and can Since 2014/15, the CO2e emissions from our own operations Category Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 implement the most direct and significant changes. We have have been reduced by 24 % and energy use was reduced decided to focus on the aspects of our operations where by 8,6 %. This significant reduction is mainly due to our Non-renewable energy kWh 52,491,566 55,691,415 62,408,990 we can achieve the most, i.e. our energy consumption and efforts to reduce energy at our stations. At our depots, greenhouse gas emissions, CO2e. Water consumption and replacing heating oil with electricity and district heating has Renewable energy1) kWh 78,986,734 84,480,785 80,291,410 waste are also important environmental aspects for us to led to around 45 % reduction of CO2e emissions. Another Total energy use kWh 131,478,300 140,172,200 142,700,400 address, where we continuously make improvements. reason for the reduction of CO2e emissions is an increase in renewable energy in Denmark and Sweden, which has meant Renewable proportion of energy % 60 60 56 Environmental impact of our own operations a decrease in the emission factors. Total energi use per m3 sold product kWh / m3 41.35 43.74 45.23 By far the greatest impact on the environment of our 1) Includes renewable from electricity and district heating own operations involves the use of electricity and district Our starting point is that the contribution to biogenic heating at our stations, our depots and in the production emissions is neutral, since the quantity of emissions of of lubricating oils. Other areas which contribute to our biogenic origin generated during the use of the fuel is environmental impact are distribution and business travel. equivalent to the quantity of emissions taken up by plants and animals in the primary production. oil separators. In addition, our personnel have the training response varies, depending on the size of the spill and where Environmental impact of waste and water use and equipment to handle minor spills. it occurred. In the event of a major incident, we contact the There are many advantages in reducing waste, not least Spills and leakage emergency services and also report it to the municipality’s financial. In addition, legislation covering waste provides As a significant supplier in the fuel industry, we have a In spite of safety measures, some spills which are difficult environmental service. In these cases, we liaise closely with guidelines as to how we must handle our waste. We are considerable responsibility for our environmental impact, to contain do occur, for example during deliveries to forestry the appropriate authorities to work out a joint plan for the working closely with our waste management service and we are working systematically to reduce this. Minimising machines or at other locations where it can be more difficult decontamination work. providers. They report on the collected waste, and how large spills and leakage is very much a matter of preventive to deal with the spillage. During 2016/17 we had one a percentage is recycled. In respect of reducing water use, we action. The handling of spills and waste is governed by significant spill in Kolding, Denmark totalling 315 litres of oil Minor spills (under 159 litres) amounted to a total of 1,700 are focusing primarily on our car washes. strict regulations and active risk assessment. Through our products, but a full decontamination was carried out with litres, of which 91 litres reached the environment. Full procedures, safety regulations, tests and compulsory training no damage to the environment. For a spill to be counted as decontamination was carried out and there was no damage Greenhouse gas emissions for our staff and distributors, we prevent, as far as we significant a quantity exceeding 159 litres must reach the to the environment. 91 litres is a generous estimate, since the In reporting greenhouse gas emissions, also called CO2e, we possibly can, spills and leakage from occurring. natural environment and the subsequent decontamination precise number of litres reaching environment is not always use the web-based CEMAsys model. The system is based on the If any spills do take place, the stations have impermeable must require methods such as mechanical excavation, specified, so the actual figure may well be lower but will not international auditing standard, the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. surface coatings which contain the liquid and channel it to pumping and/or chemical treatment. The decontamination be higher. -30Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -31Sustainable solutions Our ambition is to achieve economically, socially and environmentally sustainable development, and our intention is that every part of our operation will have a positive impact on society Our shops vegetarian, do not eat pork or have any other food issues. It is In our shops, we have found two influential social trends, important to us that we can offer something for everyone. sustainability and health. Well-prepared, high-quality and healthy food, as well as certifications, optimised handling of food Certification for health and the environment waste and an inclusive selection are key concepts in our offer. Where possible, we favour the various certifications in selecting products for our range. The ones we primarily We believe that delicious, high-quality products enhance the use are FairTrade, EU organic, KRAV-label, Ø-label, Whole customer’s total experience and increase our attractiveness. grain label, Rainforest Alliance, Keyhole and the Swan. We “Quick to go” is our concept for well-prepared and healthy have observed that our customers are not always aware food, much of which we prepare ourselves. of certifications. For that reason, we will now put greater effort into labelling our organic and environmentallyWith fresh ingredients, newly-baked bread, cakes and organic approved products to help our customers make more coffee, “Quick to go” adds that extra touch of excellence to sustainable choices. the customer’s visit. During the year, we have expanded the concept to 55 new stations, and all the stations we operate Standards set for oil products ourselves now offer “Quick to go”. Where oil products are concerned, we have set strict standards for consistent quality, and we are constantly Reduced food waste working to add sustainable alternatives to our range. This has One challenge we faced during the establishment phase of included developing a number of products in the hydraulic “Quick to go” is that it generated more food waste than is fluid, chain oil and outboard motor oil categories which are desirable. In response, we have been working intensively to biodegradable or have a high level of biodegradability. Our find the correct stock levels in our shops, and to increase our natural degreasing agent is Swan-labelled. knowledge about our customers. As a result, we have now achieved an acceptable level, where food waste has been It is particularly our largest oil customers who are demanding reduced from 12 to 8 %, a reduction of 33 %. But we want sustainable alternatives, and our ambition is that more of this number to be even lower, so we are continuing our efforts our customers will choose these. For that reason, we are now to reduce food waste. reviewing both labelling and packaging to give customers clear guidance to make more informed choices. A range for everyone We are proud that we offer a range for all tastes and dietary requirements. No matter whether you are gluten intolerant, -32Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -33Our fuels As a fuel supplier, we have a major responsibility to contribute to a more sustainable transport sector, particularly by developing and increasing the proportion of renewable fuels Increasing the proportion of renewable fuels is an important core business is still the production of palm oil for the food step towards fossil independence, and is something we industry. prioritise. At the same time, diesel and petrol-fuelled vehicles are expected to dominate the market for some time yet. Quota obligation in Denmark In Denmark, there is a mandatory blend for biofuels of Renewable fuels 5.75 % energy of the total amount of fuel sold for road OKQ8 Scandinavia supplies different biofuels: ethanol, RME transportation. In 2020, this proportion will increase to 10 (rapeseed oil methylester, HVO (hydrogenated vegetable oil) %. The blending process largely involves adding ethanol biogas and electricity for charging. Ethanol, RME and HVO to petrol and FAME (Fatty Acid Methyl Ester) to diesel. A are mixed with fossil fuels in different amounts. In 2016, the small percentage of HVO is also used to meet the blend proportion of liquid biofuels were 13 % of our total amount requirement. This HVO is produced from abattoir waste of fuel sold in Sweden. and palm oil, which is certified in accordance with the ISCC (International Sustainability and Carbon Certification Our diesel in Sweden contains up to 40 % renewable System) and RSPO (Round Table of Sustainable Palm Oil) diesel, which is estimated to generate approximately 35 standards. Some of our Danish customers are increasingly % less CO2e emissions compared with 100 % fossil fuel. demanding biogas, and this could become an important HVO is produced from waste and residues can reduce CO2e alternative to conventional diesel. emissions by up to 90 % compared with traditional diesel. Tax exemption in Sweden High demand for HVO In Sweden, biofuel is tax-exempt, and this has resulted in a HVO has made a major breakthrough as a fuel during this much higher quantity of biofuel compared with Denmark. year. It has rapidly become a popular alternative for many The Swedish government has proposed a new regulation of our customers as it is a product, which the majority of for a reduction obligation aimed at reducing greenhouse diesel vehicles can use, while at the same time offering many gas emissions from petrol and diesel by mixing biofuels. The environmental advantages. proposal will be effected by 1 July 2018. The increased demand for HVO is a very positive trend The tax exemption will cease at the end of 2018, and this from an environmental perspective. However, it presents a will, in all likelihood, involve the introduction of some form of challenge to the whole industry given that access to the raw mandatory blend, similar to the Danish system. materials used in its production is limited. Consequently, it means that we have decided to change the requirements More electricity charging points towards our suppliers about which waste products HVO Another exciting area which we are taking a closer look is based on in Sweden. In order to handle the delivery of at is electric vehicles. Over the past year, we have signed HVO in 2017, up to 50% of all HVO we sell will be based collaboration agreements with E.ON on rapid chargers, with on slaughterhouse waste and up to 50% will be based on 5 of these currently in place in Denmark and 25 in Sweden. certified PFAD (Palm Fatty Acid Destillate). E.ON will also take over the operation of the 7 charging stations which we already have installed. This enables us to PFAD is classed as a waste product by the Swedish Energy offer charging stations for long-distance travel. Our ambition Agency, and is a by-product of palm oil production for the is to be an enabler for everyone in motion. We are proud food industry. PFAD comprises only around 5 % of the raw of the fact that we can support our customers who choose palm oil extracted, and it commands a significantly lower renewables, and we are committed to inspiring more people price than crude palm oil. As it is a waste product, PFAD does to take the same route. not itself lead to increased palm oil production, since the -34Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -35Sustainable Interview: collaboration Petra Wadström, founder and CEO of Solvatten As part of our social responsibility, Our social During 2016, Petra Wadström received we collaborate with Solvatten and ViSkogen to support their crucial efforts to responsibility several awards, the latest being the International Society For Neglected provide clean water and fight poverty Tropical Disease (Water Prize). She was also nominated for the Ocean Exchange Awards in the USA. Solvatten who explains how the innovative By linking the innovative Solvatten Swedish product, the Solvatten solar What does OKQ8 Scandinavia’s project with our carwash offer, we water container, provides families support mean for you? contributed to the distribution of in Uganda with clean water. The Despite the relatively low levels of ”We know we have a level of support and 1,152 solar water containers during book was handed out to carwash unemployment in Scandinavia, there commitment that goes much further than purifying and heating water. It also the year, providing clean water to more than 7,000 people in Uganda. customers at selected stations. are two groups of people who find it covers other positive consequences for the families in Uganda that we reach through A Solvatten solar water container holds 10 litres of water, and can more difficult than others to find a job: our work with the UN’s 17 global goals for purify up to 30 litres of water per day sustainable development.” using sunlight alone. No batteries or young people and new immigrants chemical additives are required. What you have in the pipeline for the future? Since the Solvatten container heats OKQ8 Scandinavia is committed to helping reduce exclusion successful in Södertälje, where a 93 % obtained a job after ”In the past year, we have been contacted the water up to 75°C and it also by offering work experience programmes, with the possibility completing the work experience training. We have a great by representatives from various African reduces the need to heat, boil and of employment. Break Youth Unemployment Now! and Youths deal of faith in this initiative and so far it has delivered great countries who want to know more about light fires. This is really good for the On Their Way are initiatives aimed at strengthening young results. We are now in process of starting a similar project Solvatten, and we are following this up. environment, but also represents people’s confidence and reducing youth unemployment. in Gothenburg, and we are very hopeful that this will be a We have also set up a collection trust in a substantial saving in time and Through Break Youth Unemployment Now! in Denmark, a success as well. the USA to achieve greater distribution, physical burden, particularly for girls total of 50 young people between the ages of 15 and 30 and several American companies have and women, who spend a lot of their have attended Boot Camps to gain an insight into how the Focus on newly arrived academics expressed an interest in working with us.” day fetching firewood and water. labour market operates. The proportion of participants who In May, we expanded the work experience programme move on to education, work experience programmes or get to include new immigrants with university qualifications, Increasing awareness of water Vi-Skogen a permanent job is high, normally more than 70 %. In North through the “Short way” project. This is a new target group shortage OKQ8 Scandinavia supports ViZealand, the corresponding figure is 90 %. for us, but we were convinced that we could help reduce In Stockholm, World Water Week is Skogen’s work with planting trees exclusion, while gaining access to expertise which might used to highlight water shortages and fighting poverty in East Africa. In Sweden, young people under 25 are offered a threeotherwise be lost. The project is a joint venture involving across the world. In connection with We do this by collaborating with month work experience placement with mentoring. At our Academicum, the Swedish Public Employment Service, this, OKQ8 Scandinavia launched a the recycling company, Returpack, customer service centre in Avesta, the project has been a Uppsala University and KTH Royal Institute of Technology. children’s book in August, aimed at to increase the recycling of metal success so far – about one third of the young people involved During a pilot phase, we offered six work experience increasing awareness of the lack of cans and PET bottles found along get a job after the completion of the programme, either placements, but the aim is for the programme to become clean water. In the book, the children Sweden’s roads. In 2016, 375,000 with us or with another company. The project has also been permanent, and we will offer more placements in the future. follow the superhero, Fu-Ture, cans and bottles were collected. -36Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -37Employees and customers 3,786* Employees Sweden 57 % Denmark 43 % 47 % 53 % 49 % 51 % * Includes fulltime, partime and hourly paid employees Employee categories Board of Directors Middle management 33 % (2) women and 67 % (4) men in the Danish 37,5 % women / 62,5 % men Board of Directors Other managers 25 % (2) women and 75 % (6) men in the Swedish 35,8 % women & 64,2 % men Board of Directors. Station managers Management 42,2 % women / 57,8 % men 71 % women / 29 % men (5 women and 2 men) Other employees 54 % women / 46 % men -38Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -39Our employees At OKQ8 Scandinavia our employees are a major contributing factor in our success Our employees are our ambassadors, the people who drive employees, opening our new activity-based offices on the company forward, who protect and improve our brand. Sveavägen, and on developing leadership in a digital world. Our employees are our most important resource and the reason why customers choose us. We practice fair and non-discriminatory wage setting on an equal basis throughout the company. It must be clear which Our values are intended to create a culture that enables principles the wage setting is based on. The wage must our employees to enjoy their work, respect each other and motivate our employees to perform well and be committed be proud of working for OKQ8 Scandinavia. We believe to their work. that this is the best way to attract and retain competent people, which is the key to our long-term brand building The terms of employment at OKQ8 Scandinavia vary strategy. But in a values-driven company, it is important depending on form of employment, position and area that word and action go hand in hand, and that we fulfil our promises. Consequently, our Code of Conduct must permeate covered by the agreement. Some of the benefits for employees are pension, group life insurance, extra ´Life at OKQ8 Scandinavia´ everything we do in the company, and all our employees compensation for parental leave, sickness insurance, must be familiar with and comply with its content. preventive healthcare subsidy and subsidised meals. Our employees are our most important resource. We We will be focusing on four areas where we believe Our values are open and honest, customer focus, Recognition want the work to be a natural part of life – not the we can make a difference to the wellbeing of our competence, quick and flexible and they affect our daily We have a Scandinavian bonus system for our managers, most important part, but a reliable partner who can employees: Family & Leisure, Development & Talent, work. The work on our values is ongoing, and our constant as well as for employees who have a clear impact on provide support outside work as well, in a hectic life. Flexible working hours and Brave leaders. ambition is to improve – this is part of our corporate strategy. profits and sales. Some of the goals in the bonus system are sustainability-related SSHE goals. The SSHE bonus We want to make it possible for our employees to We want to apply new perspectives and approaches Naturally, sustainability forms a substantial part of this and targets for 2016/17 have for example been training hours, combine family life and an active leisure with a career. to developing our role as an employer and creating an is one of our absolute priorities. We are proud and pleased safety training and an index on fuel spills. Offering rewards During the year, as part of this, we will carry out an attractive workplace. that so many of our employees are committed to this and enables us to recognise and encourage extraordinary work extensive project called ’Life at OKQ8 Scandinavia’. want to help. Together we can make a difference by being performance. part of OKQ8 Scandinavia´s commitment to helping create a more sustainable world. Employees can also be rewarded by a nomination for Excellence Recognition Awards, which is an annual award Employment programme developed by KPI Top Management. The We want to be regarded as a modern and attractive purpose of the programme is to recognise and provide employer. To be able to attract, retain and motivate additional reward for important successes in the company, competent and ambitious employees, we offer excellent stimulate qualitative initiatives and visualise and highlight terms and benefits. We do this by focusing on four areas: outstanding performance. Employees can be nominated development and talent, brave leaders, flexible work place, for successes/projects in four different areas: SSHE and and family and leisure. For example during the year, we Sustainability, Innovation/Cost Optimization, Customer Family & Leisure Development & Talent Flexible working hours Brave leaders have focused particularly on increasing the healthy lifestyle Satisfaction and Project Implementation. subsidy, as well as developing a new course for sustainable -40Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -41Employee engagement At OKQ8 Scandinavia, we believe in transparent and clear career planning, which means that our employees are motivated to stay on and develop within the company We are keen to ensure that our employees feel good with us, share resources and areas. We have more meeting places progress in their roles and grow with their responsibilities. and rooms adapted to various needs where it is easier to That is why we were pleased and proud that our Employee exchange information and meet colleagues. There are, of Satisfaction Index rose to the highest level ever during this course, also areas suitable for people who want to work year. 548 employees from our offices responded to the undisturbed. questions and the satisfaction level was 3.12 on a scale of 1-4. This is an improvement from the last measurement where the value was 3.09. The goal for 2016 was 3.1, and we Measures to combat stress We regard a flexible working life as an important component Values for an equal society will be aiming for 3.2 in 2017. There are many reasons why for the wellbeing of our employees. Employees should be our employees are happy at work, but it is clear that we have able to change station, location or country if they so wish. become better at working together across departments and We also encourage the use of remote meetings to limit sharing our experiences. Good well-being at work also makes travel, and are developing digital tools intended to make us more innovative, productive and better at exceeding our day-to-day work easier. Stress-related illness is increasing in customers´ expectations. society as a whole, and OKQ8 Scandinavia is not immune to this. Consequently, we will make efforts to focus on this For the employees at our stations, the latest NMI was in issue during 2017. An important part of this is creating the OKQ8 Scandinavia is committed 2016 and the next survey is scheduled for September 2017. opportunity for a healthy work/life balance. to helping build an equal, inclusive Training makes for stronger individuals We aim to ensure that our employees are offered the society where every person has the opportunity to improve their competence level within the same value and rights company. To support this, we offer a number of training courses suitable for every person’s individual goals and needs. A relatively new feature is OKQ8 Scandinavia’s own The starting point is our Code of Conduct which is a summary everything from how people feel at work to working management training programme. In 2016, we also started of the values we expect all of our employees to comply with conditions. On the basis of these, our managers will follow an internal mentor programme for which the goal is that 60 % of participants will have reached a more advanced Goals for employees and promote. up and, if necessary, draw up action plans to deal with any problems. In our view, however, responsibility for creating a position within two years after completing the programme. At our company, it is indisputable that everyone must feel workplace which people enjoy and where they feel great rests safe and included, and we will never isolate anyone. We aim not only with our managers but with all employees. As part of our training portal, we offer various online courses • LinkedIn: We will have 10,000 followers on for even gender distribution and apply principles of equality and training modules in the area of security, safety, health LinkedIn in 2017/18 when recruiting, in relation to employee development and We expect our leaders to act as role models and show the and environment. These are SSHE-related and participation in wage setting. Our organisation must be characterised by way for the values set out in our Code of Conduct. They may be either compulsory or voluntary. Exercises are • Employee satisfaction index – NMI: We will openness and honesty, and this includes treating each other achieve this by observing key words such as open and honest, registered and form the foundation for our training index of increase NMI to 3.4 by 2020 with respect and not discriminating on grounds such as customer focus, competence and quick and flexible. As leader 3.8, which exceeded our target of 3.7. gender, skin colour, religion or sexual orientation. at OKQ8 Scandinavia, they are also expected to encourage employee development by having the courage to delegate Activity-based daily work in Stockholm Through annual wage surveys and close collaboration and allocate responsibility. All of our employees have During the year, we refurbished our office on Sveavägen with the trade union, we can identify and deal with any individual development plans and the internal career paths in Stockholm and are now working in an activity-based unreasonable wage differences within the organisation. are transparent. environment. Rather than traditional offices, we now Employee surveys provide us with information about -42Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -43Incidents Own employees Contractors Number of incidents Incident index* Number of incidents Incident index* Type of incident 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Crime 243 306 12.6 15.7 24 14 2.76 1.34 Personal injuries 85 113 4.41 5.79 42 32 4.83 3.07 Near misses 242 302 12.6 15.5 136 138 15.6 13.3 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Customer incidents 29 31 1.51 1.59 7 10 0.81 0.96 *Incident index: Number of accidents x 200,000 per amount of worked hours Employee accidents with lost working days LWC 1) LWC Severity rate 2) Heath and safety Own employees 2016/17 41 2015/16 215 2014/15 50 2016/17 2,13 2015/16 11.01 2014/15 2.49 Contractors 43 114 1 4.95 10.95 0.09 1) LWC (Lost workday cases) – Lost working days per employees accident It is important that our employees feel 2) LWC Severity rate – Lost working days per employees accident x 200,000 per number of hours worked safe and secure at their working place To minimise the number of incidents, we have adopted a Safety walks and audits environment, as it is here that our biggest challenge lies, in parents. When reporting illness, a follow-up is also carried out preventive approach and share our experiences. We also carry out annual ”safety walks” at all our stations, terms of having a tough social climate, where perhaps the to ascertain whether there is any perceived link to work. The where the managers responsible review the operation and biggest challenge is in relation to a tougher social society. follow-up showed us that 97.4 % of the reasons have nothing We believe that adopting preventive measures will enable correct any flaws. In 2016/17, we completed 2,565 safety to do with work. us to avoid many incidents. For this reason, we carry out walks, which exceeds the target of 2,000. This is a signal to In terms of number of reported incidents in 2015/16 (946 pcs) continuous risk assessments on our operations. OKQ8 our employees that we take safety seriously and that it is and 2016/17 (808 pcs), the trend is declining for own employees In Denmark, we carried out comparison interviews about Scandinavia’s shared incident system, ´Oops & Ouch´, always in our minds. in all categories. absence due to illness, and the proportion is believed to be ensures that we rapidly become aware of problems in the the same there. These figures show that we must prioritise work environment. It is mandatory that all employees report Every year, we carry out audits in accordance with our audit For Contractors, on the contrary, the trend is increasing in efforts to ensure that employees have a healthier lifestyle. incidents, so that we can detect any patterns. Is the incident plan. Audits can be carried out by ourselves, our owners or by all categories except for near misses and customer incidents For that reason we invested in a substantial increase in the an isolated event at a specific location, or does it happen an external company as a certification audit. The purpose of which declined. It is important to keep in mind that near preventive healthcare subsidies for our employees. at other stations as well? Incidents involving customers or these audits is to assess whether our management systems misses can have a direct impact on the decreased number external suppliers are also reported in the system, and this are adhered to and whether they add value and are effective. of reported incidents. provides us with a good overall picture. Health & safety committee Absence due to illness For other work-related injuries and accidents, we remain at a In both Denmark and Sweden, we have a health & safety During the year, efforts have been made to reverse the trend of low and steady level. Incidents involving customers are also at committees, which are composed so that all employees are absence due to illness. In Sweden, absence due to illness rose a low level, and primarily involve stumbling and slipping. We represented. The committees meet twice a year to discuss by 0.2 %, while in Denmark, the same figure fell by 1.2 %. Sick leave follow a five-year plan to reach our targets, and are improving work-related issues and events, and to decide what work2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 year on year. We believe that our systematic work, inspired by related activities will be carried out during the year. The main reasons for absence due to illness lie outside the ISO 18001, is the reason for these low levels. Part of this is that operation. The service, “Illness and recovery reporting with Denmark 2.11 3.3 2.7 we prioritise tidiness and cleanliness at our stations, have clear Development of health and safety advice” (only available in Sweden), provides employees checklists and we aim to implement the same safety procedures Based on our management system “How we do it”, we work with support in the form of advice during illness or when Sweden 5.9 5.7 4.9 at all stations. Every year, we review our system and assess to continuously improve our workplace environment. We suffering the symptoms of illness. The advice also covers 1) Due to a new payroll system, an average of 9 months is reported procedures and resources. have a specific focus on improving the psychological work the employee’s family, which is particularly appreciated by -44Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -45Interview: Moa Zeidlitz, customer at OKQ8 Bromma in Stockholm Customer expectations What makes you choose OKQ8 and customer service Scandinavia and what did you buy from us today? “I am a customer here for several reasons. Partly because it is close to my home, and I prefer to support and preserve local businesses, and partly because there are OKQ8 Scandinavia’s goal is to be OKQ8 stations all over the country. Mostly I fill up the car with fuel, use the carwash an enabler for people in motion and buy refreshments when we travel with the family.” A customised product range, as well as competence and the periods, but due to a number of efficiency-enhancing What will you buy from us 10 best customer service on the market enhance the overall measures, waiting times during June and July have been years from now? experience for the customer during a visit. cut substantially, from 8 to 1.5 minutes. For the whole year, ”I will still be buying the products I need waiting times have fallen by just over a minute. This may not on the move, but I would like to see much To ensure that we live up to our customers´ expectations, sound a lot, but anyone waiting at the other end of the phone more focus on the environment. I hope we carry out regular customer satisfaction surveys. We use line will really notice a big difference. that electrical power really takes off, and Mystery Shoppers at stations – individuals who pretend to be that I will be charging my own electric customers and who observe how the shop and the employees We have also focused on improving the customer service car. But I also hope that other non-fossil deal with customers. We also carry out random surveys based on the telephone support line. This has primarily taken fuels, which are more efficient, will be on a Customer Satisfaction Index, NKI. This covers a total the form of active listening-in and coaching by our group available at the stations. It would also of 420 manned stations, with a total of 2,108 responses managers. During the year, we listened in on around 1,000 be great if customers like myself were collected. We are very happy to note that both surveys are conversations. encouraged to be more environmentally producing the highest figures ever. friendly, through incentives such as better Better customer experience in shops terms and conditions.” Customer service, as well as our intention to identify and We have upgraded all terminal systems at our stations, adapt to customer needs quickly, are the most important which means that we can handle transactions and payments factors in customer satisfaction. In the category “friendly and more quickly. The new system makes it easier to tailor the welcoming employees”, 97 out of 100 asked were satisfied messages and offers to our cardholders. with their experience. There are still areas where we can improve, e.g. Short waiting times acknowledging our customers by making eye contact During the year, we have also worked on shortening the more quickly. Our aim is, at all times, to be tuned into our waiting time for anyone calling our telephone support line. customers’ needs to maintain, and earn, their trust. We have experienced problems with this during holiday -46Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -47Our company OKQ8 Scandinavia is an energy and oil company as well as a retail chain that is working for sustainable solutions We are driven by our commitment and by concern for our process, not as a separate issue. Our environmental aspects customers, colleagues and shareholders and the world in and impact are managed by a Sustainability Council which we live. consisting of representatives from the company. The Council makes recommendations to senior management Our values guide us when handling both every day and regarding sustainability strategy, goals and activities. The unexpected events. They make our day-to-day work easier, senior management team then make decisions about aid flexibility and enable us to make quick changes when the work before it is decentralised into the organisation necessary. via the Council. The Chair of the Council is our Director of Sustainability & Communication. As a step in our systematic sustainability activities, we carry Vision & values out internal audits to ensure that our procedures work in practice and not just on paper. Our values Vision During the merger in 2012, we realised that there was a We want to be an enabler for people in need for a shared set of values. This became the start of a motion. process where we examined our raison d’être. Through this, we found that we have always been an enabler for people in Our values motion. Rather than regarding ourselves primarily as a fuel • Open & honest company, our starting point must be that we exist to help • Customer focus people in motion, regardless of their means of transport. This • Competence gives us the freedom to avoid being bound to any certain • Quick & flexible type of products and offers. As a values-driven company, we want to create an emotional connection among our I am pleased that, after four years of hard work, we have communicate jointly as one OKQ8 Scandinavia. This helps customers. We can achieve this by taking what we refer to managed the integration. We are now working as one to strengthen our work of making the operation even more us as “The friendly approach”, i.e. that everyone should feel company on a Scandinavian market as colleagues, across sustainable. welcomed by us. We must be easy to understand and we departments and, not least, countries. Our vision and sustainability management must be open. Steffen Pedersen The directive from our shareholders is clear – we must aim We share good examples, and inspire and challenge each CEO, OKQ8 Scandinavia to be a socially, environmentally and financially sustainable To ensure that this approach is practised throughout the entire other. Of course there is more to be done, but we act and company. This must permeate all our business activities. organisation, all our employees have taken part in seminars and courses to ensure that they have a deep understanding of The fact that we have a clear mandate from our the concept and how it applies to their day-to-day work. The shareholders to work sustainably means that we treat fact that we have more satisfied empolyees and customers sustainability as an integral part of the business and as a than ever before is proof of its success. -48Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -49Economy The stability of our finances enables us to adopt a long-term approach to social and environmental responsibilities Our combined profit for 2016/17 amounted to The prices of our fuels are affected by many external factors SEK 960 million. over which we have no control, including the economic cycle Ownership and We are investing heavily in renewing our station network, so depreciation remains higher than in previous periods. Our and the supply. These are, in turn, affected by world politics, natural phenomena and political unrest. Fuel prices on our sales markets are also affected by the rules applying to organisation profit for 2016/17 is the result of satisfactory fuel margins, renewable fuels and how fuels are taxed. along with increased earnings from our services offer. External factors that have affected the result have been have been the OKQ8 Scandinavia is committed to a number of projects increases in fuel taxes, the rise in employer fees and, above aimed at having a positive impact on the environments all, the oil price. and communities in which the company operates, including Solvatten, Fryshuset and Vi-Skogen, which is described in The global market prices for fuel rose during the year, so the section 5 Sustainable solutions. OK-Q8 AB is jointly owned by OK fuel we had in stock has had a positive impact on the net ekonomisk förening and Kuwait profit for the year. We have not had significant environmental investments or costs in 2016/17. Petroleum International, with each having a 50 % stake in the company Economic result Economic value – generated and distributed (MSEK) 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 OK-Q8 AB owns Q8 Danmark A/S. OK ekonomisk förening Organisation Revenue 31,868 32,293 36,436 is the largest of seven OK cooperative associations in We are an enabler for people in motion – with a warm and Operating costs -14,935 -16,832 -21,381 Sweden, with almost one million members. Kuwait Petroleum welcome approach. International is based in the Netherlands and is owned by The focus is on our impact on the environment, climate, Salaries and benefits -725 -721 -695 Kuwait Petroleum Corporation, which is owned by the State social issues and economy. We believe that our sustainability Point taxes Sweden -11,644 -10,909 -10,419 of Kuwait. In 1999, OK ekonomisk förening and Kuwait work is the way to success. We have shared goals, values and Point taxes Denmark -3,380 -3,428 -3,525 Petroleum International entered into a joint venture. leadership, but work under different brands in Denmark and Sweden. We believe in mobility and the driving force of being Corporation tax Sweden -191 -100 -129 On 1 August 2012, OKQ8 Sverige and Q8 Danmark joined on the move. Corporation tax Danmark -35 5 85 forces to form one of Scandinavia’s largest fuel companies, OKQ8 Scandinavia. We have around 1,000 stations in Our sustainability activities are aimed at making movement Net Financial income 5 11 7 Denmark and Sweden, offering a committed, inclusive and possible with minimal negative impact on people and the Donations -3 -2 -2 customer-focused workplace with around 3,780 employees environment, and at making us a welcomed neighbour who Result 960 317 377 in total. contributes to social progress. -50Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -51External Our commitments awards We want to be a responsible During the year we have received many company which supports awards and prizes we are proud of. This several voluntary standards tells us that we are on the right track and principles with our sustainability efforts In line with our efforts to act with social responsibility, UN initiatives Kuwait Petroleum (KPI) Excellence Recognition Award Sustainable Brand index OKQ8 Scandinavia supports several voluntary standards and OKQ8 Scandinavia supports the UN Global Compact’s OKQ8 Scandinavia brought home five awards when the Industry Leader 2016 in the Sustainability Index in Sweden principles. principles on human rights, labour rights, the environment winners of the KPI Excellence Recognition Award (ERA) were for the fifth time in six years. and anti-corruption, as signed in 2014. It is important to announced. The five winners are: • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) us that we are part of the large, influential group which Sustainable Brand Index™ is the biggest Brand survey in the • The UN Global Compact supports this global standard. • Drip stop – prevents the last drops of diesel from landing Nordic countries with a focus on sustainability. Based on • Agenda 2030 and the 17 UN Sustainable Development on the ground interviews with 32,000 consumers, the largest companies in Goals These principles are in line with our own Code of Conduct, • The environmental fuel plant in Kallhäll – bio fuel for the Nordic countries are assessed in our sustainability activities and our policy. Similarly, we professional transport operators relation to sustainability. The survey is We must always avoid actions and situations which may support the UN’s 17 Sustainable Developments Goals in the • The Södertälje project – further expansion and based on the ten principles of the UN lead to conflicts of interest or which may otherwise give rise development of our three new sustainability goals. improvement of our work experience programme, Youths Global Compact, supplemented by to doubts about our independent status. As a company, we On Their Way the consumers’ expectations of must remain politically neutral and not provide financial • Work-force management – reduction of waiting times in the companies. support for political parties or other political groups. Customer Service • Q8 Low RisQ – unique car insurance -52Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -53Compliance Assurance In line with Danish legislation, we have had Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on OKQ8 a financial whistleblower scheme in place Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report. in OKQ8 Scandinavia since 2014 This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish This scheme was implemented in collaboration with the law More specifically, this means that all employees at OKQ8 To OKQ8 Scandinavia firm Kroman Reumert, and is intended to ensure that our Scandinavia will be able to anomomously report serious employees are able report incidents regarding corruption and incidents such as violations of human rights and other Introduction The procedures performed in a limited assurance money laundering. In 2017/18 we will work to implement a aspects covered in our Code of Conduct. This whistleblower We have been engaged by the Executive Management of engagement vary in nature from, and are less in scope voluntary whistleblower scheme, which will cover all of our scheme will ensure that OKQ8 Scandinavia’s ethics, OK-Q8 AB and Q8 Danmark A/S (OKQ8 Scandinavia) to than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in activites in both Denmark and Sweden. organisational culture and brand are upheld. undertake a limited assurance engagement of OKQ8 accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report for the year 2016/17. generally accepted auditing standards. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly Responsibilities of the Executive Management for maintains a comprehensive system of quality control Reporting OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report The Executive Management are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. the applicable criteria, as explained on the page 52, that are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published The performed procedures in a limited assurance by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) that are applicable engagement do not enable us to obtain assurance that This report is our third Scandinavian to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Company has developed. This we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. sustainability report responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. The report covers the financial year 1 March 2016 28 Social and economic data Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the February 2017. This is the third shared sustainability report The reported social and economic data cover all OKQ8 Responsibilities of the auditor Executive Management as described above. We consider for the group. The report is developed on the basis of the Scandinavia’s own activities and employees. Some of the Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on OKQ8 these criteria suitable for the preparation of OKQ8 Global Reporting Initiative framework, GRI-G4 at ’Core’ level. economic data for 2015/2016 and 2014/15 have been Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report based on the limited Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report. The report has been reviewed by an external auditor, who has updated so that they no longer correspond to previously assurance procedures we have performed. declared that the report is in compliance with the identified reported data. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient GRI indicators. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Environmental data accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other In order to get a sense of the extent of the report, we have The reported environmental data covers all OKQ8 than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information Conclusion used our value chain as a starting point and included the Scandinavia’s own activities. The environmental data also issued by IFAC. A limited assurance engagement consists Based on the limited assurance procedures we have areas, which we see as relevant for us. We have then assessed includes our distributors, who transport our products to our of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us which of the GRI indicators we will cover in the report. We customers and stations. Our data covers energy use and the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying to believe that OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report is have also carried out a thorough materiality assessment with emission of greenhouse gasses (CO2e), as these constitute analytical and other limited assurance procedures. not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the input from internal experts and selected stakeholders. The our biggest environmental impacts. criteria defined by the Executive Management. purpose of this is to ensure that our sustainability work is relevant and effective. We have developed and implemented the webbased system CEMAsys, which is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Health and safety standard. The system is based on conversion rates, which are The data reported on work environment covers all OKQ8 recognised in both Denmark and Sweden. This means that Stockholm, 23 May 2017 Scandinavia’s own activities and employees. The data also we can ensure a higher level of credibility of our data, as the covers employees at stations, which are run on a franchise basis rates are automatically updated by the system owner. All KPMG AB KPMG Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab under our brand. This means that Volvo Tanka is not included data from the reporting year 2014/15 have been entered into in the reporting. Our distributors, who transport our products to the system. This means that exclusively data from CEMAsys has customers and stations, are also covered by the report. been used for this year’s report and that data from the reports of Tomas Gerhardsson Jon Beck the previous two years should not be taken in to account. Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant -54Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -55Goal Year Base line Progress We will reduce our CO2e by 20 % per m 3 CO2e emission was Goals and Overall goal 2030 2014/15 sold product sold reduced by 24 % We will reduce energy use from own Energy use was reduced Total energy use 2030 2014/15 operation by 20 % per m3 sold product by 8,6 % results We will reduce CO2e from distribution by 20 % per driven km 2030 2014/15 CO2e emission was reduced by 3,9 % We will reduce CO2e from depots by 20 % CO2e emission was Logistic 2030 2014/15 per m3 driven product reduced by 43 % We will reduce energy use from depots by Energy use was reduced 2030 2014/15 The Sustainability Council assesses 20 % per m3 dispatched product by 10 % our goals and our development at Lubricating oils We will reduce CO2e from Petrolia by 20 % per m3 product produced 2030 2014/15 CO2e emission was reduced by 22 % least once a year The Sustainability Council assesses our goals and our we have given the highest priority to, and must reflect our development at least once a year. If necessary, the goals sustainability strategy. The following table shows our current are adjusted and renewed. All goals must be linked to goals and goal compliance. aspects identified in the materiality assessment and which Goal Year Base line Progress We will be in Top 50 on the Universum Overall goal 2025 Not relevant New goal “Most Attractive Employer” ranking In March 2017, we had LinkedIn We will have 10,000 followers on LinkedIn 2017/18 Not relevant 7,941 followers During 2016/17, we Short way – We will employ 10 interns 2017/18 Not relevant employed 7 interns Social initiatives Youths On Their Way – We will employ 60 interns Break Youth Unemployment Now! – We will 2017/18 2017/18 Not relevant Not relevant During 2016/17, we employed 56 interns During 2016/17, we UN Global Compact complete 5 Boot Camps completed 7 Boot Camps Employee satisfaction In February 2017, we We will increase NMI-index to 3,4 2020 Not relevant (NMI) achieved an index of 3,12 We have a vision of zero job related incidents During 2016/17, we had 12 Work environment Ongoing Not relevant with sick leave incidents with sick leave Goal Year Base line Progress We will be in Top 50 on the ”Sustainable Princip Page Overall goal 2025 Not relevant New goal Human rights Brand Index” In Sweden, we will build one new station each Principle 1 The company should support and respect the protection of international human rights within its sphere of influence 9,20,38,41,26,27,50 Ongoing Not relevant New goal Principle 2 The company should ensure that they do not participate in the violation of human rights 9,20,38,41,26,27,50 year according to our criteria for sustainability Sustainable stations Labour rights In Denmark our reconstructed stations must Ongoing Not relevant New goal Principle 3 The company should maintain the freedom of association and effectively recognise the right for collective bargaining 22,41,57 live up to our criteria for sustainability Principle 4 Support the elimination of all forms of forced labour 22,41,57 We will assess our fuel suppliers using 2017/18 Not relevant New goal Principle 5 Support effective abolition of child labour 22,41,57 established sustainability criteria Fuel Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 9,38,41 High risk suppliers must be audited by third Environment 2018/19 Not relevant New goal party Principle 7 The company should support a precautionary approach to environmental 20,21,50,57 We will install 30 quick chargers; 25 in Sweden Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 20,21,26,28,50 Electric chargers 2018/19 2016/17 New goal and 5 in Denmark Principle 9 Encourage the development and expansion of environmentally friendly 26-28 We will support the Solvatten project with 1 In 2016/17, we donated Corruption Partnership 2017/18 Not relevant kroner per car wash in Denmark and Sweden 2,497 MSEK to Solvatten Principle 10 The company should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 22,38,50,52 -56Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -57GRI index Indicator Description Comment Page Reporting G4-28 Reporting period Financial year March 2016 – February 2017 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report May 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact person for questions regarding the report or its Alexandra William-Olsson, Head of Communication or contents Annette Hansen, Head of SSHE and Sustainability G4-32 GRI index 56-57 G4-33 Policies regarding external assurance for the report 53 G4-34 Governance structure 13,46,54 Indicator Description Comment Page G4-56 Values, principles and codes of conduct 38-41,50-52 G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of 8-9 Economy sustainable development G4-DMA Economic management 48-49 Organisation G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 49 G4-3 Name of the organisation OK-Q8 AB, Q8 Danmark A/S and subsidiaries Environment G4-4 Primary brands, products and services IDS, OK-Q8 AB, Q8 Danmark A/S, Q8 Oils, F24, OKQ8 Minipris, OKQ8 Backside G4-DMA Environmental management 6,12-19,26-29 Visa G4-EN5 Energy intensity 4,9,28-29,52,55 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Copenhagen and Stockholm G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 26-29 G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates Denmark and Sweden G4-EN7 Reductions in energy per sold product 4,28-29,55 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 48 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 4,9,28-29,52,55 G4-8 Markets served by the organisation Private and business customers in Denmark and Sweden Backside G4-EN22 Total water discharge To be included in our sustainability reporting 2017/18 26 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 24,36,46,49 G4-EN24 Significant spills 28-29 G4-10 Employment data We do not report by gender. We only report on the total number of 36 G4-EN29 Value of significant fines and non-monetary sanctions None employees incl. parttime and hourly paid employees. with environmental laws and reguations G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective The majority of our hourly paid employees are covered by a collective G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditure and investments 49 bargaining agreements agreement. G4-EN32 Screening of suppliers 20-23,27-28 G4-12 The organisation’s supply chain 20-21 G4-EN34 Grievances about environmental impacts None G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period No significant changes. Labour rights G4-14 Description of how the precautionary principle is The precautionary principle is incorporated into Swedish legislation in addressed Miljöbalken, the G4-DMA Management of labour practices 38-39,41 Swedish Environmental Code. In Denmark there are similar requirements G4-LA1 Workforce and employee turnover We do not report employee turnover. 36 in the Danish Environmental Protection Act. We consider the G4-LA2 Benefits 38-39 precautionary principle when purchasing goods and materials. G4-LA5 Health and safety commitees 42 G4-15 External regulations, standards or principles that the 50 G4-LA6 Injuries, sick leave, lost work days, absence and workWe do not report by gender. 43 organisation follows or supports related fatalities G4-16 Memberships of associations Swedish Petroleum and Biofuels Institute (SPBI), On the Road to G4-LA9 Hours of training per year per employee We do not report by gender. 40 Climate Neutral Freight Transportation (KNEG), Danish Oil Industry Association (EOF), Danish Central Stockholding Entity, Danish G4-LA11 Performance and career development reviews All employees participate in yearly employee conversations with goals Industry (DI), Employer Association KFO and career development reviews Materiality Human rights G4-17 Business units included in the financial statements All parts of the of the organisation are included in the sustainability G4-DMA Management of human rights 12-19, 22-23, report 38-39,41 G4-18 Process for defining report content and delimitation of 12-19 G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination None aspects G4-HR4 Suppliers rights to excercise freedom of associationd and 22-23 G4-19 List of essential aspects 16-17 collective bargaining G4-20 Delimitation of the essential aspects within the All aspects are material to the organisation. G4-HR12 Grievances about human rights None organisation. Society G4-21 Delimitation of the essential aspects outside the 16-17 G4-DMA Management of society 12-19,34-35 organisation G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to 22-23,52 G4-22 The effect of changes and restatements of information No significant changes corruption provided in previous reports G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption 41,52 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in This year’s materiality analysis has resulted in some redistribution of G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption None the Scope and Aspect Boundaries the aspects. Stakeholders G4-SO8 Significant fines non-monetary sanctions for nonNone G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 14 compliance with laws and regulations G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 14 Product responsibility G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including the 13-14 G4-DMA Management of product responsibility 12-19,31 process of sustainability reporting G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with laws and codes None G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 15 concerning health and safety stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has G4-PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with laws and codes None responded to those key topics and concerns concerning marketing communication Our shared future Sustainability Report 2016/17 -58OKQ8 Scandinavia Together, OKQ8 Sweden and Q8 Denmark make up one of We have approximately 1,000 stations in Scandinavia, from Scandinavia’s largest oil companies. We are an engaged and which we supply products and services to people in motion. customer oriented organisation with around 3,780 employees We offer fuels, a high level of service, accessibility and a large in Denmark and Sweden. Our values are Open and Honest, selection of vehicle related products, as well as fresh food and Customer focus, Competence, Quick and Flexible, and these 100% Fairtrade coffee. We are actively working to drive forward values characterise our day-to-day work. Our employees all have the development of more climateand environmentally friendly something unique to offer, and through our values we can grow fuels and products. Read more about us at www.okq8.se and and develop. www.q8.dk
