Annual Review 2016 Progress in operations and sustainability Committed to moving our customers' performance forward. Valmet r­ eports 2016 Annual Review 2016 GRI Supplement Progress in operations and sustainability 2016 GRI Supplement 2016 Annual Review 2016 The report includes Valmet’s The report describes Valmet’s market sustainability reporting indicators and environment and the progress of its principles, and its alignment with the strategy, operations and sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 in 2016. framework. Financial Statements 2016 Corporate and Information Governance for Investors Financial Statements 2016 and Statement 2016 Information for Investors Corporate Governance Statement 2016 The report includes Valmet’s Financial Statements for 2016 and information The report covers Valmet’s governance about its shares, shareholders and principles and activities, Board, management. management and remuneration in 2016. Contents In this report Contents CEO's review.................................................................................. 2 This is Valmet................................................................................ 6 14 Key figures...................................................................................... 7 Business lines................................................................................. 8 Strategy Valmet develops and supplies competitive Valmet worldwide......................................................................... 9 process technology, services and automation Valmet’s value creation............................................................. 10 to the pulp, paper and energy industries. Market data by business.......................................................... 12 Market data by area.................................................................. 13 Strategy........................................................................................ 14 Megatrends................................................................................. 15 Strategy implementation......................................................... 16 Progress of Must-Win actions ................................................ 19 23 Sustainability............................................................................... 20 New financial targets................................................................ 21 Our solutions Our solutions.............................................................................. 23 Our comprehensive offering and close cooperation with customers enable innovative Research & development......................................................... 24 technology and service development. Valmet’s role in the circular economy.................................... 26 Supply chain................................................................................ 28 People and performance..................................................... 32 Health, safety and environment..................................... 36 Corporate citizenship............................................................ 41 Contacts....................................................................................... 45 36 Health, safety and environment We are committed to protecting the health, safety and environment of our people, partners, customers, and the communities where we operate. Valmet Annual Review 2016 1 CEO's review Consistent progress forward Valmet took solid steps forward in its business performance and achieved a strong position as one of the world’s sustainability leaders. We focused on strengthening our innovativeness and ability to bring the future solutions to our customers. We took a major leap during the year by launching a new, improved approach in services. In 2016, we sharpened our view of the key megatrends and Solid and consistent business progress identified three large changes taking place that are creating In 2016, Valmet made consistent business progress. Our profopportunities for and posing challenges to Valmet. First, cliitability continued its steady improvement and for the second mate change and the scarcity of global resources are driving year in a row we reached our target range with a comparable a global need to use resources more efficiently and to reduce EBITA margin of 6.7%. emissions. The world is also becoming digital, with remarkable The orders received by the Services business line increased by technologies being invented that are driving efficiency and en6% and Automation business line contributed EUR 299 m ­ illion abling new ways of doing things. Furthermore, urbanization, to orders received. The services business developed well in increasing standards of living and sustainability awareness are all geographical areas, with Asia-Pacific and South America resulting in increased consumption of renewable packaging ­leading the growth. In automation, we continued to win market and hygiene papers. share via competitor replacements. Some of the highlights were the agreements to supply a bioOur mission is a perfect fit with current megatrends mass-fired power boiler, biofuel storage and conveyor systems Since the beginning, Valmet’s Way Forward – the essence of the to Hofor’s heat and power plant in Denmark and a biofuel boiler company’s strategy – has been based on the mission of convertand environmental systems to Borås Energi in Sweden. We ening renewable resources into sustainable results. This means tered the Chinese energy market with a waste-to-energy boiler that with our unique combination of process technologies, delivery agreement with Zibo Green Energy. services and automation solutions, we enable our customers to Our Advantage tissue technologies continued to receive produce sustainable products from renewable raw materials, excellent customer feedback, and we got five tissue machine such as wood, waste or agricultural residues. orders from Poland, China, Mexico and the U.S. The market In 2016, we wanted to further define our role in the circufor board and paper technologies was activated in the latter lar economy, and we realized that we are a key enabler of impart of the year. The order highlights were the agreement to plementing the circular economy for our customers. We are supply an OptiConcept M board-making line to Pro-Gest developing future solutions to replace fossil fuels and plastics; in Italy, key technologies for Cheng Loong’s new board mato minimize the use of water, energy and other raw materials; chine in Vietnam, and an extensive board machine rebuild in and to enhance the lifetime and recyclability of our customers’ Arkhangelsk in Russia. production assets. 2 Valmet Annual Review 2016 CEO's review For the second consecutive year we reached the targeted profitability range. Our ongoing pulp technology project at Metsä Group’s bio­ product mill progressed well. The CMPC Quaiba pulp mill project completed in Brazil in 2015 received an award from the Project management Institute (PMI) as one of the best projects in the world. In 2016, our services team succesfully managed the first shutdown of the mill. During the year, we received an order from CMPC for a white liquor plant for its Laja pulp mill project in Chile, and from Sappi in South Africa a demonstration-scale plant order for next-generation dissolving pulp cooking. Our strong work in sustainability received recognition To Valmet and our customers, sustainability is at the core of the operations. Our Sustainability360° agenda covers all aspects of business and integrates our sustainability work with our strategic targets. In 2016, we carried out an extensive review of the agenda and introduced a new three-year action plan going forward. We also continued our special focus on developing sustainable procurement practices globally. During the year, Valmet received two important third-party recognitions for our sustainability work and reporting: Valmet was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the third consecutive year with a record high result, and on the CDP Climate A-list for its actions and strategy to mitigate climate change. Important steps in customer excellence Our key tool to improve our performance is the set of four core focus areas we call “Must-Wins”. They are aimed at improving our customer work, our position as an innovation and technology leader, our internal processes, and our culture and ourselves as a winning Valmet team. In customer excellence, we finalized the first phase of a longer project to take our way to serve our customers into the next level. We introduced four core commitments to our customers and crystallized our services offering under three categories: performance services, reliability services and new technology. This sounds simple, but it was a major effort, and it means a large internal transformation and training process around the world. Valmet Annual Review 2016 3 CEO's review Valmet Customer Days 2016 gathered customers from 35 countries to Stockholm, Sweden. We want to create the future good development. In the coming years, we will put special emLast year, we continued to crystallize our R&D focus to ensure phasis on improving contractor safety management practices. a future-oriented R&D portfolio and a solid roadmap going In procurement, we continued to reduce the procurement forward. Our R&D has three goals: to ensure advanced and costs successfully. Our work to reduce costs caused by insufficompetitive technologies and services, to enhance the efficient cient quality and to improve and harmonize our project manageuse of raw material and energy, and to promote renewable raw ment practices will still be intensified to reach the targets we have materials. This means that we develop leading, cost-competiset for ourselves and to meet the highest customer expectations. tive production and automation technologies and services; we In the coming years, Valmet will be focusing on growing combine our offering to reduce the consumption of raw mawith improved profitability. Our new financial targets with a terial, water and energy; and we develop solutions to replace comparable EBITA margin target of 8-10 % are valid from 2017 fossil materials with renewable ones. onwards. Continuing our systematic internal development We bring the benefits of the Industrial Internet to our and ensuring organic business growth, especially in the stable customers by systematically building Industrial Internet business, meaning services and automation, are essential in solutions and a partner ecosystem. Our Industrial Internet reaching these targets. solution has four building blocks: our strong fleet of installed process technologies, our automation platform, a vast number We value our forward-oriented culture of applications and services to utilize the gathered data for What is very special at Valmet today is our forward-looking, customers' benefit, and the partner ecosystem that is being development-oriented mindset. We have reached this spirit built to tie the best Industrial Internet knowledge together. by simplifying the way we do things and by sending signals across Valmet that we are moving forward all the time. Focus on process improvements has brought results In 2016, we also discussed in more depth what is best In building process excellence, we continued to focus on about working at Valmet in order to attract forward-looking health, safety and the environment (HSE), quality, protalent in the future, too. It turned out to be the feeling when curement, and project management processes. We have we together as a team create sustainable and forward-moving successfully introduced the Lean philosophy across all our results – that feeling when everything works together. I am businesses and functions. In 2016, we started a global enterconfident that we can continue share this feeling of accomprise resource planning (ERP) system renewal project, which plishment with our customers and partners, and within the is expected to bring a major leap forward in our internal opValmet team in the coming year. erational excellence. Our lost time incident frequency rate (LTIF) among our Thank you all for your trust, commitment and cooperation. own employees was a record low 2.3 in 2016. Our systematic work to develop our safety culture and to embed HSE managePasi Laine ment practices into all aspects of our business has led to this President and CEO 4 Valmet Annual Review 2016 C A SE Must-Win: Customer excellence Working together to move our customers’ performance forward Valmet serves 3,000 customer sites around the world. Every year, we implement hundreds of projects to supply new technology, upgrades or rebuilds to our customers. To succeed in achieving our mission of becoming the global champion in serving our customers, we target best safety performance, being close to customers both onsite and remotely, ensuring we have the right solutions to customer needs with the best quality, being reliable and prompt in our deliveries, and having the widest, most advanced and competitive offering on the market. Results with long-term services cooperation Valmet has several ongoing service agreements with CMPC’s Maule folding boxboard mill. The Performance Agreement signed in 2012 has brought results in production records, quality improvements and energy savings. The agreements also include paper machine clothing, equipping the machine with forming fabrics, press felts and shoe press belts, and consumables covering e.g., doctor blades, sizer and coater rods, winder belts and blades. The agreements also cover related services. New greenfield board mill started up in China During 2016, Stora Enso started up their Valmetsupplied bleached chemi-thermomechanical pulp plant (BCTMP), consumer board-making line (BM 1) and automation system at their new Beihai Mill in Guangxi province in China. In designing the mill, special attention was paid to energy and raw material efficiency. The Beihai mill produces high-grade packaging board products that are used in beverages, food, medicine, cosmetics, graphics printing and other fields. New cooking technology for pulp mill ­modernization A Valmet-delivered modernization of a cooking system was successfully started up at Irving Pulp & Paper Limited in Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada, in March 2016. The delivery included CompactCooking G2 and ImpBin technologies. The technology enabled the mill to take a leap forward in performance with the latest cooking technology. The results included improved yield and pulp quality, and lower bleaching costs and energy consumption. Valmet Annual Review 2016 5 This is Valmet This is Valmet Valmet is the leading global developer and reliability and performance of our customers' supplier of process technologies, automation processes and enhance the effective and services for the pulp, paper and energy utilization of raw materials and energy. industries. We aim to become the global champion in serving our customers. Valmet's net sales in 2016 were approximately EUR 2.9 billion. Our 12,000 professionals Valmet's strong technology offering includes around the world work close to our customers pulp mills and tissue, board and paper and are committed to moving our customers' production lines, as well as power plants for performance forward – every day. Valmet's bioenergy production. Our advanced services head office is in Espoo, Finland, and its shares and automation solutions improve the are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki. Total net sales, MEUR Personnel 2,926 12,012 Net sales by business line, MEUR Personnel by business line, % 3,500 3,000 2,500 Services 44% (44%) Services 1,163 (1,128) Automation 14% (13%) 2,000 Automation 290 (229) Pulp and Energy 14% (14%) 1,500 Pulp and Energy 826 (913) Paper 23% (25%) 1,000 Paper 647 (659) Other 5% (4%) 500 0 2015 2016 Net sales by area, MEUR Personnel by area, % 3,500 3,000 2,500 North America 644 (615) North America 11% (11%) 2,000 South America 205 (335) South America 5% (4%) 1,500 EMEA 1,369 (1,304) E  MEA 65% (63%) 1,000 China 362 (303) China 14% (16%) 500 Asia-Pacific 346 (372) Asia-Pacific 6% (6%) 0 2015 2016 6 Valmet Annual Review 2016 This is Valmet Key figures 2016 2015 6 CHANGE FINANCIAL1 Orders received, MEUR 3,139 2,878 9% Services 1,182 1,119 6% Orders received grew by Automation 299 222 Pulp & Energy Paper 939 718 864 673 9% 7% 9% Order backlog2, MEUR 2,283 2,074 10% Net sales, MEUR 2,926 2,928 0% Comparable EBITA 3, MEUR 196 182 7% % of net sales 6.7% 6.2% Comparable Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 147 120 23% EBITA margin 6.7%­ % of net sales 5.0% 4.1% Dividend per share, EUR 0.424 0.35 20% Return on capital employed (ROCE) before taxes, MEUR 12% 12% Research and development expenses, net, MEUR 64 59 8.5% SOCIAL Personnel 2 12,012 12,306 -2% 54 Lost-time incident frequency LTIF 2, 5 Own employees 2.3 3.3 -30% Contractors 4.4 3.9 13% supplier Safety committee coverage, % personnel 91 80 sustainability Support for non-profit organizations, MEUR 0.3 0.6 -54% audits Number of supplier sustainability audits 54 41 32% ENVIRONMENTAL CO2 emissions7, 1,000 t 83 82 1% Energy consumption, TJ 1,346 1,297 4% NOx , SOx and other Water consumption, 1,000 m3 3,149 3,031 4% significant air Waste, 1,000 t 39 39 0% emissions reduced by 1 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions, t 69 80 -14% Group figures: the formulas for calculation of the key financial figures are presented in the Financial Statements 2016. 14% 2 At the end of period. 3 Comparable earnings before interest, taxes and amortization. 4 Board of Directors’ proposal. 5 LTIF reflects the number of injuries resulting in an absence of at least one workday per million hours worked. 6 2015 figures include Automation, which has been included in Valmet’s reporting since April 1, 2015. 7 Scope 1 and 2 (location-based) emissions. Valmet Annual Review 2016 7 This is Valmet Valmet business lines Net sales, MEUR Net sales, MEUR 1,163 290 Orders received, MEUR Orders received, MEUR 1,182 299 Services Automation Valmet’s comprehensive services offering increases the Valmet’s automation solutions are designed to maximize environmental and cost efficiency of production processes the profitability of customers’ businesses by improving their while ensuring safe and reliable operations. production performance and their cost, material and energy efficiency. We are dedicated to offering flexible and fit-for-purpose services to promote improved performance and reliability. Our offering includes advanced automation, quality control, Our services include spare parts, maintenance and shut-down measurement and analyzer solutions, as well as global expert management, consumables, process support and optimization, services for the pulp and paper, power generation, marine, oil and process upgrades. Our remote service solutions and gas, and other process industries. Valmet’s intelligent complement our extensive local service network. machines are fully automated, with connectivity available for Industrial Internet applications. Net sales, MEUR Net sales, MEUR 826 647 Orders received, MEUR Orders received, MEUR 939 718 Pulp and energy Paper Valmet’s technologies for pulp and energy production maximize Valmet has solid experience of developing and providing the value of renewable raw materials while increasing advanced technologies for board, tissue and paper production. production efficiency and minimizing environmental impact. Our technologies are designed particularly for high operational and environmental efficiency, flexibility and reliability. For pulp production, Valmet offers entire pulping lines, from wood handling to pulp drying. Our heat and power generation Valmet’s offering ranges from key components and individual solutions focus on fluidized bed boilers fueled by biomass, machine sections to entire production lines and machine waste or multiple fuels. We also offer environmental protection rebuilds. The focus is currently on modularized and standardized systems and innovative solutions for biomass conversion. technology concepts to meet the needs of the market. 8 Valmet Annual Review 2016 This is Valmet Valmet worldwide North America China 17 service centers 8 service centers 7 production units 6 production units 8 sales offices 3 sales offices 1,274 1,697 South America EMEA Asia-Pacific 3 service centers 16 R&D centers 10 service centers 2 production units 63 service centers 16 sales offices 5 sales offices 21 production units 54 sales offices 693 542 7,806 Valmet is organized around four business lines and five geovides opportunities for services and technology projects in graphical areas. The business lines – Services, Automation, pulp, board, tissue and energy industries. Pulp and Energy, and Paper – are responsible for technology EMEA is Valmet’s largest and most important area, with and product development, technology projects, and services significant services and technology markets in all businesses. solutions. The areas – North America, South America, EMEA In China and the Asia Pacific area, the services market is de(Europe, Middle-East and Africa), Asia-Pacific, and China veloping, with growth potential through the increasing installed – are responsible for sales and providing services, as well as base and aging machinery. In China, there are opportunities in supporting project deliveries in their respective regions. board and tissue investments, while in Asia-Pacific there are Valmet has achieved a leading position in all its key market project opportunities in pulp, energy, board and tissue through segments, delivering thousands of technology solutions and customers’ portfolio changes or production line upgrades. automation systems, and serving over 3,000 customer plants and mills globally. Building the future based on a long industrial history Over the decades, Valmet’s businesses have evolved handGlobal solutions with local presence in-hand with our customer industries. This development is Valmet has a strong global presence that provides a good continuing with the drive towards more efficient and susplatform for growth. We have operations at a total of 161 tainable process technologies, advanced automation, new locations in 33 countries. We have systematically increased biotechnology applications, and opportunities to utilize the our presence close to our global customers to serve different Industrial Internet. local needs. Valmet, and the different companies that over the years North America is a mature, services-focused market with have become part of Valmet, have a long history. In 2017, a large installed base to be served. The market provides reValmet celebrates 220 years of industrial history. The oldest curring technology project opportunities in the pulp, energy, part of today’s Valmet – the fabrics business – started in 1797, board and tissue industries. In South America, Valmet has a when Tamfelt was established and became one of the leading strong position in pulp mills and services. The market prosuppliers of technical textiles. Valmet Annual Review 2016 9 This is Valmet Valmet’s value creation INPUTS BUSINESS MODEL Financial · Total equity EUR 886 million · Net interest-bearing debt EUR 52 million · Cash and cash equivalents EUR 240 million Customers Natural Pulp and paper industry · Purchased components (mainly metals-based) Energy industry · Purchased raw materials (mainly metals, minerals, polymers Other process industries and gas) · Energy consumption 1,346 TJ y processes · Water consumption 3,149,000 m3 Human Ke · Number of employees 12,012 R&D · FTE1 of subcontractors and supervised workers Marketing · Investment in development and know-how Sales · Investment in occupational health and safety Engineering Infrastructure Procurement · 161 locations in 33 operating countries2 Production · 36 production units and over 100 service centers Delivery · 86 sales offices Service · Suppliers in over 50 countries Intellectual · Proven customer references · Technology know-how · Product portfolio · 16 technology centers and pilot facilities · R&D expenses EUR 64 million Our employees, · 1,400 protected inventions expertise and Social and relationship experience · Open dialogue with stakeholders (e.g. customer events, investor meetings, supplier days, stakeholder surveys) · Cooperation with over 30 universities and research institutes · Over 25 memberships in associations · Relationships and partnerships · Collaboration with local communities Valmet’s Way Forward: Mission, Strategy, Must-Wins, Vision and Values 1 Full-time equivalent 2 Includes technology centers All figures are from Dec 31, 2016, unless otherwise stated. 10 Valmet Annual Review 2016 This is Valmet OUTPUTS OUTCOMES CUSTOMERS’ END PRODUCTS Process technologies Economic · Pulping process equipment, · Wages and benefits EUR 795 million process islands and complete · Payments to suppliers EUR 2,014 pulp mills Board million · Individual board, tissue and paper · Taxes EUR 56 million machine sections, complete · Support for non-profit organizations production lines and machine rebuilds EUR 0.3 million · Boiler islands, power plants, · Retained equity EUR 28 million Paper heating plants · Payments to shareholders and · Environmental solutions creditors EUR 67 million · Technologies for converting biomass · More efficient and profitable to fuels, chemicals, and materials customers’ processes Automation Tissue Social · Distributed Control Systems (DCS) · Direct and indirect employment · Quality Control Systems · Improved employee competences · Analyzers and measurements · Direct and indirect occupational · Performance and service solutions health and safety Pulp · Industrial Internet and remote · Customer loyalty solutions · Trust and reputation · License to operate Services Process · Influence on operating environment · Spare parts and components and regulations steam · Maintenance and shutdown management Environmental · Outsourcing services · Production consumables Valmet’s own operations District · Process support and optimization · More efficient processes enable the heating use of less natural resources and · Process upgrades lower CO2 emissions · Remote solutions and services Customers’ operations Other outputs · Valmet’s technology and services enable the production of customer’s Electricity CO2 emissions: products with less energy, water and · Scope 13: 16,600 tCO2 raw materials and improved flexibility · Scope 24: 66,000 tCO2 in fuel source selection to replace · Scope 35: 1,377,000 tCO2 fossil fuels with renewable ones Waste: Biofuels · Non-hazardous waste 37,140 t · Hazardous waste 2,050 t Biomaterials 3 Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Valmet, such as fossil fuels burned on site. 4 Scope 2 (location based) emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heating and cooling, or steam generated off site but purchased by Valmet. 5 S cope 3 data covers only four selected relevant categories; category 1: purchased goods and services; category 4: upstream transportation and distribution; category 6: business travel; and category 9: downstream transportation and distribution. Valmet Annual Review 2016 11 This is Valmet Market data by business MARKE T SIZE 1 VALME T’S POSITION BUSINESS & GROW TH MARKE T DRIVERS PRODUC T GROUP AND COMPE TITION Services EUR 8.0bn • Increasing pulp, paper2 Rolls and Workshop • #2–3 ~1–2% and energy production Services • Key competitors: Voith, Xerium • Demand for more efficient processes, • #1–2 Mill Improvements maintenance and • Key competitors: Andritz, Voith outsourcing of non-core operations • Size and gradually aging Performance Parts • #1–2 installed base, capacity • Key competitors: Andritz, Kadant, increases in China, South Voith America and Asia-Pacific • Machine and mill • #4–5 Fabrics closures in EMEA and • Key competitors: Albany, North America AstenJohnson, Voith, Xerium Energy and • #1–2 Environmental • Key competitors: Amec FosterWheeler, Andritz Automation EUR 2.0bn • Aging machines and Distributed Control • #2 in P&P3, niche player in Energy ~1% installed automation System (DCS) • Key competitors: ABB, Honeywell, systems Emerson, Siemens, Yokogawa • Investments in new pulp and paper machines and • #1–2 in P&P3 Quality Management power plants • Key competitors: ABB, Honeywell, System (QMS) • Demand for intelligent Voith technology Analyzers and • #1 in P&P3 measurements • Key competitors: ABB, BTG Pulp EUR 1.4bn • Growth in board and tissue consumption in Asia • #1–2 ~1% • Need for virgin wood pulp. Decreasing availability of • Key competitor: Global leader with recycled paper and limitations to recycling rates Andritz • Increased size of pulp lines and mills Energy EUR 2.0bn • Growth in energy consumption • #1–3 ~1% • Demand for sustainable energy • One of few global players in bioenergy • Modernization of aging plants niche • Incentives and regulation • Key competitors: Andritz, Amec FosterWheeler, Babcock & Wilcox Board EUR 1.0bn • World trade, e-commerce and emerging markets • #1 ~2–3% growth driving packaging • Key competitors: Voith, Bellmer • Demand for light-weight board • Shift from plastic packaging to renewable materials Paper EUR 0.3bn • Increasing role of digital media decreasing demand • #1 ~-1% for printing and writing papers • Key competitor: Voith • Some growth in emerging markets Tissue EUR 0.7bn • Rise in purchasing power and living standards • #1 ~3% • Fastest growth in emerging markets • Key competitors: Voith, Andritz, Toscotec 1 Market size is defined as Valmet’s target market, meaning those geographical markets, product segments and customer industries where Valmet is currently competing or aiming to compete. 2 Refers to board, paper and tissue, as well as other paper grades. 3 Figures for 2015 production and 2015–20 growth based on RISI estimates 12 Valmet Annual Review 2016 This is Valmet Market data by area MARKE T SIZE 1 ARE A & GROW TH MARKE T CHAR AC TERISTICS VALME T’S POSITION North America Target • Mature, services-focused market addressing • Net sales: EUR 0.6bn (22% of total) market size: large installed base • Employees: 1,274 (11% of total) EUR 2.9bn • Capacity closures in printing papers partly offset • Leading position in pulp and paper process by new capacity in board and tissue technology projects, a well-established P&P annual • Customer service agreements important driver position in the services and automation production3: for growth business, and a dominant position in 150m tonnes, • Continued high customer focus on availability biomass boilers growth +0.2% & reliability in mills • Rebuild and new capacity opportunities in board and tissue grades • Rebuild projects in pulp mills expected to increase South America Target • Services growth potential in new pulp lines, • Net sales: EUR 0.2bn (7% of total) market size: agreement-based business and service • Employees: 542 (5% of total) EUR 1.5bn solutions for more efficient customer • Valmet has a strong position and installed operations base in pulp mills and services P&P annual • Cyclical process technology business driven by • Continued strong competition from production3: large pulp mill investments regional players expected in energy as well 40m tonnes, • Project opportunities in tissue and board with as from Andritz for large new pulp mills growth +3.8% new lines and rebuilds • Local presence important, especially in • Challenging economic situation in several Brazil due to customs duties countries, including Brazil and Argentina, negatively affecting growth in Latin American market EMEA Target • Valmet’s largest area, with significant • Net sales: EUR 1.4bn (47% of total) market size: services and technology markets in all • Employees: 7,806 (65% of total) EUR 6.2bn Valmet’s businesses and a large installed base • Leading position in pulp and paper process • Services growth potential through broader technology projects as well as in biomass P&P annual service offering and agreement-based boilers in energy production3: business • Leading position in the more fragmented 160m tonnes, • Process technology project opportunities in services market and in P&P automation growth +1.0% board, tissue, pulp and energy, graphic paper continues to decline. China Target • Growing services market while process • Net sales: EUR 0.4bn (12% of total) market size: technology market is flat with investment • Employees: 1,697 (14% of total) EUR 2.2bn mainly in tissue and board technologies • Valmet is a leader in pulp and paper • Developing services market with growth process technology business and has P&P annual potential through increasing installed base, a strong position in services and P&P production3: aging machinery and need for increased automation market 120m tonnes, efficiency • Continued strong competition in mid-size growth +2.6% • Process technology project opportunities machine segment in board and tissue, particularly in mid-size machines Asia Pacific Target • Service growth potential in both emerging • Net sales: EUR 0.3bn (12% of total) market size: and mature markets in growing installed base • Employees: 693 (6% of total) EUR 2.6bn and market share • Leading position in P&P process • Process technology project opportunities in technology projects and increasing local P&P annual rebuilds grade changes and new capacity in presence production3: pulp, board and tissue, and in multifuel boilers • Increasing competition from Chinese 100m tonnes, and renewable energy projects in selected players moving into Asia-Pacific region growth +2.1% countries Valmet Annual Review 2016 13 Strategy Strategy Valmet’s Way Forward is our strategic roadmap. It crystallizes the identified megatrends, our mission, strategy and the related strategic actions that describe how we aim to achieve our vision of becoming the global champion in serving our customers. Our mission defines our core purpose. With Valmet’s soluValmet focuses on pulp, paper and energy customers. Our tions, our customers can refine renewable raw materials into strategy emphasizes the commitment to improving our cussustainable and environmentally responsible products. Furtomers’ performance through our unique offering, combining thermore, our solutions help customers as well as Valmet to process technologies, automation and services. Services and perform profitably and responsibly. automation businesses operate in relatively stable markets Valmet’s business environment is impacted by megatrends that are driven by the size of the installed technology base that create both opportunities and risks. We have defined and customer mill operating rates. Our process technologies three key megatrends in the areas of resource efficiency, digicomprise board, paper and tissue machines, as well as pulp talization and consumer behavior, which we carefully considmills, and heat and power boilers, which are all driven by er when making strategic choices. Our values and sustainabilour customers’ new investments. All our businesses serve the ity agenda are closely linked to our strategy and Must-Wins. same customer base, which enables us to deliver customer benefits through our full combined offering. Valmet’s Way Forward Our Vision To become the global Our Must-Wins champion in serving our Customer excellence customers Our Strategy L  eader in technology Valmet develops and and innovation Our Mission supplies competitive E  xcellence in process technology, services processes Converting renewable and automation to the pulp, r­esources into Winning team paper and energy industries. sustainable results We are committed to moving our customers’ performance forward with our unique offering. Our Values Megatrends Customers – We move our customers' performance forward Resource efficient and clean world Renewal – We promote new ideas to create the future Digitalization and new technologies Excellence – We improve every day to deliver results Aware, urban and global consumer People – We work together to make a difference 14 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Strategy Megatrends Resource-efficient and Digitalization and new Aware, urban and global clean world technologies consumer Climate change, environmental Digitalization, automation and new Urbanization, increasing living awareness and resource scarcity are high-impact technologies are driving standards, changing demographics, driving the need to improve resource efficiency and new business models. and globalization are driving changes in efficiency and lower emissions. consumer behavior. Digitalization is driving changes in Increasing environmental awareness consumption, for example, continuing Urbanization is driving increasing is driving more strict sustainability the shift from printed to electronic media concentration of energy demand, waste requirements from both authorities and and increasing e-commerce, leading to and emissions, sales of consumer goods consumers, resulting in an increasing changes in business models and the through modern retail channels, and need for clean and renewable energy creation of new revenue streams. hygiene and sanitation levels. and bio-products. The use of digital technologies is The growing middle class and higher Scarcity of minerals, fossil fuels, bringing possibilities to improve levels of education are leading to biomass and other natural resources efficiency in existing businesses increasing purchasing power, living is driving the need to use recycled through faster information sharing standards and consumer awareness, and renewable raw materials and between systems and machines, as while the aging population, globalization side streams, as well as the need for well as the growing availability of digital and individualization are creating constant improvement of process information. changing consumer preferences efficiency. and making products, services and New high-impact technologies such information increasingly available all The increasing importance of as various biotechnologies, virtual over the world. sustainability and corporate citizenship reality and 3D printing are opening is affecting companies’ need to act in a up opportunities for new high-value responsible way. products and production methods. The Paris Agreement, The amount of online It is estimated that with the aim of limiting devices installed will 2/3 of the global global warming, increase to 24 billion by population will be entered into force 20201. living in urban areas on November 4, 2016. by 20502. 1 Source: BI Intelligence, The Internet of Things report, 2015 2 Source: United Nations, World Urbanization Prospects, 2014 revision Valmet Annual Review 2016 15 Strategy Strategy implementation Valmet’s vision of becoming the global champion in serving our customers means that we want to be the leader in both In 2016, over 1,000 Valmet market share and customer service. Our four Must-Wins employees participated in bring structure and tell us where we should focus in our strategy implementation to reach these goals. 38 global Shared Journey Valmet’s strategy and financial targets are reviewed every workshops. year in our annual strategy process and confirmed by Valmet’s Board of Directors. The strategy was reconfirmed in June 2016, when we also decided to set to ourselves higher, more demanding financial targets (see page 21). This is a result of our successful Must-Win implementation actions, which enabled us to reach our EBITA margin target range already in 2015. cusing particularly on countries with high market growth as well as countries where Valmet does not currently have a strong Major steps in customer excellence presence. As part of our strategic Customer excellence Must-Win, In 2016, we launched a renewed services offering and unified ­Valmet focuses on providing the best customer service by way to serve to enable better customer experience and growth further strengthening our capabilities and presence close to in the services business. This new services approach is called our customers, and by providing customer benefits through “Shared Journey Forward” to convey the message of Valmet our integrated offering. and customers working together toward the same goal of improving Strengthening our local presence means we continue to the performance and reliability of customer processes. build a strong sales and service network to ensure that we have After the renewal, Valmet’s entire range of services is easy capable and committed teams close to customers. We are foto understand and choose from. Valmet’s services are built to Strategy highlights 2016 Marine scrubber delivery Fourth service center inaugurated Board production line and automation in Brazil system delivery in Italy Valmet announces an order to supply an exhaust gas scrubber system for two The new service center in Maranhão Valmet announced an order to supply new TUI Cruises vessels, Mein Schiff focuses on serving the pulp, paper, an OptiConcept M containerboard 7 & 8. tissue and panelboard industry. production line and a mill-wide Valmet DNA automation system for Pro-Gest S.p.a. for the new Mantova site in Italy. JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL 16 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Strategy improve the reliability and performance of customers’ processes and introduce new technology to keep the processes Industrial Internet up-to-date in a changing business environment. capabilities are utilized As part of this development work, we also crystallized our customer commitments: keeping safety as the numalready today with e.g. ber one priority, being close to our customers, serving 430 remote support ­customers with solutions that meet their needs, and being a trusted partner. This means that we never compromise on agreements. safety and safety culture, and we continuously develop our safety procedures. We are globally present, with over 100 service centers, and we utilize the Industrial Internet to help Improving our product cost competitiveness is key in recustomers remotely as well. We need to earn our customers’ ducing our customers’ operational and investment costs and trust every day by listening to them to find the best solutions improving Valmet’s profitability. We achieve this through for their specific needs. increasing the modularization and standardization of our product design and by optimizing our delivery chain. Competitive technology and customer-driven We continuously renew our existing product portfolio innovation while developing innovative new solutions that improve our With the Leader in technology and innovation Must-Win, customers’ performance and create new revenue streams for our aim is to ensure that we are able to provide products that both our customers and Valmet. We place significant focus on are competitive in terms of both cost and performance while developing our Industrial Internet solutions in areas, that endeveloping new products and technologies that better meet able us to bring new benefits to our customers, such as remote our customers’ needs. monitoring. (Read more about R&D on page 24). SUSTAINABILITY 360° New sustainability action plans for Valmet’s new services approach First annual shutdown CMPC Guaiba II 2016–2018 introduced launched pulp mill After conducting an extensive review of The renewed services offering The first annual shutdown at the Valmet the Sustainability360 ° agenda, Valmet and unified way to serve, called Shared delivered CMPC pulp mill was managed set new roadmaps for 2016–2018. Journey Forward, was launched to successfully. The pulp mill was started up in The roadmaps define specific actions, enable better customer experience and 2015 and the project won 2nd place in PMI’s targets and KPIs for each focus area. growth in the services business. Project of the Year competition in 2016. MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST Valmet Annual Review 2016 17 Strategy Efficient global processes increase our flexibility and optimize our value chain while Through the Excellence in processes Must-Win, our focus is responding to cyclical demand. Finally, we are investing in to continuously increase our cost competitiveness and effioperational excellence through our new ERP (enterprise reciency by improving our processes and operations. source planning) program, which spans all our business lines, Our global sales and project management initiatives aim geographical areas and corporate functions. to improve our gross profit by developing our common processes, tools and KPIs. To enhance our quality, we are impleHigh-performing teams close to customers menting selected Lean projects and continuous improvement With our Winning team Must-Win initiative, we want to enpractices across our businesses. In HSE, we continue to syssure that Valmet’s capabilities are globally balanced and close tematically reinforce safety awareness and implement new to our customers, and that we have engaged and performance procedures to improve the health and safety of both Valmet driven teams with a shared set of values. employees and our contractors. To further strengthen our shared values, which we defined In procurement, we are targeting cost savings through in 2014, we are systematically building employee engagement expanding our category management, design-to-cost imand implementing targeted actions based on the OurVoice plementation and supplier relationship management. To engagement survey. To drive high performance, we are imkeep our cost structure competitive, we continuously aim to proving our performance management practices by developing managerial skills and adjusting our reward practices. Our lost time incident Finally, to ensure our capabilities are globally balanced, we are boosting internal mobility and enhancing our training frequency rate (LTIF) among offering with a focus on local needs. Valmet employees was The progress of our Must-Wins is presented in the table on page 19. a record low 2.3 in 2016. First W-to-E plant in China Entry to Japanese energy market Recognized leader in sustainability Valmet agreed on the first waste-toValmet’s first multifuel boiler delivery Valmet was included in the Dow Jones energy boiler plant delivery in China agreement to the Japanese market. World and Europe Sustainability indices for Zibo Green Energy. The plants uses and CDP's Climate A list. about 350.000 tons of solid recovered Three tissue production fuel (SRF) annually. lines for Sofidel Valmet supplies two Advantage NTT Large biomass CHP plant in Denmark tissue production lines for Sofidel Valmet delivers a 500 MW biomassAmerica’s new mill in the USA. Earlier, fired power boiler, biofuel storage and Sofidel had invested in their first conveyor systems for HOFOR’s new Advantage NTT line at their mill in BIO4 power plant in Denmark. Poland. SEPTEMBER OC TOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER 18 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Strategy Progress of Must-Win actions MUST-WIN STR ATEGIC GOALS KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS IN 2016 KE Y AC TIONS FOR 2017 Customer Valmet has strong, capable, • Sales management program • Further strengthen key account excellence and committed teams close launched with 20 Agility through management at corporate level to customers. We serve our Sales workshops conducted covering • Continue mill team development customers with our full offering over 800 participants • Continue implementation and and differentiate by combining • 75 mill team pilots started to communication of Shared Journey process technology, automation implement common customer Forward” and services. account management and to increase market share • Renewed service approach “Shared Journey Forward” launched Leader in Valmet provides leading • Competitiveness or gross profit • Improve competitiveness and gross technology and technology and competitive improved in most of selected profit of selected products innovation products and services that improve products although not all goals • Develop new technologies and resource efficiency and reduce reached services our customers' operating and • Orders received for new products • Cooperate with customers and investment costs. We innovate increasing for third consecutive year partners to develop spearhead and develop solutions that create • Number of new product launches Industrial Internet solutions new customer revenues, and we exceeding the target promote renewable materials and • Increased focus on Industrial Industrial Internet offering. Internet Excellence in Valmet operates with efficient • New ERP program launched • Roll-out ERP program in Service processes and harmonized processes with • Harmonized sales process Finland continuously increased cost introduced for solution sales • Implement globally harmonized competitiveness. In process • Extensive Lean implementation sales process to improve product technology business we increase and training roll-out continued; margin our flexibility to respond to cyclical over 4,000 Valmet employees have • Continue implementation of Valmetdemand. Quality, health and safety completed the Lean e-learning wide project execution model are constantly improved. course • Implement continuous improvement • Lost time incident frequency practices throughout Valmet decreased from 3.3 to 2.3 • Introduce common safety risk • Procurement cost saving target assessment standards and reinforce exceeded safety culture • 31% of new suppliers gone through • Contractor safety in focus supplier approval process and • Expand category management and screened for sustainability design-to-cost activities • 54 supplier sustainability audits • Ensure globally aligned approval conducted by Valmet and a thirdprocess for new suppliers party auditor • Support key suppliers as part of the sustainable supply chain program Winning team Valmet has engaged, performance• Definition and execution of values • Execute OurVoice personnel driven teams living Valmet’s shared roadmap to further strengthen engagement survey and utilize values. Competences are globally values results to plan future actions balanced and close to customers. • Mandatory mid-year review • Use 360 ° feedback to continue process and new feedback channel leadership development implemented to strengthen • Build competence development feedback culture solutions to support Shared Journey • ManagerAcademy training launched Forward and sales capabilities to strengthen managerial skills in • Utilize global training portfolio, line with manager role building programs for project • Talent Review process expanded to execution and R&D include all key managerial positions • Promote internal mobility • Actions to improve resourcing capability on strategic and operational levels Valmet Annual Review 2016 19 Strategy Sustainability embedded into our strategy implementation Valmet’s sustainability agenda was renewed in 2016 with Our Sustainability360˚ agenda is also aligned with the Unitupdated action plans for 2016–2018. The Sustainability360° ed Nations Sustainable Development Goals (see below), which agenda is embedded into our strategy implementation and aim to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity Must-Wins, and Valmet has a comprehensive approach to for all. With our products and services, we especially contribute sustainability. The agenda focuses on five core areas: supply to the following UN goals: climate action; affordable and clean chain; health, safety and environment; people; sustainable energy; industry, innovation and infrastructure; ­responsible solutions; and corporate citizenship. The sustainability agenconsumption and production; and clean water and sanitation. da is approved by Valmet’s Executive Team and it is reviewed Furthermore, we actively contribute to the goals of decent work annually. and economic growth, reduced inequality, and gender equality. Sustainability360º agenda focus areas Sustainable Health, safety and People and Sustainable Corporate supply chain environment (HSE) performance solutions citizenship • We continue to • We develop • We develop and • We increase the • We ensure that our develop sustainable our processes, engage our people understanding of people know and procurement practices competences and our customers’ understand Valmet’s globally culture for HSE • We continuously sustainability needs Code of Conduct excellence strengthen leadership • We support selected and managerial skills • We integrate • We transparently key suppliers to • We secure that our sustainability communicate about meet the level operations meet our • We are a responsible criteria into our R&D our operations of sustainability HSE standards employer and promote processes expected by Valmet diversity • We support local communities in which we operate Relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals linked to Valmet’s Sustainability360˚ agenda 20 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Strategy New financial targets Since the demerger from Metso in 2013, Valmet has systematimproved profitability, and has raised and narrowed its comically strengthened its offering and market position. We have parable EBITA margin target range from 6-9 percent to 8-10 also succeeded in achieving good results in our internal effipercent. It is also targeting growth in net sales of its stable ciency programs. As a result of this systematic work, V ­ almet’s business (Services and Automation business lines) of over two financial performance has improved every year, and the comtimes the market growth. In its process technology businesses pany reached its comparable EBITA margin target range in (so called capital businesses meaning Pulp and Energy, and 2016 for the second consecutive year. Paper business lines) the company is targeting a net sales In parallel with its strategy review in June 2016, Valmet growth that exceeds the market growth. To reach these new announced new, more demanding financial targets that are targets, Valmet will continue to implement its strategy with valid from 2017 onwards. The company aims to grow with its four Must-Win initiatives. TARGE T KE Y AC TIONS TO RE ACH THE TARGE T Growth Net sales in stable business to grow over two times • New Valmet way to serve the market growth • Improved sales process Net sales in capital business to exceed market growth • Leverage strong installed base • Innovation and new technology development Profitability Comparable EBITA target 8–10% • Sales process management • Project management and project execution • Procurement & quality • Technology, R&D and ERP ROCE Comparable return on capital employed (pre-tax), • Profitability improvement ROCE target 15–20% • Net working capital improvement Dividend At least 50% of net profit payout Net sales, EUR billion Comparable EBITA, Comparable ROCE, % Dividend per share, EUR/ % of net sales % net profit 2.9 2.9 8–10 15–20 0.25 0.42 2.5 81% 0.35 76% 1.6 1.5 6.7 14 13 68% 6.2 1.5 10 ≥50% 4.3 1.4 1.5 1.0 2014 20151 2016 2014 2015 2016 Target 2014 2015 2016 Target 2014 2015 20162 Target Stable business Capital business 1 Figures include Automation net sales from April 1, 2015 onwards 2 Proposal by the Board of Directors Valmet Annual Review 2016 21 C A SE Must-Win: Customer excellence Unique offering combining process technology, automation and services Valmet's offering combines process technology, automation and services. This unique combination differentiates Valmet from its competitors. Continuous development of solutions is based on strong research and technology development as well as close cooperation with our customers. Large multifuel boiler and automation project Turun Seudun Energiantuotanto Oy is building a new combined heat and power plant (CHP) in Naantali, Finland, scheduled for start up in autumn 2017. Valmet is delivering a circulating fluidized bed (CFB) multifuel boiler, flue gas cleaning equipment, and an automation system for the project. The fuel capacity of the power plant is about 430 MW, which will produce 146 MW of electricity and 250 MW of heat. The plant can run on wood, straw, peat, coal, refinery gas and recovered fuel (REF). Four energy efficient tissue machine start-ups in three months Between September and December 2016, Valmet delivered four Advantage DCT tissue production lines and related automation systems to one of China's leading paper and pulp producers, Lee & Man Manufacturing Ltd’s mill in Chongqing, China. The Advantage DCT machines are equipped with an Advantage ViscoNip press, an AirCap steam-heated hood, and cast Yankee dryer, providing a new way to significantly reduce energy consumption and achieve high environmental performance. Extensive board machine rebuild in India Valmet will supply an extensive board machine rebuild from headbox to reel and including an automation solution for machine and quality control, to the ITC Bhadrachalam mill in India. The rebuilt production line will produce high-quality lightweight coated board in a wide range of grades. The project started in 2016, and the rebuilt machine is scheduled to start up in the first quarter of 2018. 22 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Our solutions Our solutions Valmet’s unique product and services offering is based on leading technology and a continuous drive to develop new and innovative solutions for improving our customers’ performance in terms of both competitiveness and sustainability. Valmet’s unique combination of process technology, automaProducts and services promoting sustainability tion and services is built on strong technology knowledge and Customers’ sustainability needs also drive Valmet’s product sets us apart from our competitors. development. During recent years, we have seen growing We offer comprehensive process technology and automation interest in optimization regarding e.g. energy, chemicals savsolutions for pulp, paper and energy production. Our services ings, efficiency of operations and availability of equipment. offering increases the resource and cost efficiency of production Valmet’s solutions are at the forefront of the global megaprocesses, while ensuring safe and reliable operations. trends of resource efficiency, clean solutions and digitalization. Our comprehensive offering and close cooperation with One clear indicator is the role our solutions play in the circular customers enable innovative product and service developeconomy e.g. by increasing resource efficiency, with product ment. Valmet launches close to 100 new products to the mar­recyclability and new renewable products and materials. ket every year. The value of new products in Valmet’s orders received has increased over recent years, and it was about EUR 751 million in 2016. Valmet Annual Review 2016 23 Our solutions Research & development Valmet’s research and technology development work aims to R&D professionals working across its businesses and areas. In ensure that we have an advanced and competitive offering of 2016, Valmet’s R&D spend was EUR 64 million. process technologies, automation and services for current and At Valmet, we actively work to combine our own resources future customers; to enhance raw material, water and energy and networks to create a competitive edge in product develefficiency; and to promote the use of renewable raw materials. opment. This work includes cooperating with universities, In the longer term, our vision is to develop mills that can research institutes, customers and suppliers, as well as joint produce pulp, paper and other bioproducts without emisdevelopment consortiums. sions and with minimum consumption of resources, and new high-value end products utilizing bio-based raw materials. Industrial Internet applications Valmet’s research and development work is driven by cusValmet has put special development effort into keeping and tomer needs. These include improved production efficiency, developing its advantage in Industrial Internet applications. availability, usability, safety and environmental performance, Valmet’s Industrial Internet offering consists of process techreduced investment and operational costs, maximizing the nologies, automation platforms, applications and services, value of raw materials, and providing high-value end products and ecosystems that bring together Valmet’s experts, partners and new revenue streams. and customers’ production processes. Valmet offers advanced remote control solutions for mills Combining our own and our partners’ resources and plants, and is constantly working to utilize big data analytValmet has about 1,400 protected inventions in its patent ics in preventative maintenance as well as remote communicaportfolio. Valmet’s 16 R&D centers and pilot machines form tion possibilities. The first steps have been taken in introducing the backbone of our research and development work. With motion and voice control into control rooms, and virtual and the help of these centers, we can decrease the time to maraugmented reality applications are making their way into ket and reduce risks in commercializing new technologies. ­Valmet’s services offering, as well. One example is a virtual Valmet’s pilot machines carry out both internal R&D and boiler inspection demonstration, which integrates thousands of customer projects. Valmet has the equivalent of 400 full-time individual measurement results into a virtual reality 3D model. About VALME T’S R&D CENTERS 1,400 Energy and Biotechnology, Tampere, Finland Automation, Tampere, Finland Fabrics and Service, Tampere, Finland Fabrics, Juankoski, Finland protected inventions Paper and Board Technology, Jyväskylä, Finland Polymer and Hard Coating, Jyväskylä, Finland Fiber Technology, Inkeroinen, Finland Finishing Technology, Järvenpää, Finland In 2016, R&D spend of Cutter Technology, Pori, Finland Air Systems, Raisio, Finland EUR 64 Automation, R&D Center, Kajaani, Finland Fiberline and Biotechnology, Sundsvall, Sweden million Cooking and Biotechnology, Karlstad, Sweden Tissue Technology, Karlstad, Sweden Evaporator Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden Filter Fabrics, Ovar, Portugal 24 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Our solutions Valmet’s unique customer offering – combining process technologies, automation and services Paper Pulp and Energy • Recycled fiber lines • Complete pulp mills • Tailor-made board and paper machines • Sections and solutions • Modularized board and paper machines for pulp production • Tissue production lines • Multifuel boilers • Modernizations and grade conversions • Biomass and waste gasification • Standalone products • Emission control systems • Biotechnology solutions e.g., for producing biofuels PROCESS T E C H N O L O GY CUSTOMER Services Automation • Spare parts and components • Distributed control systems • Maintenance and shutdown S ER VIC E S A U T O M AT IO N • Quality control systems management • Analyzers and measurements • Outsourcing services • Performance solutions • Production consumables • Process simulators • Process support and optimization • Safety solutions • Process upgrades • Automation upgrades • Remote solutions and services • Industrial Internet solutions Sustainability360º agenda: Sustainable solutions progress TARGE TS AC TION PL AN 2016–2018 KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS 2016 Deepen • Conduct interviews with selected key customers • Five in-depth interviews with key customers conducted understanding and integrate improvement actions into key account • Benchmark study on 10 key customers covering e.g., of customers’ management process sustainability strategy, goals, actions, measurements sustainability • Arrange sustainability training for sales teams and reporting needs • Training arranged for Key Account Managers on Valmet’s sustainability messages and actions Integrate • Integrate sustainability aspects into R&D guidelines, • Guidelines for sustainable and responsible sustainability processes and product portfolio management tools research, product development and design in Valmet into research developed and development • R&D report template modified to include processes and tools sustainability aspects of main new product and prototype launches Ensure product • Investigate and map the scope and depth • Existing take-back programs identified compliance of take-back programs Valmet Annual Review 2016 25 Our solutions Valmet's role in the circular economy The circular economy aims to keep products, components and Valmet’s machinery design and services enable flexible rematerials in a continuous cycle instead of disposing of them. use and conversions. The effective lifetime of equipment can Valmet has a strong role in the circular economy by offering be significantly prolonged with well-planned maintenance customers technology and services for converting renewable and partial replacements of production assets. Modular resources into sustainable products such as pulp, board and design and smart engineering enable to use the same equipbioenergy. ment for other purposes, and make it possible to modernize production equipment and maximize their efficiency with Helping customers to implement the circular economy the latest solutions, with only having to upgrade part of the Customers can improve and optimize their resource efficienmachinery. cy by using Valmet’s technology and maintenance solutions. Valmet is introducing new technologies to expand the use Intelligent machines and advanced automation optimize reof bio-based materials and to introduce new bio-based prodsource use and save raw materials and energy. ucts, decreasing the need for non-renewable materials. The Valmet’s energy boilers and gasification technologies enable possible cascades include e.g., bio-oil, biocoal and extracted the flexible use of a wide range of renewable fuel sources for lignin, which can further be used for making bio-based chemenergy production, reducing the need for non-renewable fuicals and materials. els. This includes efficient energy recovery from various waste streams, including agricultural, industrial and ­municipal waste. Resource efficiency in Valmet’s own operations Valmet’s solutions for pulp production are built on effiValmet is also implementing the circular economy in its own cient and sustainable extraction of fibers from wood, while operations by continuously improving resource efficiency, also focusing on chemical and energy recovery in the promaximizing utilization of metals, using a resource efficient cesses. This allows materials to circulate within customers’ supply chain, shared use of assets and preventive maintenance. production processes for longer and decreases the need for virgin resources. Renewable Non-renewable resources resources VALMET Design, manufacturing, supply of technology & services Other value CUSTOMERS OF VALMET Other value chains Efficient Utilization of Valmet Efficient Reuse / chains Recycle production technology and services production Maintenance refurbish Cascades Consumption of products Recycle Collection Renewable material flow Non-renewable material flow 26 Valmet Annual Review 2016 C A SE Must-Win: Leader in technology and innovation Advanced and competitive technologies based on innovations Valmet has a systematic approach to research and technology development. Transforming an idea into a commercial product consists of various steps often including pilot tests in Valmet’s own R&D Centers, and may in some cases take several years. Over the years Valmet has been able to introduce both small product improvements and revolutionary innovations to the market. Our innovations improve the competitiveness of our technologies and satisfy customer needs. Cutting lead times and time to market with 3D printing 3D printing, also called additive manufacturing, is an example of an emerging technology that we can utilize in our product development. Valmet has already adopted 3D printing technology to manufacture molding patterns and selected spare parts. The benefits of 3D printing include shorter lead times, rapid on-demand deliveries, and cutting the time to market of new products. Renewable biomass to replace coal One of Valmet’s technologies to move from fossil to renewable energy production is steam-exploded black pellets (biocoal). Black pellets are safer, easier to ­transport, and hold about 15% more energy than conventional “white” biomass pellets. The black pellets have high moisture durability and can replace up to 70–100% of fossil coal, depending on the size of the power plants, thus significantly reducing carbon emissions. Lightweighting with aqua cooling calendering In coated board production, lightweighting means that at least the same end-product quality can be produced with less raw materials. Using aqua cooling calendering, fiber saving potential of up to 5% can be gained while maintaining strength and visual properties. In this method, the web is cooled by spraying a controlled amount of water onto the web surfaces and­immediately evaporating the water by blowing cool, dry air over it. Valmet Annual Review 2016 27 Supply chain Supply chain Valmet works to continuously enhance its supply chain management and the transparency of its value chain. Sustainability is fully integrated into Valmet’s way to operate in procurement. Valmet purchases a variety of different metals-based products Valmet continues to target annual savings of no less than and components, electronics, and different services globally. 3% in procurement and to implement a sustainable supply Procurement operations play a significant role in ensuring chain. The supply chain focus is moving from traditional Valmet is efficient and profitable. Products and components cost reduction to new actions, e.g., increasing design-to-cost comprise 72% and purchased services 28% of Valmet’s total (DTC) to create new sources for savings, enhancing global procurement spend. category management, and improving supplier involvement Suppliers are an integral part of our manufacturing and dethrough supplier relationship management (SRM). livery processes. Valmet has some 10,000 active direct suppliers Valmet recognizes its responsibility to reduce negative from more than 50 countries. Some 65% of Valmet’s purchases environmental and social impacts throughout its value chain, originate from Finland, Sweden and the United States. starting from its supply chain, throughout its own operations and during the customer use phase of its technologies, automation and services. 28 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Supply chain 1,100 Sustainable procurement practices Ensuring a sustainable supply chain is one of Valmet’s five sustainability agenda focus areas. Valmet has a systematic approach to further integrating sustainability into its prosupplier sustainability curement practices globally. Valmet’s procurement process audit findings includes gates and actions to ensure that Valmet cooperates 450 only with suppliers who share its ethical principles and ideology of responsible business practices. In ensuring a sustainable supply chain during the reporting year 2016, the main challenges were related to supplier audit Valmet procurement follow-ups, where we sometimes experienced long response professionals trained in times from our audited suppliers to the agreed corrective actions. sustainability Sustainable supply chain management process Purchases To secure transparent and unified global supplier manage(10 largest countries) ment, Valmet continued to implement a common supplier evaluation process in 2016. The process is mandatory in evalEUR MILLION 2016 2015 uating new suppliers before cooperation begins. Sustainability gates are an integrated and automated part Finland 758 770 of the supplier evaluation process. The automated process enSweden 211 194 sures that all suppliers are assessed in relation to their potenUSA 130 143 tial sustainability risk, sign the Sustainable Supply Chain PolChina 114 132 icy, and complete a sustainability self-assessment, if required Germany 75 78 based on the risk assessment. The online self-assessment is Poland 65 30 available in nine languages. In 2016, 31% of all new suppliers were automatically screened on sustainability. The remaining Italy 40 29 suppliers have been manually assessed on sustainability risk. Estonia 30 35 The screening covers business ethics, compliance, human United Kingdom 29 20 rights and labor rights, health, safety and environment manBrazil 24 74 agement, as well as product safety topics. A global supplier sustainability management process Required from Required based on supplier all suppliers risk assessment Sustainable Sustainability Supplier selfSustainability Supply Chain Policy risk assessment assessments audits All suppliers All suppliers are A weak result in A weak result in are required to evaluated through the risk assessment the ­self-assessment sign Valmet’s a five-level leads to a supplier leads to an audit. Sustainable Supply sustainability risk sustainability Chain Policy. assessment. self-assessment. Valmet Annual Review 2016 29 Supply chain Valmet expects all its suppliers to comply with the susthrough a corrective action plan performed by the supplier. tainability requirements in the policy and has zero tolerance All corrective actions are monitored and verified accordingly. towards the use of forced labor or child labor. Compliance If the supplier does not proceed with corrective actions agreed with the policy is the starting point for entering into and together, Valmet is prepared to support the supplier in implemaintaining all business relationships with Valmet. The polmenting the corrective action. If the supplier does not want to icy acts as a basis for supplier risk evaluations, sustainability proceed with the corrective actions, Valmet reserves the right self-assessments and supplier sustainability audits. to terminate the contract with the supplier. In 2016, Valmet conducted a total of 54 supplier sustainability audits using Valmet’s global sustainability audit Developing more sustainable transportation solutions protocol together with an independent, certified, third-party Valmet has developed the tracking of its carbon footprint in auditor, in Croatia, Poland, Lithuania, India, Thailand, China, transportation. Valmet constantly seeks more sustainable ways Brazil, Mexico and Indonesia. The majority of findings (60% to transport its goods. In 2016, Valmet created a roadmap with of all findings) were related to human and labor rights, as well several concrete steps to develop more sustainable transport as health and safety. In 2016, Valmet also developed tools and solutions and to reduce its CO2 impact from transportation guidance related to the sustainability audit process and conby 2018. Activities include e.g., developing more lightweighttinued with internal training, and enhanced ways to operate ing solutions in packaging, developing standardized packaging for its global procurement organization. solutions, increasing collaboration with key transportation Valmet’s sustainability audit protocol was created in late suppliers, and increasing the use of alternative shipping modes. 2015, and all audits done in 2016 used the new checklist, During 2016, Valmet developed its reporting on CO2 emiswhich enables a unified way to operate in sustainability audits sions and cooperated with selected suppliers to ensure transglobally. The protocol ensures the process is consistent and portation modeand spend-based reporting. In long-term enables comparability between suppliers. Sustainability audit transportation contracts as well, Valmet continues to strive for findings are either based on non-conformity with Valmet’s efficiency, both in performance and in reducing CO2 emissions. Sustainable Supply Chain Policy or local or international Upstream and downstream transportations accounted for law. All findings from sustainability audits are followed up 58,000 CO2 tonnes in 2016. Sustainability360º agenda: Sustainable supply chain progress TARGE TS AC TION PL AN 2016–2018 KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS 2016 Develop sustainable • Ensure globally aligned approval • 31% of new suppliers went through the supplier approval procurement practices process for new suppliers process and were screened for sustainability globally • Increase the number of nominated • 54 supplier sustainability audits conducted by Valmet and • 100% of new direct Valmet sustainability auditors in a third-party auditor in Mexico, Indonesia, Poland, Brazil, China, suppliers go through selected areas Thailand, India, Croatia and Lithuania supplier approval and • Develop templates and guidelines • Global protocol implemented and used in all supplier screening process for sustainability audit practices sustainability audits globally • 50 supplier sustainability • Continue with sustainability • Hazardous substances compliance program proceeded as audits per year training for global procurement planned with a variety of initiatives globally, incl. mapping and integrate sustainability into current status and starting agreed development actions globally procurement training programs • Sustainability training sessions for procurement conducted in • Continue with a program to ensure all geographical areas. A total of 450 professionals received compliance relating to hazardous training substances • Sustainability reporting of the supply chain was developed to • Develop the carbon footprint include assured data from transportation and logistics activities calculation • During the year, Valmet developed its sustainability risk assessment process to include indirect procurement purchasing categories and initiated actions based on the assessment results Support selected key • Establish a sustainability • Actions planned for 2017 suppliers to meet the level of engagement program for mediumsustainability expected and high-risk key suppliers with by Valmet targets, KPIs and follow-up • Engage 100% of selected mechanisms key suppliers 30 Valmet Annual Review 2016 C A SE Must-Win: Excellence in processes Supplier audit starts best practice approach Valmet conducts over 50 supplier sustainability audits globally every year as part of its Sustainable Supply Chain Management Program. SFUP in Poland is one of the companies that has been audited. This manufacturer of steel equipment for the paper, chemical and power generation industries, is one of the key suppliers to Valmet. One year after the audit, SFUP has succeeded to implement a more sustainable approach to its business operations than before. Action plan triggers renewal process The sustainability audit findings were related to business ethics and compliance, human and labor rights, health and safety, as well as environmental management. The findings led to a jointly agreed corrective action plan for SFUP. Valmet supported the company throughout the implementation process by providing guidance. SFUP completed all corrective actions agreed and the final outcome was verified in a reaudit in 2016. Valmet was pleased to see SFUP completing all corrective actions only eight months after the first audit, and during this time even exceeding Valmet’s requirements. Corrective actions enhances to responsible operations SFUP made a leap in developing more responsible operations after Valmet’s audit. In addition to developing its processes, the company made progress in increased engagement with its employees, and also introduced a new code of conduct. SFUP introduced a new supplier code of conduct for its suppliers and partners, and also started to follow up on the requirements. Through these actions, SFUP inspired also its suppliers to develop more sustainable operations – with good results. Results exceed audit requirements SFUP decided to certify its operations according to the environmental management system ISO 14001, and received certification in June 2016. SFUP also started to implement a health and safety management system, with the target to receive OHSAS 18001 certification by 2018. “This is hard work, but we see it all as an investment in the company. We have gained clear benefits and added value through better performance and new processes,” says Aleksandra Partyka, Trade Department Manager at SFUP. Valmet Annual Review 2016 31 People and performance People and performance Together we are Valmet. Our 12,000 employees from 33 countries and 54 nationalities form a diverse Valmet community – one that lives our values, executes our strategy and moves our customers’ performance forward. Taking action, building engagement We defined and began executing a renewed values roadIn 2016, we continued to build engagement systematicalmap, which works to strengthen the behaviors associated ly through the purposeful execution of OurVoice actions with our values. For example, when talking about People throughout the company. All business lines, areas and Valmet – we work together to make a difference, we emphasize dias a whole, defined core areas on which to focus based on the versity, respect and teamwork. Roadmap activities include results of the 2015 OurVoice engagement survey. We completactively recognizing values-based behaviors, promoting our ed 92% of these actions in 2016. Global Valmet-wide actions values as a Must-Win deep dive topic in our strategy team focused on using customer feedback to improve our work prodiscussions, and hosting values refresher events at various cesses and activating managers as role models for our values. Valmet locations. By the end of 2016, 20 values events had The next OurVoice survey is conducted in January 2017. been held with more planned for the beginning of 2017. 32 Valmet Annual Review 2016 People and performance Pushing for high performance We continue to push for high performance through setting Valmet values targets, giving feedback, fostering active dialogue and utilizing rewarding practices as key drivers for this work. The focus Customers of the 2016 annual review discussion process was on ensuring We move our customers’ performance high-quality manager–employee discussions, with an online forward. training course to support managers in this task. The midyear review process that began in 2015 became mandatory in Renewal 2016 to support the achievement of planned targets. Both the We promote new ideas to create the future. annual and mid-year review processes achieved high completion rates for the annual review population: 99% and 95%, Excellence respectively. We improve every day to deliver results. Building a culture where we improve performance through actively sharing feedback is an important part of how we learn People and grow. Positive feedback accelerates performance, and We work together to make a difference. constructive feedback works to correct performance, getting it back on track. In August, we launched HighFive, a new feedback channel designed to facilitate the exchange of positive Strengthening our managerial skills feedback across the company. In the first four months, Valmet In 2016, we continued to build managerial capabilities in line people sent over 3,500 HighFives – all sent to the recipients with our manager development framework. Key actions inand their managers to ensure maximum recognition and cluded a 96% completion rate for the Forward for managers transparency. Feedback was also the first topic in a new series training and launching ManagerAcademy, a virtual learning for sharing best practices within the manager community. environment with 12 learning paths designed to develop Establishing reward and recognition practices that tarmanagerial capabilities. Valmet managers selected several get our top performers and encourage top performance learning paths to complete over the course of the year. In continues to be a priority. Valmet granted a total of 2,721 total, managers completed 2,678 learning paths, spending individual and team awards in 2016 as part of our Spot and 12,728 hours in the learning environment. The most popular Special Reward program. Work is ongoing to ensure the stralearning paths were Conducting a successful annual review tegic implementation of our reward and recognition tools discussion, Leading through values and Driving change. throughout Valmet through the establishment of a library The final element in the framework is 360 Feedback, which with examples of rewards, wider integration between HR was updated to match the defined Manager Role and values systems, and targeted training. and will be utilized heavily over the coming two-year period to support managers in their development. At the end of 2016, we created an extensive rollout plan covering a critical mass of around half of all line managers. Personnel data Education structure, % Age structure, % Service years, % Doctorate degree 1% 30 30 Master's degree 16% 25 25 Bachelor’s degree 29% 20 20 Technical diploma 21% 15 15 A  ssociate’s degree / College degree 11% 10 10 Non-degree program 3% 5 5 High school diploma 11% 0 0 Basic education 7% 20≤1 –29 ≥6 <1 1– 3– 4* ≥2 30 40–3 –4 9 9 5 2 5–10 1 Unallocated 3% 50 60–59 9 11–2 –64 0 2015 2016 2015 2016 * Decrease in 3–4 year category due to fewer new hires in 2013. Valmet Annual Review 2016 33 People and performance Ensuring we have the best talent Building teams for the future Our efforts in capability development focus on ensuring we We believe that we can move company performance forward by are operating with the best tools and processes, offering trainbuilding a diverse, engaged and flexible workforce. To achieve ing opportunities to match our strategic needs, and attracting this aim, we unveiled a new employer value proposition, set up and developing the best talent. In 2016, our Talent Review a talent scout function, and made a step change in our internal process was expanded to include all key managerial positions, mobility practices. Internal mobility is among the best and fastgiving us a stronger understanding of the talent pool. In total, est ways to provide new challenges, bring fresh perspectives, 1,550 management, successor and high-potential resources and facilitate the cross-organizational exchange of talent across were assessed and assigned development actions as part of the the company. Other ways we’ve worked to increase diversity process; 906 actions were completed in 2016 for this group. within Valmet include prioritizing diversity talent in our global We continued to fully utilize our global training portfolio, training, and mentoring nomination processes and supporting running 13 programs with 423 participants. The portfolio will cultural exchange programs within Valmet. be expanded in 2017 to include project execution and R&D. Additional strategic training courses are planned to support A responsible employer the implementation of our new services approach Shared We value teamwork as an important part of our organization’s Journey Forward, as well as to build on the common way of success, and we emphasize respectful behavior and a fair, inworking established in the Agility Through Sales program. clusive and well-managed working environment. We continIn 2016, the training database was renewed to expand our ually evaluate our policies, guidelines and ways of working to reporting capabilities and provide better visibility to the full secure our track record as a responsible employer. In 2016, we training offering available. Across Valmet we emphasized a put an equality and parity plan in place in Finland to ensure 70-20-10 learning philosophy, where 70% is based on onnon-discrimination as part of new governmental regulations. the-job learning, 20% on learning relationships and 10% on We also expanded the people and performance sustainability formal learning. Opportunities for mentoring increased with focus area to include actions relating to human rights, susa new Valmet-level program in addition to mentoring protainability and wellbeing. grams run on a business line and area level. Sustainability360º agenda: People and performance progress TARGE TS AC TION PL AN 2016–2018 KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS 2016 Boost employee • Conduct OurVoice survey and execute • 92% of OurVoice actions completed engagement development actions • Executed values roadmap according to plan • Plan and implement values roadmap Develop the best • Ensure annual review discussion coverage of > 95% • Annual and mid-year review processes achieved high talent for the annual review population completion rates for the annual review population: • Develop training opportunities to enhance skills 99% and 95% respectively • Develop global training portfolio to support • Launched renewed training database our strategic goals • Expanded Talent Review process to include • Conduct Talent Review (TR) process key managers Increase diversity • Create programs and processes to support career • Renewed internal mobility guidelines development of diversity candidates • Prioritized diversity talent in global training • Prioritize diversity of talent in global training portfolio nomination process portfolio nomination process • Launched employer value proposition (EVP) • Define employer value proposition (EVP) • Widen recruitment pool beyond traditional candidates Be a responsible • Establish human rights monitoring framework and • Created human rights working group, employer conduct gap analysis conducted gap analysis • Continue with leadership and managerial skill • Implemented ManagerAcademy, 12,728 hours of development activities training recorded in 2016; 96% completion rate for • Continue with sustainability and wellness awareness the Forward for managers training activities • Participated in Global Challenge For entire action plan, see valmet.com 34 Valmet Annual Review 2016 C A SE Must-Win: Winning team Valmet steps forward with the Global Challenge The year 2016 was the first year that Valmet participated in the Global Challenge, a workplace health and engagement program. For the 100 days between May 25 and September 1, around 1,500 Valmet employees counted their steps as they competed in teams of seven in a virtual race around the world. Physical activity was rewarded with steps, which counted towards daily totals, with mini-challenges and team competitions adding to the fun. The program also gave tips and practical advice for nutrition, sleep, activity and overall wellbeing. 214 teams equals a lot of team spirit The Global Challenge not only brought out the competitive side in us but also brought us closer together as colleagues. The challenge became a conversation starter, which led to small talk and eventually to building new connections on a deeper level. It gave the teams reasons to interact in new ways – bringing managers and teams closer and breaking cross-organizational boundaries. A little healthy competition By engaging in a little healthy competition, the global challenge worked to change the daily routines of 1,500 Valmeteers. The health benefits of the program were clear, with 77% of people reaching the target of 10,000 steps a day, up from 17% before the challenge, 62% seeing an increase in energy levels, and 57% reporting an increase in productivity or concentration levels. Also, 67% of those who were tracking their weight, managed to lose weight. Bringing teams together “The energy generated by the global challenge was palpable. Originally we planned for 1,000 participants, but we increased the number because the interest was so high and all the places were taken within a day. For me, the biggest impact came from the team element. Throughout the 100 journey, I watched as teams came together, created shared memories, and improved their health and wellbeing,” says Julia Macharey, SVP Human Resources. Valmet Annual Review 2016 35 Health, safety and environment Health, safety and environment We are committed to protecting the health, safety and environment (HSE) of our people, partners, customers, and the communities where we operate. We constantly emphasize risk management, prevention and learning as we strive towards our goal of zero harm. Safe and healthy workplaces for all In June, a subcontractor employee of one of Valmet’s contracAn unrelenting focus on everyone going home safe and tors in a pulp mill expansion in Sweden, was fatally injured healthy every day drives our health and safety development during installation work. In October, a contracted technical at Valmet. In 2016, fewer people were injured in our business advisor in a rebuild project was fatally injured at a pulp mill in than ever before. Our total recordable incident frequency the United States of America. Valmet is consistently working (TRIF) improved from 2015 by 31% for our own employees to improve our processes and routines to ensure a safe workand by 19% for external workers. At the end of the year, 40 of place for everyone. 54 production and service units had achieved more than one year without any lost time incidents. Driving of safety culture Tragically, we did not achieve our goal of zero fatalities, as We are intent on reinforcing a culture where HSE is a persontwo external workers died on project sites at customer mills. al matter. In January, the updated Safety@Valmet e-learning 36 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Health, safety and environment Health, safety and environmental data Energy CO2 emissions Water consumption TJ 1,000 t 1,000 m3 2,000 0.8 120 0.06 5,000 100 0.05 4,000 1,500 0.6 80 0.04 3,000 1,000 0.4 60 0.03 2,000 40 0.02 500 0.2 20 0.01 1,000 0 0 0 0.00 0 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Fuel Direct emissions (Scope 1) Water consumption Electricity Indirect emissions (Scope 2) District heating 1,000 tCO2/MEUR Net sales Steam TJ/MEUR Net sales Waste Management systems (% of headcount) 1,000 t 50 S H A R E O F C E R T I F I E D O P E R AT I O N S 1 2 016 40 ISO 9001 Quality Management System 84% 30 ISO 14001 Environmental Management System 70% 20 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System 55% 10 0 1 Including offices 2014 2015 2016 Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Lost time incident frequency Total recordable incident Coverage of safety committees4, (LTIF)2, own employees ­frequency (TRIF)3, own employees % of workforce 6 12 5 10 4 8 Safety ­ 3 6 committees 91% 2 4 1 2 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 LTIF reflects the number of injuries resulting in 2 3 LTIF+medical treatment and restricted 4 Percentage of workforce represented in formal an absence of at least one workday per million work cases joint management-worker health and safety hours worked committees Valmet Annual Review 2016 37 Health, safety and environment course was launched to promote safety awareness and reinEmbedding HSE in all activities force safety fundamentals in Valmet. By year end, over 55% We work systematically to integrate sound HSE management of employees had completed the course, creating a common practices into all aspects of our business. Our global minifoundation for us all as we continue to develop Valmet’s safemum safety standards are fundamental to our safety practices. ty culture and standards. During 2017, this training will be During 2016, all the standards were reviewed to ensure they openly available to Valmet partners. cover critical risks and reflect best practice. As part of our Our annual activities, such as the WWF Earth Hour in lean transformation program, safety is integrated as part of March and our HSE awareness week in October, also promotlean practices in production locations, for example in daily ed the message that through our responsible individual bevisual management routines and also as part of implementing havior, we have a real impact on both sustainable workplaces standardized ways of working through 5S1. and communities. In 2016, we also introduced a Project Execution Model (PEM) Engaged leaders who set a personal example are essential that standardizes project management in Valmet. V ­ almet’s comto driving our safety culture. We continued with the standard mon project and site HSE activities are integrated into the gates practice of leadership safety walks, both on customer sites and and milestones. During the year, we completed a two-year projat our own locations. Over 350 walks were performed in 2016. ect to harmonize and implement common best practice site HSE In addition, sessions aimed at developing safety leadership routines for all operations, with the aim of ensuring that safety were held across the organization. Training in changing the standards are followed in our customer deliveries. safety mindset was given in Finland, Germany, Great BritWe performed HSE audits of 10 customer projects and ain and Australia. Our Pulp and Energy business piloted a 18 production units during the year, with a ­focus on implerenewed “Leading HSE on sites” training course for project menting HSE standards and benchmarking best practices. and site personnel. Overall, we reached our targeted level of 7.2 hours of HSE training per person in 2016. Collaboration for contractor safety Valmet engages in an active and open dialog on HSE with our customers, suppliers and other partners. We believe common rules, effective collaboration and good co-­ordination Sustainability360º agenda: Health, safety and environment (HSE) progress TARGE TS AC TION PL AN 2016–2018 KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS 2016 Drive safety • Continue leadership safety walks • Over 350 Leadership safety walks and conversations culture • Implement Safety@Valmet e-learning • 55% of employees completed Safety@Valmet • Create and launch behavioral safety toolbox • Behavioral safety tools piloted in 5 units Best in • Implement global development initiatives on preventing • Global promotion of Valmet minimum safety standards. class HSE life-changing injuries • LTIF 2.3 and TRIF 6.0 own employees; LTIF 4.4 and TRIF 7.6 management • Launch common site safety procedures independent and supervised contractors practices • Create and launch collaborating for contractor safety • Collaborating for contractor safety program started program • Common Valmet site safety procedures in use • Continue to develop Valmet health and wellbeing concept • Valmet health and wellbeing concept defined • Renew Valmet’s Environmental Efficiency Program with • Science-based targets under development science-based targets Secure • Local HSE action plans in all locations and follow-up of • Follow up of action plans and performance of 15 units held compliance selected units • Local HSE Committees established in 5 units. Coverage of and • Expand local HSE committees to cover 90% of personnel local HSE committees increased to 91%. improvements • Implement certified global management system • Global management system project started • Create HSE induction e-learning for Valmet’s locations • Project site HSE induction e-learning pilot ready and project sites • HSE audits of 10 customer site and 18 locations • Complete minimum 20 HSE audits per year • 7.2 hrs HSE training/person/year • Implement a global process to monitor non-compliance incidents 1 Systematic approach to organizing workplaces (Lean) 38 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Health, safety and environment are ­f undamental to achieving safety on shared worksites. units, and in 2016, audits were performed on our Swedish Currently, our contractor safety management procedures are operations. Our energy and CO2 emissions increased slightunder review, and we are initiating various actions to improve ly during 2016 mainly because of a colder heating season in how we proactively identify and then successfully bridge gaps the Nordics. Our focus on responsible use of hazardous subin HSE systems, culture and leadership between contractors stances continues with activities in the supply chain and own and Valmet’s and our customers’ standards and expectations. operations. Environmental guidelines for our offices were also launched during the year. Encouraging wellbeing There were no significant spills in our facilities. We cooperate closely with occupational health services at our locations to ensure fitness for work and effective management Global management system of occupational health risks, as well as to support health proEveryone at Valmet is accountable for implementing and motion activities. During the year a wellbeing learning path following our HSE management systems and processes rigorwas opened in our Manager Academy. Exercise activities are ously, as well as for continually improving them. In 2016, we organized or supported at many Valmet locations, enabling a decided to move away from a unit-based certification struchealthy work-life balance for our people. Absenteeism due to ture and to instead certify our way of working in one common sickness and injuries at work continues at 2.5% of workhours global management system by the end of 2018. This system (2.5 in 2015). During 2016, we introduced a global travel sewill be certified for occupational health and safety (ISO curity assistance system. 45001, formerly OHSAS 18001), environment (ISO 14001), and quality (ISO 9001). Responsible operations We believe that a certified global system assures all interested We design and operate our facilities to promote the sustainparties that Valmet embeds systematic and standardized quality able use of resources and prevent pollution. We continue to and HSE management practices in all operations to meet our implement actions towards our 2020 operational efficiency strategic objectives, our customer requirements and regulatory targets for energy, CO2 emissions, water and waste. We follow obligations. Our target is that by 2020, at least 90% of Valmet’s a ten-year energy auditing schedule for our main production people work in operations certified by all three standards. Environmental efficiency program targets I N D I C AT O R S ( R O L L I N G 12 M O N T H S ) 2020 Energy consumption and CO2 emissions reduction (% reduction in yearly consumption compared to net sales, baseline reference yearly average 2005–2009) 20% Municipal water consumption reduction (% reduction in yearly consumption compared to net sales, baseline reference yearly average 2011–2012) 15% Total waste amount reduction (% reduction in yearly amounts compared to net sales, baseline reference yearly average 2011–2012) 15% Waste utilisation rate (%) (% increase in waste utilisation (recycled waste + incineration / total waste), baseline reference yearly average 2011–2012) 10% Health and safety targets 2 018 Lost time incident rate (LTIF) (Lost time incidents per 1,000,000 working hours) <2 Total recordable incident rate (TRIF) (LTIF + medical treatment and restricted work cases) <5 Near miss and safety observations 3 / employee / year HSE training 8h / employee / year Number of documented safety inspections per million whrs 150 Valmet Annual Review 2016 39 C A SE Must-Win: Excellence in Processes Engagement and participation in focus Our global initiative to drive HSE excellence focuses on actions to enhance our processes, competences and culture. Local HSE committees implement global actions, and they plan, monitor and advise on local HSE issues, such as training, environmental efficiency actions and health promotion. The participation of all our people in HSE management practices and initiatives is fundamental to safe and responsible operations. One measure of this engagement is safety observation reporting, and again in 2016, we saw a steady increase throughout the year. Enabling work-life balance The Montreal office has been promoting health and an active lifestyle for many years, and seeing the benefits in energized and happy people. Aside from having a well-equipped gym at the location, employees have the opportunity to participate in lunch-time exercise classes five days a week. George Brezuica, Team ­Leader for Accounts Payable, has a background in martial arts and teaches kickboxing to his colleagues once a week. Safety is everyone’s business In February, training was held in Jyväskylä for managers working in roll and field servicing. The session included exercises on openly giving and receiving safety feedback. Managers then received coaching on how to conduct the same training for their teams. “We want a climate where everyone has the tools and the commitment to getting involved in taking care of each other,” says Marko Lassila, Director of Service Operations in Finland. Solar power for our office In October, Valmet’s Lentokentänkatu facility in Tampere became the first Valmet location to have its own solar power plant. “These 567 solar panels on our roof, covering 920 m2, represent concrete action to reduce our environmental impact. It will reduce annual CO2 emissions by approximately 80 tonnes. It is part of our energy efficiency program to combat climate change,” says Kimmo Kohtamäki, Director of Real Estate Management. 40 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Corporate citizenship Corporate citizenship Valmet is socially responsible and globally aligned in its operations. In 2016, Valmet maintained its position among the world’s sustainability leaders. The company received recognition for its strategic and integrated approach to sustainability and for its sustainability reporting. Valmet is a truly global company, with operations in 33 counCode of Conduct and other guiding policies tries. We provide employment and business opportunities not Valmet’s Code of Conduct guides the behavior and decisions only directly to Valmet’s more than 12,000 employees globally, of Valmet’s employees and its partners, and it creates a unibut also to a large number of different stakeholders, and we form foundation for all our business transactions and work indirectly build wealth in local societies. We aim to be seen as assignments. In 2016, Valmet reinforced the implementation a trusted local partner and to build active relations with our of its Code of Conduct that was updated in 2015. We actively stakeholders. communicated the renewed Code of Conduct through the We are transparent in our communications with our stakewhole organization. holders and we strive to ensure that all our operations are carValmet’s Code of Conduct is an obligatory global e-learnried out in accordance with laws and regulations in a socially ing course for all employees. By the end of 2016, 99.8% of responsible and globally aligned manner. our employees had completed the training. All new employees Valmet Annual Review 2016 41 Corporate citizenship are introduced to, and must familiarize themselves with, the • In Finland, Valmet took part in a new type of internship Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct e-learning course is program to introduce and integrate educated asylum seekavailable in 19 languages. ers into Finnish working life. The Code of Conduct is supported by a set of policies • In the state of Maranhão in Brazil, Valmet participated in sodefining more detailed principles for specific activities. All cial and environmental programs through a local non-profit these policies are described in more detail in Valmet’s GRI organization, Instituto Ayrton Senna. The target is to support Supplement on page 11. Training on these topics is held on a the development of local schools and basic education. regular basis. Stakeholder meetings and events in 2016 Active stakeholder dialogue Valmet maintained the dialogue with its customers through Our most relevant stakeholders are defined as existing and regular meetings and other direct contact such as fairs, semipotential customers, existing and potential employees, supnars and customer satisfaction surveys, and through specific pliers and subcontractors, shareholders and investors, the industry organizations. media, non-governmental organizations, authorities and local The biggest customer event was our customer days with communities, as well as research institutes, universities and over 200 customers from 35 countries participating. The topvocational schools. ics covered the latest innovations, Industrial Internet solutions Valmet actively communicates with its stakeholders and customer reference cases. Valmet’s new services approach through multiple channels such as events, face-to-face meetwas introduced, as well as the renewed Sustainability360º ings, the customer magazine, company reports and brochures, agenda. online channels, and surveys. We held a global supplier innovation day with more than During 2016, Valmet continued the tradition to support 50 key suppliers invited. Topics included e.g., innovation non-governmental (NGO), humanitarian organizations that and R&D, enhanced networking, sustainability and ensuring work on a local level with youth activities, environmental prohealth and safety in operations throughout the value chain. tection, and research and education (see graph on page 43). Valmet’s IR team engaged with investors and analysts through different channels such as conference calls, roadshows, In 2016, the following projects were supported by Valmet: and meetings. The dialogue also included a Capital Markets • Our seasonal donation was directed to Save the Children. Day, webcasts, site visits and the Annual General Meeting. The donation enables school supplies for children in Nepal, food for a month for malnourished children in Africa, and stays in support families. Sustainability360º agenda: Corporate citizenship progress TARGE TS AC TION PL AN 2016–2018 KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS 2016 Ensure compliance with • Systematically arrange Code of Conduct training for • Code of Conduct and related guiding principles selected employees and increase awareness with e-learning implemented globally • 100% of existing and new examples employees completed Code • Review the Code of Conduct content and relaunch of Conduct training e-learning Promote transparent • Report to Dow Jones Sustainability Index • Inclusion in Dow Jones Sustainability reporting and active • Externally report and assure CO2 levels of World and Europe Indices (DJSI) for a third stakeholder collaboration procurement, logistics and business travel consecutive year • Ensure stakeholder feedback through a specific • Rated on the A List in CDP’s climate stakeholder survey change program • Create a long-term roadmap for social projects • Positive feedback about sustainability • Add voluntary employee activities to Sponsorships performance in stakeholder surveys database • Active stakeholder dialogue • Create and implement sustainability e-learning for Valmet personnel 42 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Corporate citizenship Valmet recognized as a sustainability leader Valmet has been recognized for its actions and strategy to Income taxes (10 largest countries) mitigate climate change and for its reporting on sustainability actions. In 2016, the company was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for the third consecutive year, EUR MILLION 2016 2015 making it among the most sustainable companies in the world. Finland 51.1 17.2 Valmet was listed in both the DJSI World and Europe indices. USA 9.2 7.6 Valmet also reports to CDP, the international non-profit China 2.8 2.2 organization that promotes sustainability. Valmet was topranked and awarded a position on the 2016 Climate A List, Japan 2.4 1.3 which includes the best companies globally that have publicly Canada 1.7 0.8 reported on their actions to mitigate climate change. Portugal 1.2 1.0 Chile 0.8 0.6 Sweden 0.8 6.5 Germany 0.6 0.6 Italy 0.5 0.6 Support for non-profit organizations, % EUR 252,734.9 in total Youth activities 92% Science and research 4.4% Sports 1.9% Others 1.2% Environmental protection and nature 0.3% Culture 0.2% Distribution of economic value added to our stakeholder groups Direct economic Economic value Retained in value generated distributed business Operating costs: EUR 2,014 million Employee wages and benefits: EUR 795 million Revenues Payments to providers of capital: EUR 67 million EUR EUR 2,961 million Payments to government: EUR 56 million 28 million Support for non-profit organizations: EUR 0.3 million Valmet Annual Review 2016 43 C A SE Must-Win: Excellence in processes Ensuring responsible business operations wherever we operate In 2016, we defined a new global sustainability assessment process to ensure that we are able to operate according to our Code of Conduct whenever we expand our current operations or establish a new legal entity in a new country. The sustainability assessment process is based on a checklist covering five main topics based on human rights, labor rights, health and safety, environmental management and business ethics. The piloting of the new assessment process took place in Jakarta in 2016. Local conditions are identified The target of the new sustainability assessment is to create a comprehensive understanding of the current practices and the stakeholders' expectations on Valmet. When expanding our business presence, we need to understand local market practices to identify our economic, social and environmental impacts, as well as potential risks. The sustainability assessment is part of a smooth entry or expansion to the market. Assessment on Jakarta services center as a first pilot Valmet is setting up a new services center in Jakarta, Indonesia, to provide our Asia Pacific pulp, paper and energy customers with a wider services offering. Jakarta served as a first pilot for Valmet's new assessment process in 2016. The assessment team was led by the sustainability function and included representatives from Valmet’s Indonesia country management and legal functions. The assessment led into concrete actions to manage the potential risks of the investment. Understanding stakeholder expectations A comprehensive stakeholder dialogue helps to ensure that Valmet is operating in a responsible manner. The assessment in Jakarta included meetings with selected external stakeholders: suppliers, the local main contractor of the services center, local municipal representatives, a grass roots non-governmental organization (NGO), and other partners. The discussions helped to learn about current practices and the stakeholders’ expectations on Valmet. 44 Valmet Annual Review 2016 Contacts Contacts Visiting address Follow Valmet on Twitter, YouTube or Instagram Valmet Oyj, Keilasatama 5, FI-02150 Espoo, Finland and join us on LinkedIn and Facebook. Postal address Twitter.com/valmetglobal Valmet Oyj, P.O. Box 11, FI-02151 Espoo, Finland Tel. +358 (0)10 672 0000 firstname.lastname@valmet.com Youtube.com/valmetglobal Media contacts Linkedln.com/company/valmet media@valmet.com Sustainability contacts Facebook.com/valmetcorporation sustainability@valmet.com Instagram.com/valmetglobal Investor relations ir@valmet.com Order publications www.valmet.com/subscribe www.valmet.com About this report Design and production This report is made from paper and pulp that were produced on Miltton Oy Valmet machinery and equipment. It is printed on MultiArt Silk paper, which is certified according to the FSC standard and the Paper Nordic Ecolabel. MultiArt Silk 300 g MultiArt Silk 130 g FSC promotes environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial, and economically viable forest management all over the world. Printing FSC certification ensures that products come from well-managed Lönnberg Print & Promo forests that provide environmental, social and economic benefits. The Nordic Ecolabel ensures that products that are used in printed matter fulfill certain criteria. Inks are mineral-oil free, and for all other materials, those that are recyclable and environmentally friendly are preferred. Valmet Annual Review 2016 45 Valmet Oyj Keilasatama 5 / PO Box 11 FI-02150 ESPOO, FINLAND www.valmet.com
