20 Sustainability Report 16 Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 I Contents About Bufab 1 Message from the CEO 2 Business model 4 Strategy 6 Sustainability journey 7 Focus areas 8 Sustainability governance 9 Responsible growth 10 Sustainable global business 11 Employees and relationships 14 Questions and answers 16 About the Sustainability Report Bufab’s sustainability work is integrated into the company’s strategic This is Bufab’s first Sustainability Report and constitutes the company’s and operational activities. The Sustainability Report is separate from Communication on Progress in accordance with the UN Global Compact. the Annual Report to meet the information needs of our stakeholders In autumn 2016, Bufab conducted a materiality analysis in accordance in terms of background, approach, challenges and ambitions for the with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The materia­ sustainability agenda. lity analysis forms the basis for the Sustainability Report. Bufab aims If you have questions or comments concerning the Sustainability to con­tinue developing its sustainability agenda and reporting and its Report, please contact Jörgen Rosengren, CEO, +46 370-69 69 01, ambition is that the 2017 Sustainability Report will meet the require­ jorgen.rosengren@bufab.com ments of GRI Standards’ ‘Core’ option. ABOUT BUFAB For a sustainable Bufab Bufab is a global Supply Chain Partner with 33 subsidiaries been handled in a way that is sustainable and ethically sound. in 24 countries. Our approximately 1,000 employees offer the This is where Bufab comes in. As customers gradually increase company’s customers in the global manufacturing industry a demands on themselves and their suppliers, it will become more full-service solution for sourcing, quality assurance and logis­ important to have a responsible partner supplying C-Parts. tics for C-Parts; everything from fasteners to assembled and The sustainability perspective is therefore present in every processed components in various materials. aspect of Bufab’s operations – from how we formulate and con­ Bufab is aiming for a leading market position by continuously duct our business, to how we assess risks. But also in how we enhancing our offering to our customers, our partnership with act in the communities where we operate and how we behave suppliers and our internal working methods and organisation. toward each other. We seek to maintain the health, security and A key part in this is our ambition to meet the increasing market safety of our employees, suppliers and others who are affected demands for sustainable and responsible conduct regarding by our operations. business, people and the environment. For us and our custom­ Bufab’s sustainability agenda is primarily governed by our ers, suppliers and employees, sustainability is about balancing Code of Conduct and our policies for employees, the environ­ financial success, environmental management and social ment, quality, and anti-corruption. Bufab has signed the UN development, which benefits all of our stakeholders. Global Compact and follows its principles. Succeeding with this is particularly challenging for C-Parts. By systematically improving sustainability in our business, There are many items, with unique specifications and quality we hope to become a more relevant partner for increasingly demands, that are ordered from many suppliers worldwide, demanding customers. Commercial viability sense and sustain­ and each item has a low value. It is therefore often difficult for ability are not, therefore, in conflict at Bufab. They support each our customers to guarantee that the entire supply chain has other. Bufab’s global presence Region North 8% Region Sweden With our 33 companies across the 14% 35% Region UK world, we are close to our customers. Region Central Region East 15% 11% Region South 9% Region Asia Pacific 8% • Established 1977 • Sales of about SEK 3bn. Operating margin about 10% • Approximately 1,000 employees in 33 companies in 24 countries • Head office in Värnamo, Sweden • Sources more than 140,000 items • 3,000 suppliers in our supplier base • 13,000 customers around the world ■ Employees by region, proportion. Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Systematic sustainability work has been a part of Bufab’s business for years. We are now taking the next step by presenting our initiatives, and also our challenges, in a sustainability report. Systematic sustainability work As we are now presenting Bufab’s first Sustainability Report, major challenge facing us in the work ahead, but are at the same we are ready to describe how we create value and about our time proud to present our working method and ambitious plan to focused work to increase sustainability at Bufab. We are ready handle this challenge. to meet the future. We also hope that by communicating Bufab’s sustainability The cornerstones of Bufab’s sustainability work have been work externally we strengthen our relationships with both part of the company for many years. Examples include sourcing customers and suppliers, employees and owners and also in that achieves favourable commercial conditions but without the communities where we operate. In this report, we want to compromising on responsibility for the environment and ethics, describe the type of business partner and employer Bufab is efficient logistics with a minimum of environmental impact, ethi­ and wants to be. c­ally responsible relationships within and outside the company, For me, it is clear that responsible business with respect to zero tolerance policy on bribes and fraud as well as the percep­ both people and the environment strengthens Bufab and our tion of the key role played by employees and of the equal value offering. Bufab’s business is based on delivering a solution to of all human beings and freedom with responsibility. In 2011, we the customer – we solve the problem with the components that signed the UN Global Compact and Bufab continues to support the customer is not capable of managing in the most effective the Ten Principles for working conditions, human rights, the way. Today, it is equally important that this solution meets the environment and anti-corruption. Over the past four years, Bufab’s customers’, and their customers’, expectations for ethical busi­ work on these issues has gradually become more structured, ness and consideration for people and the environment as it is which was confirmed when the Board of Directors drew up and to deliver high-quality and affordable products. adopted our main policies in the area in 2013. This part of our offering will become more important in the But we also respect the field’s complexity and difficulty. C-Parts future. The market for C-Parts is in the middle of a critical is a particularly demanding field for these issues. Bufab has consolidation phase. Looking forward, we see a market with thousands of customers and suppliers worldwide, and annually fewer, larger suppliers. Increasing demands on sustainability manages billions of components with more than 140,000 differ­ in the supply chain will become decisive – only those who ent specifications. So, we are obviously not perfect. And we can deliver at a global top level will survive this consolidation cannot guarantee that we will be perfect tomorrow, either. phase. Through active and systematic sustainability work, we What we can guarantee, however, is that we take this matter strengthen our position in the market as a responsible and more very seriously, and that we are working methodically to constantly attractive supplier. We believe the fact that we have integrated improve. This is what this report is about. We can clearly see the a sustainability perspective into our operations will offer us an 2 Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO advantage compared to our competitors when we are appraised by existing and potential customers. Entrepreneurship is one of our most valuable assets. We call our 1,000 employees Solutionists. The core of our offering is problem solving and the management teams at our 33 sub­­­sid­iaries, or sister companies as we prefer to call them, have an independent position. They run and develop their own busi­nesses with a large degree of freedom and personal responsibility, which has always been key to Bufab’s success. When we acquire a company, we are therefore cautious in forcing it to wear a “Bufab suit”. Nevertheless, we must guarantee that work in all of our sister companies takes place in accordance with our overall policies and according to our value proposition. We have therefore developed a global management system that we call Bufab Best Practice. Through this, Bufab’s approach and requirements on matters related to sustainability are communicated to all companies and employees in the Group. This makes it easier for our sister companies to run their business in an entrepreneurial manner, without compromising on our fundamental requirements and values. In 2016, Bufab’s sustainability work has focused in particular on Bufab Best Practice and its implementation in our sister com­ panies. We believe we have made good progress. But there is still much more to achieve. Bufab always puts the customer and quality first and aims to expand through organic growth, efficiency and value-adding acquisitions. In order for our operations to develop in a sustainable manner in the future, we have identified four focus areas for how we can achieve sustainable growth. These are: • Long-term, systematic sustainability work • Responsible growth •S  ustainable global business • People and relationships Each and every one of these areas will be discussed individually in the report. Together, they form an ambitious plan. But also a plan that we will implement. Värnamo, March 2017 Jörgen Rosengren President and CEO Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 3 BUSINESS MODEL Bufab is a trading company that offers its customers a full-service solution as a Supply Chain Partner for sourcing, quality control and logistics for C-Parts. Bufab’s business model Bufab is a trading company that offers its customers a fullthan our customers to manage sustainability issues for C-Parts. service solution as a Supply Chain Partner for sourcing, quality For example, we can often reduce environmental impact through control and logistics for C-Parts. Our customers make stringent the use of more efficient transportation compared with if demands on sustainability in the supply chain and choose sup­ customers had purchased this themselves. We also have a plier based on an overall assessment of both direct and indirect greater opportunity to impose demands that ensure that our costs. Bufab’s deliveries are to meet increasing market demands suppliers follow our Code of Conduct and comply with our in terms of quality and responsible production – the costs of requirements for environmental consideration, health and safety, potential deficiencies in C-Part quality and delivery precision human rights and other social conditions in production. can also be significant. What are C-Parts? A changing market C-Parts often form a large share of the part numbers on a The driver for our customers is to reduce costs and to increase material list. They are components such as fasteners in metal or productivity through an efficient management of C-parts that plastic (screws, bolts, nuts, rivets, cotters, washers, etc.), other meets the market’s stringent demands on price and quality and small metal, rubber or plastic parts, such as wires, springs and consideration for people and the environment. Bufab takes an electronic fasteners. C-Parts have typically a low unit cost, wide overall responsibility for our customers’ management of C-parts. product variation, large volumes and many suppliers within the This gives our customers time and energy to focus on their core segment. business. Demands on C-Parts suppliers are increasing and only C-Parts are unique as only a small proportion of the total cost those who can deliver at a global top level will survive the current of the component is from the purchase price, often as little as consolidation phase in the market. We view these increasing 20 per cent. The remaining 80 per cent of total costs are indirect demands as a challenge and aim to become market leader. costs, in the form of costs for logistics, sourcing and quality. Bufab offers more than 140,000 items that we stock at our Non-financial value creation warehouses worldwide. As sourcing, quality assurance and logistics for C-Parts forms the core of Bufab’s business model, we are in a better position Global supplier network Over 140,000 C-Parts Lower total cost Secured quality Reliable delivery In-house Less complexity production Saves you time Customer satisfaction 4 Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 STRATEGY Value Number of components A-Parts B-Parts C-Parts The customer’s focus Bufab’s focus Bufab improves quality and sustainability for products the customer focuses least on – products they lack the resources to manage efficiently. C-Parts have the lowest value among customer components, but are most numerous. Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 5 STRATEGY Bufab’s absolute focus is the customer and quality. We would not be where we are today if we had not prioritised the needs of our customers and quality at all levels. That is our history and our future. Strategy Bufab Best Practice Quality and customer needs first In recent years, we have worked methodically in adapting our Using a systematic stakeholder dialog, we are well aware of the operations to sustainability as a strategic tool. In this spirit, we demands of our customers. Customers expect good service and created Bufab Best Practice (BBP) and began work to imple­ products that provide the pledged functionality and with delivery ment the framework in operations. With BBP, we have created a on time. They also want a secure and sustainable supply chain, platform for sustainable growth and efficiency. BBP is based on that we report on the use of conflict minerals and use a Code the ISO 9001 management system and supports management of Conduct for suppliers, and that we are certified as specified in our regional operations. By collecting good examples, we can in ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Customers are our most important develop our business and meet the rising demands in the market stakeholder group and their wishes form the foundation for our by learning from the experiences of each other. However, it is governance and improvement efforts. even more important to use the good examples to standardise Bufab’s customer offering, Global Parts ProductivityTM, aims to working methods, processes, tools and systems within the improve productivity in the customers’ value chain for C-Parts. framework of a management system. This is highly ambitious, We help our customers reduce total costs, free up capital, but we believe that we have made excellent progress in this work achieve a consistent quality and stable deliveries. over the past years. Our value proposition states: Bufab is “The Solutionist”. We When we acquire new sister companies, we want to integrate meet customer needs for C-Parts – small components far down these operations into our management system so that they also in the customer value chain. When we solve this task for the meet the increasing demands of our customers for sustainability. customer, we also take a global responsibility – by joint sourcing However, both for acquisitions and when setting up our own and transportation, we have a better negotiating position and new operations, we are careful when adding new business units can apply stricter demands for sustainability in the supply chain. to our management system. Instead, we want them to ask to Helping our customers to improve sustainability in C-Parts is become involved in our systematic and efficient working an increasingly important part of our value proposition. Many of approach. Our overall policies, including the participation in our competitors are not strong in sustainability; small competi­ the Global Compact, apply to all companies in the Group. tors often lack the resources and some major competitors have not yet taken the subject seriously. Bufab sees an opening here. Bufab’s strategy for growth QUALITY AND CUSTOMERS FIRST! The Bufab employee: The Solutionist Accelerated organic Increased Value-adding Growth Efficiency Acquisitions Bufab’s employees do not see problems, we see solutions. Our reliability forms the basis for the long-term, trusting customer relationships that the company’s 40-year growth BUFAB BEST PRACTICE is founded on. Quality is always our first priority. Our Swedish heritage stands for honesty, transparency and strong ethics. We are dedicated – the goal is to be our customers’ longterm partner. We are proud to find the best solution for our customers. Our partnerships are based on good relations around the world. Our customers know that we deliver with passion and care. Bufab comes from the entrepreneurial heart of Sweden. We believe in being close and flexible. 6 Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY As a trading company, Bufab undoubtedly has a significant impact on sustainability issues, through its own activities but primarily through the actions of our suppliers. Sustainability journey Almost half of Bufab’s economic activity is through suppliers in Bufab has opted to use ISO 26000 as a framework for the Eastern Europe and Asia – which are areas with substantial company’s sustainability agenda. In recent years, Bufab has sustainability risks, but it is also here we have the greatest oppor­ made important steps towards more sustainable business tunity to make a difference by raising demands on suppliers. activities. This work has been in three stages: When we begin to work on the basis of our new growth strategy, refer to page 6, we understand that Bufab’s growth requires good quality and that we can guarantee that, for example, sourcing has been carried out responsibly. This is underlined by the stricter requirements in these areas 2013–2014 that we meet from our largest and most important customers. This realisation resulted in the implementation of a new management system for both quality and sourcing. These activities are Lays the foundation for necessary for the success of Bufab’s business, but are also critical in our sustainability efforts – sustainability work a large share of Bufab’s impact on people and the environment occurs in the operations of our suppliers, often in Eastern Europe and Asia. We formulated a Code of Conduct with guidelines for ethical business, human rights, the environment and quality as well as regulatory compliance. The principles of the Code of Conduct apply to the whole Group and our business partners and provide us with a tool to begin systematic work on sustainability issues. During the period, we also drew up policies and manuals on anti-corruption, the environment, quality and whistleblowing. We increasingly adapt our operations to sustainability, using this as a strategic tool. By collecting and learning from good examples, everyone in the Group has a platform upon which they can base their actions. These good examples have then been generalised and systematised into a comprehensive management system that we call Bufab Best Practice (BBP). We have then used this to create the tools and systems needed to work in accordance with BBP. In turn, these are linked with the Group’s 2015–2016 new common IT system, Bufab Trading System, which was specified and rolled-out to most sub­From separate actions sidi­aries during this period. to a systematic We were highly active in developing the Group’s employees. Through Bufab Academy, employees working approach are provided with knowledge about the Group’s operations, working methods and tools as well as opportunities for networking. It is important in an environment like ours which is built on entrepreneurial freedom and personal responsibility. In 2015–2016, we also improved the Group’s whistleblowing function. It guarantees that you are always able to point out improprieties anonymously and risk-free. Using the framework as a foundation, we feel we are ready to set our sights higher. Already 2017 today, Bufab meets market demands for sustainability and is often “Preferred Supplier” to our major customers, which is a significant competitive advantage over smaller companies in par­ Aiming to become ticular. This is a position we have earned because of our efforts to work in a sustainable manner. world-class player But the world is not standing still. What is good today is only average tomorrow and not good enough the day after. This is why we must constantly improve to remain relevant to our customers. If we can achieve this, we can further strengthen our edge. The action programme in this report should be viewed against this backdrop. Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 7 FOCUS AREAS Bufab has identified four focus areas for the company’s sustainability efforts in the future. Focus areas provide us with different perspectives on how we can achieve sustainable growth. Focus areas for strategic sustainability work Long-term, systematic Sustainable global sustainability work business Bufab’s sustainability agenda is governed by our Code Bufab’s largest impact on sustainability is in relation to our of Conduct and our policies for employees, the environ­ global network of 3,000 suppliers. Suppliers are chosen, ment, quality and anti-corruption. We also have a Code assessed and developed using Bufab’s global supplier of Conduct for our suppliers. Bufab is a participant of the process. Bufab promotes environmental responsibility by UN Global Compact and follows its principles. Bufab’s encouraging our suppliers, contractors and customers to aim is that all sister companies will gradually transfer adopt international environmental principles. to the Bufab Best Practice (BBP) management system. This is governed by our Best Practice Board forum and we conduct regular audits to ensure compliance and improvements. Moving forward, we will focus more on sustainability aspects in BBP. Supported by ISO 9001, 14001 and 26000, we will create an industry-leading Best Practice for sustainability governance. Read more on page 9. Read more on pages 11–13. Responsible growth People and relationships Bufab has the ambition to grow. Growth is important to By providing clear values and a strong leadership, we offer favourable returns to our owners, which are an want to be the most attractive employer in the C-Parts important stakeholder group. However, responsible growth industry. The Bufab Academy offers a toolkit to develop also benefits our other stakeholders: our employees, the skills we need to meet the rising demands in the society at large and our suppliers. And most important: market. Our approximately 1,000 employees are we achieve responsible growth for Bufab by improving independent, systematic problem-solvers who play sustainability in our customers’ sourcing, logistics and an active role in our environmental efforts and believe quality assurance of C-Parts. greater diversity will strengthen Bufab. Read more on page 10. Read more on pages 14–15. 8 Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE We call our employees Solutionists and Bufab’s value creation arises in the dynamics between the solution-oriented entrepreneur and the systematic engineer – we need both characteristics to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. Long-term, systematic sustainability agenda Bufab’s Code of Conduct is conducted by comparing a desired situation with the current A significant part of our sustainability work is to establish and situation. Deviations are identified, analysed and adjusted. maintain suitable processes to identify suppliers that meet the During 2016, most of our subsidiaries underwent a “gap analysis” demands of our Code of Conduct and our policies. Bufab’s compared with BBP and action plans have been drawn up for Code of Conduct is based on the International Labour Organiza­ how we can manage the deviations identified. We have created tion’s (ILO), declaration on fundamental principles and rights in a new management forum, Best Practice Board, which comprises working life, the OECD’s guidelines for multinational companies Bufab’s CEO and parts of Group management, and which regu­ and the UN Declaration of Human Rights. The Code of Conduct larly meets to review status and action plans. is available at www.bufab.com. Bufab has signed the UN Global Compact and follows ISO 26000 – Guidelines for social respon­ Audits of suppliers sibility. Bufab encourages its business partners to make cont­i­ A significant part of Bufab’s sustainability agenda is to carry out nuous improvements in the areas of the Code of Conduct, which audits of our suppliers. Our quality inspectors have conducted a include business principles, principles on human rights and large number of audits at our suppliers. Supplier audits include social justice including freedom of association and collective issues such as quality, capacity, capability, organisation, human bargaining agreements where applicable, principles regarding rights, workplace issues and the environment. the environment such as applying the precautionary approach, quality and compliance with regulations. Global sustainability management Bufab’s policies apply to all companies in the Group and Bufab Best Practice with greater focus on sustainability compliance is regulated in the terms of reference issued to all Bufab Best Practice (BBP) is our Group-wide management system. managing directors. By promoting awareness, arranging training The system is based on ISO 9001 and uses the idea that we programmes and allowing more space for sustainability issues in should learn from the experiences of each other by sharing good our global management system, we will strengthen sustainability examples of improvements, problem-solving and smart working management at subsidiary level in the future. methods that are in use across the Group. The management system aims to increase our efficiency and growth, but is also a Bufab’s global policies tool for integration of both employees and acquired companies. • Code of Conduct Policy • Environmental Policy In 2016, BBP’s operations manual was published providing • Anti-corruption Policy • HR Policy our employees around the world with support and guidance • Finance Policy • IT Policy by describing good examples of measures that have the best • Finance Policy for Subsidiaries • Quality Policy impact on our results. • Communication Policy • Whistleblower Policy Bufab’s aim is that all companies will gradually transfer to BBP. Moving forward, we will increase our focus on sustainability To support implementation and compliance, all of our policies considerations in BBP and have initiated a project to meet the are accompanied by a policy manual. demands of ISO 14001 globally. By applying ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and using guidelines in ISO 26000, we will create a leading Best Practice for sustainability management in the supply chain for C-Parts. Using systematic sustainability management, we can establish routines for continuous improvements and achieve Activities in 2017 the requirements of external audits. Today, 14 subsidiaries have • Improve the handling of sustainability aspects in BBP locally certified management systems for quality in accordance under the leadership of the Best Practice Board with ISO 9001, and eight companies have an environmental • Draw up key performance indicators (KPIs) for sustain­ management system in accordance with ISO 14001. ability work • Implement BBP according to plan Operational work with Bufab Best Practice • Renew the external audit of sustainability work BBP covers most activities in our operations and forms the • Publish Bufab’s first Sustainability Report foundation of our operational sustainability work. Work with BBP Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 9 FOCUS AREA – RESPONSIBLE GROWTH Our growth is to take place both organically and through acquisitions. Growth enables us to offer returns to our owners. But responsible growth is also important to increase sustainability and our contribution to other stakeholders: employees, society at large, suppliers and customers. Responsible growth With Bufab Best Practice, we have created a platform for Suppliers sustainable growth. It forms the basis of our work for respon­ Our operations create jobs both within Bufab and for our sub­ sible growth, both for acquisitions, our own production and in suppliers. With our large purchasing volumes, we can make collaborations with our suppliers. Bufab has the ambition to demands on our subsuppliers in terms of both social and eco­ grow. Growth is important in order to offer favourable returns to nomic conditions for their employees. We work hard to ensure our owners, which are an important stakeholder group. However, that everyone working in Bufab’s supply chain is treated fairly responsible growth also benefits our other stakeholders. Our and has a safe workplace. Bufab’s Code of Conduct for sup­ employees profit through salary, pension and other benefits, and pliers is an important tool in this work. also by receiving opportunities for personal development with an employer that emphasises a large degree of personal freedom Customers and personal responsibility. Communities in the countries where Responsible growth for Bufab often occurs when we take over we operate benefit from the growth through direct and indirect a larger share of C-Parts handling from a customer. As part of tax revenue, for example. Our suppliers, which are chosen for this work, poorer suppliers are often replaced by better alter­ their ability to contribute to responsible growth can grow in natives, inefficient logistics by efficient logistics, in addition to their own right. And finally, and perhaps most importantly, our improvements in both delivery precision and quality. Overall, this customers receive help in improving sustainability in sourcing, increases customer productivity. At the same time, the customer logistics and quality assurance of C-Parts. obtains better control over sustainability in its business. The latter is an increasingly important reason for why customers Acquisitions choose to grow with Bufab. Since 2014, Bufab has acquired four companies and begun integrating Bufab Best Practice for three of these. The integra­ tion in Bufab’s management system allows recent acquisitions Activities in 2017 to highlight their sustainability activities and meet customer • Raised growth ambitions expectations. Bufab wants to be an attractive Supply Chain • Integration of completed acquisitions Partner – for both customers and recent acquisitions. • Better communication to customers, suppliers and employees about sustainability Acquisition of the C-Parts supplier FLOS Discussions with the Netherlands-based company FLOS the initiative and independence that drives the company’s began in spring 2015 – we discovered substantial similar­ value creation. ities in strategy, how we do business and how we market Therefore, we did not force FLOS into our business ourselves. The corporate culture in both companies also system, instead it came to us and asked to be integrated had many common denominators – both companies focus into the system, as it saw the business potential. Through on the customer, are flexible and pragmatic. We could the acquisition, we have achieved synergies in sourcing quickly see that there were also Solutionists at FLOS. and logistics and in pooling resources and expertise, but Less than a year later we acquired FLOS. The company see further potential in the future through better use of had a responsible attitude to employees, quality and the bargaining power in joint sourcing and by sharing FLOS’s environment and could comply with the requirements in expertise in subassemblies with other Bufab customers our Code of Conduct from the outset. and thereby create more value for the customer. Bufab’s acquisition strategy is based on a soft takeover Today, FLOS is a profitable and independent sister of acquired companies. We take good care of entre­ company in the Group and is performing well. The preneurial capital in the acquired company. If we force successful acquisition process has strengthened our acquired companies to wear a “Bufab suit”, we risk losing conviction that our method for integrating acquisitions works. 10 Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS As a global company, with a large number of parts, suppliers and customers, we have a substantial opportunity to exert an influence in terms of sustainability. Sustainable global business To identify where our operations have most impact, and which by our global product managers, and by our purchasing offices factors are important to the company and its continued success, in China, India, Taiwan, the UK and Sweden. we conducted a materiality analysis during the year. The assess­ Our Code of Conduct for suppliers is signed by all of the main ment was conducted in collaboration with Bufab’s key stake­ suppliers and all new suppliers since 2016. Some of our largest holders, using both qualitative and quantitative review methods suppliers, in terms of sales, are in the highest supplier category, and a benchmark of information needs. The key areas identified Preferred Supplier, the others are in the Qualified Supplier cate­ were: gory. The difference between the various categories is the level • Anti-corruption of commitment. Our target for 2017 is a significant increase in • Sourcing routines the number of Preferred Suppliers, which have the highest level • Assessment of suppliers from a social perspective of commitment, also for sustainability issues. • Assessment of suppliers with regard to the environment Certain close supplier relationships, with suppliers where • Emissions from transport activities Bufab makes continuous purchases, develop into a partner­ • Qualifications ship. The aim of the partnership is to achieve better productivity • Diversity and non-discrimination and precision and higher quality, but also to create favourable conditions to focus on sustainability aspects at the supplier. Our In 2017, we will conduct a GAP analysis regarding current gover­ target for 2017 is to continue increasing the number of suppliers nance of key areas and further develop routines for follow-up. with partnership status. By formulating targets and measuring, prioritising, assessing With know-how and larger sourcing volumes, Bufab can and improving our work in these key areas, we can reduce our control C-Parts suppliers from a sustainability perspective more negative impact and take advantage of our opportunities to make easily than our customers. In efforts to develop our supplier a positive impact. Through this governance for greater sustainrelationships, we prioritise our largest suppliers where we see ability, we are building a stronger Bufab, ready to meet the future. that this work has the greatest impact. Suppliers that fail to meet our requirements are rejected. Anti-corruption Bufab’s approach to ethical business is described in the com­ pany’s Code of Conduct. We also have an anti-corruption policy, with an accompanying manual. With a transparent business Supplier categories system, where all transactions are open for everyone, we obtain Bufab works with the following supplier categories: good self-regulation and thereby reduce the risk for corrupt transactions. The fact that our whistleblower policy has an • Preferred: Has both signed a sourcing agreement anonymity protection via a third-party process has resulted in and Bufab’s Code of Conduct for suppliers. This group an increase in reports of suspected improprieties. The terms of includes our partners. reference issued to managing directors in all Group companies • Qualified: Has conducted a self-assessment and signed clarifies that the managing director has a responsibility to ensure the Code of Conduct for suppliers. that routines exist to ensure compliance with Group policies. • Pending: Suppliers that are yet to undergo our approval process. Environmental considerations • Blocked: Suppliers we do not work with or are being Transport and suppliers are responsible for our largest environ­ phased out. mental impact in the form of emissions from the transport of goods, and also emissions from manufacturing by suppliers. Bufab promotes environmental responsibility by encouraging Supplier audits our suppliers, contractors and customers to adopt international Bufab has quality engineers employed who, during a supplier environmental principles. The environment is impacted during audit, examine conditions in areas including employees and raw material extraction, by subsuppliers, in manufacturing and sustainability, training, health and safety, accident reporting, work in transport to warehouses and from warehouses to customers. with safety inspections, child labour, environmental issues, waste and emissions, control of conflict minerals and compliance with Sourcing REACH and RoHS. During an audit, we also check production Bufab’s largest impact on sustainability is within our global capacity. In 2016, certain audits used external consultants. network of 3,000 suppliers. Suppliers are chosen, assessed and developed by using Bufab’s global supplier process, supported Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 11 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS An audit may be initiated when a purchaser requests a review reduce the proportion of air cargo, and create suitable KPIs following a visit to a supplier, though it could also be triggered to guide developments in the desired direction. by deviations in production. Most audits follow a predefined plan, but in some cases the audit is requested by a customer. Quality assurance Comprehensive quality efforts are required as a supplier to Reduced risk with good relationships demanding customers worldwide. Quality in Bufab is fully inte­ Adopting a long-term approach and having good relations can grated into our management system, Bufab Best Practice, and reduce the risk in the supply chain – closer relationships benefit is based on the quality management system ISO 9001:2015. both price and lead times, which influence profit, efficiency and We have a process to identify, handle and follow-up quality customer satisfaction. During supplier audits, we obtain infor­ deviations. When a quality deviation has been rectified and mation about a supplier’s production capacity in our supplier investigated, the case is presented for analysis for internal management system, and thereby can discover new suppliers learning and then to Bufab Best Practice. and reduce the risk level in our production. For certain sourcing, we have instead a “designated” supplier, which entails that our Sustainability governance of the supply chain customer has chosen and evaluated the supplier and is also Bufab’s sustainability governance of the supply chain is based responsible for sustainability aspects in the supplier relationship. on the Code of Conduct and our policies for the environment, The fact that Bufab has a broad customer base with many good quality, whistleblowing and anti-corruption. We have established relationships with both large and small customers in different a global organisation for supplier governance and developed industries and market segments is important from a risk per­ and established the necessary infrastructure in the form of the spective. Today, no Bufab customer accounts for more than Supplier Management Module (SMM), with tools such as self-­ 5 per cent of Bufab’s sales. assessments, capability audits as a Scorecard for suppliers. We want to develop the world’s best supplier base for sustain­ Transport able C-Parts and to achieve this, we will continue our work with The environmental impact of Bufab’s operations is decreasing as audits and contracting. We need to increase the proportion of consolidated transport produces lower emissions and less envi­ sourcing from suppliers in the Preferred Supplier category and ronmental impact than if customers handle sourcing of C-Parts improve our sourcing in Asia. Last, but not least, we must take themselves. advantage of opportunities offered by increased digitisation in Deliveries from Asia to primarily Europe use maritime transport the supply chain. from Bufab’s warehouses in Taiwan, China and Vietnam or are directly from a supplier. Good capacity levels guarantee the lowest possible level of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime Activities in 2017 transport. Bufab’s large sourcing volume in Europe is for reasons • Continue consolidation towards our best suppliers, of both delivery speed and quality and entails shorter transport commercially and from a sustainability perspective distances with lower emissions due to the proximity to market. • Establish deeper partnerships with suppliers We only use air cargo if there is a risk of delays or for last-­ • Increase quality and intensity in our programme for minute orders. In 2017, we will assess how we can further supplier audits Stronger together Bufab has begun using category-driven sourcing for certain product groups. With this working method, a Commodity Manager at Bufab is responsible for a product group and utilises the Group’s entire volume in negotiations to obtain better negotiating power. This working method is already used by many large companies and Bufab was helped by a business partner to gain an insight into how the company worked. We then conducted our own process, adapted to our business, and tested a few cases, says Mikael. Using this working method, Bufab can make stricter demands on suppliers, we have become much more attractive in the market using a total volume, which means we can impose higher demands in terms of price, quality and delivery and also in sustainability aspects. Moving forward, this working method will be used in more categories. We will be able to raise standards when our suppliers see that we keep our promises and that our volumes are distributed as agreed. Mikael, Sourcing Manager, Bufab. 12 Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS Ajay, Managing Director, Bufab India What do Bufab’s customers, suppliers and employees say about the company’s ambitions in sustainability? Most of Bufab’s customers in India are large, multi­ national corporations with broad experience of sus­tainability issues and they welcome our ambitions in sustainability. Our suppliers are already aware of our ethical way of doing business as we are transparent in our business relations. However, they need more training about how sustainability work is conducted in practice. We have created an awareness about sustainability and ethical business among our employees and are available to answer any questions they have about the subject. Ekaterina, Logistics Manager, Bufab Russia You are responsible for logistics, which is an important area for both profitability and the environment, isn’t that so? Yes, that’s true. In our business, logistics has a deci­ sive role – efficiently managed it contributes to both profitability and to reduce environmental impact. We are working systematically to consolidate transport from more customers and collaborate with sister companies to handle maritime transport more efficiently. Can you see any results from your efforts? Yes, in 2016 we reduced the number of maritime transports by 10 per cent, cargo capacity utilization on trucks increased by 25 per cent and in containers by 50 per cent. With increased cargo capacity utilization, the transports are both cheaper and more environ­ mentally friendly. In addition to lower costs for both us and our customers, this reduced our environmental impact significantly. Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 13 FOCUS AREA – PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS Using clear values and strong leadership, Bufab wants to be the most attractive employer in the C-Parts industry. People and relationships Corporate culture and recruitment in the whistleblower policy, our strongest internal tool against With our approximately 1,000 employees and 33 subsidiaries corruption. worldwide, Bufab possesses valuable entrepreneurial capital. Our subsidiaries and their management teams are highly Development and the Bufab Academy independent and take a large degree of individual responsibility. Bufab Academy, which provides training in sales, leadership, Following acquisitions, we take a long-term approach when supply chain and technology, was launched in 2014. Through integrating the recently acquired company to preserve the Bufab Academy, CEOs at all of our sister companies have entrepreneurship we have acquired. access to a toolkit to support their operational leadership. When we recruit new employees, we look for committed and The Bufab Academy also presents an introduction pro­ flexible team-players irrespective of position. They should be gramme. This introduction programme is for all employees able to handle, and appreciate a large degree of freedom with who, in their work, require knowledge about the Group as a responsibility. We have an open attitude towards our employees, whole, such as salespeople and strategic purchasers etc. as well as to new methods and solutions. Freedom requires the All employees have an annual performance review with their ability to prioritise, but as we work close to management, line manager. support and guidance is always at hand. All of Bufab’s supplier auditors receive an ambitious training There are significant development opportunities at Bufab, course in social sustainability. We see significant potential in the both globally and locally. We are happy to recruit internally – future to use all of our communication channels, such as the web­ there is less risk associated with choosing an employee who site, intranet, sales material, training and introductions to spread has already been shown to possess the personal characteristics the message about the value of Bufab’s sustainability work. required at Bufab. People who are driven by an opportunity to make a difference enjoy working for us. Sustainability governance Work with people and relationships is based on our Code of Stakeholder dialogue Conduct and Group-wide policies. The terms of reference During 2016, we conducted in-depth interviews with about ten issued to managing directors of our subsidiaries is updated employees. The two most important areas for Bufab’s continu­ each year to reflect the Group-wide policies. Each year, the ing success are, according to our employees, that we work for managing directors submit a report on compliance with the greater diversity in terms of age, gender and cultural back­ policies in their subsidiaries’ operations. ground to strengthen Bufab, and that we reduce the company’s environmental impact from transport activities. The result forms Act Local – Think Global the basis for the materiality analysis that will develop into targets Bufab is a significant player in locations where we operate and for Bufab’s sustainability efforts. And our agenda already has a good reputation as an employer. We are proud to offer includes work to draft a diversity policy. stimulating jobs in the regions. With employees around the In addition to daily contacts, communication with our world, we take advantage of the opportunities offered by video­ employees is mainly conducted via our intranet. Group-wide conferencing/Skype to minimise our staff travel. To reduce the communication is in English. Policies etc. established for the number of journeys, most monthly meetings for Group manage­ companies are translated into local languages where necessary. ment and other management teams are held via Skype. The staff magazine, Bufab News, is published four times per year in both Swedish and English. Bufab News includes a letter from the CEO, a presentation of new employees, examples of strategic activities for growth and efficiency, comments on the Activities in 2017 quarter’s financial results and news. We highlight good • Launch KPIs for follow-up and governance of HR examples among both employees and business transactions. • Bufab Academy to be strengthened in sustainability issues Anonymity in work to combat corruption • Work to draft and communicate Bufab’s core values. The whistleblower policy was updated in 2016 so that sources • Special training for management and managing directors can now use a third-party agent. One important part of Bufab’s of all sister companies in sustainability anti-corruption efforts is our transparent business system that • Focus on sustainability at the Managing Directors’ is open to all employees. Transactions that do not feel sound Conference are questioned. This transparency is, together with anonymity • Renewed information about the process for whistleblowing 14 Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 FOCUS AREA – PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS Bufab’s values Our values act as a compass for our conduct towards each other and our business partners, but also towards society at large. Drawing up our values is important to be able to grow while maintaining our corporate culture. Our values play an important role in work introducing new employees and recently acquired companies. WHO WE ARE WE ARE ENTREPRENEURS FAST & FLEXIBLE – WITH BIG HEARTS Sheron, HR Manager, Bufab Region APAC HOW WE WORK Our Our You have worked at Bufab for three years, WE ALWAYS DELIVER customer DEDICATED – AS A TEAM values promise what can you say about Bufab and our employees from an HR perspective? For me, Bufab is a dynamic and warm family HOW WE CONTRIBUTE WE ARE A RESPONSIBLE TRUSTWORTHY where I am offered an opportunity to work with PARTNER many outstanding people! Bufab promotes those SOLUTIONISTS employees who produce good results, often to management positions, and I am very happy for them. For me, working in the HR department, it is important to support these employees through leadership development so they can be as We are entrepreneurs – with big hearts successful as possible in their new role and To succeed in business, you need to have a big heart contribute to Bufab’s success in the best – and that is just what we have. Despite our size, we have possible way. succeeded in keeping the feeling of a family business. We work together and treat each other with respect. We are responsive to the needs of our customers and find creative solutions for them. Our passion is finding solutions – we are entrepreneurs. We always deliver – as a team We provide professional, cost-efficient, sustainable busi­ ness and manage our customers’ resources as responsibly as if they were our own. We believe in personal initiative to drive the business forward, and teamwork for success. Always considering what is best for our customer. We are a responsible partner We want to help our customers with their C-Parts require­ ments, which involves taking complete responsibility for sourcing, logistics and quality. Our desire to become market leader means we want to create increased value for customers, suppliers and employees and always guarantee quality, customer focus and sustainability. We are a responsible player. Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 15 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS This is our first Sustainability Report, but we have an ongoing dialogue with many of our stakeholders concerning our sustainability work. The following are a few common questions and answers. Questions and answers Customers Suppliers What is the value of Bufab’s sustainability work for us as What is required to become a supplier to Bufab? customers? Why shouldn’t we choose a supplier that offers To become a supplier, the company must have an attractive lower prices? offering in terms of price, quality and delivery capacity and A sustainable supply chain entails less risk in terms of quality, comply with the requirements in Bufab’s Code of Conduct. delivery and brand. The market for C-Parts is based on the fact that customers need help with the responsible supply of small How can we work together, Bufab and suppliers, to be components. Bufab’s offering meets the market’s demands and as efficient as possible? raises standards at the same time, which benefits both custom­ Through cooperation in shared processes and risk assess­ ers and customers’ customers. In this way we can, in addition to ments, we ensure compliance with Bufab’s Code of Conduct improved sustainability, also offer a significantly lower total cost. and that our partners achieve our requirements, which include work against corruption, handling conflict minerals and so on. How does Bufab work with sustainability? Can we be sure that you and your suppliers follow Bufab’s Code Owners of Conduct? How do you stand in relation to your competitors? Bufab’s sustainability governance of the supply chain is based We are in a good position in relation to our competitors. We on the Code of Conduct and our policies for the environment, have good relations with our customers; we are knowledgeable, quality, whistleblowing and anti-corruption. Bufab has opted to responsive and flexible. Our global presence means we are use ISO 26000 as a framework for the company’s sustainability close to our customers. By offering high-quality products and efforts. With know-how and larger sourcing volumes, Bufab can services and guaranteeing a sustainable supply chain, we are control C-Parts suppliers more easily than our customers from a not exposed to price competition but can compete with added sustainability perspective. value. Increasing demands for sustainability in the supply chain will Employees become decisive in the C-Parts market moving forward – only Why should we spend time on sustainability? those who can deliver at a global top level will survive the con­ Responsible business with respect to both people and the solidation phase the market is currently experiencing. Through environment strengthens Bufab. The guarantee of a sustainable active and systematic sustainability work, we strengthen our supply chain is a requirement for many of our customers and position in the market. our working methods offer us an edge in the market. Even our owners expect that we can meet rising demands for responsible How do you work with information and training and business. Through a sustainable approach, we can strengthen follow-up and review of Bufab’s Code of Conduct? our operations by showing respect and by utilising our stake­ During their introduction training, new employees receive the holder’s interests – both today and in the future. Code of Conduct and we are planning to increase training initia­ tives in sustainability and integrate sustainability considerations How can we influence our suppliers for fairer working into Bufab Best Practice. During supplier audits, our quality conditions? engineers examine conditions in areas that include employees We can influence working conditions at our suppliers by and sustainability, training, health and safety, accident reporting, demanding that they comply with our Code of Conduct which work with safety inspections, child labour, environmental issues, regulates areas such as business principles, principles on waste and emissions, control of conflict minerals and compli­ human rights and social justice, principles regarding the envi­ ance with REACH and RoHS. ronment and quality and compliance with regulations. To ensure that suppliers follow the agreed rules on social conditions at the workplace, we conduct regular audits of our suppliers. 16 Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 Support for local activities Bufab has a family-like corporate culture. We have This includes the sponsorship in Poland of the Lechia always been a part of the local communities where we Gdańsk’s U9 football team. Bufab’s contribution has operate. We have no major sponsorship agreements been used to buy training clothes and boots for the at Group level, but we encourage and support local young footballers. activities and projects that aim to strengthen the social situation in communities where we operate. Bufab Sustainability Report 2016 Box 2266 SE-331 02, Värnamo, Sweden. Visiting address: Stenfalksvägen 1, Värnamo, Sweden. Phone: +46 370 69 69 00 www.bufab.com
