S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 6 T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S / 4 A WORD FROM ADRIANA / 6 2016 HIGHLIGHTS / 8 TROPICALIA Redefining Luxury Travel A Legacy For Future Generations Breathtaking Destination Sustainability As A Business Model / 22 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA Environment Education Productivity A S U S T A I N A B L E R E P O R T Socio-Cultural Advocacy / 38 PARTNERS FOR SUSTAINABILITY Our annual sustainability report is primarily distributed via our website and other online platforms. The copies that we do print are distributed on 100% Forest Stewardship / 42 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: 9 YEARS IN REVIEW Council (FSC) certified paper, and 80% of our reports are distributed using electric motorbike messengers. In 2016, this approach: / 50 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT / 51 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE Mitigated 658.94 kg Saved 54 trees and of CO² emissions 4,606 gallons of water / 56 LOOKING FORWARD /2 /3 GRI 102-14 A WORD FROM ADRIANA A W O R D F R O M A D R I A N A FOREWORD As CEO of Cisneros, I welcome the annual opportunity to share Tropicalia’s Sustainability Report, Together with Fundación Tropicalia, we have already established much of the groundwork detailed in and our progress in becoming one of the most sustainable luxury resorts in the world. Nine years the SMS, especially as it relates to community development and sustainable destination management. ago, we started our journey towards championing sustainable development on the northeastern We are eager to keep working towards our ambitious commitments and serving as a global leader as shores of the Dominican Republic. Today, we are helping to grow the region’s economy, conserve we promote sustainable development. its natural resources, and create new opportunities and brighter futures for the people who call this special place “home”. Those of us who work in the Because transparency is at the core of our corporate values, we applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) voluntary Sustainability Reporting Standards in our sixth Sustainability Report. tourism industr y are charged We are proud to be among the first implementers of the new G-4 GRI indicators. This allows with a huge civic and economic us to align our strategy and reporting efforts with the tools and best practices that guide global responsibility; in deed, this is decision-making on sustainability. not business as usual. We believe that Tropicalia’s long-term success depends not only on our team, but also our partners, stakeholders, and our relationship with the community of Miches. In 2016, we brought on new partners and cultivated relationships with existing stakeholder groups and associates. The United Nations declared 2017 as the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for DevelopmentWe also continue to work closely with The Ocean Foundation, a nonprofit that specializes in -calling upon the tourism and hospitality industry to take the lead in transitioning from conventional ocean health and coastal conservation, which serves as our third-party auditor and verifier of the to more sustainable and innovative business practices that can effectively contribute to the Sustainable information reported here. Development Goals (SDGs). Tourism represents one in every 11 jobs, and generates 10% of global GDP and 30% of world services exports. Those of us who work in the tourism industry are charged with a Four key commitments to sustainability guide our most impor tant decisions: economic huge civic and economic responsibility; indeed, this is not business as usual.¹ sustainability, environmental balance, thoughtful architecture, and community advancement. We adhere to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and embrace its At Tropicalia, we articulated a business model that spoke to this global agenda long ago and are perfectly global sustainability agenda. positioned to pioneer the building of a better world via Tourism for Development. As in 2016, we envision ourselves continually being at the forefront of this movement and advancing the universal 2030 Agenda This year provided ample opportunities for translating commitments and strategies into action. for Sustainable Development. In 2016, we made substantial progress across our existing and new environmental, economic and social initiatives. Through inclusive supply chains, community-based development programs, suppor t for education, and environmental management initiatives, we are rapidly advancing our goal to promote sustainable economic growth and diversification in Miches and nearby Thanks to all who have supported our journey, and who share our vision for the future. communities. Adriana Cisneros de Griffin. We are using our proprietary Sustainability Management System (SMS) to monitor the connection between our overall strategy and the internationally recognized best practices and standards it supports. This year we further vetted our SMS with our partners, and continue to incorporate this tool in our decision-making processes. ¹ World Tourism Organization (w/d). 2017 International Year for Sustainable Tourism Development. Why Toursim. /4 Obtained from http://www.tourism4development2017.org/why-tourism/ Accessed January 2017. /5 2016 HIGHLIGHTS 2 0 1 6 H I G H L I G H T S Reporting with Purpose At Tropicalia, we always look to raise the bar. This year, we decided to report against the G4 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards for Sustainability, cross-referencing the GRI indicators material to our business with our proprietary SMS, the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and the SDGs. Sustainability Management System (SMS) Vetting with Design, Development and Architecture Teams In 2016, we cross-referenced SMS indicators with our Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification scorecard and with the SDGs.This allows us to align corporate and global material issues for ourselves and our partners, and expands our commitment to the integration of environmental, economic and social sustainability practices. In addition, the identification of the SDGs we affect will allow us to commit to specific SDGs and targets in the future. Establishment of El Seibo Miches Tourism and Culture Cluster We led and supported the incorporation of the El Seibo Miches Tourism and Culture Cluster, in collaboration with local tourism entities, to establish and promote Miches as a sustainable tourism destination. Sustainable Tourism Supply-Chain Program Strategy Revision Over the last three years, Fundación Tropicalia made major advances with this program in partnership with the Inter-American Development Bank’s Multilateral Investment Fund (IDB/ MIF). Leading into the final year of execution, the program was extended an additional 12 months with a special focus on the project’s agricultural component. Fundacion Tropicalia Impact In 2016, Fundación Tropicalia’s initiatives and programs served 949 people, 61% of whom are women and young girls. A Record of Success for “I’m a Girl, I’m Important” (SNSI) Fundación Tropicalia celebrated the fourth year of the SNSI summer camp. The community eagerly anticipates SNSI every year, making this one of Fundación Tropicalia’s most popular and effective programs. /6 /7 GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-9 /8 /9 TROPICALIA R E D E F I N I N G B R E A T H T A K I N G L U X U R Y T R A V E L D E S T I N A T I O N Tropicalia is a high-end, low-impact, one-of-a-kind resort development conceived by Cisneros Real Estate. Offering sophisticated architecture in an unspoiled site of spectacular and diverse natural beauty in the ~ Dominican Republic, Tropicalia integrates luxury travel with environmental integrity. This development is positioned to serve as a model for sustainable tourism in the Caribbean, providing world-class services that are both environmentally and socially responsible. Miches’ Coastline The project includes 40 branded beachfront residences and a 160-key Isay Weinfeld-designed Four Seasons luxury beach resort. Amenities include a luxurious spa, meeting and banquet spaces, a kids’ club, Tropicalia is located in El Seibo province on the southern shores of the fitness center, and an 18-hole golf course. Besides its sophisticated architecture, Tropicalia’s pristine location Samaná Bay, in the community of Miches. It boasts a uniquely diverse and rich landscape allows it to offer a mix of unique adventure and leisure activities to its guests and ecosystem of beaches, mountains, mangrove forests, jungle, lagoons and residents. From guided treks to nearby natural wonders to a night beneath the stars, the adventurous à la rivers. Miches’ natural attractions include the magnificent beaches of carte experiences will harmonize with the area’s natural environment. Costa Esmeralda and Playa Arriba, the majestic Cordillera Oriental, and lush prairie landscapes. Its marine-rich environment attracts more than 2,000 humpback whales migrating each year to the Samaná Bay to mate and give birth. Together with historical and cultural landmarks, like the Santa Cruz Church and the Battle of Palo Hincado Monument, these characteristics make Miches an incomparable coastal settlement. Nearby, Los Haitises National Park exhibits magnificent limestone plateaus, conical hills, caverns and a large mangrove forest. The Wildlife Refuge Lagunas Redonda y Limón features two impressive lagoons, home to A LEGACY FOR several regionally native plant and animal species. La Gina is a spectacular bay outlined by mangrove and coconut forests, currently preserved as F U T U R E G E N E R AT I O N S a species and habitat management area. The Marine Mammal Sanctuary of the Dominican Republic is the largest marine protected area in the country, covering 25,000 km2 on the Atlantic Coast. It extends from Tropicalia embodies the philanthropic and cultural values of the Cisneros family, as well the Banco de La Plata, in the northern limit of the country’s Exclusive as the environmentally and socially responsible approach that guides Cisneros Real Economic Zone, to the coast of El Seibo province. Estate’s business. The project is an important economic catalyst for the Dominican Republic, and is set on creating a new benchmark for tourism in the region. “We are creating a resort with a sense of place and belonging. The land is so beautiful and pure that we know that success will depend on making sure we become careful stewards of what has always been there.” -Adriana Cisneros. Source: http://www.adrianacisneros.com/tropicalia-title-tbd/ / 10 / 11 TROPICALIA M i c h e s Ye s t e r d a y, To d a y a n d To m o r r o w Atlantic Ocean With a population of approximately 21,000, Miches has historically been an isolated community located in one of the poorest regions of the Dominican Republic. Its main industries include agriculture, cattle-raising, artisanal fishing, micro-business services and artisanal crafts. Despite its diverse and abundant resources, Miches faces many social and economic challenges including poverty, unemployment and delinquency, which arise from limited market access, low levels ACCESS of education, and scarce economic opportunities. Samaná Bay Santo Domingo: 3.0 hrs. / 175 Kms. Laguna Redonda Punta Cana: 1.0 hrs. / 105 Kms. Laguna Limón Today, Miches is forging a more promising future. The Dominican government has invested in transpor tation and telecommunication infrastructure to expand Miches’ market access. In early 2015, the government completed a highway La Romana: 1.5 hrs. / 86 Kms. project from Miches to Punta Cana, removing one of the largest barriers to socioeconomic development. Now, this LOS HAITISES coastal community is just an hour away from the Punta Cana airport, which attracts more than 2 million tourists annually. In 2016, the government inaugurated the highway segment from Miches to Sabana de la Mar, adding 40 kilometers to the FUNDACIÓN MICHES Punta Cana–Uvero Alto–Miches highway launched in 2015. Commitments have been made to conclude the Sabana de TROPIC ALIA la Mar–Samaná highway segment, and to improve the ferry terminal, pier and sewage system. SANTO DOMINGO PUNTA C ANA Atlantic Ocean HAITÍ Samaná Bay DOMINIC AN REPUBLIC LOS HAITISES NATIONAL PARK MICHES SANTO DOMINGO PUNTA LA ROMANA C ANA “By providing stable jobs, establishing a local supply chain, and contributing towards community-based development, we join the government’s efforts of building a more Car ibbean Sea prosperous future for Miches. Our goal is not only to favor economic growth and diversification in Miches and other nearby communities, but also to position the entire region as a sustainable tourism destination that favors social, ecological, and aesthetic preservation and enhancement.” William R. Phelan, Vice President and General Manager, Tropicalia. / 12 / 13 GRI 102-18 GRI 102-7, 102-8, 102-12, 102-16 / GRI 102-40, 401-1, 405-1, 414-1 TROPICALIA S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y Our Sustainability A S A B U S I N E S S M O D E L Committee ~ In 2009, we established our Tropicalia Sustainability Committee, a cross-functional team that meets annually to discuss strategy, report progress and define goals for the upcoming year. A Commitment to Responsible We held our 11th annual Sustainability Committee meeting in 2016, discussing Business strategic decisions for 2017 with valuable input of senior leadership and employees across the organization. Several new members joined the meeting, which we saw as an oppor tunity to outline why we repor t, the impor tance of repor ting, and the role of our internal associates, a crucial topic on the Committee’s 2016 agenda. LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITMENTS TO THE UNGC AND SDGS We implemented internal sustainability working groups that would tackle specific areas of our sustainability approach. We identified SMS and LEED working groups as immediate priorities. In 2010, we committed to the UNGC’s universal principles on human This year, we included an annex listing the principles of the UNGC in rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We translate these contracts with our three major partners and contractors. Our goal is The diversity of our Committee members brings strength to this corporate governance body. In commitments into policies that counter child labor, advocate for gender for everyone involved in the construction and operation of Tropicalia to addition to internal participation, we also include external advisors such as Alan Kelso, Chairman equity, equal oppor tunity employment, and encourage individual comply with these basic international standards. and CEO of Sinergo, our development partner based in Costa Rica and specialized in high-end, freedom of association. We are proud to say that almost 40% of our ecologically sensitive tourism real estate projects. Sinergo’s expertise in the sustainable luxury current employees are women; all employees are remunerated based We also acknowledge the impor tance of linking such effor ts with segment has enriched our thinking when it comes to conceptualizing the strategic path for on experience and position; we hire and train local residents; and all the SDGs. Launched in 2015 by the United Nations (UN) after a Tropicalia and the work of the foundation. operations implement local community engagement and development re-examination of the Millennium Development Goals, the SDGs mark programs via our foundation, Fundación Tropicalia. the development agenda through the year 2030, providing a road map of opportunities to solve societal and environmental challenges. Ultimately, the UNGC principles support our efforts for advancing the SDGs; the connection is crucial.² Gender/region Number of employees (*) The UN declared 2017 the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development. Its goal is to foster a better understanding among people around the world, leading to a greater awareness of the rich heritage 15 of civilizations and the values of different cultures. Three specific SDGs Men Total are being supported: SDG 8, Decent Work and Economic Growth; SDG 12, Responsible Consumption and Production; and SDG 14, Life Below 24 Water.³ Our work contributes to the advancement of all three. 9 Women Our commitment to human rights, environmental protection, structural integrity, and smar t and efficient 16 infrastructure design, as well as our Rural community development activities, are Total guided and monitored by a proprietary 24 SMS. Through the integration of the SMS into every aspect of our activities, we hope 8 to position ourselves at the forefront of Urban sustainable tourism practices. (*) Information compiled and verified through the employee payroll for calendar year 2016. All employees are permanent and full-time. ² UNGC (w/d). The UN Global Compact Ten Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals: Connecting, Crucially. White paper. Obtained from: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ docs/about_the_gc/White_Paper_Principles_SDGs.pdf. Accessed December 2016. ³ World Tourism Organization UNWTO (2016). United Nations declares 2017 as the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development. Obtained from: http://media.unwto. / 14 org/press-release/2015-12-07/united-nations-declares-2017-international-year-sustainable-tourism-develop. Accessed January 2017. / 15 GRI 102-46, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 102-10, 102-48, 103-3 TROPICALIA Sustainability Management System Sustainable Thinking Four key elements guide our most important decisions: CONCEPT AND PURPOSE We designed our SMS in 2014 to achieve exceptional performance in environmental, economic, and social sustainability. Today, it provides a systematic means of reviewing, improving, and implementing sustainability practices throughout our management and operations. E C O NO M I C E NVI RO NM E N TAL SU STA I NA B I L I TY B A L A NC E “Our design and construction partners are actively vetting the SMS to identify the indicators we comply with and those that will require extra work or a strategic refocus. The result will be a practical, user-friendly and informative SMS, so Financial, environmental and social viability Protection and conservation of the natural that collaborators at multiple levels can report against our proprietary sustainability indicators.” are equally considered in making sound environment using sustainable site development and business decisions. destination management to preserve biological Leonardo Troyo, Project Manager, Tropicalia. integrity, habitat connectivity, and green space. TH O U G H TFU L C O M M U N IT Y MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT A RC H I TE C TU RE A DVA N C E M E N T Design and development standards that Local economic diversification and community We carefully selected each indicator included in our Sustainability Management System through a materiality assessment, guarantee quality and environmentally sound development fomented by Fundación Tropicalia a process that pinpoints Tropicalia’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts within the boundaries of our construction techniques. programs in the Miches community. property and the local community, as well as the issues that substantively influence the decisions of our stakeholders.4 The result: an SMS with 89 criteria that support concrete action in nine key areas, including: sustainable destination management; cultural heritage and community development; legal accountability and human resources; and built and natural environmental management. Each area has a set of indicators and expert guidance that respond to internationally recognized best practices and reporting guidelines, including: › United Nations Global Compact: Ten Principles for Corporate Sustainability. ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY › Global Reporting Initiative: G4 Sustainability Reporting guidelines. › Global Sustainable Tourism Council: Criteria for Destinations and Criteria for Hotels and Tour Operators. › Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council: Pearl Rating System for Estidama. We consider financial, environmental, aesthetic and social viability in › Inter-American Development Bank: Tourism Scorecard. making sound business decisions. › Green Globe: Certification Standards for Sustainable Tourism. › The Ocean Foundation: Coastal Sustainable Development Standards, named one of the “Best Sustainable Codes, Part of the development lifecycle is the notion of constant change driven by a host of internal and global factors. Upon Standards and Policies” in 2010 by the American Society of Landscape Architects. consolidating our investment structure, in 2016 we determined that financing of Four Seasons Tropicalia required more time than originally anticipated. As a result, we seized this opportunity to continue to improve upon the economics of our project and further engaged in conversations with international lenders and investors that share our integrated The SMS was further vetted and cross-referenced with international benchmarks and indicators, including LEED criteria approach to sustainability. and UN SDGs. As part of our research and investigation efforts, we came across the GRI’s report on Sustainability Topics for Sectors (2013),5 which confirmed that the information portrayed in our SMS is material for the Real Estate and In 2016, our foundation further supported micro and small enterprises in the Miches community by providing new Hospitality sectors, and of interest to the investment and environmental communities. financing and education opportunities for local entrepreneurs. The final SMS product is a result of a collaborative work with The Ocean Foundation, an independent nonprofit organization based in Washington, D.C., with extensive sustainability expertise. “Our commitment is to sustainable development of the entire destination. Building a strong local economy reduces the risks most often associated with Finally, we used feedback from other key partners, such as Gensler, Sinergo and Thompson Engineers, and of specific conventional tourist destinations.” internal teams, to refine the SMS. Sofia Perazzo, Executive Director, Fundación Tropicalia. Source: http://sharedvalue.org/groups/building-sustainable-supply-chain-remote-island-paradise 4 Global Reporting Initiative, Defining Materiality: What Matters to Reporters and Investors, pg. 6 https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/Defining-Materiality-WhatMatters-to-Reporters-and-Investors.pdf. Accessed February 2017. 5 Global Reporting Initiative (2013). Sustainability Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders want to know? Obtained from: https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/ / 16 sustainability-topics.pdf. Accessed December 2016. / 17 TROPICALIA ENVIRONMENTAL BALANCE THOUGHTFUL ARCHITECTURE We protect and conserve the natural environment by using sustainable site development and destination management to preserve biological Our design and development standards ensure enduring aesthetics, integrity, habitat connectivity and green space. quality construction and environmentally sound techniques that integrate with nature, maintain vistas, and maximize beauty of place. We continued to execute a rigorous Environmental Management and Protection Program (PMAA), submitting our Environmental Compliance Reports (ICA) reports to the Ministry of Despite delays in the Tropicalia development, we continue to move forward with Environment and Natural Resources (MIMARENA) every six months. other elements such as completion of design, model room development and LEED certification. Because infrastructure development has not yet begun, our monitoring activities currently focus on baseline data measurements. These include water quality, solid waste and noise pollution, as In 2016, we completed construction of the model room for Four Seasons well as managing gas emissions and compensatory reforestation. This information will be used to Tropicalia, which serves as a living laboratory where we examine the viability mitigate impacts during Tropicalia’s construction and design phases. of construction and design components including aesthetics, functionality and sustainability. To reduce the demand for air conditioning, we have tested energyIn 2016, we submitted two ICAs to MIMARENA, marking a total of 12 ICAs completed to date. efficient glazing on the expansive sliding glass doors leading to the outdoor Both reports were approved by the corresponding authorities. patios, as well as an automated control system that adjusts the cooling system when the doors are open. The model room also included the construction of a green roof. Green roofs Reporting Processes and Parameters provide an aesthetic improvement, and also contribute to landfill diversion, mitigate heat during the hottest months, improve energy efficiency and air quality, and may contribute to stormwater management.6 We are proud to report that the model room design was completed and approved by ownership PROGRAM SUBPROGRAM PROGRAM SUBPROGRAM (Cisneros), Four Seasons and the architect Isay Weinfeld, which gives us the green light to move forward. › Rehabilitation of degraded › Health and labor protection areas › Working hours regulation Physical Controls › Water management › Environmental regulations › Implementation of operation within contracts and legal manuals and maintenance of documents LEED Certification green areas Socio-environmental › Training As part of our commitment to implementing state-of-the-art, environmentally › Effluent treatment Management friendly development, we continued to work towards Silver LEED certification for › Vaccination and Four Seasons Tropicalia. LEED is a rigorous third-party verification standard that Environmental Quality › Solid waste treatment preventivemedicine provides a global benchmark for excellence in green building, energy efficiency and the use of local, reusable or repurposed materials, among other sustainability › Atmospheric emissions › Road maintenance categories such as water and air quality. treatment › Traffic control In 2016, we used the LEED Scorecard to assess our design, and looked to › Guidelines for deforestation the United States’ standards as LEED has not yet emerged for the Dominican activities › Guidelines for archaeological Republic. Based on the hotel’s current design, we are candidates for obtaining heritage maintenance and use either the LEED Silver or Gold certifications. › Compensatory reforestation Biological Controls Environmental › Follow up and control Supervision › Land use planning for conservation purposes Contingency › Environmental education for Management › Contingency management plan wildlife protection 6 Green Roofs for healthy cities (n/d). Obtained from: http://www.greenroofs.org/ / 18 index.php/about/greenroofbenefits. Accessed January 2017. / 19 GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 TROPICALIA COMMUNITY ADVANCEMENT We support local economic diversification and community development via Fundación Tropicalia’s programs. We established Fundación Tropicalia in 2008 to support the socioeconomic development of the Miches community. Fundación Tropicalia collaborates with the public and private sectors, civil society, academia and international organizations. We focus on shared value, which connects social and environmental advancement with economic progress. The foundation’s efforts focus on improving the quality of education, working with women and girls to improve their economic and social position, creating a local supply chain of goods and services, promoting the region’s cultural traditions; and, encouraging sustainable practices in Destination Managemen t: environmental and agricultural activities, among other initiatives. El S eib o Miche s To u r i s m a n d Cultur e Cluster In August 2016, Tropicalia led the effort to establish the El Seibo Miches Tourism and Culture Cluster, which engages participants in the local tourismsupply chain. The entity seeks to increase the region’s competitiveness and Stakeholder sustainability efforts by regulating tourism activities, reinforcing laws and Engagement regulations, and enhancing the business and social environment. In 2016, the El Seibo Miches Tourism and Culture Cluster was featured At Tropicalia, we carefully identify the stakeholders most impacted by our activities in “Andariego”, a national ecotourism TV show. The broadcast showcased via a series of stakeholder maps. They include local, regional, and national authorities; Miches’ natural attractions and several local businesses, including local local and international organizations, community leaders and media; principal partners restaurants, camping sites, eco-lodges and horseback riding services. and suppliers; and, employees. The Cluster is a currently leading the organization of “Playa Arriba Rescue We engage with them continually through our business activities and Fundación Committee”, a coalition of public and private institutions that will design a Tropicalia’s range of programs. Fundación Tropicalia’s team members reside in Miches, program to protect and manage the local beachfront, Playa Arriba. allowing for an intimate understanding of community development needs. We structure programs accordingly, prioritizing quality and transparency above all else. / 20 / 21 GRI 203-2, 413-1 / 22 / 23 GRI 102-44 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA E N V I R O N M E N T ~ Costa Esmeralda Beach Tropicalia’s community engagement and social investment efforts began in 2008 with its foundation, Fundación Tropicalia. Rescue Program Fundación Tropicalia focuses on four main program areas: productivity, environment, education and socioSince 2013, Tropicalia and Fundación Tropicalia have worked with local authorities to restore and cultural advocacy. The foundation has identified, developed and implemented high-impact, innovative protect the idyllic beach of Costa Esmeralda. The partnership aims to enhance the municipality’s projects in agriculture, gender equality, education, environment, entrepreneurship and microfinance. natural attractions, and to promote compliance with related environmental regulations. ACTIVITIES IN 2016 MISSION Design and implement sustainable development programs that integrate local communities to promote collective change. A two-day cleanup of more Restoration of the beach Installation of new signs to The provision of new than 200m of beachfront entrance path and parking inform and raise awareness waste containers to VISION with the help of a team of area, using local natural regarding the responsible support trash collection 10 employees materials use of the beach and separation Promote socio-economic development and prosperity in the region. The work was completed before the Spring Break high season, leaving the area ready to be enjoyed during the festivities by both tourists and locals. Honors & Awards Playa Arriba Beach Rescue UNWTO FORBES and Maintenance Committee United Nations World Tourism Organization Award Forbes’ Central American and Dominican Republic To protect Playa Arriba, Fundación Tropicalia is partnering with local businesses, authorities and for Innovation in Non-Governmental Organizations: Edition ranking for Most Important Non-Governmental community members to form the Playa Arriba Rescue Committee and will participate in the Fundación Tropicalia named as a finalist for its Organization in Central America and Dominican Republic Tourism Cluster’s initiatives. sustainable tourism supply-chain program. In January 2017, it in 2016: Fundación Tropicalia ranked 14th. received the second runner-up award.7 Automatic Weather Station REDUCA ETHICAL CORPORATION In 2015, Fundación Tropicalia installed Miches’ first Automatic Weather Station (AWS). Latin American Network for Education (REDUCA) Ethical Corporation Responsible Business Awards – Most It records wind direction and speed, humidity, dew point, air pressure, temperature, solar award for Best Innovative Practice in Inclusive Education: Effective Domestic Community Investment: Fundación radiation, ultraviolet radiation and rainfall. The data collected suppor ts the tourism and Fundación Tropicalia recognized for its “I’m a Girl, I’m Tropicalia shortlisted for its Education Programs. agricultural sectors, as well as the Miches community in general, by providing accurate, up-toImportant” Summer Camp. date local weather information and tracking capabilities over time. 7 World Tourism Organization UNWTO. UNWTO Awards recognize the commitment of the tourism sector to sustainable approaches. Obtained from: http://www2.unwto.org/press/ 24 release/2017-01-19/unwto-awards-recognize-commitment-tourism-sector-sustainable-approaches. Accessed January 2017. / 25 GRI 203-1 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA E D U C A T I O N School Renovation & ~ Maintenance Program Scholarship & Cultural Exchange Program Sustainable economic development depends on the education of the local population. In Miches, where only 9.6% of the population has finished high school,8 education is crucial to lifting the community out of poverty. In 2016, Fundación Tropicalia celebrated the ninth anniversary of the School Renovation and Maintenance Program (PRyME), which brings together the education community of Miches to address Since 2011, Fundación Tropicalia has coordinated a Scholarship and Cultural Exchange Program with Instituto Superior de Agricultura administrative and infrastructure problems and help administrators repair and maintain their schools. University, or UISA, located in the municipality of Santiago de los Caballeros and specializing in agricultural sciences. The program Collectively, PRyME has supported 12 primary and secondary schools, 2,772 students and more than targets young Micheros pursuing an undergraduate degree in careers that relate to the municipality’s economic development, including 130 teachers. engineering degrees in agronomy, animal production and food technology, an education degree in natural sciences, or a bachelor’s degree in business administration. Fundación Tropicalia requires that schools provide counterpart funding or resources to encourage selfdetermination and independence. In 2016, the program attracted a record number of applicants. Out of 16 candidates, the foundation selected three outstanding high school graduates who exhibited exceptional leadership potential and commitment to the community. All will benefit from work-study, cultural and professional support services, as well as exchange opportunities, on-campus counseling, and parent meetings in Miches. Manuel Villa Reina and Marcia José Vásquez, awarded with the scholarship in 2011, successfully completed their undergraduate studies. Manuel graduated from UISA this year, while Marcia still needs to present her final thesis project. Fundación Tropicalia encourages scholarship students to return to their hometown and increase the number of professionals working in the agricultural sector. All UISA students from Miches benefit from Fundación Tropicalia’s Professional and Cultural Exchange Initiative; the fifth such exchange in 2016 supports students on their academic and professional career paths. Twenty-five students visited the Esmeralda Farm, owned by the Rizek Group and Iocated in San Francisco de Macorís, and experienced the Cacao Trail to learn how cacao becomes chocolate. C o l l e c t i ve l y, o u r e d u c a t i o n p r o g r a m s reach approximately 70% of Miches’ school district. 8 © Photo by Wa Chon Ou. Ministerio de Educación (2014). Anuario de Indicadores Educativos. Año lectivo 2012-2013. Obtained from: http://www.minerd.gob.do/sitios/Planificacion/Documentos%20de%20planifi/ 26 cacion/Anuario%20de%20Indica dores%20Educativos.%20A%C3%B1o%20Lectivo%202012-2013.pdf. Accessed January 2016. / 27 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA PRYME IMPACT IN 2016 LA GINA SCHOOL STUDENTS: 354 Fundación Tropicalia supported the construction of the school’s waste storage TEACHERS: 24 EDUCA Par tnership facility, provided construction materials and hired local labor. Renovation and USD $4,000 maintenance activities included the installation of an entrance gate and repair 75% Fundación Tropicalia, 25% La Gina School of the water cistern. EDUCA (Business Action for Education), a national NGO located in Santo Domingo, was created by a group of businessmen concerned with the global competitiveness of the Dominican Republic. EDUCA is one of the most important influencers in education public policy at the national level. Fundación TV CENTRO LA GINA STUDENTS: 229 Tropicalia has been a member of EDUCA’s board of directors for four years. The NGO has provided Fundación Tropicalia supported painting walls and repairing bathrooms of this TEACHERS: 11 ongoing technical advice and counsel on issues related to education in the Miches area. school, and provided painting materials. USD $2,403 32% Fundación Tropicalia, 68% TV Centro La Gina HICACO BLANCO SCHOOL STUDENTS: 151 Fundación Tropicalia supported the construction of the school’s waste storage TEACHERS: 10 facility and the repair of its bathrooms, which weren’t connected to the water USD $2,205 In-School pipeline system. 49% Fundación Tropicalia, 51% Hicaco Blanco School Education Program PRIMARY SCHOOL LA CULEBRA STUDENTS: 131 Fundación Tropicalia supported painting of interior and exterior walls, which TEACHERS: 9 In 2014, Fundación Tropicalia launched an In-School Education Program in Miches’ public schools to had significantly deteriorated due to weather and other construction work on USD $1,304 support students’ interest in the arts, develop and instill social skills, and promote critical and creative school grounds. 60% Fundación Tropicalia, 40% Primary School La Culebra thinking. This year, the program focused on La Mina and Hicaco Blanco schools. With the development of more than 15 arts and crafts workshops, and the participation of more than 80% of the students in La Mina and 100% in Hicaco Blanco, the program has proved to be a major success. TV CENTRO EL CEDRO STUDENTS: 107 Construction work of this school started in 2013 and has not yet been finalized. TEACHERS: 7 Nevertheless, the community used these facilities in the 2015-2016 school year. USD $1,253 Fundación Tropicalia, the school administration and a local association of school 60% Fundación Tropicalia, 40% TV Centro El Cedro supporters worked together to complete the construction of a bathroom building (mostly plumbing work), install doors and windows in administrative offices, and finish the connection to the electrical grid. IN-SCHOOL EDUCATION LICEO PADRE DANIEL STUDENTS: 662 PROGRAM IMPACT IN 2016 Fundación Tropicalia repaired six bathrooms of the school’s new pavilion, TEACHERS: 23 provided construction materials, and hired local labor. Walls were painted, USD $616 interior doors installed, and lavatories connected to the water pipeline system. 100% Fundación Tropicalia PRIMARY SCHOOL KILÓMETRO 6 STUDENTS: 180 Fundación Tropicalia provided building materials and hired local labor to TEACHERS: 7 completely replace the roof of the school’s administrative office, which was USD $254 severely deteriorated due to humidity and water infiltration. The replaced 65% Fundación Tropicalia, 35% Primary School Km6 materials were recycled and used for the construction of a small warehouse and other installations. 410 STUDENTS Girls: 196 Boys: 214 As for the remaining five schools in the PRyME network, Fundación Tropicalia continues to play an advisory role in maintenance, management, and academic processes. In 2016, Fundación Tropicalia also hosted its seventh annual PRyME celebration. More than 200 guests gathered to commemorate the year’s work, recognize outstanding community leaders, and promote integration among the education community. / 28 / 29 GRI 102-9, 203-1 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA MILESTONES IN 2016 INCLUDE P R O D U C T I V I T Y STRATEGIC ALLIANCES ~ Fundación Tropicalia has formed strategic alliances with specialized stakeholders, including the Junta Agroempresarial Dominicana (JAD, Dominican Agribusiness Board), Banco ADOPEM and ADOPEM ONG. S u s t a i n a b l e To u r i s m THE COOPERATIVE Supply Chain in Miches Cooperative of Production and Multiple Services of Miches, or COOPROMI, was established by Presidential Decree in 2016. COOPROMI seeks to consolidate and organize the commercialization and marketing of the region’s diverse sectors of goods and services. COOPROMI has accessed new funding opportunities and agricultural projects channeled through the JAD. Additionally, COOPROMI has been strengthened through the renovation of its Board of Directors, the election of a new president, and the addition of more regional producers. The “Inclusion of Micro and Small Enterprises in the Sustainable Tourism Supply Chain” project marked its fourth year of operation. Supported by the Inter-American Development Bank’s Multilateral Investment Fund (IDB/MIF), this initiative improves market access for local farmers and entrepreneurs by incorporating them into the tourism and agricultural value chain generated by Tropicalia, its partners, and other anchor companies in the region. The project also seeks to initiate, develop and promote climate-smart agricultural production in Miches. Five Key Components 1. Strengthening the commercial management and administration of local producers’ organizations. 2. Promoting climate-smart agriculture to improve the quality, scope, and diversity of local production. 3. Building the presence and capacity of local micro and small enterprises BUSINESS PLAN PROGRAM that provide tourism and agricultural services. 4. Providing greater access to microcredit financing for local growers and In 2015, Fundación Tropicalia consolidated a new partnership with Banco ADOPEM, one of the Dominican Republic’s most important microfinance entrepreneurs. institutions, and ADOPEM ONG, its non-profit division that supports financial and business-plan education services for clients and the general 5. Sharing knowledge and strategies to promote inclusive business models population. The partnership has successfully developed two new programs related to micro entrepreneurs’ access to credit and education: in other tourism destinations. ~ “¡Miches, sí!” (or “Miches, Yes!”) Program ~ The program supports the maturation of a local supply chain that can meet market Promotes the improvement of local small and micro businesses, supports new ventures, and strengthen Miches’ supply of tourism and demands of the tourism and agricultural industries. It also diversifies local economic agricultural products and services. The program offered 32 local entrepreneurs a 40-hour training course conducted by ADOPEM ONG to activities, redefining conventional supply chain markets in the region, strengthening its assist in developing their own business plans. Twenty-four completed the program, and 20 participants presented their ideas to an independent economy, and securing its long-term prosperity. jury that selected the four best concepts (two existing businesses and two new enterprises). The winners, one woman and three men, were awarded seed funding to launch their businesses and will receive ongoing support from ADOPEM ONG and Fundación Tropicalia. They are As of December 2016, Fundación Tropicalia had received more than USD $256,641, now producing and selling organic coconut fertilizer, raising rabbits for consumption, providing horseback riding tours, and managing a restaurant. representing 34.4% of IDB/MIF’s total planned investment. ~ “¡Miches Emprende!” Program ~ In October 2016, Fundación Tropicalia and Banco ADOPEM launched the “¡Miches Emprende!” revolving fund, a low-interest fund for entrepreneurs operating sustainable tourism or agricultural businesses in Miches. This year, six entrepreneurs (four women and two men) were funded by the initiative, accessing a total of DOP $620,000. / 30 / 31 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA TRAINING S O C I O C U L T U R A L As par t of the IDB/MIF project, nine training programs have been developed between 2014 and 2016, benefiting a total of 1,625 people (55% men and 45% women). Topics include financing, land A D V O C A C Y administration, use of pesticides, organic production, and best agricultural practices. Framed under an adaptive management process, the “Inclusion of the Micro and Small Enterprises ~ into the Sustainable Tourism Supply Chain” project was strategically overhauled and extended for 12 additional months through September 2017. For Fundación Tropicalia, this project will be absorbed as “I’m a Girl, I’m Impor tant” a permanent institutional program allowing us to ensure its success and evolution. The short-, mediumand long-term objectives and milestones for this new phase include: Summer Camp Fundación Tropicalia celebrated the four th year of the “I’m a girl, I’m impor tant” (“Soy niña, soy importante” or SNSI) summer day camp. SNSI serves girls 9 to 12 years old, and provides a safe, 1,625 people 55% men 45% women nurturing environment where girls can simply be girls. We give young girls the guidance and tools they need to be self-reflective, critical thinkers and make timely life choices like staying in school and postponing pregnancy. Curriculum includes: Education in Values; Artistic Expression & Development; Development of Interpersonal Relationships, Self-Esteem and Self-Awareness; Sex-Ed and STD › Training 200 farmers in ecological and climate-smart agriculture. Prevention; Gender & Violence; Nutrition; and Sports. › Supporting at least five new micro-enterprises linked to regional tourism and agriculture. In Dominican Republic 22% of girls between 15 and 19 years old have been pregnant at least once, placing it as the 5th country in Latin America with the highest teenage pregnancy rate. Early pregnancy › Strengthening the COOPROMI cooperative to function as a commercial entity. is the cause of 44% of school dropout among the country’s adolescents,9 hindering their personal and professional development, and widening the already large gender gap that exists in the country: › Expanding and diversifying local, organically raised crops such as passionfruit, watermelon, red Dominican Republic is the 97th out of 144 countries where there is more inequality between women peppers and ginger. and men according to the World Economic Forum’s 2016 Global Gender Gap Report.10 › Measuring the water and carbon footprints of at least three agricultural products to improve resource management and production efficiencies. › Increasing COOPROMI’s income by 20%. › Disbursing first-round capital from the ¡Miches Emprende! revolving fund for new and existing tourism businesses and recapitalizing the fund for second-round financing. › Transitioning a minimum of 50 farmers into full ecological production. › Developing an assessment of the production capacity of the highland and grassland regions. MICROFINANCE OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOCAL ENTREPRENEURS Fundación Tropicalia understands that socioeconomic development depends greatly on local growers’ and entrepreneurs’ access to financial services. Accordingly, in 2008 the foundation partnered with Fondo para el Desarrollo, Inc. (FONDESA), a leading microfinance nonprofit in the Dominican Republic, to diversify banking products, formalize the borrowing process, and support inclusive business programs in Miches. Thanks to FONDESA, thousands of families have gained access to affordable credit facilities that have supported commerce, agriculture, services, consumers, home remodeling, and livestock farming. In 2014, FONDESA and Fundación Tropicalia launched a new microfinance product especially designed for the foundation’s inclusive supply-chain beneficiaries, offering competitive interest rates and flexible amortization schedules that adapt to the uncertainties of agricultural production. To date, the partnership has established a total of 90 such credit lines valued at more than DOP 8.1 million, benefiting 90 local 9 Oficina Nacional de Estadística de República Dominicana (national statistics), UNICEF, Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and International Labour Organization (ILO). families. Funds have been mainly used for passionfruit, ginger, and watermelon production. (2009-2010). Encuesta Nacional de Hogares de Propósitos Múltiples ENHOGAR: Situación de la Mujer, la Niñez y la Adolescencia. Obtained from https://www.unicef.org/ republicadominicana/ENHOGAR_2009-10.pdf. Accessed January 2017. / 32 10 World Economic Forum. (2016). Global Gender Gap Report. Rankings. Obtained from http://reports.weforum.org/global-gender-gap-report-2016/rankings/ Accessed January 2017. / 33 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA MILESTONES INCLUDE: This situation increases the risks of malnutrition, domestic workload, prostitution and physical and emotional violence towards girls, among other consequences. Moreover, the value of women in the market is significantly reduced, increasing the probability of repeating the generational cycle Year 1 2013 Year 2 2014 Year 3 2015 Year 4 2016 of poverty. › Camp age was 10-15. Learned › Campers’ age adjusted to 9-12. › Fundraiser and SNSI website › Launch of SNSI social media. As SNSI seeks to curb these trends by empowering girls and their families. It seeks to support Miches’ that the content and preventive › Volunteer program launched to launched. of December 31st, 2016, the socioeconomic development by, among other things, decreasing prostitution, increasing education messages were better suited for attract participants outside the › Fiscal sponsor The Ocean program’s reach included 1,336 rates and supporting female participation in the workforce. younger girls. education community, looking Foundation joins. Instagram followers and 784 › Volunteers were schoolteachers. to break out of the “school” › 257 girls participated. Facebook “likes”. Learned that school dynamics dynamics. › Evolution and enhancement of were being replicated in camp. › Company-wide fundraiser the SNSI website. › SNSI Logo adopted. and matching-gift program › SNSI attracted new funding › 100 girls participated. launched in the United States, partners, raising international working with fiscal sponsors profile. Friends of Educa and Dominican › 248 girls participated. Foundation. › 250 girls participated. When a girl receives 7 or more Each year of primary school is When women and girls earn a years of education, she will an increase of 10% to 20% of salary, they reinvest 90% of it in marry four years later. her future salary. their families. The SNSI program relies on a volunteer program and a fundraising campaign that take place in the United States and Dominican Republic. In 2016, 80 professional Dominican men and women volunteered to dedicate a week of their lives as camp counselors. We captured in-kind donations from 15 national and international organizations. In partnership with Casa Quien, a contemporary art gallery in Santo Domingo, we hosted a silent art auction featuring female Three years after the first SNSI program, the girls Dominican artists, who depicted the experience of the Dominican woman. A significant percentage of are exhibiting more confident behavior, feeling sales were designated for SNSI. We raised a total of USD $22,000 thanks to Cisneros employees who more empowered, and are more prone to reflect participated in the company’s corporate matching-gift program, friends and family, receiving support about their future and rights. Family involvement from 12 corporate collaborators and 68 individual donors. and suppor t have increased significantly, with more parents and grandparents attending the informational and registration sessions. SNSI 2016 BY THE NUMBERS 248 Girls “I have been participating for three years, and have been 6 Communities able to notice a change in the girls (…) I think they now better understand what being a girl means, which is the 60% Recurrent Camper Rate most important thing we try to teach in the camp.” $22,000 Dollars Raised Daliana Medina, SNSI Volunteer. Source: Community Newsletter July-August 2016, 31st edition 80 Volunteers 3 Camp Sessions 12 Corporate Sponsors / 34 / 35 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA Cultural Identity Fundación Tropicalia aims to maximize the natural and cultural heritage of the region by supporting various activities in partnership with the local government and community leaders. › The annual and historically significant › Fiesta de Atabales: Fundación Tropicalia sponsored two “Carnaval” celebrations: Fundación celebrations of the annual traditional festivity of atabales Tropicalia sponsored the sound (a regional percussion instrument), in which Micheros equipment for the celebration. get together to honor their patron saint, San Antonio de Padua, dance and play music. Community Newsletter This year, Fundación Tropicalia issued six new editions of its Community Newsletter, and circulated 2,000 copies of each across more than 50 distribution points in Miches. The Community Newsletter promotes sustainable development, environmental stewardship, health awareness, local culture and traditions, and individual and civic responsibility for children and adults alike. F u n d a c i ó n Tr o p i c a l i a ’s Online Community Fundación Tropicalia launched its website (www.fundaciontropicalia.com) in May 2015 and increased its communications reach via social media. As of December 31, 2016, the foundation’s reach included 1,334 Facebook “likes” (34% increase from 2015), 481 Twitter followers (more than 100% increase), and 1,069 Instagram followers (more than 250% increase). 1,334 481 1,069 Facebook Likes Twitter followers Instagram followers / 36 / 37 GRI 102-13, 102-40 P A R T N E R S F O R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y / 38 / 39 PARTNERS FOR SUSTAINABILITY IN 2016 P A R T N E R S F O R F u n d a c i ó n Tr o p i c a l i a S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y GOVERNMENT ~ › Municipality of Miches (since 2008): Tropicalia/Fundación Tropicalia › Ministr y of Environment and Natural Resources (since 2013): Building a strong foundation for Tropicalia means creating a thoughtful, engaged network of and Miches collaborate on special projects related to culture, sports, Fundación Tropicalia collaborates on special projects related to the partners. Tropicalia proudly recognizes its relationships with these organizations and will continue education, and environment. environment, research and education. to pursue successful partnerships for years to come. › Ministry of Education of the Dominican Republic (since 2010): › Ministry of Agriculture (since 2013): Fundación Tropicalia and the Fundación Tropicalia and the Ministry of Education of the Dominican Ministry of Agriculture collaborate on special projects related to Republic work to improve the quality of education in the Miches agricultural supply chains and technical training for farmers. school district. Tr o p i c a l i a BUSINESS, CIVIL SOCIETY, AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS BUSINESS, CIVIL SOCIETY, AND GOVERNMENT NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS › Banco ADOPEM (since 2015): Fundación Tropicalia and Banco › National Business Network for Environmental Protection ECORED ADOPEM work to widen the scope of financial services available (since 2008): Fundación Tropicalia gains access to a private-sector › Ministry of Tourism (since 2009): Tropicalia complies with the Ministry › The Ocean Foundation (since 2013): Tropicalia works with TOF to to the micro entrepreneurs that are suppor ted by Fundación network that increases environmental protection efforts and promotes of Tourism regulations for tourist developments and it works hand in support reporting efforts, elaborate measurement tools and obtain Tropicalia’s programs. public/private-sector dialogue. hand with the Department of Planning & Projects (DPP). third-party verification of social and environmental sustainability initiatives. › ADOPEM ONG (since 2015): Fundación Tropicalia and ADOPEM › Inter-American Development Bank, Multilateral Investment Fund (since › Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (since 2008): Tropicalia › United Nations Global Compact (since 2010): Tropicalia supports the ONG work together to bring financial and women’s empowerment 2012): Principal advisory and financing entity supporting the Fundación is in complete compliance with environmental regulations of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of education programs to the Miches community. Tropicalia supply-chain initiative. Dominican Republic; environmental permits are current. human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. › EDUCA (since 2013): Fundación Tropicalia and EDUCA work to › Miches Cooperative of Labor, Production and Multiple Services – › Export and Investment Center of the Dominican Republic – CEI-RD › National Association of Hotels and Restaurants ASONAHORES improve public education policy and drive impact in Miches education COOPROMI (since 2015): As COOPROMI gains institutional strength, (since 2015): Tropicalia works alongside the CEI-RD to promote (since 2011). programs. it will provide market access to small farmers, technical assistance in investments in the country. sustainable agriculture, agritourism opportunities, and support Miches › National Private Business Council CONEP (since 2014). › Fondo para el Desarrollo, Inc FONDESA (since 2008): Fundación as a sustainable tourism destination. › Ministry of Public Works and Communication (since 2015): Tropicalia Tropicalia and FONDESA work to democratize access to financial works with the Ministry of Public Works and Communications to › Dominican Association of Tourism Real Estate Businesses ADETI services, diversify banking products, and support the inclusion of micro › World Vision (since 2012): Fundación Tropicalia collaborates with encourage the completion of infrastructure projects in the region. (since 2011 and currently chairs it). and small enterprises in the tourist and agricultural supply chains. World Vision on projects that support community development. › Dominican Association of Ranchers and Farmers – ADHA (since › Junta Agroempresarial Dominicana JAD (since 2015): Fundación 2016). Tropicalia and JAD work to bring development opportunities to local farmers and agribusinesses in Miches. DEVELOPMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS TEAM ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS › Gensler › LLORENTE & CUENCA › Geofitech › Mapex › Geoconsult › Marshall › Universidad ISA (since 2011): Fundación Tropicalia and Universidad ISA host a scholarship program for › Holsteinson & Asociados, SA (HOLASA) › Renaissance Golf Design Miches students who are interested in agricultural science and science education careers. › Horwath HTL › Sheila Donnelly & Associates (SDA) › HVS › Sherwood › Isay Weinfeld › Sinergo Development Group › Jones Lang LaSalle › Thompson Engineering / 40 / 41 C O M M U N I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T : N I N E Y E A R S I N R E V I E W / 42 / 43 Our Programs at a Glance 2008-2016 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 Costa Esmeralda Beach Rescue Laguna Redonda Water Study Automatic Weather Station in Miches ENVIRONMENT Professional Development for School Teachers (AME) EDUCA partnership School Renovation and Maintenance Program (PRyME) Scholarship and Cultural Exchange Program LEAF Program / JADOM Initiative In-school Education Program EDUCATION Think Art Program of Fundación Cisneros Digital Literacy Course UAPA Financial Education Workshops for Adults Miches Saludable Summer Camp (USAID/REDDOM) Model School Initiative Partnership with FONDESA PRODUCTIVITY IDB/MIF Sustainable Tourism Supply Chain USAID Agricultural Diversification Iniciative Microfinance product with FONDESA COOPROMI Farm Management Program Organic Agriculture Production Program SOCIO-CULTURAL Training on Best Agricultural Practices ADVOCACY ¡Miches, sí! Program ¡Miches Emprende! Program “I’m a Girl, I’m Important” Summer Camp Copa Tropicalia El Seibo Cultural and Production Fair Adult Literacy Program OUTREACH/ COMMUNICATIONS/ Artemiches and “A New Face for Miches” Initiative MONITORING Fundación Tropicalia Social Media and Website Debut Community Newsletter / 44 / 45 ENVIRONMENT EDUCATION IN-SCHOOL PROGRAMS SCHOOL RENOVATION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (PRYME) 2014 LAGUNA REDONDA WATER STUDY PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR SCHOOL 75 Students in 2 schools TEACHERS (AME) 10/2013-10/2014 2015 201 Students in 2 schools 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Participating 2016 Hicaco El Cedro, La Mina, Km 6 (La Javilla), Km. 10, Gisela La Culebra, El Education Centers 410 Students in 2 schools Blanco Básica La Gina Los Urabos, Liceo Ruperto or Guaco, Liceo TV One Twelve-Month Study Escuela El Cedro; Escuela La Mina; Padre Daniel “La Sabanita” Centro La Gina (closed in 2014) 686 Water samples were taken Escuela Básica La Gina; Liceo TV daily for 365 days and Centro la Gina; Escuela KM.6; Total Students compared to weather patterns Escuela Los Franceses; Escuela Lucas and ongoing 2013 2014 2015 2016 in order to understand Guibbes; Liceo Secundario Padre Supported a Supported a Supported a Supported contamination sources. Daniel; Distrito Educativo 12-03; network of 12 network of 11 network of 12 network of 12 Km10; Fundacion Tropicalia; Escuela schools, in five schools (one closed), schools (one schools, in 7 of Results and recommendations Hicaco Blanco, Escuela Vocacional SCHOLARSHIP AND CULTURAL of which larger two of which larger reopened), two of which larger were delivered to 2009 8 Teachers de las F.F.A.A. de Miches, Distrito EXCHANGE PROGRAM projects took projects took which larger projects projects took MIMARENA in 2015. 12-04, Visión Mundial. place, impacting 44 place, impacting 23 took place, impacting place, impacting 2010 77 Teachers New 18 teachers and 1,631 teachers and 492 11 teachers and 189 91 teachers and Tropicalia will monitoring Previous 15 2011 54 Teachers students students students 1,814 students water quality during 12 construction and operations. 2012 15 Teachers Courses 9 2013 93 Teachers Education, Human Development & Poverty Alleviation; Skills for School Administration 3 6 12 Schools 130 Teachers 2,772 Students and Management; Teaching Environmental Education; 247 COSTA ESMERELDA BEACH RESCUE 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Teaching Health Education; Applying & Using ICTs in 23 LEAGUE OF ENTERPRISING FARMERS THINK ART PROGRAM OF Primary School Education; Ethics Students Supported IN TRAINING (LEAF) & JUNIOR FUNDACION CISNEROS 200 13 Linear Meters Beach Total Teachers Through the Program in School; Peace & Conflict ACHIEVEMENT DOMINICANA (JADOM) Of Coastline Employees 119 of which passed Resolution; MATEMATEL; Building Protected Trained the program Blocks for Teaching Business & 5 Students 2011 45 students from 3 schools 2009-2011 Business Planning; Developing Who recieve program 75 Teachers Business Opportunities 2012 45 students from 1 schools The Costa Esmerelda Beach Rescue program ran from services, but their 11 and Entrepreneurship; 2013-2015, and continued in 2016. scholarships are 100% School Communication and LEAF becomes JADOM from the Ministry of Organization. Education because they Courses Taught study education 2012-2013 2013 100 students from 1 school at 15 institutions 12 Teachers 2014 200 students from 2 schools AUTOMATIC WEATHER STATION IN MICHES 18 Scholarships 9/2015-12/2016 MODEL SCHOOL INITIATIVE 390 Students 87 Teachers 16 MONTHS of climatology 2013 DIGITAL LITERACY COURSE data collected until 2016. 2009-2011 FINANCIAL EDUCATION MICHES EDUCA Data is uploaded to an online La Mina Primary WORKSHOP FOR ADULTS SALUDABLE SUMMER CAMP PARTNERSHIP 112 15 weather platform every minute on 4 years of collaboration. (USAID/REDDOM) www.wunderground.com School 150 Students Impacted from 1st to 4th grade 2011-2012 345 Fundación Tropicalia has been a member of Teachers Schools Adults 2012 46 Campers EDUCA’s board of directors for four years. PRODUCTIVITY SOCIO-CULTURAL ADVOCACY EL SEIBO ADULT LITERACY IDB / MIF SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SUPPLY CHAIN “I’M A GIRL, I’M IMPORTANT” SUMMER CAMP CULTURAL AND PROGRAM A recreational and educational camp for 9-12 year-old at-risk girls, PRODUCTION FAIR The program worked with US$256,641 where they learn about their value in society and how to make Plan Nacional de Alfabetización timely life choices. 2011-2013 “Quisqueya Aprende Contigo” 2013 2015 Total Disbursed 2013 25 since 2013. 2012 2013 2014 US$131,910 disbursed (17.6% of IDB/MIF’s planned US$64,691 disbursed (8.7% of IDB/MIF’s 100 Artisans Supported 6 Adults 22 Adults 10 Adults investment) planned investment) Girls, camp travels to two communities 2014 2016 US$60,040 disbursed Project extended for 12 additional months 2014 ARTEMICHES (8% of IDB/MIF’s Project is strategically revamped 250 planned investment) Girls, camp travels to three communities 855 Total Girls Fundación Tropicalia supports Artemiches, a local non-profit that brings general cultural programs and awareness to the Miches community, including painting and sculpture workshops; Semana Cultural Artemiches; and a “New Face for Miches” where volunteers and ongoing 2015 paint colorful murals on the facades of the homes lining the main entrance of town. USAID AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION INITIATIVE ORGANIC AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION PROGRAM 2014-2015 257 2008 First year Girls, camp travels 2012-2013 to three communities 300 producers certified in organic production 32 producers have been closely advised on 2009 Second year 140 US$95,000 2016 2010 Third Year Homes 30 Farmers receive organic and organic practices 248 2011 Fourth Year painted sustainable agriculture Girls, camp travels to 123 beneficiaries workshops three communities 2012 40 homes painted with TRAINING ON BEST AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES “New Face for Miches” 2014-2015 1,580 m2 50 Women 2013 60 homes painted with greenhouse receive nutrition 110 benefited farmers “New Face for Miches” 7 workshops infrastructures COPA TROPICALIA Years 2014 40 homes painted with of support “New Face for Miches” 2010 ¡MICHES, SÍ! PROGRAM 1st tournament. 2010 Copa Tropicalia was handled as a multi-week2014-2016 end event that culminated in the championship. Fundación Tropicalia MICROFINANCE PRODUCT WITH FONDESA organized multiple teams with students from 8-18 years old, OUTREACH/ 2014-present A Business Plan Development 24 participants trained on 4 business plans awarded seed according to age. COMMUNICATIONS/ 90 credit lines established DOP 8.1 million in credits Program implemented. business plan development funding 2011 MONITORING 2nd tournament. 2011 Copa Tropicalia repeated 2010 methodology. FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA SOCIAL MEDIA AND COOPROMI 2012 WEBSITE DEBUT 2014-present Decree that officially institutes ¡MICHES EMPRENDE! PROGRAM 2016 40 Players 3rd tournament. 2012 tournament changes to a one-day event, 40 players total played in El Cedro. 1,334 3 years of work since the creation of the cooperative 6 entrepreneurs Facebook likes Community Newsletter access the fund DOP 620k establishment issued in 2016 Revolving fund established and 2013 481 33 Editions Total 60 launched disbursed Twitter followers Players 4th tournament. Repeat of 2012 methodology, 3 teams, 60 players total played in Miches. 1,069 9 FARM MANAGEMENT PROGRAM Instagram followers 6 6 6 2014-2015 5 2014 9 60 Players 5th tournament. Repeat of 2012 methodology, Operative website PARTNERSHIP 1 600 producers trained 15 workshops developed WITH FONDESA Years of Alliance 3 teams, 60 players total played in Miches. Until December 31t 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 GRI 102-54, 102-55, 102-56 G L O B A L R E P O R T I N G P R I N C I P L E S O F T H E I N I T I A T I V E U N G L O B A L C O M P A C T Every year, we seek to improve our analysis by making it more relevant, efficient and transparent. This year, we used the Global Reporting Initiative’s Standards as a foundation for the development of our Sustainability Repor t. GRI is an international independent organization pioneering sustainability reporting since the late 1990s (www.globalreporting.org) Our 2016 Sustainability Report references the Consolidated set of G-4 GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (2016), is self-assured, and has been reviewed and validated by a carefully selected stakeholder panel that includes an independent third-party verifier, The Ocean Foundation. HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. (pg. 14) Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. (pg. 14) 2010 2016 Signed the UN Referenced SMS, LEED, EDGE Global Compact and implemented GRI LABOR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. (pg. 14) 2011 present Released 6 editions of The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. (pg. 14) Sustainability Report The effective abolition of child labor. (pg. 14 and 33-34) The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. (pg. 14) Our GRI Content Index ENVIRONMENT The following index includes the GRI Standards applicable to this reporting period. The Standards Businesses should support a precautionary approach to selected were determined in accordance with Tropicalia and Fundación Tropicalia’s materiality environmental challenges. (pg. 17-18) assessment processes. Our content index also refers to the indicators of our Sustainability Management System, and in turn to UNGC’s 10 principles. Our customized index allows us to Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental better track our sustainability efforts, and provides to our audience a more integral snapshot of responsibility. (pg. 25 and 46) our multi-level commitments towards sustainable development and our interrelated efforts for advancing the objectives that such pledges imply. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. (pg. 16 and 19) Please visit www.tropicalia.com and follow us on social media to share our sustainable vision for this world-class development. ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. (pg. 14 and 40-41) /TROPICALIARD @TROPICALIARD @TROPICALIARD /FUNDACIONTROPICALIA @FUNDTROPICALIA @FUNDACIONTROPICALIA /SNSICAMP @SNSICAMP / 50 / 51 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE LOCATION LOCATION DISCLODISCLODESCRIPTION LEVEL NOTES DESCRIPTION LEVEL NOTES SURE SUSTAINABILITY SURE SUSTAINABILITY OTHER OTHER REPORT REPORT GRI 101: FOUNDATION 3.4.4. Sustainable thinking Eco102-48 Restatements of information √ nomic Sustainability GRI 101 does not contain any disclosures No significant changes from previous reporting periods in GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-49 Changes in reporting √ list of material topics and boundaries. 1. Organizational profile 102-50 Reporting period √ January 2016 to December 2016 102-1 Name of the organization √ 3. Tropicalia Tropicalia website 102-51 Date of most recent report √ April 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services √ 3. Tropicalia Tropicalia website The Corporate Sustainability Report is published annually. 102-52 Reporting cycle √ This is our sixth report. 102-3 Location of headquarters √ Cisneros Real Estate website Coral Gables, Miami, Florida Sofia Perazzo 102-4 Location of operations √ 3. Tropicalia Contact point for questions regarding Executive Director 102-53 √ Last page of report 102-5 Ownership and legal form √ Tropicalia website; Cisneros Real Estate website the report Fundación Tropicalia sperazzo@cisneros.com 102-6 Markets served √ 3. Tropicalia Claims of reporting in accordance with 102-54 √ 8. Global reporting initiative › Total number of employees: 24 the GRI Standards 3.4. Sustainability as a Business › Total number of operations: 1, Dominican Republic 102-7 Scale of the organization P 102-55 GRI content index √ 8. Global reporting initiative Model › Net sales: does not apply › Capitalization: information not available 102-56 External assurance √ 8. Global reporting initiative Information on employees and other 3.4. Sustainability as a Business 102-8 √ GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH (APPLIES FOR ALL MATERIAL TOPICS COVERED) workers Model Boundaries of each material topic are limited to 3. Tropicalia Tropicalia's property, everything that happens within the 102-9 Supply chain √ 4.3. Sustainable Tourism Supply property, and the community that is impacted by the Chain in Miches project activities: Miches Municipality, located within El Significant changes to the organization Seibo Province. 102-10 √ 3.4.4. Sustainable thinking Explanation of the material topic and its 3.4.3. Sustainability Management and its supply chain 103-1 P Sustainability Management System Material topics were identified as part of a materiality Boundary System assessment based on complying with multiple internationTropicalia applies the Precautionary Principle. The projally recognized best practices and reporting guidelines, Tropicalia EIA; Tropicalia's Environmental Compliance ect's EIA, as well as the continual Environmental Compliincluding the LEED Scorecard, Green Globe Standards for 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach √ Reports (ICAs) ance Reports (ICAs) submitted to the MIMARENA have Sustainable Tourism, Abu Dhabi Planning Council's Pearl been developed following this approach. Rating System for Estidama, among several others. 3.4. Sustainability as a Business › Each material topic will be managed according to the 102-12 External initiatives √ Model guidance provided in the SMS per topic included. The management approach and its 3.4.3. Sustainability Management Sustainability Management System; Tropicalia EIA, 103-2 P › EIA chapter 10 presents the Environmental Management 102-13 Membership of associations √ 5. Partners for sustainability in 2016 components System Chapter 10 Plan, which outlines the management strategies for the environmental material topics identified. 2. Strategy › The management approach of each material topic will be 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker √ 1. A word from Adriana / Foreword evaluated quarterly against the indicators included in the 3. Ethics and Integrity SMS, considering the baseline data provided in each case as a point of reference. Tropicalia EIA Chapter 7 presents inventory of nation› Working groups that would tackle specific areas of our Values, principles, standards, and norms 3.4. Sustainability as a Business Tropicalia abides to all national and international laws and 102-16 √ al and international standards and laws governing the sustainability approach have been established, making of behavior Model regulations pertinent to the tourism industry. development of the project. 3.4.3. Sustainability Management sure that decisions made at the committee level are 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach P System Sustainability Management System operationalized on the ground. 4. Governance 3.4.4. Sustainable thinking › Tropicalia has been continually executing a rigorous Environmental Management and Protection Program (PMA), 102-18 Governance structure √ 3.4.2. Our Sustainability Committee Tropicalia EIA, Chapter 11: Management strategies through which significant environmental management 5. Stakeholder engagement processes are implemented and relevant parameters closely followed and evaluated. Bi-annual Environmental 3.4.1. A Commitment to ResponsiCompliance Reports (ICAs) are presented to the Minisble Business try of Environment and Natural Resources. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups √ 3.4.5. Stakeholder engagement 5. Partners for Sustainability in GRI 200: ECONOMIC TOPICS 2016 GRI 2001: Economic performance 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements √ None at this time › There are financial implications due to climate change For identifying its stakeholders, Tropicalia developed a that have been considered in design and development stakeholder map. Both stakeholders that would be implans. These include, for example, the need to raise 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders √ 3.4.5. Stakeholder engagement construction 3m above sea level in order to protect the pacted by the project, and that could impact the project, were considered. investment against sea surge. › Methods that will be used to manage the opportunities › Tropicalia engages with stakeholders on an ongoing entailed include: use of Carbon Offsets, use of lower Financial implications and other risks and basis, including business partners, community (through 201-2 P EIA Annex 3.3: Climatic characterization Carbon footprint energy, etc. opportunities due to climate change Fundación Tropicalia), industry leaders, etc. › As part of our commitment to implementing environ102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement √ 3.4.5. Stakeholder engagement › According to the specific program or initiative, mentally friendly development, we continued to work Fundación Tropicalia develops community surveys to towards Silver LEED certification for Four Seasons measure and assess the quality of the interventions and Tropicalia. LEED certification prepares sustainable, the level of satisfaction of the local people. energy efficient buildings that are resilient towards climate change, and that contribute towards climate As part of the development of the Four Seasons EIA, a change mitigation. town hall meeting was developed this year to identify 4.1.1. Costa Esmeralda Beach Four Seasons Resort EIA; Sustainability Management stakeholder's main concerns. Up to date, beach access GRI 2002: Market presence 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised √ Rescue Program System remains one of the major community concerns. This issue is being addressed through the Recovery and maintenance All full-time and part-time salaries are higher than the of Costa Esmeralda beach Program. legal minimum wage. All positions are remunerated based EIA Chapter 7: Regulatory Framework provides an Ratios of standard entry level wage by on experience and position, and give equal consideration 202-1 √ inventory of national and international standards and Entities included in the consolidated This is something that will be discussed in the 2017 gender compared to local minimum wage to both men and women, including managerial positions. 102-45 laws governing the development of Tropicalia. financial statements Sustainability Committee meeting. For minimum wage positions, male and female positions are compensated the same Boundaries of each material topic are limited to Tropicalia's property, everything that happens within the › All positions are given equal consideration to all people, Defining report content and topic 3.4.3. Sustainability Management including managerial positions. 6, out of 14 positions of 102-46 √ property, and the community that is impacted by the boundaries System senior management, have been filled with employees project activities: Miches Municipality, located within El Seibo Province. Proportion of senior management hired from the local community. 202-2 √ from the local community › We prioritize hiring people that are from the local All the material topics are presented in the SMS as critecommunity. 102-47 List of material topics √ Sustainability Management System ria and indicators. Material topics are also included in this › Dominican citizens or permanent residents of the Content Index, Disclosures GRI 301-1 through GRI 419-1. Dominican Republic are considered as 'local'. / 52 / 53 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE LOCATION LOCATION DISCLODISCLODESCRIPTION LEVEL NOTES DESCRIPTION LEVEL NOTES SURE SUSTAINABILITY SURE SUSTAINABILITY OTHER OTHER REPORT REPORT GRI 2003: Indirect economic impacts › 4 employees were entitled to parental leave during the present reporting period: 3 female and 1 male. 4.2.1. School Renovation & MainteEIA, Chapter 8 Annex presents a chart on potential › 4 employees took parental leave during the present Infrastructure investments and services nance Program impacts on the socioeconomic development of the 401-3 Parental leave √ 203-1 √ reporting period: 3 female and 1 male. supported 4.3. Productivity: Sustainable Tourlocal community during preconstruction, construction, › 3 returned to work after parental leave ended, 1 was ism Supply Chain in Miches and operation of Tropicalia. still on leave at time of report. EIA, Chapter 8 Annex presents a chart on potential The relevance of the identified impacts was assessed in GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity impacts on the socioeconomic development of the terms of intensity, extension, development, duration, and local community during preconstruction, construction, reversibility. Tropicalia's Sustainability Committee, 16 members in 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts √ 4. Fundación Tropicalia Diversity of governance bodies and 3.4.1. A commitment to responsible and operation of Tropicalia. › Most of Fundación Tropicalia's initiatives and projects 405-1 P 2016. 6 female, 10 male. 3 under 30 yrs old, 4 over 50 employees business generate economic impacts on the Municipality of yrs old. Fundación Tropicalia Website Miches. All full-time and part-time salaries are higher than the GRI 2004: Procurement practices legal minimum wage. All positions are remunerated based Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of on experience and position, and give equal consideration Tropicalia: 405-2 √ women to men to both men and women, including managerial positions. Contracts for the supply of building materials preferably For minimum wage positions, male and female positions contract local businesses before national or international are compensated the same. businesses. Efforts will be taken to create a more sustainable supply chain for the company. However, as the GRI 406: Non-discrimination 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers √ project has not yet started construction, this disclosure does not apply for the current project's phase. Incidents of discrimination and corrective There have been no incidents of discrimination during the 406-1 √ actions taken reporting period. Fundación Tropicalia: GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 100% of Fundación Tropicalia's activities are locally procured. Operations and suppliers in which the 407-1 right to freedom of association and √ None during this reporting period. GRI 2005: Anti-corruption collective bargaining may be at risk Confirmed incidents of corruption and 205-3 √ No incident to date. GRI 408: Child Labor actions taken Operations and suppliers at significant GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS 408-1 √ None during this reporting period. risk for incidents of child labor GRI 304: Biodiversity GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor Operational sites owned, leased, managed The project is not located within any protected area or Operations and suppliers at significant in, or adjacent to, protected areas and area of high biodiversity value. The adjacent protected 304-1 √ EIA, Chapter 3 409-1 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory √ None during this reporting period. areas of high biodiversity value outside areas and areas of high biodiversity value are described in labor protected areas the project's EIA. GRI 413: Local communities › As the project has not yet started construction, there have not been any impacts on biodiversity. Operations with local community › Tropicalia has been continually executing a rigorous EnviAll current operations and processes are implemented 413-1 engagement, impact assessments, and √ 4. Fundación Tropicalia EIA, Chapter 8, presents a social impact assessment ronmental Management and Protection Program (PMA), with local community engagement. EIA, Chapter 8 Annex present potential impacts on development programs Significant impacts of activities, products through which significant Environmental Management 304-2 √ biodiversity during preconstruction, construction, and and services on biodiversity processes are implemented and relevant parameters Operations with significant actual and operation of Tropicalia. closely followed and evaluated. Bi-annual reports for 413-2** potential negative impacts on local √ EIA, Chapter 8, presents a social impact assessment compliance evaluation are presented to the Ministry of communities Environment and Natural Resources. No impacts have been reported so far. GRI 414:Supplier social assessment IUCN Red List species and national EIA, Chapter 3 presents a list of nationally and interNew suppliers that were screened using 3.4.1. A commitment to responsible 304-4 conservation list species with habitats in √ nationally protected species found within the property 414-1 P social criteria business areas affected by operations boundaries of the project GRI 306: Effluents and waste GRI 418: Socio-economic compliance Tropicalia has been continually executing a rigorous Envi› The organization has not been identified as non-complironmental Management and Protection Program (PMA), ant with socio-economic laws and regulations. Non-compliance with laws and regulathrough which significant Environmental Management 419-1 √ › EIA, Chapter 7 presents an inventory of national and tions in the social and economic area processes are implemented and relevant parameters international standards and laws governing the developclosely followed and evaluated. In the case of water, qualment of Tropicalia. Water discharge by quality and EIA Chapter 1 ity of potable water, sea water, and wastewater is being 306-1 p destination ICAs 1-11 continuously assessed and reported. Estimated wastewater flows for the current project phase: Average daily flow: 849.1 m3/day Max daily flow: 1,018.92 m3/day Notes: LEGEND EIA Chapter 1 (*) By complying with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are directly working towards advancing the UN Global All information for the corresponding disclosure is included either in the report, in Compact 10 Principles. These principles underpin and support our efforts for achieving the SDGs. Please refer to the white › No spills to date √ 306-3 Significant spills √ › EIA Chapter 9 outline proper procedures for handling another report/study (referenced here), or within the table in the notes column paper The UN Global Compact Ten Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals: Connecting, Crucially (https://www. oil spills. unglobalcompact.org/docs/about_the_gc/White_Paper_Principles_SDGs.pdf) fri a complete outline of the linkages between Have some of the information in the report, here in the table, or in other report/ P each SDG and Principle. Water bodies affected by water disNo water bodies have been affected to date due to runoff study 306-5 √ (**) Topics that, although material, are not included in the SMS, as these go beyond the scope and purpose of such charged and/or runoff or discharges. Information not available at this time management system. GRI 307: Environmental compliance (***)This index only includes the standards that Tropicalia fully or partially complies with. There are other standards that have › The organization has not been identified as non-complinot been included in this edition because they do not apply at this time of reporting. ant with environmental laws and regulations. Non-compliance with environmental 307-1 √ › EIA, Chapter 7 presents an inventory of national and regulations international standards and laws governing the development of Tropicalia. GRI 400: SOCIAL GRI 401: Employment › Total number of new employee hires during the reportNew employee hires and employee 3.4.1. A commitment to responsible ing period: 8; 5 males and 3 female; all from rural areas. 401-1 P turnover business › Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region: 0. Benefits provided to full-time employees All employees, full-time and temporary, are eligible for 401-2 that are not provided to temporary or √ the same benefits, including: life insurance, health care, part-time employees disability and invalidity coverage, parental leave, etc. / 54 / 55 GRI 102-53 L O O K I N G F O R W A R D When we first arrived in Miches, we faced immense challenges including poverty, low levels of education, and weak telecommunications and highway infrastructure. Through the years we have served as facilitators, mediators, and implementers of solutions to these challenges, bringing together community, governmental and private-sector parties. The road is dynamic, and we are as committed as ever to supporting sustainable destination management in Miches. Goals for 2017 › Conform internal sustainability working groups and render at least one report. › Improve and modify the SMS as a valuable monitoring tool. › Incorporate the Four Seasons Tropicalia EIA findings into the SMS. › Improve digital presence of our sustainability strategy and report via a dedicated online platform. › Continue to report against the GRI requirements. PUBLISHED ON April 15th, 2017 CONTACT Sofía Perazzo Executive Director Fundación Tropicalia sperazzo@cisneros.com CONTENT Tropicalia The Ocean Foundation DESIGN LLORENTE & CUENCA PHOTOGRAPHY Fer Figheras / 56 / 57 R E P O R T E D E S O S T E N I B I L I D A D 2 0 1 6 Í N D I C E D E C O N T E N I D O S / 4 MENSAJE DE ADRIANA / 6 LOGROS DE 2016 / 8 TROPICALIA Redefiniendo el turismo de lujo Un legado para las futuras generaciones Un destino cautivador La sostenibilidad como modelo de negocio / 22 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA Medioambiente Educación Productividad U N I N F O R M E S O S T E N I B L E Apoyo socio-cultural Nuestro Reporte de Sostenibilidad anual se distribuye principalmente a través de / 38 SOCIOS PARA LA SOSTENIBILIDAD nuestra página web y otras plataformas digitales. Los ejemplares que imprimimos son en papel 100% reciclado, certificado por el Consejo de Administración Forestal / 42 DESARROLLO COMUNITARIO: 9 AÑOS DE LOGROS (Forest Stewardship Council o FSC), y el 80% de los mismos son distribuidos por mensajeros que utilizan motocicletas eléctricas. En 2016, este esfuerzo: / 50 PRINCIPIOS DEL PACTO MUNDIAL DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS / 51 INICIATIVA DE REPORTE GLOBAL (GRI) Evitó 658.94kg de Conservó 54 árboles y emisiones de CO² 4,606 galones de agua / 52 CON MIRAS AL FUTURO /2 /3 GRI 102-14 MENSAJE DE ADRIANA M E N S A J E D E A D R I A N A PRÓLOGO Como CEO de Cisneros, acojo con satisfacción la oportunidad de compartir el Reporte de Sostenibilidad Junto con la Fundación Tropicalia, ya hemos encaminado una gran parte de los indicadores del SMS, anual de Tropicalia y los avances logrados para convertirnos en uno de los resorts de lujo más sostenibles a especialmente en cuanto al desarrollo comunitario y la gestión sostenible del destino. Seguiremos nivel mundial. Hace ya nueve años que iniciamos nuestro recorrido hacia el desarrollo sostenible en la costa trabajando para superar los retos y liderar la promoción del desarrollo sostenible de la zona. noreste de la República Dominicana. Hoy, estamos contribuyendo al crecimiento económico de la región, conservando sus recursos naturales y, a la vez, creando nuevas oportunidades para los residentes de este destino tan especial. Debido a que nuestros valores corporativos se basan en la transparencia, hemos aplicado voluntariamente To d o s l o s q u e t r a b a j a m o s e n l a los estándares de sostenibilidad de la Iniciativa de Reporte Global (Global Reporting Initiative o GRI) en industria turística tenemos una nuestro sexto Reporte de Sostenibilidad. Estamos orgullosos de ser una de las primeras empresas en aplicar enorme responsabilidad cívica y la nueva versión de indicadores G-4 del GRI. Esto nos permite alinear nuestra estrategia y nuestros esfuerzos económica; indiscutiblemente, no se informativos con las herramientas y mejores prácticas que guían la toma de decisiones sobre sostenibilidad a nivel global. trata de un negocio cualquiera. Creemos que el éxito a largo plazo de Tropicalia no depende solo de nuestro equipo, sino también de nuestros socios, stakeholders y de nuestra relación con la comunidad de Miches. En 2016, desarrollamos nuevas alianzas y seguimos cultivando las relaciones con los grupos de interés y socios existentes. También La Organización de las Naciones Unidas declaró 2017 como el Año Internacional del Turismo Sostenible continuamos trabajando con The Ocean Foundation, una organización sin fines de lucro especializada en salud para el Desarrollo--haciendo un llamado a la industria del turismo y la hostelería para que tomen la oceánica y conservación de costas, la cual, siendo nuestro auditor externo, ha verificado toda la información iniciativa en la transición de prácticas empresariales convencionales hacia prácticas más sostenibles e aquí publicada. innovadoras, que contribuyan de manera efectiva a los Objetivos de Desarrollo Sostenible (ODS). El turismo representa uno de cada 11 puestos laborales y genera el 10% del PIB mundial, así como el 30% Cuatro compromisos clave para la sostenibilidad guían nuestras decisiones más importantes: sostenibilidad de las exportaciones mundiales de servicios. Todos los que trabajamos en la industria turística tenemos económica, equilibrio ambiental, arquitectura reflexiva y progreso comunitario. Nos adherimos a los 10 una enorme responsabilidad cívica y económica; indiscutiblemente, no se trata de un negocio cualquiera. 1 Principios del Pacto Mundial de las Naciones Unidas (United Nations Global Compact o UNGC) y adoptamos su agenda global de sostenibilidad. En Tropicalia, hemos articulado un modelo de negocios acorde a esta agenda mundial desde hace ya mucho tiempo y estamos perfectamente posicionados para innovar en la construcción de un mundo Este año nos brindó grandes oportunidades para convertir esos compromisos y estrategias en acciones. En mejor mediante el Turismo para el Desarrollo. Como en 2016, buscamos estar a la vanguardia de este 2016, logramos avances sustanciales en nuestras iniciativas ambientales, económicas y sociales, tanto nuevas movimiento y contribuir con la Agenda 2030 para el Desarrollo Sostenible universal. como existentes. Mediante cadenas de valor inclusivas, programas de desarrollo comunitario, apoyo a la educación e iniciativas de gestión ambiental, estamos avanzando rápidamente hacia nuestra meta de promover el crecimiento económico sostenible y la diversificación en Miches y sus comunidades aledañas. Gracias a todos los que nos han apoyado en este camino y que comparten nuestra visión para el futuro. Adriana Cisneros de Griffin. Estamos utilizando nuestro Sistema de Gestión Sostenible (Sustainability Management System o SMS) para establecer la conexión entre nuestra estrategia empresarial y las mejores prácticas y estándares internacionales de sostenibilidad. Este año, realizamos una revisión aún más detallada del SMS con nuestros socios y continuamos incorporando esta herramienta en la toma de decisiones. ¹ Organización Mundial del Turismo. 2017 Año Internacional del Turismo Sostenible para el Desarrollo. Extraído /4 de http://www.tourism4development2017.org/why-tourism/. Consultado en enero de 2017. /5 LOGROS DE 2016 L O G R O S D E 2 0 1 6 Reportando con propósito En Tropicalia, siempre buscamos elevar los estándares. Este año, decidimos reportar con base en los Estándares de Sostenibilidad de la Iniciativa de Reporte Global (GRI), resaltando la conexión entre los indicadores GRI que son materiales para nuestro negocio, nuestro Sistema de Gestión Sostenible, los 10 Principios del Pacto Mundial de las Naciones Unidas (UNGC) y los ODS. Revisión del Sistema de Gestión Sostenible (SMS) con los equipos de diseño, desarrollo y arquitectura En 2016, referenciamos los indicadores del SMS con los estándares de la certificación de Liderazgo en Energía y Diseño Ambiental (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design o LEED) y con los ODS. Esto nos permite alinear temas corporativos y globales que son materiales para nosotros y nuestros socios y expandir nuestro compromiso de integración de las mejores prácticas de sostenibilidad a nivel ambiental, económico y social. Además, la identificación de los ODS que impactamos nos permitirá comprometernos con objetivos específicos en el futuro. Establecimiento del Clúster Turístico y Cultural El Seibo Miches Lideramos y apoyamos la creación del Clúster Turístico y Cultural El Seibo Miches en colaboración directa con entidades turísticas locales, con el objetivo de establecer y promover a Miches como un destino turístico sostenible. Revisión de la estrategia del programa de cadena de valor del turismo sostenible En el transcurso de los últimos tres años, Fundación Tropicalia logró avances importantes en este proyecto en alianza con el Fondo Multilateral de Inversiones del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID/FOMIN). Llegando ya a su último año de ejecución, el programa ha sido extendido por un año adicional, con un enfoque especial en su componente agrícola. Impacto de la Fundación Tropicalia En 2016, las iniciativas y programas de Fundación Tropicalia beneficiaron a 949 personas, 61% de las cuales son mujeres y adolescentes. Una trayectoria de éxito para “Soy niña, soy importante” (SNSI) Fundación Tropicalia celebró el cuarto año de su campamento de verano SNSI. La comunidad siempre espera con ansias la llegada de la temporada del campamento, siendo este uno de los programas más populares y efectivos de la Fundación. /6 /7 GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-9 /8 /9 TROPICALIA R E D E F I N I E N D O E L U N D E S T I N O T U R I S M O D E L U J O C A U T I V A D O R Tropicalia es un desarrollo turístico único, de alto nivel y bajo impacto ambiental, concebido por Cisneros Real Estate. Ofreciendo una arquitectura sofisticada en un área virgen de belleza natural espectacular y ~ diversa en República Dominicana, Tropicalia fusiona el lujo con la integridad del entorno. Este proyecto está posicionado para servir de modelo para el turismo sostenible en el Caribe, brindando servicios de La costa de Miches clase mundial ambiental y socialmente responsables. El proyecto cuenta con 40 residencias frente al mar y un lujoso hotel Four Seasons en la playa, de Tropicalia se encuentra ubicado en la provincia de El Seibo, en la costa 160 habitaciones, diseñado por Isay Weinfeld. Las instalaciones incluyen un spa, salones de eventos y sur de la Bahía de Samaná, en la comunidad de Miches. Cuenta con un reuniones, un club infantil, gimnasio y un campo de golf de 18 hoyos. Además de su arquitectura sofisticada, ecosistema único y diverso de playas, montañas, manglares, bosques, la ubicación prístina de Tropicalia y su diverso paisaje, le permiten ofrecer una combinación única de lagunas y ríos. Las atracciones naturales de Miches incluyen las magníficas actividades de ocio y de aventura a sus huéspedes y residentes. Desde excursiones guiadas a maravillas playas de Costa Esmeralda y Playa Arriba, la majestuosa Cordillera naturales, hasta una noche bajo las estrellas, la amplia gama de experiencias se encuentra en armonía con Oriental y paisajes de exuberantes praderas. Sus ricas aguas marinas el entorno natural de la zona. atraen a más de 2,000 ballenas jorobadas cada año que migran a la Bahía de Samaná para aparearse y dar a luz. Junto con la presencia de monumentos históricos y culturales, como la Iglesia de Santa Cruz y el Monumento a la Batalla de Palo Hincado, esta variedad de características hacen de Miches una comunidad costera incomparable. Próximo a Miches, el Parque Nacional Los Haitises exhibe magníficos farallones, colinas cónicas, cavernas y un extenso bosque de manglar. El Refugio de Vida Silvestre Lagunas Redonda y Limón cuenta con dos U N L E G A D O PA R A L A S impresionantes lagunas que dan hogar a una gran variedad de especies endémicas de plantas y animales. La Gina es una bahía espectacular FUTURAS GENERACIONES delimitada por bosques de manglares y cocotales, la cual se encuentra actualmente conservada como un Área de Manejo de Hábitat y Especies. El Santuario de Mamíferos Marinos de la República Dominicana es el Tropicalia representa los valores filantrópicos y culturales de la familia Cisneros, así como área marina protegida más extensa del país y abarca unos 25,000 km2 el enfoque ambiental y socialmente responsable por el cual se rigen todos los negocios de de la costa atlántica. Se extiende desde el Banco de la Plata, en el límite Cisneros Real Estate. El proyecto es un catalizador económico importante para República nor te de la zona económica exclusiva del país, hasta la costa de la Dominicana y establece un nuevo marco de referencia para el turismo de la región. provincia de El Seibo. “Estamos creando un resort con sentido de orgullo y pertenencia. La tierra es tan pura y hermosa, que sabemos que el éxito dependerá de asegurarnos que somos administradores de los recursos y la belleza que siempre han existido allí”. -Adriana Cisneros. Fuente: http://www.adrianacisneros.com/es/tropicalia-title-tbd/ / 10 / 11 TROPICALIA M i c h e s aye r, h oy y m a ñ a n a Oceano Atlántico Con una población de aproximadamente 21,000 habitantes, Miches ha sido históricamente una comunidad aislada, ubicada en una de las regiones más pobres de la República Dominicana. Sus principales actividades económicas incluyen agricultura, ganadería, pesca artesanal, micro-negocios de prestación de servicios y artesanía. A pesar de sus recursos diversos y abundantes, Miches enfrenta varios desafíos sociales y económicos, incluyendo la pobreza, el desempleo y la delincuencia, los cuales surgen de un limitado acceso al mercado, bajos niveles de educación y escasas oportunidades económicas. ACCESO Hoy día, Miches está forjando un futuro más prometedor. El gobierno dominicano ha invertido en infraestructura de Santo Domingo: 3.0 hrs. / 175 Kms. Bahía de Samaná Laguna Redonda transporte y telecomunicaciones, a fin de expandir el acceso al mercado del municipio. A principios de 2015, el gobierno Punta Cana: 1.0 hrs. / 105 Kms. Laguna Limón completó la construcción de una carretera desde Miches hasta Punta Cana, logrando eliminar uno de los principales obstáculos de desarrollo socioeconómico del área. Ahora, esta comunidad costera se encuentra a sólo una hora del La Romana: 1.5 hrs. / 86 Kms. aeropuerto de Punta Cana, el cual atrae a más de 2 millones de turistas cada año. En 2016, el gobierno inauguró el LOS HAITISES segmento de autopista Miches-Sabana de la Mar, agregando otros 40 kilómetros a la carretera Punta Cana-Uvero Alto-Miches, construida en 2015. Adicionalmente, se han asumido compromisos de concluir el tramo de vía Sabana de FUNDACIÓN MICHES la Mar-Samaná y de mejorar la terminal de ferris, el muelle y el sistema de alcantarillado. TROPIC ALIA SANTO DOMINGO PUNTA C ANA Oceano Atlántico HAITÍ Bahía de Samaná REPÚBLIC A DOMINIC ANA PARQUE NACIONAL LOS HAITISES MICHES SANTO DOMINGO PUNTA LA ROMANA C ANA “Al proporcionar empleos estables, establecer una cadena de valor local y contribuir al desarrollo de la comunidad, nos unimos a los esfuerzos del gobierno de construir un futuro más próspero para Miches. Nuestro objetivo no es solamente favorecer el Mar Car ibe crecimiento económico y la diversificación en Miches y sus comunidades aledañas, sino también posicionar a la región entera como un destino turístico sostenible que favorece la conservación y el mejoramiento social, ecológico y estético”. William R. Phelan, vicepresidente y gerente general, Tropicalia. / 12 / 13 GRI 102-18 GRI 102-7, 102-8, 102-12, 102-16 / GRI 102-40, 401-1, 405-1, 414-1 TROPICALIA L A S O S T E N I B I L I D A D C O M O Nuestro Comité de M O D E L O D E N E G O C I O Sostenibilidad ~ En 2009 establecimos el Comité de Sostenibilidad de Tropicalia, un equipo interdisciplinario que se reúne anualmente para discutir estrategias, informar de avances logrados y definir las metas Un negocio responsable para el siguiente año. Celebramos nuestra 11ª reunión anual del Comité de Sostenibilidad en 2016, discutiendo las decisiones estratégicas para 2017 con valiosos aportes por parte de los ejecutivos y colaboradores de diferentes áreas de la organización. El tema de informar fue de suma importancia en la agenda COMPROMISOS CON EL PACTO MUNDIAL Y LOS de la reunión, en la que aprovechamos la presencia de nuevos miembros para reflexionar sobre DERECHOS HUMANOS Y LABORALES OBJETIVOS DE DESARROLLO SOSTENIBLE (ODS) por qué elaboramos los reportes de sostenibilidad, la importancia de reportar y el papel que cada uno ocupa en el proceso. En 2010 nos comprometimos con los principios universales del Este año incluimos un anexo que enumera los principios del Pacto Establecimos sub-comités de sostenibilidad para abordar y dar seguimiento a temas específicos, Pacto Mundial de las Naciones Unidas (UNGC) para promover la Mundial en los contratos con nuestros tres principales socios y iniciando con dos áreas prioritarias: la puesta en funcionamiento del SMS y LEED. responsabilidad social empresarial en las áreas de derechos humanos, contratistas. Nuestro objetivo es que todos los actores que participan derechos laborales, medio ambiente y lucha contra la corrupción. en la construcción y operación de Tropicalia cumplan, como mínimo, con La diversidad de los miembros de nuestro Comité representa una gran fortaleza para este cuerpo Convertimos esos compromisos en políticas que prohíben el trabajo estos estándares internacionales. de gobernanza corporativa. Además de la notable participación interna, también contamos con infantil, abogan por la igualdad de género y la igualdad de oportunidades asesores externos como Alan Kelso, Presidente y CEO de Sinergo, empresa de desarrollo con de empleo e incentivan la libertad de asociación. Nos enorgullece También reconocemos la importancia de vincular dichos esfuerzos con sede en Costa Rica y socio de Tropicalia, especializado en proyectos turísticos y de bienes raíces decir que casi el 40% de nuestros empleados son mujeres; cada uno los ODS. Publicados en 2015 por la Organización de las Naciones Unidas ecológicamente sensibles. La experiencia de Sinergo en el sector de lujo sostenible ha enriquecido de los empleados recibe remuneración de acuerdo a su experiencia y (ONU), luego de una revisión de los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio, la forma en que nos acercamos a la sostenibilidad en Tropicalia y la fundación. posición; contratamos y capacitamos a residentes locales; y todas nuestras los ODS marcan la agenda de desarrollo para 2030, ofreciendo una operaciones implementan programas de desarrollo local y de participación hoja de ruta de oportunidades orientadas a resolver desafíos sociales comunitaria mediante nuestra fundación, la Fundación Tropicalia. y ambientales. En definitiva, los principios del UNGC apoyan nuestros esfuerzos para avanzar en los ODS; la conexión es crucial.2 Género/zona Total de empleados (*) La ONU declaró 2017 como el Año Internacional del Turismo Sostenible para el Desarrollo. El Año Internacional aspira a sensibilizar a los responsables de tomar decisiones y al público en general de la 15 contribución del turismo sostenible al desarrollo, movilizando a la vez Total a todos los grupos de interés para que trabajen juntos para hacer Hombres del turismo un catalizador de cambio positivo. Esta iniciativa apoya 24 el desarrollo de tres ODS específicos: el ODS 8, Trabajo Decente 9 y Crecimiento Económico; el ODS 12, Producción y Consumo Responsable; y el ODS 14, Vida Submarina.3 Nuestro trabajo contribuye Mujeres al avance de los tres. 16 Nuestro compromiso con los derechos humanos, la protección ambiental, la integridad estructural y el Rural Total diseño de infraestructura inteligente y eficiente, así 24 como nuestras actividades de desarrollo comunitario, se rigen y son supervisadas por nuestro propio SMS. 8 Mediante la integración del SMS en cada aspecto de Urbano nuestras actividades, esperamos posicionarnos como líderes en las prácticas del turismo sostenible. (*) La información ha sido recopilada y verificada mediante la nómina de empleados de 2016. Todos los empleados son fijos y a tiempo completo. ² Pacto Mundial de las Naciones Unidas. The UN Global Compact Ten Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals: Connecting, Crucially. White paper. Extraído de: https://www. unglobalcompact.org/docs/about_the_gc/White_Paper_Principles_SDGs.pdf. Consultado en diciembre de 2016. ³ Organización Mundial del Turismo (2016). Las Naciones Unidas proclaman 2017 Año Internacional del Turismo Sostenible para el Desarrollo. Extraído de: http://media.unwto.org/es/ / 14 press-release/2015-12-10/las-naciones-unidas-proclaman-2017-ano-internacional-del-turismo-sostenible. Consultado en enero de 2017. / 15 GRI 102-46, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 102-10, 102-48, 103-3 TROPICALIA Sistema de Gestión Sostenible Pensamiento sostenible Cuatro pilares clave guían nuestras decisiones más importantes: CONCEPTO Y PROPÓSITO Diseñamos nuestro Sistema de Gestión Sostenible (Sustainability Management System o SMS) en 2014 para lograr un desempeño excepcional en la sostenibilidad ambiental, económica y social. Hoy día, nos proporciona un medio sistemático para revisar, mejorar e implementar prácticas de sostenibilidad en nuestra gestión y operaciones. SO STE NI B I L I DA D E Q U I L I B RI O E C O NÓ M I C A A M B I E NTA L “Nuestros socios de diseño y construcción están revisando activamente el SMS para identificar los indicadores que cumplimos y los que requerirán de más trabajo o un reenfoque estratégico. El resultado será un SMS práctico, informativo y fácil de usar La viabilidad financiera, medioambiental y social Protección y conservación del ambiente natural, a por parte de nuestros colaboradores y a todos los niveles, velando así por nuestros propios indicadores de sostenibilidad.” son igualmente consideradas en la toma de través del desarrollo sostenible del sitio y la gestión decisiones empresariales adecuadas. del destino para conservar la integridad biológica, Leonardo Troyo, gerente de proyecto,Tropicalia. la conectividad del hábitat y los espacios verdes. A RQ U I TE C TU RA DE SA R RO LLO EVALUACIÓN DE MATERIALIDAD RE FL E X I VA C O M U N ITAR IO Estándares de diseño y desarrollo que Diversificación de la economía local y desarrollo Seleccionamos cada indicador incluido en nuestro SMS cuidadosamente, mediante una evaluación de materialidad, garantizan el uso de técnicas de construcción comunitario impulsados por los programas de la proceso que identifica los impactos económicos, ambientales y sociales significativos de Tropicalia dentro de los límites ambientalmente seguras y de calidad. Fundación Tropicalia en la comunidad de Miches. de nuestra propiedad y la comunidad local, así como las cuestiones que influyen de manera sustancial en las decisiones de nuestros grupos de interés.4 El resultado: Un SMS con 89 criterios que apoyan acciones concretas en nueve áreas clave, incluyendo: gestión sostenible del destino; patrimonio cultural y desarrollo comunitario; responsabilidad legal y recursos humanos; y el manejo ambiental de lo construido y lo natural. Cada área cuenta con un conjunto de indicadores y orientación especializada que responden a las mejores prácticas reconocidas internacionalmente, incluyendo: SOSTENIBILIDAD ECONÓMICA › Pacto Mundial de las Naciones Unidas: Diez Principios para la Sostenibilidad Empresarial. › Iniciativa de Reporte Global (GRI): Directrices G-4 para la elaboración de reportes de sostenibilidad. › Consejo Mundial de Turismo Sostenible: Criterios para destinos y criterios para hoteles y tour operadores. Ponemos en balance la viabilidad financiera, ambiental, estética y social al › Consejo de Planeamiento Urbano de Abu Dabi: Sistema de Clasificación Perla para Estidama. momento de tomar decisiones de negocios. › Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo: Ficha de evaluación de turismo. › Green Globe: Estándares de certificación para el turismo sostenible. Parte del ciclo de vida del desarrollo de un proyecto es la noción de cambio constante, impulsado por una serie de › The Ocean Foundation: Estándares de Desarrollo Costero Sostenible, nombrado uno de los “mejores códigos, factores internos y globales. Al consolidar nuestra estructura de inversión, en 2016 determinamos que el financiamiento normas y políticas sostenibles” en 2010 por la Sociedad Americana de Arquitectos Paisajistas. del Four Seasons Tropicalia requería más tiempo del previsto originalmente. Por eso, aprovechamos la oportunidad para continuar mejorando el aspecto económico de nuestro proyecto e interactuando con entidades financieras e inversores internacionales que comparten nuestro enfoque integral de sostenibilidad. El SMS fue revisado minuciosamente y referenciado con indicadores y marcos internacionales, incluyendo criterios LEED y los ODS de la ONU. Como parte de nuestros esfuerzos de investigación y revisión, hicimos uso del reporte de Temas de En 2016, nuestra fundación brindó apoyo a micro y pequeños negocios en la comunidad de Miches, ofreciendo nuevas Sostenibilidad para Sectores (2013) del GRI,5 cuya información confirmó que el contenido de nuestro SMS es pertinente oportunidades de financiamiento y capacitación para los empresarios locales. para los sectores de bienes raíces y hostelería y de interés para inversionistas y ambientalistas. El SMS final es el resultado de un esfuerzo colaborativo con The Ocean Foundation, una organización independiente sin “Nuestro compromiso es con el desarrollo sostenible del destino. Construir una fines de lucro, basada en Washington D.C., con amplia experiencia en sostenibilidad. economía local sólida reduce los riesgos más frecuentemente asociados con los destinos turísticos convencionales”. Finalmente, utilizamos la retroalimentación obtenida por parte de otros socios clave, como Gensler, Sinergo y Thompson Sofia Perazzo, directora ejecutiva, Fundación Tropicalia. Engineers, así como de equipos internos específicos, para refinar el SMS. Fuente: http://sharedvalue.org/groups/building-sustainable-supply-chain-remote-island-paradise 4 Iniciativa de Reporte Global (GRI). Defining Materiality: What Matters to Reporters and Investors, pg. 6 https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/Defining-Materiality-WhatMatters-to-Reporters-and-Investors.pdf. Consultado el 14 de febrero de 2017. 5 Iniciativa de Reporte Global (GRI) (2013). Sustainability Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders want to know? Extraído de: https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/ / 16 sustainability-topics.pdf. Consultado en diciembre de 2016. / 17 TROPICALIA EQUILIBRIO AMBIENTAL ARQUITECTURA REFLEXIVA Protegemos y conservamos el ambiente natural, utilizando técnicas de desarrollo sostenible in-situ y gestión del destino, para conservar la Nuestros estándares de diseño y desarrollo aseguran una estética integridad biológica, la conectividad del hábitat y las zonas verdes. duradera, una construcción de calidad y técnicas ambientalmente eficientes que se integran con la naturaleza, conservan las vistas y Continuamos ejecutando un riguroso Programa de Manejo y Adecuación Ambiental (PMAA) maximizan la belleza del lugar. presentando Informes de Cumplimiento Ambiental (ICA) al Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (MIMARENA) cada seis meses. A pesar de la dilación en el inicio de la construcción de Tropicalia, continuamos avanzando con otros elementos, como la culminación del diseño, el desarrollo de Debido a que el desarrollo de la infraestructura aún no ha comenzado, nuestras actividades la habitación modelo y la certificación LEED. de monitoreo se concentran, por el momento, en la medición de datos de línea base. Estos incluyen la calidad del agua, los residuos sólidos y la contaminación acústica, así como la gestión En 2016, finalizamos la construcción de la habitación modelo para el Four de emisiones de gas y la reforestación compensatoria. Esta información se utilizará para mitigar Seasons Tropicalia, la cual sirve como maqueta para evaluar la viabilidad de los impactos durante las etapas de diseño y construcción de Tropicalia. los componentes de construcción y diseño, incluyendo estética, funcionalidad y sostenibilidad. A fin de reducir la demanda de aire acondicionado, hemos En 2016, presentamos dos ICA al MIMARENA, sumando un total de 12 ICA completos hasta la probado el uso de un vidriado energéticamente eficiente en las puertas de fecha. Ambos informes fueron aprobados por las autoridades correspondientes. vidrio corredizas que conducen a los patios exteriores, así como un sistema de control automatizado que ajusta el sistema de refrigeración cuando las puertas están abiertas. Procesos y parámetros de reporte La habitación modelo también incluyó la construcción de un techo verde. Los techos verdes ofrecen una mejora estética y también contribuyen a la reducción de residuos, mitigan el calor durante los meses más cálidos del año, mejoran la PROGRAMA SUBPROGRAMA PROGRAMA SUBPROGRAMA eficiencia energética y la calidad del aire y pueden contribuir al manejo de las aguas pluviales.6 Nos enorgullece informar que el diseño de la habitación modelo › Rehabilitación de áreas degradadas › Salud y protección laboral se completó y fue aprobado por la alta gerencia de Cisneros, el Four Seasons y el arquitecto Isay Weinfeld, lo cual nos da luz verde para continuar avanzando. Controles › Manejo integral del agua › Regulación de horario laborable físicos › Revisión y adecuación de los manuales › Establecimiento de cláusulas ambientales de operación y mantenimiento de áreas en contratos y documentos de orden legal verdes › Formación y capacitación Certificación LEED › Manejo de aguas residuales Gestión socioambiental › Vacunación y medicina preventiva Como parte de nuestro compromiso de implementar un desarrollo de última Calidad › Manejo y disposición de residuos sólidos generación, respetuoso con el medioambiente, continuamos trabajando para ambiental › Mantenimiento vial obtener la certificación LEED Silver (Plata) para el Four Seasons Tropicalia. LEED › Tratamiento de las emisiones es un riguroso estándar de verificación que proporciona un punto de referencia atmosféricas › Control vial global para la excelencia en construcción ecológica, eficiencia energética y el uso de materiales locales reutilizables, entre otras categorías de sostenibilidad como › Lineamientos para actividades de › Lineamientos para el mantenimiento la calidad del agua y del aire. deforestación y aprovechamiento del patrimonio arqueológico de Tropicalia En 2016, utilizamos el sistema de puntuación LEED correspondiente a los › Reforestación compensatoria estándares de Estados Unidos para evaluar nuestro diseño, ya que todavía no Controles Supervisión › Seguimiento y control existen normas LEED para la República Dominicana. De acuerdo al diseño actual ambiental biológicos › Zonificación del área del proyecto para del hotel, somos candidatos para la obtención de las certificaciones Silver (Plata) la delimitación de áreas de protección o Gold (Oro). Manejo de › Educación ambiental para la contingencias › Plan de contingencias conservación de la fauna 6 Green Roofs for healthy cities (n/d). Extraído de: http://www.greenroofs.org/index. / 18 php/about/greenroofbenefits. Consultado en enero de 2017. / 19 GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 TROPICALIA DESARROLLO COMUNITARIO Apoyamos la diversificación de la economía local y el desarrollo comunitario mediante los programas de la Fundación Tropicalia. Establecimos la Fundación Tropicalia en 2008 para apoyar el desarrollo socioeconómico de la comunidad de Miches. Trabajamos en alianza con los sectores público y privado, la sociedad civil, entidades académicas y organizaciones internacionales para impulsar iniciativas de valor compartido, las cuales conectan el desarrollo social y ambiental con el progreso económico. Los esfuerzos de la fundación se enfocan en mejorar la calidad educativa; trabajar con mujeres y jóvenes para mejorar su posición económica y social; crear una cadena de valor local de bienes y servicios; promover las tradiciones culturales de la región; fomentar prácticas sostenibles en G estió n d el d estin o: actividades ambientales y agrícolas, entre otras iniciativas. C l ú s t e r Tu r í s t i c o y Cultur al El S eib o Mic hes En agosto de 2016, Tropicalia apoyó los esfuerzos para establecer el Clúster Turístico y Cultural El Seibo Miches, el cual integra a los participantes en la cadena de valor turística local. El objetivo de esta entidad es aumentar Compromiso con los los niveles de competitividad y sostenibilidad de la región mediante la grupos de interés regulación de las actividades turísticas, el fortalecimiento de las leyes y regulaciones y la mejora del entorno empresarial y social. En Tropicalia identificamos cuidadosamente a los grupos de interés que se verán más En 2016, el Clúster Turístico y Cultural El Seibo Miches fue presentado afectados por nuestras actividades mediante el desarrollo de una serie de mapas de en “Andariego”, un espacio televisivo sobre ecoturismo emitido a nivel actores. Las audiencias clave identificadas incluyen autoridades locales, regionales y nacional. El programa presentó los atractivos naturales de Miches y varios nacionales; organizaciones locales e internacionales; líderes comunitarios y medios de negocios locales, incluyendo restaurantes, campamentos, eco-lodges y comunicación; socios principales y proveedores; y nuestros empleados. servicios de paseo a caballo. Nos relacionamos con ellos de manera continua a través de nuestras actividades El Clúster promueve la organización del “Comité de Rescate de Playa empresariales y los diversos programas que ofrece la Fundación Tropicalia. El equipo Arriba”, una coalición de instituciones públicas y privadas que diseñará un de Fundación Tropicalia reside en Miches, lo cual permite una íntima comprensión programa para proteger y manejar la playa local, Playa Arriba. de las necesidades comunitarias resultando en la creación de programas pertinentes, dando prioridad a la calidad y la transparencia por encima de todo. / 20 / 21 GRI 203-2, 413-1 / 22 / 23 GRI 102-44 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA M E D I O A M B I E N T E ~ Programa de rescate de la Los esfuerzos de participación comunitaria y de inversión social de Tropicalia comenzaron en 2008 con Fundación Tropicalia. playa Costa Esmeralda Fundación Tropicalia se enfoca en cuatro áreas clave de acción: productividad, medioambiente, Desde 2013, Tropicalia y Fundación Tropicalia han trabajado conjuntamente con las autoridades locales para restaurar y educación y apoyo socio-cultural. La fundación ha identificado, desarrollado e implementado proteger la idílica playa de Costa Esmeralda. El objetivo de esta alianza es mejorar los atractivos naturales que ofrece el proyectos innovadores de alto impacto en agricultura, igualdad de género, educación, medioambiente, municipio, al mismo tiempo que promover el debido cumplimiento con las regulaciones ambientales correspondientes. emprendimiento y microfinanzas. ACTIVIDADES EN 2016: MISIÓN Diseñar y ejecutar programas de desarrollo sostenible que integran a las comunidades locales para impulsar el cambio colectivo. Una jornada de dos días de Restauración del camino de Instalación de nuevos Instalación de nuevos limpieza de más de 200 metros acceso a la playa y la zona de carteles para informar y contenedores de residuos VISIÓN de playa, con la ayuda de un estacionamiento, utilizando crear conciencia sobre el para facilitar la recolección equipo de 10 empleados materiales naturales locales uso responsable de la playa y separación de la basura Promover el desarrollo socioeconómico y la prosperidad de la región. El trabajo se completó antes de la temporada alta de Semana Santa, dejando el área lista para ser disfrutada durante los días feriados tanto por turistas como por pobladores locales. Premios y reconocimientos Comité de Rescate OMT FORBES de Playa Arriba Premio de la Organización Mundial del Turismo a la Ranking de la revista Forbes Centroamérica y Forbes A fin de proteger Playa Arriba, Fundación Tropicalia se está asociando con los negocios locales, Innovación en Organizaciones No Gubernamentales República Dominicana, de las Organizaciones No las autoridades y los miembros de la comunidad para establecer el “Comité de Rescate de Playa (11/2016): Fundación Tropicalia fue nombrada finalista por su Gubernamentales más importantes de la región en 2016 Arriba”, el cual participará de las iniciativas del Clúster Turístico. programa de creación de una cadena de valor en torno al (10/2016): Fundación Tropicalia ocupó el 14º puesto. turismo sostenible. En enero de 2017, recibió el galardón de segundo finalista.7 Estación meteorológica REDUCA ETHICAL CORPORATION En 2015, Fundación Tropicalia instaló la primera estación meteorológica automatizada Premio de la Red Latinoamericana por la Educación Responsible Business Awards de Ethical Corporation Inversión (Automatic Weather Station o AWS) de Miches. La estación registra la dirección y velocidad (REDUCA) a la “Mejor Práctica Innovadora en Inclusión comunitaria más efectiva (9/2016): Fundación Tropicalia del viento, nivel de humedad, punto de rocío, presión del aire, temperatura, radiación solar y Educativa” (10/2016): Fundación Tropicalia fue reconocida clasificó entre los finalistas por sus programas educativos. ultravioleta y precipitación. Los datos recopilados brindan soporte al sector turístico y agrícola, por su campamento de verano “Soy niña, soy importante”. así como a la comunidad de Miches en general, al suministrar información meteorológica local actualizada y monitoreo continuo. 7 Organización Mundial del Turismo (2016). Los Premios de la OMT reconocen el compromiso del sector turístico con los enfoques sostenibles. Extraído de: http://www2.unwto. / 24 org/es/press-release/2017-01-23/los-premios-de-la-omt-reconocen-el-compromiso-del-sector-turistico-con-los-. Consultado en enero de 2017. / 25 GRI 203-1 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA E D U C A C I Ó N Programa de Recuperación y ~ Mantenimiento de Escuelas Programa de Becas e Intercambio Cultural El desarrollo económico sostenible depende de la educación de la población local. En Miches, donde apenas el 9.6% de la población ha terminado la secundaria,8 la educación es crucial para romper el ciclo de la pobreza. En 2016, Fundación Tropicalia celebró el noveno aniversario del Programa de Recuperación y Mantenimiento de Escuelas (PRyME), el cual integra a toda la comunidad educativa de Desde 2011, Fundación Tropicalia ha coordinado un Programa de Becas e Intercambio Cultural con la Universidad ISA (Instituto Miches para abordar problemas administrativos y de infraestructura y ayuda a los directores a reparar y Superior de Agricultura o UISA), ubicada en Santiago de los Caballeros y especializada en ciencias agropecuarias. El programa se dirige a mantener sus escuelas. Colectivamente, PRyME ha brindado apoyo a 12 escuelas primarias y secundarias, jóvenes micheros que buscan una licenciatura en carreras relacionadas con el desarrollo económico del municipio, incluyendo grados de 2,772 estudiantes y más de 130 maestros. ingeniería en agronomía, producción animal y tecnología de los alimentos, educación en ciencias naturales o administración de empresas. Fundación Tropicalia requiere que las escuelas aporten fondos de contrapartida o recursos en especie En 2016, el programa registró un récord de solicitantes. De 16 candidatos, la fundación seleccionó a tres graduados de secundaria con a fin de fomentar autodeterminación e independencia. capacidades excepcionales de liderazgo y compromiso con la comunidad. Los tres se beneficiarán de servicios de apoyo de trabajoestudio, culturales y profesionales, así como de oportunidades de intercambio, orientación dentro del campus y reuniones de padres en Miches. Manuel Villa Reina y Marcia José Vásquez, quienes obtuvieron la beca en 2011, han completado exitosamente sus estudios universitarios. Manuel se graduó de UISA este año y Marcia está por presentar su proyecto final de tesis. Fundación Tropicalia incentiva a los estudiantes becados a regresar a su ciudad natal y así aumentar el número de profesionales que trabajan en el sector agropecuario en la localidad. Todos los estudiantes de UISA procedentes de Miches se benefician del Encuentro de Intercambio Cultural y Profesional de la Fundación Tropicalia; el quinto intercambio, desarrollado en 2016, apoyó a los estudiantes en sus trayectorias académicas y profesionales. Veinticinco estudiantes visitaron la Hacienda La Esmeralda, propiedad del Grupo Rizek y ubicada en San Francisco de Macorís, donde recorrieron el Sendero del Cacao y aprendieron cómo se convierte el cacao en chocolate. Colectivamente, nuestros programas educativos llegan aproximadamente al 70% del distrito escolar de Miches 8 Ministerio de Educación (2014). Anuario de Indicadores Educativos. Año lectivo 2012-2013. Extraído de: http://www.minerd.gob.do/sitios/Planificacion/Documentos%20de%20planifica/ 26 © Foto de Wa Chon Ou. cion/Anuario%20de%20Indica dores%20Educativos.%20A%C3%B1o%20Lectivo%202012-2013.pdf. Consultado en enero de 2016. / 27 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA IMPACTO DEL PRYME EN 2016: ESCUELA LA GINA ESTUDIANTES: 354 Fundación Tropicalia apoyó la construcción de un centro de acopio de residuos MAESTROS: 24 Alianza con EDUCA de la escuela, suministró materiales de construcción y contrató mano de obra USD $4,000 local. Las actividades de renovación y mantenimiento incluyeron la instalación 75% Fundación Tropicalia, 25% Escuela La Gina de una garita de acceso y la reparación de la cisterna de agua. EDUCA (Acción Empresarial por la Educación), una ONG nacional con sede en Santo Domingo, fue establecida por un grupo de empresarios preocupados por la competitividad global de la República Dominicana. EDUCA es uno de los actores más influyentes en las políticas públicas de educación a TV CENTRO LA GINA ESTUDIANTES: 229 nivel nacional; Fundación Tropicalia es miembro de la junta directiva de EDUCA desde hace cuatro Fundación Tropicalia apoyó en la pintura de paredes y la reparación de los baños MAESTROS: 11 años. La ONG ha prestado asesoría técnica y orientación de manera recurrente en temas relacionados de esta escuela, proporcionando los materiales necesarios para estas actividades. USD $2,403 con la educación en el municipio de Miches. 32% Fundación Tropicalia, 68% TV Centro La Gina ESCUELA HICACO BLANCO ESTUDIANTES: 151 Fundación Tropicalia apoyó la construcción de un centro de acopio de MAESTROS: 10 residuos y la reparación de los baños de la escuela, los cuales no estaban USD $2,205 Programa de Formación conectados al sistema de tuberías de agua. 49% Fundación Tropicalia, 51% Escuela Hicaco Blanco Complementaria ESCUELA PRIMARIA LA CULEBRA ESTUDIANTES: 131 Fundación Tropicalia brindó apoyo en el mantenimiento de la pintura de paredes MAESTROS: 9 En 2014, Fundación Tropicalia lanzó un programa de formación complementaria en los colegios interiores y exteriores, las cuales se habían deteriorado considerablemente USD $1,304 públicos de Miches para apoyar el interés artístico de los alumnos, desarrollar e inculcar habilidades debido al clima y otras obras de construcción en los terrenos de la escuela. 60% Fundación Tropicalia, 40% Escuela Primaria La Culebra sociales y promover el pensamiento crítico y creativo. Este año, el programa se enfocó en las escuelas primarias La Mina e Hicaco Blanco. Con la ejecución de más de 15 talleres de artesanías y manualidades y la participación de más del 80% de los estudiantes de La Mina y el 100% de Hicaco TV CENTRO EL CEDRO ESTUDIANTES: 107 Blanco, el programa fue un éxito rotundo. La construcción de este centro inició en 2013 y aún no ha terminado. Sin MAESTROS: 7 embargo, la comunidad utilizó estas instalaciones durante el año escolar 2015USD $1,253 2016. Fundación Tropicalia, la administración de la escuela y una asociación local 60% Fundación Tropicalia, 40% TV Centro El Cedro de promotores escolares trabajaron juntos para completar la construcción de baños (principalmente trabajos de plomería), instalar puertas y ventanas en las oficinas administrativas y terminar la conexión a la red eléctrica. IMPACTO EN 2016 DEL LICEO PADRE DANIEL ESTUDIANTES: 662 PROGRAMA DE FORMACIÓN Fundación Tropicalia reparó seis baños ubicados en el nuevo pabellón de la MAESTROS: 23 COMPLEMENTARIA escuela, suministró los materiales de construcción y contrató la mano de obra USD $616 local necesaria. Se pintaron las paredes, se instalaron puertas interiores y se 100% Fundación Tropicalia conectaron los retretes al sistema de alcantarillado. ESCUELA PRIMARIA KILÓMETRO 6 ESTUDIANTES: 180 Fundación Tropicalia suministró los materiales de construcción necesarios y MAESTROS: 7 contrató mano de obra local para reparar el techo del área administrativa USD $254 de la escuela, el cual se había deteriorado severamente debido a filtraciones 65% Fundación Tropicalia, 35% Escuela Primaria Km6 y elevada humedad. Los materiales reemplazados fueron reciclados y utilizados para la construcción de un pequeño almacén y otras instalaciones. 410 ESTUDIANTES Niñas: 196 Niños: 214 En cuanto a las cinco escuelas restantes en la red PRyME, Fundación Tropicalia continúa desempeñando un papel de asesor en procesos académicos, de mantenimiento y de gestión. En 2016, la Fundación Tropicalia organizó su séptima fiesta anual PRyME. Más de 200 invitados se reunieron para conmemorar el trabajo de todo el año, reconocer a los líderes comunitarios destacados y promover la integración entre la comunidad educativa. / 28 / 29 GRI 102-9, 203-1 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA HITOS PRINCIPALES 2016 P R O D U C T I V I D A D ALIANZAS ESTRATÉGICAS ~ Fundación Tropicalia ha formulado alianzas estratégicas con actores clave, como la Junta Agroempresarial Dominicana (JAD), el Banco ADOPEM y ADOPEM ONG. Cadena de valor del turismo LA COOPERATIVA sostenible en Miches La Cooperativa de Producción, Trabajo y Servicios Múltiples de Miches (COOPROMI) fue establecida por Decreto Presidencial en 2016. Esta institución busca consolidar y organizar la comercialización y mercadeo de los diversos sectores de bienes y servicios de la región. COOPROMI ha logrado tener acceso a nuevas oportunidades de financiamiento y proyectos agrícolas, canalizados a través de la JAD. Además, se ha fortalecido mediante la renovación de su junta directiva, la elección de un nuevo presidente y la incorporación de más productores El proyecto “Inclusión de las Micro y Pequeñas Empresas (MIPE) en la Cadena de de la región. Valor del Turismo Sostenible” cumplió su cuarto año en funcionamiento. Apoyado por el Fondo Multilateral de Inversiones del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID/FOMIN), esta iniciativa mejora el acceso al mercado de los agricultores y emprendedores locales, al incorporarlos en la cadena de valor turística y agrícola generada por Tropicalia, sus socios y otras empresas ancla de la región. El proyecto también busca iniciar, desarrollar y promover una producción agrícola climáticamente inteligente en Miches. Cinco componentes clave 1. Fortalecer la gestión comercial y administrativa de las organizaciones de productores locales. 2. Promover la agricultura climáticamente inteligente para mejorar la calidad, el alcance y la diversidad de la producción local. 3. Desarrollar la presencia y capacidad de las micro y pequeñas empresas PROGRAMA DE NEGOCIOS locales que proporcionan servicios turísticos y agrícolas. 4. Proporcionar un mayor acceso al financiamiento, a través de En 2015, Fundación Tropicalia consolidó un nuevo convenio con Banco ADOPEM, una de las principales instituciones microfinancieras de la microcréditos, a los productores y emprendedores locales. República Dominicana, y ADOPEM ONG, su división sin fines de lucro que apoya iniciativas educativas sobre finanzas y planes de negocio para 5. Compartir conocimientos y estrategias para promover modelos de clientes y la población en general. Esta alianza ha ejecutado con éxito dos nuevos programas relacionados con el acceso de los microempresarios negocio inclusivos en otros destinos turísticos. al crédito y la educación financiera: ~ Programa “¡Miches, sí!” ~ Este programa apoya la maduración de una cadena de valor local capaz de satisfacer Promueve la mejora de las micro y pequeñas empresas locales, apoya nuevos emprendimientos y fortalece el suministro de productos y las demandas del mercado en el sector agrícola y turístico. También diversifica las servicios agrícolas y turísticos de Miches. El programa ofreció un curso de capacitación de 40 horas a 32 emprendedores locales, dirigido actividades económicas locales, redefiniendo las cadenas de valor convencionales de la por ADOPEM ONG, a fin de asistirlos en el desarrollo de sus propios planes de negocio. Veinticuatro completaron el curso y 20 de ellos región, fortaleciendo su economía y garantizando su prosperidad a largo plazo. presentaron sus ideas ante un jurado independiente, que seleccionó los cuatro mejores conceptos (dos negocios existentes y dos nuevos). Los ganadores, una mujer y tres hombres, fueron premiados con fondos para sus negocios y recibirán apoyo continuo de ADOPEM ONG y A diciembre de 2016, Fundación Tropicalia ha recibido USD 256,641, valor que Fundación Tropicalia. Actualmente, se encuentran produciendo y vendiendo abono orgánico de jícara de coco, criando conejos para consumo, representa un 34.4% de la inversión total planificada por el BID/FOMIN. ofreciendo tours a caballo y manejando un restaurante. ~ Programa “¡Miches Emprende!” ~ En octubre de 2016, Fundación Tropicalia y Banco ADOPEM lanzaron el fondo rotatorio “¡Miches Emprende!”, un fondo de crédito de bajo interés para los emprendedores que operan negocios agrícolas o turísticos sostenibles en Miches. Este año, seis emprendedores (cuatro mujeres y dos hombres) fueron financiados por la iniciativa, recibiendo un total de DOP 620,000. / 30 / 31 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA CAPACITACIONES A P O Y O Como parte del Proyecto BID/FOMIN, se desarrollaron nueve programas de capacitación entre 2014 y 2016, beneficiando a un total de 1,625 personas (55% hombres y 45% mujeres). Los temas incluyeron financiamiento, administración de tierras, uso de S O C I O C U L T U R A L pesticidas, producción orgánica y buenas prácticas agrícolas. Enmarcado en un proceso de manejo adaptativo, el proyecto “Inclusión de las Micro y Pequeñas Empresas en la Cadena de Valor ~ del Turismo Sostenible” fue revisado estratégicamente y extendido 12 meses adicionales, prolongándose hasta septiembre de 2017. Este proyecto se convertirá en un programa institucional de Fundación Tropicalia, lo cual permitirá asegurar su evolución Campamento de verano en el tiempo. Los objetivos a corto, mediano y largo plazo, así como los logros para esta nueva fase, incluyen: “Soy niña, soy impor tante” Fundación Tropicalia celebró la cuarta edición de su campamento de verano “Soy niña, soy importante” 1,625 personas 55% hombres 45% mujeres (SNSI). SNSI recibe a chicas de entre 9 y 12 años, y les ofrece un ambiente seguro y educativo, donde una niña puede ser simplemente una niña. Les brinda orientación y las herramientas necesarias para reflexionar sobre sí mismas, desarrollar un pensamiento crítico y tomar decisiones adecuadas en las distintas etapas de sus vidas, relacionadas, por ejemplo, a la educación y el embarazo. El currículum del campamento incluye: educación en valores; expresión y desarrollo artístico; desarrollo de relaciones › Capacitación de 200 productores en agricultura ecológica y climáticamente inteligente. interpersonales, autoestima y autoconocimiento; educación sexual y prevención de ETS; violencia y género; nutrición; y deporte. › Apoyo a, al menos, cinco nuevas microempresas, vinculadas a la agricultura y el turismo regional. En la República Dominicana, el 22% de las jóvenes de 15 a 19 años han estado embarazadas al menos una › Fortalecimiento de la cooperativa COOPROMI, a fin de que funcione como entidad comercial. vez, siendo el quinto país de América Latina con la tasa de embarazo adolescente más alta. El embarazo temprano es la causa del 44% de la deserción escolar entre las jóvenes dominicanas,9 lo cual obstaculiza su › Ampliación y diversificación de la producción orgánica local, como la chinola, la sandía, los pimientos rojos y el jengibre. desarrollo personal y profesional, y amplía la gran brecha de género que existe en el país; de acuerdo con el Informe Global de Desigualdad de Género (2016) del Foro Económico Mundial, República Dominicana › Medición de la huella hídrica y de carbono de, al menos, tres productos agrícolas para mejorar el manejo de los recursos ocupa el puesto 97 de 144 naciones con mayor desigualdad entre hombres y mujeres.10 y la eficiencia de la producción. › Aumento de los ingresos de COOPROMI en un 20%. › Desembolso de la primera ronda de capital del fondo rotatorio ¡Miches Emprende!, para negocios turísticos nuevos y existentes, y recapitalización del fondo para la segunda ronda de financiamiento. › Transición de un mínimo de 50 agricultores a una producción ecológica. › Desarrollar una evaluación de la capacidad de producción de las zonas montañosas y las llanuras. OPORTUNIDADES DE MICROFINANCIAMIENTO PARA EMPRENDEDORES LOCALES Fundación Tropicalia entiende que el desarrollo socioeconómico depende en gran medida del acceso de los productores y emprendedores locales a los servicios financieros. Por eso, en 2008, la fundación se asoció con el Fondo para el Desarrollo, Inc. (FONDESA), una organización sin fines de lucro líder en microfinanzas en la República Dominicana, para diversificar productos bancarios, formalizar el proceso de préstamos y apoyar programas de negocios inclusivos en Miches. Gracias a FONDESA, miles de familias han logrado acceder a créditos asequibles que han facilitado actividades de comercio, agricultura, servicios, consumo, remodelación de hogares y ganadería. En 2014, FONDESA y Fundación Tropicalia lanzaron un nuevo producto microfinanciero diseñado especialmente para los beneficiarios del proyecto de la cadena de valor inclusiva de la fundación, ofreciendo tasas de interés competitivas y plazos de amortización flexibles que se adaptan a las incertidumbres de la producción agrícola. Hasta la fecha, esta alianza ha otorgado un total de 90 líneas de crédito por un valor de más de DOP 8.1 millones, beneficiando a 90 familias locales. En su mayoría, los fondos han sido destinados a la 9 Oficina Nacional de Estadística de República Dominicana, UNICEF, Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID) y Organización Internacional del Trabajo (OIT). (2009-2010). producción de chinola, jengibre y sandía. Encuesta Nacional de Hogares de Propósitos Múltiples ENHOGAR: Situación de la Mujer, la Niñez y la Adolescencia. Extraído de https://www.unicef.org/republicadominicana/ ENHOGAR_2009-10.pdf. Consultado en enero de 2017. 10 Foro Económico Mundial. (2016). Informe Global de Desigualdad de Género. Rankings. Extraído de http://reports.weforum.org/global-gender-gap-report-2016/rankings/ / 32 Consultado en enero de 2017. / 33 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA HITOS DE SNSI Esta situación aumenta los riesgos de malnutrición, carga de trabajo doméstico, prostitución y violencia física y emocional hacia las niñas, entre otras consecuencias. Además, el valor de la mujer en el mercado laboral se ve reducido de manera significativa, aumentando la probabilidad de Año 1 2013 Año 2 2014 Año 3 2015 Año 4 2016 repetir el ciclo generacional de la pobreza. › El campamento atendió a › Se ajustó la edad de las › Lanzamiento de la campaña › Lanzamiento de redes sociales SNSI busca revertir estas tendencias, empoderando a las niñas y a sus familias. Con este programa, niñas de entre 10 y 15 años. participantes, recibiendo a niñas de recaudación de fondos y la de SNSI. A 31 de diciembre de se busca incidir en el desarrollo socioeconómico de Miches a través de la disminución de la Aprendimos que el contenido de entre 9 y 12 años. página web de SNSI. 2016, el alcance del programa prostitución, el aumento de las tasas de escolaridad y una mayor participación de la mujer en el y los mensajes impartidos eran › Se lanzó el programa de › Se integra The Ocean Foundation incluía 1,336 seguidores en mercado laboral, entre otros factores. más adecuados para niñas de voluntariado para atraer como patrocinador fiscal. Instagram y 784 seguidores en menor edad. voluntarios fuera de la comunidad › Participaron 257 niñas. Facebook. › Las voluntarias fueron profesoras educativa, y romper de esta › Evolución y mejoras a la página escolares. Aprendimos que manera con el esquema escolar. web de SNSI. la dinámica escolar se estaba › Se llevó a cabo una campaña › SNSI atrajo nuevos socios replicando en el campamento. de recaudación de fondos y financieros, aumentando su › Se desarrolló el logotipo de donaciones en Estados Unidos, presencia internacional. SNSI. en colaboración con Friends of › Participaron 248 niñas. › Participaron 100 niñas. Educa y Fundación Dominicana, patrocinadores fiscales. › Participaron 250 niñas. Cuando una niña recibe 7 años Cada año de escuela primaria Cuando las mujeres y adolescentes o más de educación, contraerá supone un incremento de entre un ganan un salario, reinvierten el 90% matrimonio 4 años más tarde. 10% y un 20% de su futuro salario. del mismo en sus familias. El programa SNSI se apoya en un programa de voluntariado y una campaña de recaudación de fondos que se lleva a cabo en los Estados Unidos y la República Dominicana. En 2016, 80 profesionales dominicanos, hombres y mujeres, se ofrecieron a dedicar una semana de sus vidas como voluntarios en el campamento. Recibimos donaciones en especie de 15 organizaciones nacionales e internacionales. En alianza con Casa Quien, una galería de Tres años después del primer campamento arte contemporáneo en Santo Domingo, organizamos una subasta de obras de artistas dominicanas, las cuales representaron SNSI, las niñas demuestran más seguridad en su la experiencia de la mujer dominicana. Un porcentaje significativo de las ventas se destinó a SNSI. Se recaudó un total de USD comportamiento, se sienten más empoderadas y 22,000 gracias a los aportes de 12 colaboradores corporativos y 68 donantes individuales, entre ellos empleados de Cisneros son más propensas a reflexionar sobre su futuro y -quienes participaron en el programa corporativo de donaciones-, amigos y familiares. sus derechos. La participación y apoyo familiar ha aumentado de manera notable, con más padres y abuelos asistiendo a las sesiones informativas y de inscripción al campamento. SNSI 2016 EN CIFRAS 248 Niñas “Tengo tres años participando y he notado una evolución 6 Comunidades en las niñas (…) creo que entienden mejor lo que significa ser niña, que es lo más importante que tratamos de 60% De las niñas repiten enseñar en el campamento” . $22,000 Dólares recaudados Daliana Medina, voluntaria de SNSI. Fuente: Boletín Comunitario julio-agosto de 2016, 31ª edición 80 Voluntarios 3 Sesiones de campamento 12 Patrocinadores corporativos / 34 / 35 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA Identidad cultural Fundación Tropicalia tiene como objetivo fortalecer el patrimonio natural y cultural de la región a través del apoyo a diversas actividades en alianza con el gobierno local y los líderes comunitarios. › La tradicional celebración anual › Fiesta de Atabales: Fundación Tropicalia patrocinó dos del Carnaval: Fundación Tropicalia celebraciones de la fiesta tradicional de atabales (un patrocinó el equipo de sonido para instrumento de percusión típico de la región), en la cual la realización del evento. micheros se reúnen para homenajear a su santo patrón, San Antonio de Padua, bailar y tocar música. Boletín Comunitario Este año, Fundación Tropicalia publicó seis nuevas ediciones de su Boletín Comunitario y distribuyó 2,000 ejemplares de cada una en más de 50 puntos de Miches. El Boletín Comunitario promueve el desarrollo sostenible, la gestión ambiental, la concienciación sobre la salud, la cultura y las tradiciones locales y la responsabilidad individual y cívica tanto de niños como de adultos. Comunidad online de F u n d a c i ó n Tr o p i c a l i a Fundación Tropicalia lanzó su página web (www.fundaciontropicalia.com) en mayo de 2015 y amplió el alcance de sus comunicaciones a través de las redes sociales. A 31 de diciembre de 2016, el alcance de la fundación incluía 1,334 seguidores en Facebook (un 34% más que en 2015), 481 seguidores en Twitter (un aumento de más del 100%) y 1,069 seguidores en Instagram (un incremento de más del 250%). 1,334 481 1,069 seguidores en Facebook seguidores en Twitter seguidores en Instagram / 36 / 37 GRI 102-13, 102-40 S O C I O S P A R A L A S O S T E N I B I L I D A D / 38 / 39 SOCIOS PARA LA SOSTENIBILIDAD S O C I O S P A R A L A F u n d a c i ó n Tr o p i c a l i a S O S T E N I B I L I D A D GOBIERNO ~ › Municipio de Miches (desde 2008): Tropicalia/Fundación Tropicalia y › Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (MIMARENA) La construcción de una base sólida para Tropicalia implica el establecimiento de una red de socios con conciencia Miches colaboran en proyectos especiales relacionados con la cultura, (desde 2013): Fundación Tropicalia colabora en proyectos especiales social y ambiental, comprometidos con la visión del proyecto. Tropicalia se enorgullece de las relaciones que ha el deporte, la educación y el medioambiente. relacionados con el medioambiente, la investigación y la educación. forjado con estas organizaciones y continuará busando alianzas exitosas en los próximos años. › Ministerio de Educación de la República Dominicana (MINERD) › Ministerio de Agricultura (desde 2013): Fundación Tropicalia y (desde 2010): Fundación Tropicalia y el MINERD trabajan para mejorar el Ministerio de Agricultura colaboran en proyectos especiales la calidad de la educación en el distrito escolar de Miches. relacionados con la cadena de valor agrícola y la capacitación técnica de agricultores. Tr o p i c a l i a EMPRESAS, SOCIEDAD CIVIL Y ORGANIZACIONES SIN FINES DE LUCRO EMPRESAS, SOCIEDAD CIVIL Y GOBIERNO ORGANIZACIONES SIN FINES DE LUCRO › Banco ADOPEM (desde 2015): Fundación Tropicalia y Banco › Red Nacional de Apoyo Empresarial a la Protección Ambiental ADOPEM trabajan para ampliar el alcance de los servicios financieros ECORED (desde 2008): Como socia de ECORED, Fundación › Ministerio de Turismo (MITUR) (desde 2009): Tropicalia cumple con las › The Ocean Foundation (TOF) (desde 2013): Tropicalia trabaja con TOF disponibles para microempresarios apoyados por ellos. Tropicalia se mantiene conectada a una red del sector privado que regulaciones del Ministerio de Turismo para desarrollos turísticos y trabaja para apoyar la elaboración de nuestros reportes y las herramientas realiza esfuerzos de protección ambiental y promueve el diálogo de la mano con el Departamento de Planeación y Proyectos (DPP). de medición, y obtener verificación externa de las iniciativas de › ADOPEM ONG (desde 2015): Fundación Tropicalia y ADOPEM público-privado. sostenibilidad social y ambiental implementadas. ONG trabajan para ofrecer programas de educación financiera y › Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (MIMARENA) › Pacto Mundial de las Naciones Unidas (desde 2010): Tropicalia apoya empoderamiento a las mujeres de la comunidad de Miches. › Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, Fondo Multilateral de (desde 2008): Tropicalia cumple con las regulaciones ambientales de la los 10 principios del Pacto Mundial de las Naciones Unidas en las Inversiones BID/FOMIN (desde 2012): Principal entidad de República Dominicana; los permisos ambientales están vigentes. áreas de derechos humanos, derechos laborales, medio ambiente y › EDUCA (desde 2013): Fundación Tropicalia y EDUCA trabajan para asesoramiento y financiamiento del proyecto de cadena de valor de lucha contra la corrupción. mejorar las políticas de educación pública y aumentar el impacto de Fundación Tropicalia. › Centro de Expor tación e Inversión de la República Dominicana › Asociación Nacional de Hoteles y Restaurantes ASONAHORES los programas educativos en Miches. (CEI-RD) (desde 2015): Tropicalia trabaja junto al CEI-RD para (desde 2011). › Cooperativa de Producción, Trabajo y Ser vicios Múltiples de promover las inversiones en el país. › Consejo Nacional de la Empresa Privada CONEP (desde 2014). › Fondo para el Desarrollo, Inc FONDESA (desde 2008): Fundación Miches COOPROMI (desde 2015): A medida que COOPROMI › Asociación Dominicana de Empresas Turísticas Inmobiliarias ADETI Tropicalia y FONDESA trabajan para democratizar el acceso a adquiera for taleza institucional, ofrecerá acceso al mercado a › Ministerio de Obras Públicas y Comunicaciones (desde 2015): (desde 2011 y presidentes en la actualidad). servicios financieros, diversificar productos bancarios y apoyar la pequeños productores, asistencia técnica en agricultura sostenible, Tropicalia trabaja con el Ministerio de Obras Públicas para fomentar la › Asociación Dominicana de Hacendados y Agricultores – ADHA inclusión de las micro y pequeñas empresas en las cadenas de valor opor tunidades de agroturismo y apoyará a Miches como destino implementación de proyectos de infraestructura en la región. (desde 2016). turísticas y agrícolas. turístico sostenible. › Junta Agroempresarial Dominicana JAD (desde 2015): Fundación › Visión Mundial (desde 2012): Fundación Tropicalia colabora con Visión Tropicalia y la JAD trabajan para ofrecer oportunidades de desarrollo Mundial en proyectos que promueven el desarrollo comunitario. a los productores locales y agronegocios de Miches. EQUIPO DE DESARROLLO Y COMUNICACIONES INSTITUCIONES ACADÉMICAS › Gensler › LLORENTE & CUENCA › Geofitech › Mapex › Geoconsult › Marshall › Universidad ISA (desde 2011): Fundación Tropicalia y la Universidad ISA llevan a cabo un programa de › Holsteinson & Asociados, SA (HOLASA) › Renaissance Golf Design becas para estudiantes de Miches interesados en carreras de ciencias agrícolas y educación. › Horwath HTL › Sheila Donnelly & Associates (SDA) › HVS › Sherwood › Isay Weinfeld › Sinergo Development Group › Jones Lang LaSalle › Thompson Engineering / 40 / 41 D E S A R R O L L O C O M U N I TA R I O : 9 A Ñ O S D E L O G R O S / 42 / 43 Nuestros programas 2008 2016 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 Rescate de Costa Esmeralda Estudio de agua de Laguna Redonda Estación meteorológica automática de Miches MEDIOAMBIENTE Actualización de Maestros en Educación (AME) Alianza con EDUCA Programa de Recuperación y Mantenimiento de Escuelas (PRyME) Programa de Becas e Intercambio Cultural Programa LEAF / Iniciativa JADOM Programa de Formación Complementaria EDUCACIÓN Programa Piensa en Arte de la Fundación Cisneros Curso de Alfabetización Digital Talleres UAPA de Educación Financiera para Adultos Campamento de verano Miches Saludable (USAID/REDDOM) Iniciativa de Escuela Modelo Alianza con FONDESA PRODUCTIVIDAD Cadena de valor del turismo sostenible con BID/FOMIN Iniciativa de diversificación agrícola con USAID Producto microfinanciero con FONDESA COOPROMI Programa de Gestión Agrícola Programa de Producción Agrícola Orgánica APOYO Entrenamiento en Mejores Prácticas Agrícolas SOCIO-CULTURAL Programa ¡Miches, sí! Programa ¡Miches Emprende! Campamento de verano ‘Soy niña, soy importante’ Copa Tropicalia Feria Cultural y de Producción El Seibo Programa de Alfabetización de Adultos ALCANCE / COMUNICACIONES / Artemiches y el programa “Nueva Cara para Miches” MONITOREO Lanzamiento de la web y redes sociales de Fundación Tropicalia Boletín Comunitario / 44 / 45 MEDIOAMBIENTE EDUCACIÓN PROGRAMA DE FORMACIÓN PROGRAMA DE RECUPERACIÓN Y MANTENIMIENTO DE ESCUELAS (PRYME) COMPLEMENTARIA ESTUDIO DE AGUA DE LAGUNA REDONDA ACTUALIZACIÓN DE MAESTROS EN 2014 EDUCACIÓN (AME) 75 estudiantes en 2 escuelas 10/2013-10/2014 2015 201 estudiantes en 2 escuelas 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Un estudio de 12 meses Centros educativos inscritos 2016 Hicaco El Cedro, La Mina, Km 6 (La Javilla), Km. 10, Gisela La Culebra, El 410 estudiantes en 2 escuelas Blanco Básica La Gina Los Urabos, Liceo Ruperto o “La Guaco, Liceo TV Durante 365 días se tomaron Padre Daniel Sabanita” (cerrada Centro La Gina Escuela El Cedro; Escuela La Mina; muestras de agua y se registraron en 2014) 686 Escuela Básica La Gina; Liceo TV datos meteorológicos para Estudiantes Centro la Gina; Escuela KM.6; identificar los efectos del clima y continúa Escuela Los Franceses; Escuela Lucas 2013 2014 2015 2016 en los niveles de contaminación Guibbes; Liceo Secundario Padre del agua. Apoyo a una red Apoyo a una red Apoyo a una red Apoyo a una red Daniel; Distrito Educativo 12-03; de 12 escuelas, de de 11 escuelas (una de 12 escuelas (una de 12 escuelas, de Km10; Fundación Tropicalia; Escuela Los resultados y las cuales cinco se cerró), de las cuales reabrió), de las cuales las cuales siete se Hicaco Blanco, Escuela Vocacional PROGRAMA DE BECAS E recomendaciones fueron beneficiaron de dos se beneficiaron dos se beneficiaron beneficiaron de 2009 8 Maestros de las F.F.A.A. de Miches, Distrito INTERCAMBIO CULTURAL entregados a MIMARENA proyectos mayores, de proyectos de proyectos proyectos mayores, 12-04, Visión Mundial. en 2015. impactando a 44 mayores, impactando mayores, impactando impactando a 91 2010 77 Maestros Nuevos 18 maestros y 1,631 a 23 maestros y 492 a 11 maestros y 189 maestros y 1,814 Existentes 15 Tropicalia monitoreará la calidad estudiantes estudiantes estudiantes estudiantes 2011 54 Maestros del agua durante la construcción Cursos 12 y las operaciones. 2012 15 Maestros 9 2013 93 Maestros Educación, desarrollo humano y superación de la pobreza; Formación de competencias 3 6 12 Escuelas 130 Maestros 2,772 Estudiantes básicas directivas para la gestión de centros educativos; Enseñanza de 247 RESCATE DE COSTA ESMERALDA 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 la educación ambiental; Enseñanza 23 de la educación para la salud; LIGA DE EMPRENDEDORES PROGRAMA PIENSA EN Apropiación y uso de las TIC Estudiantes AGRÍCOLAS EN FORMACIÓN Y JUNIOR ARTE DE LA FUNDACIÓN 200 13 Maestros en total apoyados Metros Empleados en la Educación Básica; La ética ACHIEVEMENT DOMINICANA (JADOM) CISNEROS de los cuales 119 conservados entrenados en la escuela; Educación para la aprobaron el programa paz y resolución de conflictos; 5 Estudiantes 2011 45 estudiantes de 3 escuelas 2009-2011 MATEMATEL; Bloques básicos de carreras de educación 75 Maestros 2012 45 estudiantes de 1 escuela 11 de enseñanza de negocios y reciben los servicios Rescate de Costa Esmeralda se ejecutó entre 2013-2014, 2015 planes de negocios; Desarrollo y continuó en 2016. del programa, pero sus de oportunidades de negocios y becas son cubiertas LEAF se convierte en JADOM Cursos impartidos emprendimiento; Comunicación y en un 100% por el en 15 instituciones organización escolar. Ministerio de Educación 2013 100 estudiantes de 1 escuela 2012-2013 12 Maestros 2014 200 estudiantes de 2 escuelas ESTACIÓN METEOROLÓGICA 18 Becas AUTOMÁTICA DE MICHES 9/2015-12/2016 INICIATIVA DE ESCUELA MODELO 390 Estudiantes 87 Maestros 16 MESES de data climatológica 2013 CURSO DE recolectada hasta diciembre de 2016. ALFABETIZACIÓN DIGITAL TALLERES UAPA CAMPAMENTO DE ALIANZA Los datos son actualizados en una Escuela Básica 2009-2011 DE EDUCACIÓN FINANCIERA PARA VERANO MICHES SALUDABLE CON EDUCA 112 15 plataforma meteorológica online 4 años de colaboración. ADULTOS (USAID/REDDOM) cada minuto en www.wunderground.com La Mina 150 Estudiantes de 1º a 4º grado impactados 345 Fundación Tropicalia es miembro del Consejo Maestros Escuelas 2011-2012 Adultos 2012 46 Campistas Directivo de EDUCA desde hace cuatro años. PRODUCTIVIDAD APOYO SOCIO-CULTURAL CAMPAMENTO DE VERANO FERIA CULTURAL PROGRAMA DE CADENA DE VALOR DEL TURISMO SOSTENIBLE CON BID/FOMIN “SOY NIÑA, SOY IMPORTANTE” Y DE PRODUCCIÓN ALFABETIZACIÓN EL SEIBO DE ADULTOS Un campamento para niñas de 9 a 12 años que viven en US$256,641 condiciones de riesgo. A través de actividades lúdicas y recreativas El programa se une al Plan Nacional aprenden a valorar su rol en la sociedad y tomar decisiones 2011-2013 de Alfabetización “Quisqueya 25 apropiadas para su edad. Aprende Contigo” desde 2013. 2013 2015 Desembolsados 2013 2012 2013 2014 US$ 131,910 desembolsados (17.6% de US$ 64,691 desembolsados (8.7% 100 Artesanos apoyados 6 Adultos 22 Adultos 10 Adultos la inversión planificada por de la inversión planificada Niñas, el campamento el BID/FOMIN) por el BID/FOMIN) se desarrolla en 2 comunidades 2014 2016 US$ 60,040 El proyecto se extiende por 12 meses adicionales 2014 ARTEMICHES Y EL PROGRAMA “NUEVA desembolsados (8% de El proyecto es estratégicamente renovado 250 CARA PARA MICHES” la inversión planificada por el BID/FOMIN) Niñas, el campamento se desarrolla en 3 855 Niñas en total La Fundación Tropicalia apoya a Artemiches, una organización local sin fines de lucro cuya misión es atraer programas y concienciación cultural a la comunidad de Miches, incluyendo talleres de pintura comunidades y continúa y escultura; la Semana Cultural Artemiches, y Una nueva cara para 2015 Miches, una iniciativa en la cual voluntarios pintan murales en las INICIATIVA DE DIVERSIFICACIÓN AGRÍCOLA CON USAID PROGRAMA DE PRODUCCIÓN AGRÍCOLA ORGÁNICA 257 fachadas de las casas de la entrada al pueblo. Niñas, el campamento se 2008 Primer año 2012-2013 2014-2015 desarrolla en 3 comunidades 2009 Segundo año US$95,000 300 agricultores certificados en producción orgánica 32 agricultores asesorados en prácticas orgánicas 2016 30 Productores reciben talleres de 248 2010 Tercer año 140 Casas pintadas agricultura orgánica y Niñas, el campamento se 2011 Cuarto año 123 beneficiarios sostenible desarrolla en 3 comunidades ENTRENAMIENTO EN MEJORES PRÁCTICAS 2012 40 casas pintadas en la iniciativa AGRÍCOLAS “Nueva cara para Miches” 1,580 m2 de 50 Mujeres 2014-2015 2013 60 casas pintadas en la iniciativa invernaderos reciben talleres de nutrición 110 productores beneficiados “Nueva cara para Miches” 7 COPA TROPICALIA Años 2014 40 casas pintadas en la iniciativa de apoyo 2010 “Nueva cara para Miches” PROGRAMA ¡MICHES, SÍ! 1er torneo. Copa Tropicalia 2010 se manejó como un evento de 2014-2016 múltiples fines de semana que finalizaba con el torneo. Fundación PRODUCTO MICROFINANCIERO CON FONDESA Tropicalia organizó múltiples equipos de los 8 a los 18 años, de ALCANCE / 2014-presente Un programa de desarrollo de 24 participantes capacitados en 4 planes negocio de acuerdo a las edades. COMUNICACIONES / 90 líneas de crédito establecidas DOP 8.1 millones en créditos planes de negocio implementado. desarrollo de planes de negocio premiados con fondos 2011 MONITOREO 2do torneo. Copa Tropicalia 2011 repitió la metodología del 2010. LANZAMIENTO DE LA PÁGINA WEB Y LAS COOPROMI 2012 REDES SOCIALES DE FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA 2014-presente PROGRAMA ¡MICHES EMPRENDE! 2016 40 Jugadores 3er torneo. La Copa 2012 se transformó en un evento de un día con 40 jugadores 1,334 3 años de operaciones desde su fundación El decreto que la oficializa fue emitido en 2016 Un fondo 6 emprendedores DOP 620k en El Cedro. seguidores en Facebook Boletín Comunitario rotatorio creado tienen acceso 2013 481 33 Ediciones en Total 60 y operando al fondo desembolsados Jugadores 4to torneo. Repite la metodología de 2012, seguidores en Twitter 3 equipos, 60 jugadores en total, en Miches. 1,069 9 PROGRAMA DE GESTIÓN AGRÍCOLA seguidores en Instagram 6 6 6 2014-2015 5 2014 9 60 Jugadores 5to torneo. Repite la metodología de 2012, Página web activa ALIANZA CON 1 600 productores capacitados 15 talleres impartidos FONDESA Años de alianza 3 equipos, 60 jugadores, en Miches. Datos al 31 de diciembre 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 GRI 102-54, 102-55, 102-56 I N I C I A T I V A D E P R I N C I P I O S D E L R E P O R T E G L O B A L ( G R I ) P A C T O M U N D I A L D E Cada año, buscamos mejorar nuestro análisis al hacerlo más relevante, eficiente y transparente. Este año, hemos usado L A S N A C I O N E S U N I D A S los estándares de la Iniciativa de Repor te Global (Global Reporting Initiative o GRI) como base para desarrollar nuestro Reporte de Sostenibilidad. GRI es una organización internacional independiente, pionera en la elaboración de informes de sostenibilidad desde finales de los años 90 (www.globalreporting.org). Nuestro Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2016 hace referencia a los estándares del GRI según los indicadores del G-4 lanzados en 2016. EI reporte ha sido validado internamente y revisado por un panel de stakeholders cuidadosamente seleccionados, incluyendo a The Ocean Foundation como verificador externo independiente. DERECHOS HUMANOS Las empresas deben apoyar y respetar la protección de los derechos humanos fundamentales, reconocidos internacionalmente, dentro de su ámbito de influencia. (pág. 14) 2010 2016 Firmamos el Pacto Reportamos con el SMS, LEED, Las empresas deben asegurarse de que sus empresas no son cómplices en la vulneración de los Derechos Humanos. (pág. 14) Mundial de las EDGE e implementamos el GRI Naciones Unidas NORMAS LABORALES 2011 actualidad Las empresas deben apoyar la libertad de afiliación y el reconocimiento efectivo del derecho a la negociación colectiva. (pág. 14) Presentamos 6 Reportes de Sostenibilidad Las empresas deben apoyar la eliminación de toda forma de trabajo forzoso o realizado bajo coacción. (pág. 14) Las empresas deben apoyar la erradicación del trabajo infantil. (pág. 14 y 33-34) Las empresas deben apoyar la abolición de las prácticas de discriminación en el empleo y la ocupación. (pág. 14) Nuestro índice de contenido GRI MEDIO AMBIENTE El siguiente índice incluye los estándares del GRI aplicables a este período de reporte. Los estándares seleccionados fueron Las empresas deberán mantener un enfoque preventivo que favorezca el medio ambiente. (pág. 17-18) determinados en base a procesos de evaluación de materialidad de Tropicalia y Fundación Tropicalia. Nuestro índice de contenido también hace referencia a los indicadores de nuestro propio Sistema de Gestión Sostenible y a los 10 principios Las empresas deben fomentar las iniciativas que promuevan una mayor responsabilidad ambiental. (pág. 25 y 46) del Pacto Mundial de las Naciones Unidas. Este índice personalizado nos permite seguir mejorando nuestros esfuerzos de sostenibilidad y ofrece a nuestro público una visión más integral de los múltiples niveles de compromiso hacia el desarrollo Las empresas deben favorecer el desarrollo y la difusión de las tecnologías respetuosas con el medioambiente. (pág. 16 y 19) sostenible, así como de nuestros esfuerzos interrelacionados para cumplir con los objetivos que tales compromisos implican.11 Te invitamos a compartir nuestra visión de sostenibilidad para este desarrollo de clase mundial visitando www.tropicalia.com ANTICORRUPCIÓN y siguiéndonos en nuestras redes sociales. Las empresas deben trabajar contra la corrupción en todas sus formas, incluidas extorsión y soborno. (pág. 14 y 40-41) /TROPICALIARD @TROPICALIARD @TROPICALIARD /FUNDACIONTROPICALIA @FUNDTROPICALIA @FUNDACIONTROPICALIA /SNSICAMP @SNSICAMP / 50 11 Puede consultar nuestro índice GRI completo al final de la versión en inglés del Reporte, sólo dando la vuelta al libro. / 51 GRI 102-53 C O N M I R A S A L F U T U R O Cuando llegamos a Miches por primera vez nos encontramos con grandes desafíos, incluyendo elevados niveles de pobreza, bajos niveles de educación y una infraestructura vial y de telecomunicación deficiente. A través de los años, hemos servido de facilitadores, mediadores y ejecutores de soluciones a estos desafíos, uniendo a la comunidad, las autoridades y el sector privado. El camino es prometedor y estamos tan comprometidos como siempre con convertir a Miches en un destino turístico sostenible. Objetivos para 2017 › Conformar grupos internos de trabajo dedicados a diferentes asuntos de sostenibilidad y presentar al menos un informe. › Mejorar y modificar el SMS como una herramienta valiosa de monitoreo. › Incorporar los hallazgos del EIA del Four Seasons Tropicalia en el SMS. › Mejorar la presencia digital de nuestra estrategia de sostenibilidad e informar a través de una plataforma digital especializada. › Continuar reportando con base en los requisitos del GRI. PUBLICACIÓN 15 de abril de 2017 CONTACTO Sofía Perazzo Directora ejecutiva Fundación Tropicalia sperazzo@cisneros.com DESARROLLO DE CONTENIDO Tropicalia The Ocean Foundation DISEÑO LLORENTE & CUENCA FOTOGRAFÍA Fer Figheras / 52 / 53
