C O R P O R AT E SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 CONTENTS 3 Message from the President and CEO 4 Verallia, an international player in the glass industry 6 POSITIONING 6 Verallia, the benchmark for glass packaging 8 Our ambition 9 Our Code of Conduct 10 Governance, Risk & Compliance 12 VERALLIA, A COMMITTED PLAYER 14 Our three priority approaches for attaining our Forever Glass ambition and creating value for our stakeholders 16 1. BE THE BENCHMARK FOR THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND MANAGE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 18 Respond to environmental challenges 20 1.1 Be the driver for optimizing cullet use 22 1.2 Reduce energy consumption 24 1.3 Optimize water use 26 1.4 Other initiatives to reduce environmental impact 28 2. DEVELOP AND PROTECT OUR HUMAN CAPITAL 30 Engage and recognize Verallia employees 32 2.1 Rigorously apply our Health & Safety policy 34 2.2 Develop talent and encourage collaborative learning 36 2.3 Recruit talents with diverse backgrounds and experiences 38 3. BOOST OUR CONTRIBUTION TO COMMUNITIES’ ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 40 Involvement with our communities 42 3.1 Raise public awareness 44 3.2 Support growth of the circular economy 46 3.3 Promote the properties of glass 48 APPENDICES 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report VERALLIA ASSERTS ITS VOCATION TO SUPPORT PROFOUND ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE AND UNDERTAKES TO ACT AS AN EXEMPLARY STAKEHOLDER. Verallia, independent since 2015, is one of the leading international players in the glass industry. As our customers’ partner, we are committed to constantly improving the way we serve them by providing quality products and services that best fit their needs. As glass is an endlessly recyclable material and resists the test of time, it logically fits with a perpetual circular economy. Verallia’s model of manufacturing excellence places its environmental and social commitments at the heart of its strategy. Proud of its ambitions and its values, the Group asserts its vocation to support profound environmental change and is committed to acting as an exemplary, aware and transparent player that is innovative and proactive at each stage in the value chain and with regard to all its stakeholders. By developing and protecting the Group’s human capital, boosting its contribution to the economic and social development of local communities while managing its environmental impact and promoting the circular economy, Verallia acts sustainably and responsibly each and every day. All this is reflected in Forever Glass. Jean-Pierre Floris, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Verallia 3 VERALLIA, AN INTERNATIONAL PLAYER IN THE GLASS INDUSTRY Verallia, an independent group, is one of the world’s leading producers of glass packaging for food and beverages. No. 2 in South No. 1 America in Western Europe 10,000 employees €2.4 billion serving more than revenue in 2016 10,000 customers 1,500 new 16 billion bottles references and jars each year manufactured in 2016 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Commercial presence in 33 glass 46 countries production sites 5 technical centers Manufacturing presence in and 13 product 13 countries development centers Sales by market* Sales by region* 10% Non-alcoholic 13% 12% beverages South America Beer 17% Food 10% Spirits 50% 88% Still and sparkling Europe wines * 2016 figures 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report VERALLIA, THE BENCHMARK FOR GLASS PACKAGING Our vision Glass is the safest and most sustainable choice for attractive food and beverage packaging. Our mission Develop innovative glass packaging solutions for each of Verallia’s customers by combining the strength of a global leader and the proximity of a local player and by continuously improving the quality of the Group’s products and services. Our commitments Be an exemplary representative of the circular economy, while reducing the impact of Verallia’s activities on the environment. Recognize, develop and protect the Group’s human capital. Increase Verallia’s contribution to the economic and social development of local communities. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report GLASS IS OUR BUSINESS OUR AMBITION: BE AN AND WE ARE PROUD OF IT EXEMPLARY REPRESENTATIVE OF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Glass is an ecological and safe material with intrinsic qualities making it a noble and attractive solution. It stands the test of time and remains the only 100% and endlessly Verallia combines the strength of a global leader with the recyclable packaging material—it is both modern and authentic. proximity of a local partner able to meet all its stakeholders’ needs. These qualities make glass the perfect example of a “permanent” material. By applying and sharing the best social and environmental Heirs to centuries-old expertise from 1827, the Verallia teams practices, Verallia wants to inspire all the players in its industry. constantly seek the most innovative glass packaging solutions, while reflecting the values of sustainable development and The group wants to be exemplary, especially in a field considered as corporate responsibility. a priority: the circular economy. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR CODE OF CONDUCT This code asserts our shared values and reflects the attention paid to people, their safety, labor-management dialogue, compliance and respect for the environment. Verallia requires that its employees apply these principles on a daily basis. They are a requirement for belonging to the Group (see appendix 1 for details). Principles of Conduct Respect Integrity Solidarity for others Professional Loyalty commitment Principles of Action Respect Caring for for the law the environment Worker health Employee rights and safety The Principles of Conduct and Action explicitly refer to the applicable Conventions of the International Labour Organization, the OECD Guidelines for Multinationals and the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention. Verallia is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report GOVERNANCE, RISK & COMPLIANCE … that puts the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility RESPONSIBLE at the heart of its governance GOVERNANCE Verallia has appointed its Chief Technical Officer to manage its Corporate Social Responsibility. He is supported in this mission A fully autonomous industrial group… by the Chief Legal Officer for governance and compliance issues. The Secretary General is the guarantor of compliance with the With its new shareholders, Apollo Global Management LLC and Code of Conduct and steers initiatives and commitments involving Bpifrance, Verallia is a fully autonomous industrial group, entirely employees and communities. All three are members of the dedicated to glass packaging. This is a new chapter in the history Executive Committee. of the Group, which has been developing its glassmaking expertise since 1827. Each month, the Executive Committee reviews the safety results, and twice a year, it examines the environmental programs. Finally, a committee representing the regions and key functions for Corporate Social Responsibility issues meets each quarter to define the strategy and monitor the implementation of action plans. 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report RISK MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED OVER TIME Verallia leverages its lengthy experience and expertise to guarantee the health and safety of its workers at their workplace and minimize the environmental impact of its activities. To do so, we implement a robust EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) policy with a proven track record, and ensure that the principles are anchored in day-to-day practices by running numerous training and awareness sessions. Thirty-two Verallia production sites are certified ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, and the majority are also ISO 22000 and OHSAS 18001 certified. Additionally, SMETA 4P protocol social audits are systematically conducted. These certifications ensure that the impact of the Group’s activities is managed at several levels: employee health and safety THE REQUIREMENTS environment AND COMPLIANCE LEVEL quality and food safety OF A MAJOR energy. INTERNATIONAL GROUP Verallia is underpinned by a number of policies consistent with its Code of Conduct: HR policy (combined under the MOVE policy: Mobility, Open mind, Values and Engagement) respect for competition law anticorruption policies purchasing policy compliance with economic sanctions and embargoes. The General Management implements awareness training and follow-up actions to promote the Code of Conduct and these policies within the Group. In all cases, each of Verallia’s senior managers and employees is held personally responsible for implementing these policies. 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report VERALLIA, A COMMITTED PLAYER Verallia participates, contributes and collaborates with various organizations whose purpose is to promote sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. GLOBAL COMPACT The Global Compact is the most important international initiative for voluntary commitment to sustainable development and has almost 14,000 signatories in 160 countries. Both global and local, public and private, the Global Compact is a forum for commitment and collective action encouraging stable and inclusive societies. The Global Compact is the starting point for all organizations seeking to support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in September 2015. They are a universal set of goals for building a better world. They require a top-down approach by companies, leading to deep social and market changes, thereby demonstrating that sustainability and value creation can coexist. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report AIM-PROGRESS AIM-PROGRESS is a forum of consumer goods companies to facilitate and promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. It is a global initiative supported and sponsored by the European Brands Association (AIM) in Europe and by the Grocery Manufacturers Association (GMA) in North America. It aims to develop and promote the use of shared assessment methods to determine Corporate Social Responsibility performance within the supply chain and to improve the efficiency of all companies. AIM-PROGRESS collects, evaluates and shares noncompetitive information about the supply chain’s Corporate Social Responsibility performance. SEDEX Sedex is a non-profit organization that aims to promote responsible and ethical improvement in current practices within supply chains. Sedex provides access to a secure online database allowing members to store, share and release data in four main areas: working conditions health and safety the environment ethical practices. 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR THREE PRIORITY APPROACHES FOR ATTAINING THE FOREVER GLASS AMBITION… 1. Be the benchmark for the circular economy and manage our environmental impact To support the Forever Glass ambition, Verallia must develop the best environmental practices and influence its entire industry, the ideal symbol of the circular economy. The permanence of glass is one of its major strengths with regard to climate change. 2. Develop and protect our human capital based on the MOVE policy The glass business demands constant commitment and advanced technical expertise. It is crucial to maintain a high level of satisfaction among the Group’s employees by supporting the development of their skills. Verallia recruits talents with a wide range of backgrounds and experiences. Diversity helps drive efficiency. 3. Boost our contribution to communities’ economic and social development Verallia is proud of the strength of its local roots, and its proximity with its neighboring communities. The Group contributes to supporting these communities by leveraging its strengths as a global leader in the glass packaging industry. Verallia’s business provides a unique window into understanding the issues of the circular economy. It is a strategic advantage for helping raise public awareness and supporting civil society as it implements its projects. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report … AND CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS Employees Employee Representatives The principles of the MOVE (Mobility, Open mind, Verallia takes care to build a constructive dialogue Values and Engagement) policy reflect the Group’s with employee representative bodies. In order to proapproach to its employees. They aim to strengthen vide tangible responses to social issues, the discusthe corporate culture, teamwork and career sions are conducted locally. At the international level, development, and to recognize, attract, recruit and a group committee regularly brings together the emretain talent. ployee representatives of the European companies. Customers and consumers Suppliers Verallia relies on a proximity strategy to ensure All suppliers sign the Supplier Charter, which is customer satisfaction. Surveys are conducted systematically included in the contracts. The main and regularly followed up. Verallia also places suppliers are assessed and those deemed to be a risk considerable importance on promoting glass, a undergo more detailed audits. material that naturally guarantees quality and safety for consumers. Public authorities Local community Verallia develops constructive relations with the Verallia’s local involvement is reflected in its strong public authorities at its industrial sites. The Group commitment to the community, whether by preventadopts an approach based on open and constructive ing the potential impact of its operations or supportdialogue. ing civil society, especially in the area of the circular economy. 15 1. BE THE BENCHMARK FOR THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND MANAGE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 17 1. Be the benchmark for the circular economy and manage our environmental impact RESPOND TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES As a player in the glass packaging industry for food and beverages, Verallia is aware that it must address major environmental issues and strive to minimize the impact of its activities. Verallia therefore implements industrial projects based on a responsible approach at each step in the value chain. Verallia bases its business on an environmental charter and a catalogue of environmental standards. To measure the progress made in implementing these standards, performance indicators have been introduced and environmental targets defined on the basis of three main drivers: Set a benchmark for the use of cullet Reduce energy consumption Manage and limit water use. Verallia also invests in a series of other initiatives to reduce the environmental footprint of its activities, such as eco-innovation with the ECOVA range, atmospheric emissions reduction and waste recovery. Verallia’s commitment to Manufacturing Excellence also has positive effects by optimizing the use of resources and increasing process efficiency. Verallia’s commitment to the environment helps reduce its carbon footprint. The use of cullet, lowering energy consumption, ecoinnovation and waste recovery cut the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from Verallia’s activities. 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report An ecological material… … that protects its contents … and shows it to best effect composed of natural minerals inert and impermeable, glass does transparent (sand, sodium carbonate and not interact with its contents, available in a huge range calcium carbonate) does not alter its taste, scent or of colors and shapes. composition 100% and endlessly recyclable. assures optimum conservation is the absolute benchmark as witnessed by its use in the pharmaceutical industry. 74% of glass bottles are recycled in the European Union* 74% of glass bottles are recycled in the European Union* Extraction and transformation Replacing raw materials of raw materials (sand, sodium carbonate and calcium carbonate) with recycled glass reduces carbon emissions by 58% Extraction and transformation Replacing raw materials of raw materials (sand, sodium carbonate and calcium carbonate) with recycled glass reduces carbon emissions by 58% Production Design and produce high-quality products Production Design and produce high-quality products Transformation of the Distribution and sale collected glass into cullet Promote our customers' products Recover packaging waste while focusing on end-consumer Transformation of the in Verallia’s or its partners’ Distribution and sale well-being collected glass into cullet treatment plants Promote our customers' products Recover packaging waste while focusing on end-consumer in Verallia’s or its partners’ well-being treatment plants Collection Boost awareness of selective sorting and recycling Collection Boost awareness of selective * FEVE (European Container Glass Federation) article, November 2016recycling sorting and 19 1. Be the benchmark for the circular economy and manage our environmental impact 1.1 BE THE DRIVER FOR OPTIMIZING CULLET USE Today, cullet is the key link in the glass packaging circular economy. It is made up of glass from the selective collection of waste, recycling containers or production waste. Added to raw materials (sand, sodium carbonate and calcium carbonate), cullet is an optimal solution for recovering waste packaging. It reduces: the energy needed to melt the mix of raw materials, and consequently reduces greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions the GHG emissions from melting the raw materials the consumption of infeed materials, such as sodium carbonate, which requires large quantities of water for its production. The replacement of 10% of the raw material with recycled glass reduces energy consumption by 3% and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 5%*. Verallia develops numerous initiatives aimed at optimizing the use of cullet. An international working group is tasked with improving glass recycling and cullet production line yields. All these local and Group initiatives aim to: improve waste collection by boosting recycling rates and limiting the presence of impurities in the flow of collected glass improve cullet quality through its treatment increase cullet use in glass production (some furnaces use up to 95% cullet). 2015-2020 target * Verre Avenir, Thematic report No. 3, 2012-2013 – Verre & maintain cullet use at more than 50%. Développement Durable (Glass & Sustainable Development). 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR NOS ACTIONS FRANCE Improved cullet quality The business of Verallia subsidiary Everglass lies at the heart of the circular economy: waste recovery. In 2016, Everglass invested almost €7 million at its Rozet-SaintAlbin site in northern France, to improve the quality of the cullet produced by optimizing sorting of impurities and infusible material. This investment allows more efficient and secure use of cullet by glass plants. Environmentally, the project seeks to reduce waste by separating and recovering ferrous and non-ferrous metals, and infusible and organic material. Additionally, a new unit produces very fine cullet (between 1-2 mm), cleaned of all organic and infusible pollution, which minimizes the production of end waste. ITALY Research programs at the Stazione Sperimentale del Vetro (SSV) Verallia supports the SSV and works with its teams on their research programs on the cullet production chain in order to improve knowledge, management and recycling. In the past three years, its research has focused on the main problems facing the glassmaking industry: the definition of a shared, solid method applicable at the industrial level to manage cullet quality the reuse of new fractions of cullet as a raw material. The SSV is also looking at new areas of research, including increasing cullet recycling rates and maintaining a high level of glass quality. OUR NOS ACTIONS 21 1. Be the benchmark for the circular economy and manage our environmental impact 1.2 REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION Improving energy efficiency and reducing energy consumption have always been priorities for Verallia. Verallia invests in Research and Development and engineering projects to reduce its energy consumption. Since energy is mainly used to melt glass, every time we shut down a furnace for renovation, we see it as an opportunity to upgrade its design. These changes are the main source of reduced energy consumption. Plants also implement actions to reduce furnace energy consumption, e.g., furnace tightness and thermal insulation, optimizing glass temperature or combustion settings and adjusting combustion air volume. Finally, other initiatives based on the principles of the circular economy result in the recovery of energy consumed, in particular by extracting the heat from furnaces to heat buildings. 2015-2020 target reduce energy consumption by 5%. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR NOS ACTIONS BRAZIL A new furnace for Compo Bom Glass fusion furnaces operate 24 hours a day, 365 days a year and are the main source of energy consumption in the Group. When rebuilding furnaces, every 10 to 14 years, Verallia systematically adopts the most energy-efficient fusion technology. The Campo Bom plant recently rebuilt its furnace. The use of new technology has led to a significant improvement in the furnace’s efficiency and reduced energy consumption by 27%. SPAIN Use and save energy efficiently The Verallia plant in Burgos has opted to install a boiler that recovers heat from the glass fusion furnace flue gas. The steam produced is then used to preheat the raw materials during the mixing stage. This technology uses energy more rationally by recovering 3,000 MWh per year and avoids the emissions from a standard gas-fired boiler. NOS ACTIONS OUR 23 1. Be the benchmark for the circular economy and manage our environmental impact 1.3 OPTIMIZE WATER USE Water is a rare and precious resource. It is therefore crucial to optimize its use in the glassmaking process. The challenge is twofold: reduce the amount of water withdrawn and used to cool or form the molten material, and limit the impact of discharge water on the local environment. Most Group sites operate in a closed or semi-closed circuit to minimize water consumption. Verallia also relies on the Water Standard, which outlines the minimum requirements that all sites must apply. It aims to reduce consumption, manage water quality and prevent accidents. It is also worth noting that the use of a higher percentage of cullet reduces water consumption across the entire water cycle (in particular the water needed to manufacture sodium carbonate). 2015-2020 target reduce water consumption by 5%. 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR NOS ACTIONS SPAIN A new water collection and treatment system At the Azuqueca site, the entire water supply and treatment system is shared with the neighboring Isover and Rocco Bormioli plants. Technical improvements have been added to the water treatment system. As a result, the water from Verallia and Rocco Bormioli cullet cooling circuits can be fed back into the tank that supplies the three sites. This pilot project run by the Verallia team has led to: 23% less water withdrawn 50% less discharge. ARGENTINA Considerable water savings The Mendoza plant has implemented numerous projects to ensure the sustainable management of this natural resource. First, a campaign was run to raise employees’ awareness of responsible water consumption. The water treatment system and the cooling towers of the cullet circuit were improved. Water use was also optimized in the laboratory and for cooling the plant’s compressors and pumps. Together, these actions reduced water consumption by 60% between 2014 and 2016. The creation of a pond made it possible to collect snowmelt to water the site’s landscaped areas. OUR NOS ACTIONS 25 1. Be the benchmark for the circular economy and manage our environmental impact 1.4 OTHER INITIATIVES TO REDUCE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Reduce atmospheric emissions Electro-filters are the main tool for limiting dust and sulfur oxide (SO2) emissions. Dust emissions cut by up to 90% in the past 10 years. Identifying the optimal energy mix and burner adjustment, combined with a patented process to improve combustion in the furnace (the result of an internal Research & Development project) has also reduced nitrous oxide (NOx) emissions. Value-creating products Verallia is developing value-creating products suited to its customers’ needs and market changes, while taking into account corporate social responsibility challenges. Worldwide, the company is launching eco-designed glass packaging. These new lighter formats reduce environmental footprints while maintaining aesthetics and the overall appeal of glass. Since the launch of the ECOVA ranges in 2009, around 15 billion eco-designed bottles have been sold by Verallia. Reduce and recover waste Production facilities have implemented efficient systems for selective sorting and waste recovery with the support of a best practices guide. As a result, some plants recover up to 90% of their waste. 2015-2020 target boost the recovered waste rate by 5%. 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report NOS ACTIONS OUR FRANCE An eco-designed bottle for Languedoc AOC wines Attracted by Verallia’s eco-design approach, the Conseil Interprofessionnel des Vins du Languedoc selected Verallia to update its Languedoc bottle. The Ecova Languedoc bottle: weighs 90 grams less than the previous model its distinctive features have been retained: Bordeaux shape and engraved Languedoc cross. No design or size compromises have been made. The new bottle combines tradition, aesthetics and eco-design. moc.evueNerreT CANARY ISLANDS CO2 recovery The Vicsa plant is a tangible example of the glassmaking industry’s contribution to the circular economy. In 2014, as part of an €11 million investment, the plant added a specific installation on the electro-filter to improve the flue gas treatment and separate the CO2 from the other gases emitted. This system allows the CO2 to be reused in other industrial processes, in particular, the production of carbonated beverages in the Canary Islands. By recycling CO2 and significantly cutting NOx, SO2 and dust emissions, this initiative, a first for a glassmaking furnace, has considerably reduced the Vicsa plant’s environmental IBLA’Dfootprint EIRERREV AOVand cut its CO emissions by almost 30%. 2 NOS ACTIONS OUR 27 28 2. DEVELOP AND PROTECT OUR HUMAN CAPITAL 29 2. Develop and protect our human capital ENGAGE AND RECOGNIZE VERALLIA’S EMPLOYEES Verallia continues to concentrate on developing and protecting its employees by leveraging a high level of engagement and satisfaction as well as a dynamic shared internal culture. Every two years, Verallia conducts a satisfaction survey and implements action plans reflecting the results in each country. The rollout of all the actions is closely monitored. The most recent survey was conducted at the end of 2016 and action plans will be implemented over the coming two years. Employee satisfaction surveys show that the Group has several fundamental strengths, in particular: pride in belonging to the company, based on our Code of Conduct and the nature of our business, further enhanced by glass itself, which is seen as a “noble” and “permanent” material satisfying and recognized production work, and a commitment to ongoing skills development in a context of industrial processes requiring experience and technical knowledge scope and organization of an international group with broad human and technical resources and the ability to cooperate and share best practices, while maintaining autonomy and humane scale at the local level solidarity cultivated to support Verallia’s development, including through the quality of the dialogue between management, employee representatives and the teams, particularly in the current context of the Group’s recently acquired autonomy. In order to protect these strengths, Verallia implements its “MOVE” (Mobility, Open mind, Values and Engagement) policy, which defines the Group’s approach to its employees. It is based on a three-pronged approach: maintain a strong EHS policy anchored in employee practices develop talent and encourage collaborative learning attract and integrate talents with diverse backgrounds and experiences. 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 31 2. Develop and protect our human capital 2.1 RIGOROUSLY APPLY OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY Protection of employee health and safety is fundamental and crucial to Verallia’s success. It is a long-standing commitment, inherited from our shared past with Saint-Gobain. Verallia constantly strives to develop and implement safe industrial processes, to promote a “zero risk” culture and to ensure the best working conditions for its employees. Verallia’s Health and Safety policy revolves around three fundamental approaches: basics, internal tools and internal H&S audits. The basics refers to: a Health and Safety risk assessment for each workstation down to the individual task that leads to ranking the risks and then prioritizing their mitigation or eradication the “4 cardinal rules for saving lives”: rolled out in 2009, they aim to improve behavior and raise employee safety awareness. The proper application of these rules is regularly monitored in all Verallia’s countries the safety standards compiled from the analysis of the most frequent accidents. Verallia has also developed tools to help improve behavior. These tools are often the result of local initiatives and are then deployed throughout the Group as good practices: daily safety meetings, junior auditors, and “one minute to think.” Verallia also pays particular attention to Health and Hygiene issues. Its Health and Hygiene approach takes into account the main issues associated with the industrial process: ergonomics in the workstation, reducing potential exposure to dust, noise and heat, and managing chemical risk. 2015-2020 targets 100% of operators audited twice a year using the SMAT method. 85% of unsafe situations (TF5) reported by Verallia employees resolved. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR NOS ACTIONS INTERNATIONAL Safety Management Tool (SMAT) SMAT is used to work on gradually improving Verallia employees’ safety behavior. This approach involves two managers observing the employee at work. This is followed by a discussion about best practices, any potential risky behavior (unsafe acts) and ways for improving how the employee performs tasks. SMAT leads to a commitment between the employee observed and the Verallia manager to correct any unsafe behavior or to do everything possible to avoid risky situations. SPAIN & PORTUGAL Shared safety Verallia’s plants in Spain and Portugal have introduced several original and innovative interactive initiatives to share the “zero risk” culture and improve internal behavior. From breakfasts to a newsletter, along with internal events, everything is a potential topic for “safety” discussions. Inspired by an initiative at a Brazilian site, the Burgos plant employees created an entertaining play based on everyday scenes and unsafe behavior. The plant has also organized individual interviews for all employees to make sure everyone understands and applies the rules and foster employee commitment to maintaining exemplary safety standards. The Azuqueca plant held Safety Olympics, which involved numerous employees who demonstrated their commitment and awareness by participating in this fun event. All these initiatives were honored at the 2016 EHS Awards ceremony. OUR NOS ACTIONS 33 2. Develop and protect our human capital 2.2 DEVELOP TALENT AND ENCOURAGE COLLABORATIVE LEARNING Training and talent development are fundamental and permanent approaches at Verallia. They contribute to employee fulfillment, help employees adapt to changing work practices, develop customer satisfaction and establish a durable competitive advantage. Verallia strives to engage and empower its employees to enrich their skills, managing a transition from a conventional training model to one where the employees are in charge of their own learning. Verallia is currently conducting a program aimed at developing skills matrixes for its various professions to improve support for its employees’ professional development. The Group also runs two major talent development programs: Leadership Academy for Talents (three international programs depending on the level of experience) Verallia Academy for All (a collection of online e-learning modules covering topics such as cultural diversity, and technical and professional training). Additionally, Verallia is involved in and contributes to youth training and employment, in particular through the creation of internal glassmaking schools. 2015-2020 targets 100% of plant or commercial employees will be assessed using a skills matrix suited to their position. A training school for glassmaking professions in each region(1). (1) Verallia is organized into five regions: France, Iberia (Spain and Portugal), Northern Europe (Germany, Poland, Ukraine and Russia), Italy and Algeria, and South America 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report NOS ACTIONS OUR GERMANY AND FRANCE Evolve through training Verallia has created an employee training center at its Bad Wurzach plant in Germany, to provide operator training and to allow employees to evolve towards new responsibilities. The course has several modules: from initial safety training to production and supervision of the various processes, and courses for the plant’s future managers. In this way, Verallia is ensuring the continuity of skills for technical positions and the rollout of best practices. In France, Verallia has created a glassmaking school in Chalon-surSaône. It provides work-study diploma courses for future middle management. The aim is to speed up the transfer of the skills required for expert positions, which employees traditionally only rise to after around 10 years of internal training. In 2015, five of these graduates were recruited by Verallia plants. FRANCE Co-built well-being Loyal to its motto “The quality of people makes the quality of glass,” VOA Verrerie d’Albi devotes more than 3.5% of its payroll to training and implements proactive policies to ensure skills transfers and gender balance. It also maintains its tradition of ongoing dialogue by closely involving the glassmakers in the plant’s life. VOA Verrerie d’Albi has, for example, implemented a Workplace Life Quality Charter, the result a working group run at a management seminar in June 2015, and an assessment of psychological and social risks by two occupational psychologists. This charter aims to improve teams’ well-being and to enable them to enjoy optimal working conditions. OUR NOS ACTIONS 35 2. Develop and protect our human capital 2.3 RECRUIT TALENTS WITH DIVERSE BACKGROUNDS AND EXPERIENCES With its new-found autonomy, Verallia is now recruiting talent from different ecosystems. The diversity and complementarity of profiles, experience backgrounds, expertise and cultures are a strength that the Group is intent on maintaining and developing. The diversity of Verallia’s teams is a tremendous driver for developing innovative solutions and taking up the new challenges presented by the glass industry. Verallia is concentrating on developing the diversity of skills at every level in the Group to prepare for the developments ahead. In particular, it offers training programs for high-potential employees to improve their managerial skills. Verallia has more than 50 nationalities among its employees at its industrial sites in 13 countries. 2015-2020 target 50% women in the high-potential program. 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR NOS ACTIONS UKRAINE Meeting with Valentina Pugach, Plant Manager After obtaining her engineering degree from the National Technical University of Ukraine in 1994, Valentina’s first work experience was at the Orzhiv timber factory as head of the EHS department. Attracted by the glass industry, she took up a position as quality engineer at the Zorya plant. In 2000, this plant joined Verallia, which put Valentina in charge of the chemical and raw materials inspection laboratory. Since then, Valentina has continued to progress within the Group. She was named plant manager in 2013. She is now responsible for 430 employees. In particular, Verallia is thankful to her for the plant’s ISO certifications, the continuous improvements in quality and performance, lower product costs, and the successful rollout of the manufacturing excellence program in Ukraine. Valentina considers her finest success to be the professionalism of her team, whose involvement and acceptance of change has allowed them to develop more than 170 new products in less than a year. She is also very proud of the support of her family and her son, who just recently graduated from the Igor Sikorsky Kyiv Polytechnic Institute, carrying the family tradition of technical engineering into its third generation. BRAZIL Promoting diversity As part of its initiatives to build a diverse workforce, Verallia provides young 15to 20-year-olds with the opportunity to gain initial work experience and qualifications recognized by the job market. Verallia is committed to encouraging the integration of young apprentices, generally in a situation of employment insecurity or social vulnerability, and enables them to work and progress alongside its professional experts. NOS ACTIONS OUR 37 38 3. BOOST OUR CONTRIBUTION TO COMMUNITIES’ ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 39 3. Boost our contribution to communities’ economic and social development BE INVOLVED IN OUR COMMUNITIES Verallia has a long-standing tradition of social engagement at all its sites worldwide. The Group is, for example, recognized by local communities as a responsible and committed stakeholder: in particular by promoting glass recycling and more generally by supporting sustainable development initiatives. Verallia’s social engagement is reflected in: volunteer actions donations solidarity campaigns. Verallia has outlined a framework for community actions in the countries where it operates, to coherently organize the many initiatives and strengthen their impact and visibility. 2015-2020 target All Verallia sites will be involved in a community action, two-thirds of which will be linked to recycling and sustainable development. 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 41 3. Boost our contribution to communities’ economic and social development 3.1 RAISE PUBLIC AWARENESS As a responsible company, Verallia is committed to raising consumer awarness of the need to recycle glass and the environmental benefits of this material—with a focus on reaching consumers from a young age. The use of recycled glass as a raw material allows the glass industry to reduce its energy consumption and cut its greenhouse gas emissions. Through all the initiatives it implements, Verallia forms strong ties with local communities and contributes significantly to promoting its industry and the nobility of glass. 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR ACTIONS EUROPE Friends of Glass Friends of Glass is a European community created in 2008 by FEVE (European Container Glass Federation). It supports all actions implemented to promote glass packaging. In line with its positioning, Verallia works alongside Friends of Glass to encourage consumers to unreservedly adopt glass, a material recognized as the best for health and the environment. Verallia also supports national associations in the countries where it operates. The community now has 115,000 supporters on social media. BRAZIL Jars for mother’s milk Since 2013, Verallia has worked with the “Give glass. Give life.” campaign run by the Abividro association. More than just an encouragement to recycle, the campaign raises public awareness about donating glass containers reused for mother’s milk. Brazil has 212 human milk banks that help 170,000 premature babies to survive each year. Abividro, of which Verallia is a member, supplies the collected glass jars which are the safest and most suitable containers for storing mother’s milk. The donations garnered by the campaign cover more than 30% of the banks’ glass jar requirements. OUR ACTIONS 43 3. Boost our contribution to communities’ economic and social development 3.2 SUPPORT THE GROWTH OF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Efficient resource management and waste recovery lie at the heart of the glass economy model. Numerous actions, in various fields, contribute to the circular economy, in particular by limiting resource wastage. Verallia constantly strives to optimize its production and seeks to reuse as many products as possible. By actively supporting circular economy approaches, Verallia also contributes to the economic and social development of the regions where it operates. Numerous projects have been run reflecting the efficient and responsible management of resources and waste. 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR ACTIONS ARGENTINA Collection for a hospital Since 2012, Verallia has been sponsoring a campaign to collect and recycle glass bottles called “Glass: a transparent operation.” With 20 containers in circulation in 2015, Verallia can now collect and buy glass packaging from the city of Mendoza. The funds raised through this recycling campaign are donated to the Humberto Notti pediatric hospital for the construction of a hydrotherapy center. In the last five years, $250,000 has already been raised, which equates to 240 metric tons of recycled glass. The aim is to improve the public’s awareness of the need to recycle glass. This is just one example of how Verallia works closely with communities as part of its corporate social responsibility strategy. Verallia’s commitment to sustainable development practices was singled out for a “Best of wine tourism 2017” award presented by the Mendoza Tourist Bureau. GERMANY Redistributed energy Verallia’s Neuburg plant has been honored by the city for its sustainable district heating project, which has generated energy savings. The heat given off by the furnaces is recovered and distributed in a network built by the city to heat nearby buildings. This project recovers 23,400 MWh of heat and saves 2.34 million liters of heavy fuel oil and the equivalent of 6,300 metric tons of CO2 each year. This award is a further encouragement to strive to meet customers’ needs while at the same time ensuring production increasingly lowers its environmental footprint. OUR ACTIONS 45 3. Boost our contribution to communities’ economic and social development 3.3 PROMOTE THE PROPERTIES OF GLASS Verallia has unshakeable confidence in the virtues of glass. Endlessly and 100% recyclable in a closed circuit, glass is considered to have unparalleled environmental advantages and is perceived as neutral, pure and attractive. These intrinsic qualities make it a permanent material at the heart of the circular economy. Unlike other packaging materials, glass protects its contents’ taste, flavor and quality. Its malleability in liquid state means its appearance can be personalized to promote the characteristics of its contents. Inert, it does not interact with its contents and so provides a solution to the considerable challenges of protecting consumer health and well-being. strength and impermeability allow for sterilization and pasteurization. 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR ACTIONS INTERNATIONAL Innovating for new consumer trends By working with customers towards new trends in consumption, Verallia is seen as a benchmark partner whose innovation is at the heart of its approach. Verallia recently developed a solution that provides, for the first time, heat-sealable, pasteurizable and retortable glass jars. By developing a new bonding primer deposited on the lip of its jars, Verallia has now extended the application for glass packaging to include new markets: ready meals, baby food and even sauces in the fresh-food aisle. INTERNATIONAL Verallia Design Awards Verallia runs a creation competition in seven countries (France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Brazil, Ukraine and Argentina), which each year attracts several hundred participants from the best design and packaging schools. The students are invited to submit projects for glass bottles or jars, thereby paving the way to future food packaging products. By taking part in this competition, they are able to visit a glassmaking site, learn about the bottle and jar manufacturing process and get extensive information about glass. In France, the 2016 winning project in the wine category caught the attention of Maison du Sud – Jeanjean (Advini group). With its elegant design, facets and chiseled base, this “Sérac” bottle is a premium container. The distributor chose it to launch two new ranges: GEM (IGP Pays d’Oc) and ADIMANT (IGP Saint-Guilhem-leDésert). In 2016, the website of French economic and financial daily Les Echos included the Verallia Design Awards in the Top 10 competitions to have on your resume. OUR ACTIONS 47 48 APPENDICES 49 APPENDICES 52 1. CODE OF CONDUCT 54 2. MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE MODEL 55 3. REQUIREMENTS AND COMPLIANCE 3.1 The EHS policy 3.2 The environment charter 3.3 The 4 cardinal rules for saving lives 3.4 The MOVE policy 3.5 Other policies 3.6 The supplier charter 62 4. SITE CERTIFICATION 64 5. SUMMARY OF EXTRA-FINANCIAL INDICATORS 50 51 Appendices APPENDIX 1: CODE OF CONDUCT SHARED VALUES THAT REFLECT THE IMPORTANCE GIVEN TO THE PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY Principles of Conduct Respect for others Integrity It is an absolute prerequisite for the profesIt requires a rigorous probity in all professiosional and personal development of each nal activities. It means that no individual may person. It applies throughout the Group worcompromise the interests of the Group enldwide. It implies an acceptance of pluralism, trusted to that individual in favor of his or her multiculturalism and all backgrounds. It is own private interests—whether in dealing reflected by a readiness to listen to others, within the Group or in dealing on behalf of to take into account others’ opinions, and to the Group with third parties, whatever local engage in a respectful dialogue. practices might be. Specific rules of conduct may be adopted for certain professional categories depending on the nature of their responsibilities. Professional commitment It means employees must mobilize their Loyalty knowledge and know-how to the best of their ability to perform their duties. It It requires honesty and fairness in dealing requires active personal involvement and a with superiors, colleagues, subordinates willingness to complete professional tasks, and third parties dealing with the Group. In request and acquire necessary knowledge particular, it is incompatible with the pursuit through experience and training offered of self-interest. It implies adherence to the by the Company, and adapt to evolving guidelines and internal rules of the Group challenges. It implies all employees must do and its individual companies. their part to protect the environment and promote health and safety. Solidarity It is based on a sense of individual responsibility at work, which prevails over self-centered thinking. It encourages teamwork and supporting others. It means rejecting self-serving management or operational methods geared more to self-satisfaction of certain individuals rather than the collective interests of the Group. 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Caring for Principles of Action(1) the environment Group companies are to actively promote the Respect for the law protection of the environment. All company sites belonging to Verallia Group, All Group companies must apply in all areas wherever they are located, must set clear all laws and regulations of the countries environmental targets and regularly monitor where they do business. Particular attention environmental performances against those is drawn to the areas described below. targets. All Group companies must prohibit all Group companies must strive to raise the actions which might breach applicable main relevant environmental performance norms of competition law. All Group comstandards of their own sites to the level of panies must refuse any form of financing particularly effective performance standards political parties or activities, even if allowed found in best-in-class companies within the under local law. They must also reject any Group for comparable sites—even if that form of active or passive corruption whether means going beyond the requirements of in domestic or international transactions(2). applicable local legislation. Furthermore, Group companies must not exploit loopholes or inadequacies in any such laws or regulations where this would mean non-compliance with the norms of the Verallia Group. Employee rights Group companies must scrupulously ensure that employees’ rights are respected. They must promote an active dialogue with their Worker health and safety employees and their legal representatives. In addition, they must respect the following Group companies are to take all measures non-exhaustive list of rules, even if not necessary to ensure the best possible provided for by applicable local law. protection against health and safety risks in Group companies must refrain from any the workplace. form of recourse to forced labor, compulsory Group companies must adopt risk reduction labor, or child labor(3), as well as any form of policies and ensure they are applied. Results harassment—whether directly or indirectly or must be continually assesed against through subcontractors when the latter are relevant standards. Such policies apply both working on a Group site. Group companies to their own employees and to employees of must refrain from any form of discrimination subcontractors, when the latter are working with respect to their employees, whether in on a Group site. the recruitment process, at hiring, during or Group companies must strive to raise the at the end of the employment relationship. main relevant health and safety performance standards of their own sites to the levels of particularly effective performance standards (1) They are intended to embody the OECD found in best-in-class companies within the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, Group for comparable sites—even if that adopted in June 2000 and revised in May means going beyond the requirements of 2011. local legislation. (2) Covered by the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions of December 17, 1997. (3) As defined by the applicable Conventions of the International Labour Organization. 53 Appendices APPENDIX 2: MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE MODEL INTEGRATING THE PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Team Safety Committed to continuous improvement, we Our unconditional priority is to protect the health all become involved in sharing our experience and safety of all employees working at our sites. and developing our skills for the benefit of our customers. Reliability Quality By developing preventive maintenance Our commitment is reflected in our attention approaches, optimizing activities and spare parts to thoroughly understanding our customers’ inventory planning, we maximize the reliability quality needs so that we can implement the of our manufacturing plant to provide the best most appropriate checks from the outset and products at the best price. throughout the process, in order to ensure customers’ entire satisfaction. Manufacturing efficiency Environment We optimize our product costs by improving We place the environment at the heart of our level of standardization and managing our priorities, aiming for zero environmental process losses. To achieve this, we concentrate accidents and a maximum reduction in our on increasing our yields and product throughput plants’ environmental footprints (energy, CO2, rates, and on optimizing schedules. water, atmospheric emissions, waste recovery and incorporation of external cullet). Flexibility Innovation Responsive and close to our customers, we can To ensure our enduring manufacturing provide them with solutions tailored to their excellence, we collect and promote best practices, needs, including extended ranges, smaller series reduce the time-to-market for new products and runs and reduced deadlines. adopt new technology to constantly improve the performance of our production tools. 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Report APPENDIX 3: REQUIREMENTS AND COMPLIANCE 3.1 THE EHS POLICY The Group’s Environment, Health and Safety policy is based on a continuous improvement approach with five main principles: prevent and reduce health and safety risks manage and reduce the environmental impact of our activities comply with legal requirements, our standards and our four cardinal rules irreproachable and exemplary conduct, involvement and participation from all employees training and information. Verallia strives daily to achieve three main goals linked to these principles: ZERO accidents ZERO occupational diseases ZERO environmental events. 55 Appendices APPENDIX 3: REQUIREMENTS AND COMPLIANCE 3.2 THE ENVIRONMENT CHARTER To be the environmental benchmark for glass packaging, Verallia must make sure that: its activities have a minimal impact on the environment its activities conserve natural resources its activities do not present any risks for stakeholders and meet their requirements. Goals and action plan: 1. Cover the basics and aim for continuous improvement: assess environmental risks and impacts, taking into account all life-cycle phases implement the environmental management system (Verallia and ISO 14001, or equivalent) verified by the E&HS Audit comply with regulations and be proactive in factoring in future regulations. 2. Implement state-of-the-art production techniques: Plan and deploy the best available techniques and practices apply Verallia’s standards achieve environmental improvement targets. 3. Empower the teams and raise awareness about the environment: share positive initiatives and promote the benefits of glass as a material training and communication to develop environmental awareness. 4. Innovate to be the environmental benchmark for glass packaging: R&D projects for innovative solutions to reduce Verallia’s environmental impact use local circular economy opportunities. 56 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3.3 THE 4 CARDINAL RULES FOR SAVING LIVES Rule No. 1 “Do not bypass, neutralize or damage any safety devices.” This rule entails: periodically checking that safety devices are working correctly implementing the procedure following the detection or observation of a safety device malfunction when it proves impossible to immediately restart it. The application of this procedure results in a quick analysis of the risks to define the appropriate corrective and preventive actions in order to prevent any risk of accident. Rule No. 2 “Always wear suitable Personal Protective Equipment.” Verallia has standardized rules concerning the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) for each area according to a risk analysis. For certain tasks requiring specific permits, the rules must be clearly specified. Each site must ensure that the rules implemented comply with Verallia’s rules, and that they are understood and applied by everyone. They must be displayed in the relevant areas. Rule No. 3 “Always follow lockout/tagout procedures.” It is mandatory to apply the lockout/tagout procedure for all maintenance, cleaning, adjustment, revision or other non-usual operations performed on machines or equipment using dangerous energy. To ensure a safe situation, the lockout of a machine, device or facility must include five phases: inform separate immobilize and display signage dissipate or purge check and identify. The approach for implementing this rule at our sites is based on the principle of continuous improvement. Once the work has been completed, it is important to make sure that all the tools are removed, that the safety devices are put back in place and that the controls are switched off. The lockout device can then be removed and the installation started up again. The operators are then advised that the equipment is ready for use again. Rule No. 4 “Use proper equipment and tools at all times.” Many activities require the use of a specific tool suited to the job to be done. Each site must draw up an inventory of workstations requiring the use of a specific tool and must stipulate the most appropriate tool, taking into account the best practices already applied at Verallia sites. Each tool is provided and stored near the workstation to make sure it is used when required. 57 Appendices APPENDIX 3: REQUIREMENTS AND COMPLIANCE The MOVE principles define the Group’s approach to its employees. They aim to: develop cooperation between functions and countries to allow for greater work flexibility attract, integrate and develop talents and learn from their diversity promote teamwork and drive Verallia’s development. 58 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3.4 THE MOVE POLICY MOVE: Mobility, Open mind, Values, Engagement Mobility Open mind Have the right person in the right job with a diverse range Develop agility to seize business opportunities, develop of backgrounds and experience for everyone’s mutual new models, manage and motivate talent and capitalize enrichment: on diversity: develop talent develop the ability to adapt to new environments improve employer appeal ensure respect and trust provide career prospects develop a positive and innovative approach to work. strengthen the corporate culture and cohesion. Values Engagement Implement the Code of Conduct Develop a culture of exemplary conduct, (9 principles): recognition and empowerment: prerequisite for all Verallia employees and companies. generate the enthusiasm and trust needed to give Verallia a competitive edge. 59 Appendices APPENDIX 3: REQUIREMENTS AND COMPLIANCE 3.5 OTHER POLICIES To ensure quality and compliance levels in line with the Code of Conduct, Verallia also implements the following policies: Compliance with competition law This policy aims to ensure that each employee understands and undertakes to comply with competition law, as any non-compliance may threaten the Group’s reputation, financial stability and business. Anti-corruption policies These policies include the Gift and Invitation Policy, Conflict of Interest Policy and the Agents and Intermediaries Policy in order to prevent any risk of corruption. Purchasing policy This policy applies to all employees whose positions require them to deal with one or more external suppliers. It has several sections: integrity, spirit of service, professionalism, confidentiality, Environment-Health-Safety (EHS), competition, and embargoes and economic sanctions. Economic Sanctions and Embargo Policy An economic sanctions and embargo policy details the basic concepts, the potential impact and the system implemented by Verallia to ensure compliance in this area. 60 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3.6 THE SUPPLIER CHARTER Verallia is also responsible for ensuring that its suppliers conform to the same standards. In addition to being audited, each supplier signs the Supplier Charter. Supplier Charter This document commits suppliers to comply with the economic, environmental and social standards needed for responsible economic development. This includes compliance with the applicable international standards and rules, as well as respect for the right to development, employee rights, and health & safety norms. They must also undertake to limit their environmental impact. 61 Appendices APPENDIX 4: SITE CERTIFICATION CERTIFICATION: VERALLIA COMMITS With 32 certified glassmaking production sites, Verallia undertakes to manage the impact of its businesses in terms of the environment, energy, quality and food safety, as well as the health and safety of its employees. ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 50001 Environment Health and safety Energy Certified companies must implement enThis certification encourages companies This certification places companies in a vironmental management to limit their to take preventive action for occupational process of continuous improvement to impact on the ecosystem by innovating risks in order to limit workplace accidents limit their energy expenses and to comand reducing their energy and waste maand improve employee performance. bat climate change. nagement costs. SMETA 4P ISO 9001 ISO 22000 Corporate Social Quality Food safety Responsibility This standard implies taking into account This food safety management system This tool supports responsible supply customer and regulatory requirements in requires companies to ensure their empractices and sustainable production product design and manufacture, while ployees are at all times up-to-date with systems. It is designed to develop and implementing a continuous improvenew laws, standards and regulations promote the use of shared assessment ment approach. concerning international requirements for methods to determine performance from food products. the angle of Corporate Social Responsibility within the supply chain and to improve efficiency for all companies. 62 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 14 OH 001 14 OH 001 SA ISO S 18 SA ISO S 18 50 001 ISO 001 50 001 ISO 001 90 ISO 01 90 ISO 01 22 SM 000 22 SM 000 ISO ET A4 P ISO ET A4 P France Spain ALBI • • • • • • ALCALA DE GUADAIRA • • • • • • CHALON-SUR-SAÔNE • • • • • • AZUQUECA DE HENARES • • • • • • COGNAC • • • • • • BURGOS • • • • • • LAGNIEU • • • • • • LAS PALMAS GRAN CANARIAS • • • • • • OIRY • • • • • • MONTBLANC • • • • • • SAINT-ROMAIN-LE-PUY • • • • • • ZARAGOZA • • • • • • VAUXROT • • • • • • Russia Germany KAMYSHIN • • • • • • ESSEN • • • • • • KMS STAVROPOLSKY KRAI • • • • • • NEUBURG • • • • • • WIRGES • • • • • • Ukraine BAD WURZACH • • • • • • ZORYA • • • • • • Italy Brazil CARCARE • • • • • • CAMPO BOM • • • • • • DEGO • • • • • • PORTO FERREIRA • • • • • • GAZZO VERONESE • • • • • • SÃO PAULO FABE • • • • • • LONIGO • • • • • • PESCIA • • • • • • Argentina VILLA POMA • • • • • • MENDOZA • • • • • • Portugal Chile FIGUEIRA DA FOZ • • • • • • ROSARIO • • • • • • 63 Appendices APPENDIX 5: SUMMARY OF EXTRA-FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1. SOCIAL INFORMATION Indicators 2016 2015 Unit a) Headcount Total headcount 9,806 9,890 number Managers as a % of the total headcount 9 9 % Women as a % of managers 27 27 % Age pyramid Employees by age bracket: under 26 (as a % of the total headcount) 4 ND % 26 to 55 (as a % of the total headcount) 80 ND % 55 and over (as a % of the total headcount) 16 ND % Salaries and changes Verallia uses market analyses, external and internal comparisons, and salary grids to ensure gender equality and competitive and equitable remuneration for all its employees. Salary grids are regularly reviewed so they remain aligned with market changes. On top of their fixed salary, employees also receive a variable collective and/or personal bonus, depending on the country, to reflect performance. b) Work organization Absenteeism rate 2 2 % 64 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Indicators 2016 2015 Unit c) Employee-employer relations Organization of labor-management dialogue, in particular employee information and consultation procedures and negotiations Labor-management dialogue and respect for employee rights are shared values and one of our principles. Constructive and respectful dialogue occurs at all levels in the company. It is led by the local management of the companies and sites. It is based on employees’ involvement, discussions with employee representatives and active communication about the company’s life. Verallia formally engages in this labor-management dialogue in the representative bodies in each country and in the European Works Council. d) Health and safety Health and safety conditions Health and safety are a permanent concern with a long-term target of zero workplace accidents and zero occupational diseases. Verallia ensures it provides its employees, wherever they are employed, with a workplace environment and conditions that are compatible with this aim. Verallia implements measures to safeguard the best possible workplace health and prevent safety risks for employees, temporary employees and subcontractors. To this end, the Group relies on its EHS policy, wich is acknowledged, shared and adapted when necessary to suit to local conditions (see details on page 32). Declared accident frequency rate (TF2) 3.9 3.4 ratio employees and temporary employees Number of SMATs per employee and temporary 2 2 number employee per year Percentage of unsafe situations (TF5) reported 85 82 % by Verallia employees resolved 65 Appendices APPENDIX 5: SUMMARY OF EXTRA-FINANCIAL INDICATORS Indicators 2016 2015 Unit e) Training Percentage of payroll devoted to training 2.0 2.2 % Total number of hours of training 246,179 ND number Number of regions with a glass school(1) 3 3 number Percentage of employees assessed using 60 54 % an appropriate skills matrix f) Equal treatment Women as a percentage of managers hired 30 27 % Percentage of women in the high-potential program 28 15 % Anti-discrimination policy Through its Code of Conduct and the MOVE human resources strategy, Verallia undertakes to promote diversity in all its forms: gender equality, diversity of age groups, nationalities, training and careers, and the integration of disabled employees. The equal treatment of employees with regard to hiring, professional training and remuneration is a core aspect of our exemplary managerial approach. The Code of Conduct was developed with the Global Compact—of which Verallia is a signatory—in mind. (1) Verallia is organized into five regions: France, Iberia (Spain and Portugal), Northern Europe (Germany, Poland, Ukraine and Russia), Italy and Algeria and South America (Brazil, Argentina and Chile). 66 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Indicators 2016 2015 Unit g) Promotion and compliance with ILO provisions and conventions Promotion and compliance with the provisions of the ILO’s fundamental conventions As a responsible company, Verallia undertakes to comply with workers’ fundamental rights: freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, elimination of employment and professional discrimination, elimination of forced or compulsory labor, and the effective elimination of child labor. It is for these reasons Verallia is a signatory to the Global Compact. Number of freedom of trade union incidents reported none none number Number of discrimination incidents reported none none number Number of forced labor incidents reported none none number Number of cases of child labor reported none none number 67 Appendices APPENDIX 5: SUMMARY OF EXTRA-FINANCIAL INDICATORS 2. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION Indicators 2016 2015 Unit a) General environmental policy Company’s organization to take environmental issues into account and, if applicable, the environmental evaluation and certification approaches The Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) policy is inscribed in the Group’s Code of Conduct and reflected in its support of the Global Compact. The Code of Conduct and the EHS policy are made available to all employees and set the targets and requirements for all. The long-term targets include “zero environmental accidents” and “minimum impact of our activities on the environment.” These targets serve as a reference for the sites, which compile their action plan accordingly. Our sites are also ISO 14001 certified (see page 62). The introduction of an environmental management system compliant with this standard’s requirements ensures efficient management of our activities’ environmental impact. Finally, Verallia has made developing the circular economy and management of its environmental impact one of its CSR strategy priorities, as described in the chapter “Boost our contribution to communities’ economic and social development.” b) Pollution and waste management SO2 emissions 7,315 6,836 metric tons metric tons NOx emissions 9,523 8,825 NO2eq Dust emissions 365 427 metric tons Number of significant environmental accidents 3 1 number Total volume of water discharged 2,095,955 1,888,983 m3 Quantity of waste produced 65,525 59,739 metric tons Percentage of waste recovered 64 66 % Noise and any other activity-specific pollution Verallia has outlined an environmental event management standard called “EvE” that was introduced in 2013. It identifies and addresses all events that may occur at Group sites (accidents, incidents, etc.). All Verallia companies and sites thus have a shared method for working towards the target of zero environmental accidents. Attached to its production sites’ local roots, Verallia is dedicated to reducing any nuisances generated by its activities and addressing any claims made by the stakeholders near its plants. 68 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Indicators 2016 2015 Unit c) Sustainable use of resources Total water withdrawn 3,394,201 3,397,812 m3 Consumption of primary raw materials 3,805,250 4,016,297 metric tons (other than water, energy, scrap metal, cullet and glass) Consumption of raw materials sourced from 2,710,583 2,650,924 metric tons recycling (other than water and energy) Total consumption of energy 11,009,049 10,940,061 MWh Total consumption of indirect energy 1,847,517 1,843,883 MWh Total consumption of direct energy 9,161,533 9,096,177 MWh d) Climate change Direct CO2 emissions 2,605,144 2,541,509 metric tons Indirect GHG emissions eq CO2 553,926 548,211 (purchase of electricity, steam and hot water) emission Adapting to the effects of climate change Climate and energy issues are among the leading challenges facing the planet in the coming decades. Verallia places these issues at the center of its strategy, along with the day-to-day management of its sites and buildings. Climate change will very likely increase the frequency and intensity of natural disasters, such as floods, precipitation and storms. The Group manages these risks through its Industrial Risk Prevention Policy. Prevention managers conduct an annual assessment of all sites using in-house scoring software. This tool assesses the risks, including natural risks, and each site’s level of protection and prevention. It is updated annually. The data collected is used to update the risk database for determining whether sites are exposed and vulnerable to extreme events, especially floods and storms. 69 Appendices APPENDIX 5: SUMMARY OF EXTRA-FINANCIAL INDICATORS 3. INFORMATION REGARDING SOCIETAL COMMITMENTS TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT a) Regional, economic and social impact of the activity on society in terms of employment and regional development for the local and neighboring communities As mentioned in the present report on page 6, through its positioning as a responsible company, Verallia creates value for all its stakeholders. As a significant employer in the regions where it operates, and a company proud of its local roots, Verallia is committed to contributing to regional economic and social development. The Group maintains excellent relations, in a spirit of open dialogue, with its neighbors and local public authorities. Through its Corporate Social Responsibility priorities (see page 14), Verallia is committed to managing its environmental footprint, developing its human capital and boosting its contribution to communities’ economic and social development. This involves, for example, work on managing environmental events and working towards achieving the target of zero environmental accidents, supporting local initiatives, especially in the area of the circular economy, and raising public awareness. b) Relations with people or organizations interested in the company’s activity Conditions for discussions with people or organizations interested in the company’s activity For each stakeholder and depending on the issues involved, the discussion is arranged through the relevant information channels and by implementing, if needed, an appropriate framework, and selecting a venue at the relevant level within the organization (headquarters, Group business or site), applying the principle of subsidiarity. Additionally, relations with people or organizations interested in Verallia are guided by all the Group’s policies (anti-corruption policy, for example). Partnership and sponsorship In line with its positioning as a player with local roots and that is committed to the circular economy and sustainable development in general, Verallia aims to support initiatives in the communities it operates in. By 2020, all sites will be involved in a community action (partnership, sponsorship, volunteering skills, etc.), two-thirds of which will be related to recycling and sustainable development (see page 40). c) Environmental and social issues factored into the purchasing policy Importance of subcontracting and factoring into relations with subcontractors their social and environmental responsibility As a leading international glassmaking company, Verallia has a duty to set an example and be influential in ensuring its stakeholders, especially its suppliers, conform to the same social and environmental standards relevant to their business. For this reason, as described on page 15 of this report, Verallia requires all its suppliers to sign a charter committing them to Corporate Social Responsibility principles. Verallia may also take the necessary steps to ensure compliance with this charter, in particular by sending out questionnaires or conducting specific audits at suppliers’ and subcontractors’ premises. Finally, a purchasing charter has been sent to all Group employees who may have dealings with a supplier (see Policy and Charters annexed). 70 Corporate Social Responsibility Report d) Fairness of commercial practices Actions to prevent all forms of corruption Verallia consistently reminds its employees of the need to comply with the initiatives and procedures implemented to prevent commercial transaction risks and has established an anti-corruption policy. Finally, a new training tool has been created and made widely available as part of the renewal of the specific training program. Consumer health and safety measures As part of its commitment to the community, Verallia helps promote the qualities of glass. The focus is on glass as a permanent and inert material that preserves the taste and quality of its contents (see page 46). Glass is a unique material that both protects consumer health and ensures their well-being. Finally, the innovations made to the appearance of glass packaging open up vast possibilities for personalization to promote its contents. Actions to promote human rights The Code of Conduct (see Appendix 1) includes principles derived from the International Labour Organization’s conventions and consistent with the principles of the Global Compact, which in particular aim to ensure compliance with Human Rights in the workplace. Indicators 2016 2015 Unit Number of incidents relating to cases of corruption none none number All employees at all levels in the Group are provided with a copy of this Code of Conduct. Managers in particular are made aware of the Code and its contents through an online training program and must commit in writing to comply with it. The application of these principles is a condition for belonging to the Group. 71 Publication managers: Pierre Balian, Marie Segondat — Photos credits: Médiathèque Verallia, Offset, Franck Dunouau May 2017 — Design and production: Teal Green — Translation: Sémantis Corporate Social Responsibility Report AN EXTENSIVE SALES AND INDUSTRIAL PRESENCE Sales presence Industrial and sales presence Industrial presence Verallia Packaging headquarters: Tour Carpe Diem – Place des Corolles 92400 Courbevoie France — Tel: +33 (0)1 71 13 11 00 www.verallia.com — S.A. with a capital of 5,852,811 euros Nanterre commercial registry: B 811 530 302 VAT No.: FR 438 115 303 02 Verallia @verallianews Verallia, Forever Glass VeralliaNews www.verallia.com Excessive alcohol consumption can harm your health. Consume with moderation. Verallia supports its customers’ campaigns to promote sensible drinking.
