Communication on Progress May 2016 – April 2017 1 Contents 1 Chief Executive Directors address 2 Our Company 3 Our Team 4 Environmental commitments 5 Social Responsibility 6 Product quality 7 Anti-corruption activities 2 Awareness of our own responsibility for the actions of today is the first and necessary step to ensure that the next generation did not get from us a legacy of environmental problems, economic, social or spiritual spheres. Agricom Company Group voluntarily assume additional responsibilities and daily implements the principles of sustainable development in their activities from implementing forgiving technologies in crop growing, to develop healthy recipes products based on natural ingredients. Petro Melnyk CEO, Agricom Group 3 Our Company 4 Agricom Group is a national agro-industrial group that is specializing in the development, production and distribution of food crops and combining agricultural, processing and trading companies. The key business areas are: • Crop growing, • Storage of grains and oilseeds, • Production and sales of grocery products. 5 Our Trademarks Our Geography Land Bank 40 000 ha Storage capacity 63 000 т 6 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our TEAM 7 Corporate Trainings 27 230 employees trainings hours 130 Implemented Projects Corporate Codex of Ethics Code of ethics adopted by Agricom Group to assist employees in understanding the high moral standards and in applying that understanding to their decisions. Corporate University Provides the acquisition of professional knowledge of employees and information exchange within the company. 8 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental commitments 9 We work on the land; that is why we understand clearly the importance of nature saving. To provide the nonconsumptive use of non-renewable natural resources and to reduce the environmental pollution, each vehicle of the Group equipped with a device which controls the route and fuel consumption. It helps to provide the most efficient and the cheapest fuel usage at the stage of planning of field works and at the stage of the transactions between locations. We take care of environmental protection We use only the We use a technique All our technique technologies that allows to save equipped with a that allow us to exhaustible fuel control prevent the soil resources system depletion 10 Social Responsibility 11 Corporate social responsibility of the national agro industrial group Agricom Group is agreed with and controlled by the common Objects and Strategy of the Company. Based on the concept of Sustainable development, Agricom Group realizes that only way to meet the demand of modern society is to help coming generation to satisfy their needs. We believe that our duty is to operate socially responsible and to optimize the improvement of living conditions of the society, the country, our employees and partners, as well as to take care of the environment and we willingly undertake such obligations. 7000 financial support of individual 10 schools sponsorship help 10 repaired objects 5 28 Repaired feldshersponsored local midwife stations celebrating 12 Product quality 13 Quality control is carried out from the time of planting seeds in the ground, growing and harvesting (certified laboratory for elevator complex) to the stage of grain processing (using optical selection), packaging and shipment to commercial enterprises. Also, under current legislation, all products undergo a thorough sanitary and epidemiological expertise. HACCP Implementation for Food Safety starts in Agricom Group The Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points system is used at all stages of the food chain, from food production to packaging and distribution. Assembled HACCP team of Agricom Group with employees and outside advisors works for developing and implementing the program at all companies of the Group. 14 Anti-corruption activities 800 contractors were tested for reliability over the last year by our Economic Security Service Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 15 Contact information: www.agricom.com.ua office@agricom.com.ua Follow Us: /AgricomGroup /company/agricom-group /AgricomGroup 16
