GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2017 (TBSP) “Thai British Security Printing Public Company Limited ( TBSP) has been in the security printing business for more than thirty-seven years. The company has strongly supported CSR programs and joined the UN Global Compact since year 2002. The company has realized the importance of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and will continue to support and ensure all the staff and related third parties will understand and always follow all the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact”. Vision “Being a world class Security Solutions Provider in terms of Quality, Services and Productivity. Mission 1. To expand new businesses to meet future market trends. 2. To develop high value added products & services beyond customer’s expectation. 3. To expand products to overseas market. 4. To strengthen overall supply chain management. 5. To focus on people development to fit with TBSP’s strategy and direction. 6. To support social and environmental responsibilities. Your sincerely, Mr. Natapong Pinitpongskul Managing Director Thai British Security Printing Public Company Limited, Thailand, COP for 2017 Human Rights Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As a public company TBSP must respect the laws of Thailand which encompass the majority of the 30 Articles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Apart from these regulations prescribed by law, the company tries to ensure the well-being of staff in areas such as Health, Safety, Compensation, Development and Retirement. Medical facilities onsite. Periodic X Ray and Screening plus health education. TIS&OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Free bus service Uniforms and protective clothing are provided Annual appraisal and review Profit sharing bonus Provident Scheme with matching contribution Emergency loans Air-conditioned working environment Annual leave in addition to 14 days national holidays Seminars and courses with overseas visitors TBSP has received National Safety Awards for the year 2016 from Minister of Labour for five consecutive years since 2011. 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Apart from ensuring TBSP respects Human Rights and operates on a basis of fair treatment to its entire staff and others, Furthermore, the Company tries to ensure that they do not indirectly enable or allow others to abuse Human Rights. In this respect TBSP will not knowingly deal with companies who abuse Human Rights especially in the area of child or forced labour. TBSP annually arranges the activity with its shareholders for the social support propose. In 2017, TBSP invited shareholders to visit The Golden jubilee Museum of Agriculture Office (Public Organization) LABOUR 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. The Company allows labour unions according to the Thai labour law. The Company continuously supports group activities such as Team Building, New Year Party, Small Group Activities, and Social Activities. In 2014, the company has encouraged the employees to attend the Thailand Kaizen Competition held by the Technology Promotion Association (Thailand-Japan) and has won the Bronze Award for Project Kaizen Category. In 2016, TBSP was selected as a representative to join the Thailand Kaizen Award 2016 and won the Bronze Award with a booth representing the work, disseminating the innovation, and presenting the model of a machine.In addition, with the staff’s efforts to improve work on a continual basis, the Company participated in SCG Kaizen Day 2016 by presenting three pieces of work regarding work improvement in every sector from a factory to office, namely the decrease in waste from installing a printing machine, the improvement of the manufacturing process of postcards, and the increase in the work efficiency of the contribution of the inventory. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Staff is selected based on their suitability for the work and education.In the same way, staff can resign when they like subject to notice period. All staff has a written contract of employment. Overtime is voluntary and extra payments are made for overtime and holiday working. And staff keeps their ID documents. Termination of staff is in accordance with Thai labour laws. The company provides scholarships to the children of employees. The company will not use suppliers who use compulsory or child labour. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. There are no staff employed at TBSP below the age of 18 years and contractors are not permitted to bring underaged children for employment on the site. Our Human Resources Department will check applicant’s ID prior to employment. The company has continuously provided the scholarships to the children of employees from more than twenty families and has also provided scholarships to disadvantaged local children from the local schools to keep them at school. In order to grow side by side with the community and society, the Company recognizes the significance of children as the future of the nation and has granted a scholarship to students with good school records and behavior, and publicmindedness but experiencing financial difficulties from six schools in the vicinity of a factory every year for fourth consecutive years since 2012. In 2017, TBSP provided academic scholarships to 6 local schools totally 36 students in amount of 144,000 Baht. 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The company employed staffs based on their suitability for that position. No discrimination is allowed regarding gender, religion or ethnic group. Women occupied positions at the board and at senior management level. Miss Sutida Mongkolsuthree Miss Warangkana Suwanno Director and Chairman of the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Executive Committee Miss Nasarun Salinchan Miss Piyanan Siammai Business Development Production Manager Division Manager ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The company has worked with sixtythree alliances under the sixth “Shred2Share Project” with the concept of “Keep Security for Data and Care for the Environment and Community”. The company collected the used paper donated from alliances and shred them under secure and environmental friendly process. The shredded paper will go to SCG Packaging for recycling, and return to buying necessary teaching and study kits for students from in Patrol Soldiers schools. TBSP has conducted the Share2Share Project for nine consecutive years (20082016) . Over the past year, in addition to the support of learning and teaching mediums for students of the Border Patrol Police Schools, the Company brought a total of 45 student representatives and teachers from the Border Patrol Police School in Kanchanaburi Province to attend the camp activity, it was called “To move forward with selfsufficiency, following in His Majesty's” at The Golden jubilee Museum of Agriculture Office (Public Organization) to propose “Sufficiency Economy” according to His Majesty's in 2017. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. The management, CSR-TBSP Committees and employees have joined and promoted “Preserving and Growing Mangrove Forest” activity in conservation of mangroves to ensure their environmental benefits. Mangrove forest adjusts the balance of the ecosystem, is a natural habitat for water plants and animals, and acts as a protective line for coastal erosion. TBSP has Co-maintain ecology the community in the preserving and growing mangrove activity with the Bangpu Industrial Estate Office. This activity was organized by the Bangpu Industrial Estate with the collaboration of the youth group, students, the general public as well as the public and private sectors. They all united to restore the mangrove and create systematic cohabitation under the “Preserving and Growing Mangrove Project” on the occasion of the 70th Anniversary Celebration of His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej’s Accession to the Throne on 9 June 2016, and the 84th Birthday Anniversary Celebration of Her Majesty Queen Sirikit on 12 August 2016. This activity is organized annually at Bangpu Nature Education Centre, a resort for the Quartermaster Department Royal Thai Army, Tambon Bang Pu-mai, Mueang District in Samut Prakan. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The company uses energy saving technology in production where heating and cooling is required. Insulation for energy conservation and recycling of waste materials is encouraged. Operating according to ISO 14000 and ISO 18000, the Company has Certification the Green Industry Level 4 in 2017. In Activities by: 1. Creating a safety culture throughout the organization such as wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) and complying with life-saving rules. 2. Undertaking energy saving projects such as changing to the new model and highly efficient air-conditioning, using environmentally friendly refrigerant, reducing the use of electricity by turning it off when not in use, etc. 3. Exercising the 3Rs (Reduce, Recycle, Reuse) by reducing the use of paper, using two-sided paper, and choosing recycled materials, etc. 4. Taking care of the quality of life of employees and people living in the vicinity as regards the environment for sustainable coexistence by operating CSP such as the bio-extract project for staff and surrounding communities of TBSP, creating jobs for communities, wastewater treatment, and canal dredging. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TBSP has a board of eleven directors elected by shareholders, who meet quarterly. There are four independent directors on the board. At each AGM one third of the directors retire by rotation. Separate Executive, the Audit Committee, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Executive committee report to the board. The company, as far as possible, operates a principle of dual control with checks and balances. The chairman and Managing Director are two separate positions. Two signatures on cheques and company documents are required and two staff at supplier meetings. Both internal and external auditors are used for financial, operational, environmental and security checks. The Company’s Code of Conduct is provided and the company published the company’s Anti-corruption Policy in the company’s website (www.tbsp.co.th). Throughout 2016, the Company conducted its business and drafted more measures to ensure that the Company acts in accordance with the AntiCorruption Policy. Additionally, the Company frequently communicates with every employees for acknowledgement and implementation of the policy as well as instilling the awareness of any action that may cause risk regarding corruption. Indicators are analyzed and corruption risks are assessed on a regular basis. Corruption risk is considered one among other risks regarding the adherence to rules and regulations. Moreover, the Company has created the preventive work system, specified the risk mitigation and control, appointed responsible persons, as well as designated the followup measures, revision, and evaluation of risk management as practice guidelines for employees in order to prevent corruption.
