P01 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 2016 P02 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 About us WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE’RE ALL ABOUT We help companies and brands Step Up to the changing relationship between business and society. We combine smart strategy, savvy insights and sharp creativity to help businesses think different things, do different things and say different things. Our work addresses three fundamental challenges for our clients: Purpose: Creating, defining and building more purposeful and sustainable organisations, strategies, brands and communications. Performance: Strategies to drive better performance, and communications to make this performance transparent and trusted. Transformation: Helping to create the new models and drive the changes needed to fulfil the new contract between business and society. Key Facts 19 years 71% 17% 43% and still led by of our clients of our clients are of our clients are founders Penny Baxter are from outside in the Fortune 500 in the Euro 500 and Nigel Salter the UK P03 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Introduction CONTENTS About this report Sections Contacts This is Salterbaxter MSLGROUP’S 11th Section 1: Our commitment and our impact Jason Parry Communication on Progress submitted to the 05. Statement from our Founders Financial Director UNGC. It covers the calendar year January to 06. Shaping the future through our work T +44 (0)20 7229 5720 December 2016. As part of Publicis Groupe we E jason.parry@salterbaxter.com 07. Our contribution to thought leadership are also covered in their Group CSR and Annual Reporting documents and their commitment to 08. Our If Only programme the UNGC. 09. Think it, Do it 13. Measure and Report 1 Section 1 talks about our business and our approach to delivering value to society 16. Our KPI scorecard Address through our work as well as our actions 82 Baker Street internally. Section 2: The 10 Principles of the UN global compact London W1U 6AE www.salterbaxter.com Section 2 restates our commitment to the 19. The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact 2 UNGC 10 Principles and highlights some 21. Human Rights of our activities that make progress against 22. Labour each of these. 23. Environment Section 3 is where you’ll find our 3 responsible business policies and 24. Anti-corruption procedures. Section 3: Policies 26. Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy 28. Equal Opportunities policy 29. Health and Safety policy 30. Environmental Procurement policy 31. Looking forward P04 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 OUR COMMITMENT AND OUR IMPACT Section 1 P05 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Our ongoing commitment STATEMENT FROM OUR FOUNDERS In this statement last year we said that 2015 was a watershed year. Global collaboration and unprecedented global frameworks in the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement set the pathway for how the world could bring about a sustainable future. If civil society and governments put these multilateral agreements in motion, in many ways 2016 saw business embrace and normalise them. There are still gaps to overcome to mend the relationship between business and society: in behaviours, finances, information and implementation. We looked at these in Directions – our annual thought leadership piece on the state of business and society. But many of the companies we spoke to demonstrate how putting purpose at the heart of their business is putting them in better shape to respond to the challenges faced. Nigel Salter It’s not only our clients and leading businesses that are embracing this new agenda. In 2016, our parent company CEO Publicis Groupe alongside the other ‘big six’, joined the UN’s Common Ground initiative to advance the SDGs through the platform that we have as communicators. As the specialist sustainability agency within the Groupe we’re proud to be leading the strategic approach and coordination going forward as we seek to contribute our skills to solving the Goal assigned to the Groupe – Zero Hunger. This will be a significant focus for us throughout 2017. The UN Global Compact continues to lead and strengthen global links between business and society. It’s important for us to meet the same high standards for ourselves that we push for in our work with clients. For this reason we remain committed to the UNGC and will be reporting on our progress through this report. Penny Baxter Managing Director P06 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Impact through our client work SHAPING THE FUTURE THROUGH OUR WORK We help companies and brands Step Up to the challenge of the changing Sustainable Apparel Coalition: Consumer Behaviour Change Through relationship between business and society. We may be a relatively small Product Communications business, but through our smart strategy, insights and creativity our impact The Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) drives sustainability standards reaches further, building sustainable purpose and driving transformation and measurement in the apparel sector. As part of a European Commission in some of the world’s largest companies. initiative, the SAC convened a group of leading brands on a pilot project to Here are some examples of the impact our work is having: calculate the environmental footprint of footwear from inception to end of life, and communicate the performance of their products to consumers in a H&M: A groundbreaking strategy and launch credible and open way. Salterbaxter joined the working group to design a Launched in April 2017, H&M has now set out a bold new vision for the consumer-facing label and evaluate the effectiveness of the label in changing fashion industry as a whole and for its own business to be circular, purchasing behaviours. We continue to support the SAC, participating in renewable, fair and equal. Clear and ambitious ‘100%’ goals support this their Transparency Roadmap Council. vision, delivered through stretching, industry-leading targets such as being climate positive by 2040. Salterbaxter worked with H&M to develop this Environmenta B strategy, and launch it at an event convening hundreds from industry, science, finance, academia and start-ups. Score London Stock Exchange Group: Revealing the Full Picture A B Sitting at the heart of the world’s financial community, the London Stock C Exchange (LSE) has a formidable influence on how capital markets D function in the UK and beyond. As a partner exchange for the UN E Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative, the LSE was committed to In partnership with t providing guidance to companies on its exchange on how to report European Commissi Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) information. Salterbaxter Left: London Stock Exchange Group: collaborated with the LSE Group to develop, write and design these Guide to ESG reporting reporting guidelines for their launch in early 2017. The guidelines have Far left: H&M strategy launch been distributed to more than 2,700 companies with a combined market Below: SAC labels capitalisation of more than £5 trillion. Environmental Environmental Environmental Enviro Score Score Score Score A B C A A A A B B B B C C C C D D D D E E E E In partnership with the In partnership with the In partnership with the In p European Commission European Commission European Commission Eur P07 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Impact through insight OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THOUGHT LEADERSHIP May 2015 Getting to grips with Quarterly/Summer 2016 Inside Inside Insight and analysis into the DIRECTIONS 16 Integrated Reporting changing role of Advisory Boards Each year, Directions takes an in-depth look at an area of sustainability Using materiality to drive outcomes Where’s it all going wrong? Five POLITICAL INSTABILITY Join us for a roundtable discussion and communications. This time, we’re delving into the quite sizeable not outputs fundamentals for effective outcomes Inside – see back cover gap that still exists between business and society. It’s not the void that interests us so much as the question of how it can be shrunk. How do we move from just minding the gap to actually mending the gap? What’s driving the reporting agenda, and how do you take the first steps? INTO THE GAP Inside, we hear from experts and practitioners on how business 16 and society can be brought closer together, what the obstacles are, and what the priorities should be in the months and years ahead. DIGITAL DISRUPTION TY: THE… DEMOGRAPHIC AND MATERIALI SOCIAL CHANGE UT OF BREAKING O BRINGING THE OUTSIDE IN... THE EVOLUTION OF ADVISORY BOARDS Integrated Reporting TRUST AND REPUTATION REGULATION MAKING IT COUNT CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR RESOURCE RISK Produced in partnership with Integrated Reporting supplement Materiality supplement Advisory Boards supplement and Directions Mind The Gap – Report and Sustainable Business Forums in Amsterdam and London and roundtable event and breakfast seminar roundtable event Throughout the year we invest resources in developing publications and organising events focused on current and cutting edge sustainability topics and trends. We are at the forefront of new thinking and industry initiatives 16th 4th Annual Directions Annual Directions within sustainability, and publish a range of communications report Forum that look at trends and drivers in this space. We see our role as challenger and supporter. As well as demonstrating our expertise, these publications are used as internal training tools and assets accessible for all employees. P08 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Our If Only programme A YEAR OF EVOLUTION FOR IF ONLY If Only The If Only framework If Only is our internal programme that brings all of us together to tackle sustainability challenges. In 2016 we celebrated our fifth Innovation day and our first in our new building at Baker Street. We seized the opportunity to get our fellow Publicis Groupe Mission: agencies in the building involved and create our biggest event yet. In the second half of the year we reviewed our If Only strategy INSPIRE, INNOVATE, IMPACT We will make change happen by inspiring following the launch of the Common Ground initiative by each other to innovate and make a positive Ban Ki-moon, a proposal by the six largest global advertising impact on sustainability challenges. and communications corporations in support of the SDGs. THINK IT, DO IT MEASURE AND REPORT “ Awareness is not enough. Together we will create Action is key. We will find an inspiring place to work new ways to interact, motivate where our people thrive. As well as delivering social impact through our Innovation each other to participate and We will also improve the make an impact. We will do management of our business Day, If Only is vital to creating an inspiring place to this through: impacts through: work for all of us. We know that it is a differentiator and -S upporting social K PI scorecard can be a deciding factor when recruiting. It provides 3 days businesses via our U N Global Compact opportunities for colleagues to thrive in a collaborative Average time spent on Innovation Day Communication on Progress and creative environment where we are all encouraged If Only per person -E ngaging themes that lead including our annual to Think it, Do it. to understanding and drive performance report behaviour change Lynn Dickinson Senior Consultant and If Only programme lead P09 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 1 THINK IT, DO IT: INNOVATION DAY Innovation Day at Baker Street Creating a multi-agency Innovation Day Social entrepreneurs build businesses that tackle social Year on year we are continually inspired by the social entrepreneurs that UnLtd introduce us to. UnLtd, develop a brief and workshop plan that would maximise the quality and usefulness of outputs from the day. and environmental challenges. The aim of our annual our partner since the very first Innovation Day in 2012, offer the largest such network in the world and The inspired and dynamic atmosphere on the day was Innovation Day is to bring as much impact as possible to support hundreds of individuals each year through exhilarating for all who took part. Once again the people at Salterbaxter demonstrated an enormous commitment its programmes. these businesses through our skills and creativity. Our fifth Innovation Day was to be our first at Baker to delivering a positive social impact by designing an amazing event that delivered tangible communications Street and our first featuring blended teams from five solutions for the social entrepreneurs. The entrepreneurs Publicis Groupe agencies based in London. were delighted with the outcomes and the experience. New participants relished the opportunity that the Whilst Salterbaxter remained the only agency to close day brought. down for client work for the day on 7th July, MSL volunteered 40+ people and other agencies including The day also set a precedent for more collaborative Vivid, Poke, August and CNC volunteered 2-3 people, working and skills sharing throughout all the agencies a start that we hope will whet the appetite for greater based at Baker Street supporting the Publicis One participation in 2017. initiative. We now have many experienced hands at planning Following up with the social entrepreneurs three months Innovation Day here at Salterbaxter and all hands were on from Innovation Day we were delighted to hear that required to help create the blended multi-agency teams, the work delivered was making a difference. create a relationship with the social entrepreneurs, and Key Facts What our entrepreneurs said T  he Innovation Day was a wonderful experience and one that has initiated a change in the way we view and speak about Grow, both internally and externally. The day was well planned, brilliantly delivered and amazingly aspirational, we can’t thank you all enough. 7 £25K 28 125 Ama Chaney, Grow social entrepreneurs Approximate time social entrepreneurs participants in the To have the opportunity to work with so many incredible individuals who supported in 2016 investment for each supported since 2011 day from across were not only strikingly passionate and genius in their own work, but social venture the Publicis Groupe’s showed such passion for the Foodinate mission too… it really was humbling. Caroline Stevenson, Foodinate same day! London agencies I felt very lucky to work with you guys and you really got what I was trying to do. The messaging for different audiences and in particular around our impact has been so useful. It created a brilliant foundation for me to build on my comms. Molly Mathieson, New Note Orchestra P10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 1 SEVEN INNOVATION DAY TEAMS Foundation futures is a ‘not for profit’ specialist Forty Hall Vineyard is an exciting social enterprise New Note Orchestra help people play their way Grow to school work with schools enabling them to teaching service providing support to schools and other which has established a new 10-acre organic vineyard through recovery from alcohol and drug addiction by deliver curriculum-led outdoor learning, food growing education providers to help ensure that our most in north London. As well as operating as a local food providing a safe space to try out musical ideas, and cooking, and eating sessions in an efficient and vulnerable and disadvantaged learners are able to project, the vineyard also provides health and wellbeing performing concerts andencouragingthe public to sustainable way. participate actively and effectively in education. benefits and volunteering opportunities to a wide range understand why it’s important to help people stay sober. of local people. Innovation Day outputs: Innovation Day outputs: Innovation Day outputs: Innovation Day outputs: – Shortand long-term digital strategy – Brand narrative and messaging – Target audience definition – Target audience definition – Digital Event information platform – Marketing strategy – Brand narrative and targeted messaging – Brand narrative and messaging – Creative concept for Event and promotional materials – Campaign concepts – Campaign concepts – Communications and media plans – Website wireframes – FAQs for website Foodinate are a social enterprise, teaming-up with PAPER Arts is a ‘not for profit’ social enterprise that is Inclusive Media Solutions provide innovative your favourite restaurants to ensure every delicious committed to providing employment opportunities to productsandexpert advice to a wide variety of Foodinate-featured meal you enjoy results in a meal for young people, to help them gain the skills, knowledge organisations and individuals such as Councils, a local person in need – at no extra cost to you. and experience to follow a career in the creative Educational providers, care homes and carers to industries. promote Inclusion through the use of mobile technology. Innovation Day outputs: Innovation Day outputs: Innovation Day outputs: – Target audience definition – Brand narrative and messaging – Target audience personas – Communications plan – Communication concepts – Product narratives and messaging – Messaging development – Communication plan – Communications plan – Web features concepts P11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 1 Innovation Day at Baker Street P12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 1 THINK IT, DO IT: A NEW APPROACH FOR IF ONLY If Only strategy development and planning Following Innovation Day we began thinking about what If Only should look like in our new home. This coincided with an event at Cannes that would see Ban Ki-moon bring together the world’s largest competitor advertising and communications corporations to tackle the SDGs.* A new plan with a new focus In June 2016 United Nations Secretary-General Ban competition and changed our weekly company food Ki-moon announced the launch of an initiative by the six order to ensure that our employee fruit bowl was full of largest global advertising and communications misshapen seasonal British fruit. And at the end of the corporations in support of the Sustainable Development year, our food-themed secret santa shone a light on food Food Glorious Food Goals (SDGs). As part of this collaboration named poverty and involved us all clearing out our kitchen Ugly Fruit & Veg Common Ground, Publicis Groupe were assigned SDG2 cupboards, nipping to the local supermarket or making a – Zero Hunger. financial contribution to support a local homeless shelter Challenge Food Send in your best ugly fruit & Veg to vanessa.delgado@salterbaxter.com provide meals for their visitors over the Christmas period. Entries to be judged by 28th Oct In the latter half of the year conversations began internally across the Groupe led by Salterbaxter, to create and agree We also continued to develop the If Only strategy and Glorious a strategy that would tackle this particular SDG. finalised a new approach to start in January 2017. Our new plan aims to get all of us involved in delivering Meanwhile we seized the opportunity to review the regular initiatives and experiences that bring to life the If Only strategy and consider what a single focus could Food issues behind Zero Hunger. Our activity and any collateral look like instead of the previous approach of changing created will be made accessible to the Groupe’s 80,000 quarterly themes. And in Q4 we launched a number of employees with the aim of instigating a wider impact as initiatives under the banner of ‘Food Glorious Food’ that part of the Common Ground initiative. 2017’s Innovation began to highlight some of the many issues behind the #SBFoodGloriousFood Day will also adopt a food focused theme by identifying Zero Hunger goal. social entrepreneurs who are tackling food issues in the We launched with a quiz that challenged our knowledge UK and the US. of food standards, water use in farming, healthy *http://www.un.org/press/en/2016/envdev1683.doc.htm foodstuffs and food miles. The next event was a food and wine tasting, testing our palettes to identify organic or not. With food waste in mind we also ran an ugly fruit and veg P13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 1 MEASURE AND REPORT Continuing to embed sustainable business practices remains a priority, and an integral part of what it means to work at Salterbaxter. One year on from our move to Baker Street, we have a clearer view of the challenges and opportunities created by a large scale, shared-facilities building with regard to best practice behaviours and our environmental footprint. In 2017, we will review both our social and environmental indicators to ensure that they are the right ones in light of our move and an increased alignment with Publicis Groupe. “ It is – and has always been – key for Salterbaxter to ensure business is conducted ethically and sustainably. Following our move, it became clear that it was no longer possible to measure and track our environmental indicators in the 3 male, 5 female 66% 53.8 same way. Our reporting will need to adapt to reflect this members on the female employees hours of training per change. We will be working on this in the first half of 2017 executive management employee and next year’s report will contain our conclusions and board next steps. Tracy Cheung Operations and People Manager P14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Measure and Report PERFORMANCE UPDATE: SOCIAL Overview Students: 0 (target: 2.0) Additional social indicators We will be reviewing our social indicators in H1 2017 Interns: 1 (target: 3.0) in light of our increasing alignment with Publicis In 2016, we took on a Sustainability graduate for a Indicator 2015 2016 Groupe approaches, policies and systems. Meanwhile, sixmonth paid internship. We have also actively we continue to make progress on some of our KPIs Average number of full-time employees 53 47 engaged with Nottingham Business School in careers including, training, whilst failing to hit the mark talks and aim to continue the development of the Average number of contractors 10 9.2 on others. internship programme and expand the university Average sick days per person 4 3.1 outreach activities. Average daily hours: Average age 38 38.9 8.3 (target 8.5) I feel proud to work for Salterbaxter: Gender ratio male:female1 37:63 34:66 For the second year in a row we have achieved our target 77% (target: 85%) 1 Percentage increase and decrease for gender ratio is as follows (male:female) -8.1:+4.8 demonstrating that our efforts in monitoring and In 2016, Publicis Groupe ran a Groupe-wide employee managing workload is contributing to an improved engagement survey, while in 2015, we participated in work-life balance. Key to this has been a more formalised the survey run by MSLGROUP. This question was ‘time off in lieu’ policy that has ensured that colleagues asked in a slightly different format in 2015 but there get time back in recognition of a heavy workload. was an increase in agreement with this statement. Staff formal training days We had great results on trust and confidence in the Average length of service (cumulative days per person): leadership team and understanding of the agency’s 0.5 (target: 0.5) priorities and goals and each individual’s role with 5 regard to this. Good communication and clear purpose Staff informal training days was a 2016 priority resulting in the development of (cumulative days per person): a new mission statement – Step Up. Salterbaxter 6.3 6.5 (target: 2.5) continue to support a culture of respect for diversity 4 and ethics. This will remain a priority for 2017. We met our target number for average staff formal training days (i.e. externally provided) and exceeded Volunteering day participation: our target for informal (i.e. in-house mentoring, 26% of employees (target 60%) knowledge-sharing sessions) training. 3 In a year of great transition – including a move to We created a training and development planner aligned a Publicis-managed building and integration into with our new appraisal system and developed a formal new systems, processes and ways of working with Insights and Inspirations programme in 2016. sister businesses – volunteering was a challenge. 2 12 employees participated in volunteering activity, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Training and development is a vital factor in creating 3 of these were not a full day. Activities included better business. We believe that learning is for designing a website for social enterprise Art Against everyone and takes many forms including e-learning, Knives, careers talks at schools and tree planting for on the job and includes soft as well as technical skills. the Woodland Trust. Length of service: Volunteering as a contractual allowance continues and 6.3 (up from 4.6 in 2015) we will try harder to promote the day and encourage Despite a higher than average turnover, the average take up. length of service per employee increased. We are proud that this shows we have been able to retain and develop many of our most experienced staff. P15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Measure and Report PERFORMANCE UPDATE: ENVIRONMENT Overview Paper: As mentioned previously, in 2016 we moved to a 25.9kg per person (target: 29.7kg) Waste (kg): Publicis Groupe shared building with centrally In 2015, paper use per person was 33.1kg. We managed 60 managed premises (including utilities, waste to supersede our ambition of a 10% reduction and management and stationery procurement). 82 Baker instead reduced the amount by 21.7%. While this 52.9kg Street was refurbished in 2015 and is far more number is encouraging it should be interpreted with a 40 up-to-date than our previously Grade II Listed little caution. When stationery procurement was under premises. direct control of Salterbaxter we were able to measure The move has come with benefits and challenges and all paper products purchased or consumed. This is now 20 we believe these are evident in our performance data procured and distributed centrally and therefore much below. For example, electricity usage has reduced harder to track with accuracy. However, Salterbaxter dramatically due to the modernity of the building remains committed to encouraging using less paper 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 whilst waste per person has increased due to a lack and we will continue to encourage best practice. of best practice recycling behaviour and supporting Electricity usage per person: infrastructure. 1,152.6kWh (target: 1,952kWh) We therefore need to review and redefine what we We achieved a 47% reduction in electricity use per Paper (kg): can meaningfully measure and influence in order to establish KPIs and set targets that can determine employee. Our offices at Baker Street is an efficient 60 if we are making progress. building as it underwent major works which completed in 2015. Double glazed thermally and acoustically Meanwhile we present the data we have gathered enhanced windows were installed. Low energy 40 and analysed against our previously established KPIs mechanical ventilation systems, automated lighting and targets. The waste, paper consumption and and temperature systems were also installed. Shared electricity numbers are a proportion of the usage for facilities and more efficient use of office space has 20 the entire building. It is not possible to isolate the impacted positively on our energy usage. So good 25.9kg exact consumption for Salterbaxter because of the news and evidence of the difference that could be shared facilities. made across domestic and industrial use buildings 0 We also continue to contribute environmental data generally if modernised using the latest products 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 to the Publicis Groupe CR Report. and technologies. Waste: 52.9kg per person (target: 26.1kg) Electricity (kWh): This is a 62% increase in waste per person which is a 4,000 disappointing number. Prior to the move in Q1 to Baker Street, Salterbaxter restricted the number of waste bins 3,000 in the office in order to promote recycling and ran various internal campaigns to encourage sustainable behaviours. Whilst Salterbaxter is committed to best 2,000 practice, going forward we need to understand what and how we can influence best practice principles and 1,000 behaviour building wide. 1,152.6 kWh 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 P16 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Measure and Report DATA PRIVACY & RESPONSIBLE MARKETING Issues of increasing concern for our sector are that of data privacy and responsible marketing. These are issues on which Publicis Groupe are leading and defining the approach for its agencies. Here we provide an overview of progress being made. It is also something we will consider in terms of our future reporting. Data Privacy Responsible Marketing Publicis recognise that data privacy and information The IT department in each region is responsible for Publicis believes that marketing can benefit everyone security are increasingly important topics for our clients ensuring that the systems and infrastructure are in place through its ability to make us aware of the social, and their customers. It is our responsibility to ensure that to secure data and all Personal Information. The Groupe societal, economic, cultural and environmental impacts these concerns are properly addressed. have a top-down approach to managing data privacy of human activities. policies throughout all agencies. The information is As part of Publicis’ Code of Conduct and Ethics (Janus), Creativity & Technology for Good embodies the philosophy shared at top level with all HR/IT members and then all employees as well as contractors, vendors and of using the tools to exemplify these issues through it is their responsibility to share with the rest of the subcontractors must ensure that they adhere to the various campaigns that can bring around awareness. employees. Information on various topics around data standards set. privacy policies are readily available and accessible so Responsible communication requires thorough analysis, The Groupe Data Privacy Policies have been developed that any employee is able to educate themselves on the objective judgement and genuine commitment on the to ensure the following: details of the policies. part of the agencies and their clients. Responsible consumption forces all of us to face up to our individual –T he Personal information that is collected and used is The Groupe have also appointed Markus Ruhl as Chief and collective responsibilities. done so in accordance with applicable data privacy laws. Data Privacy Officer who has been working closely with Publicis’ business leaders and the Chief Information At Salterbaxter, bi-annually, we create thought leadership –T he Personal information we hold on behalf of clients Security Officer to ensure that all the policies can be supplements which help in bringing the conversation to is properly protected so we can help clients comply with facilitated on a client engagement level as well as the table. We address topics that come to the forefront in their own obligations under the law. regulatory compliance on those matters. corporate social responsibility and try to tackle them in –R equests from individuals for access to their own differencing ways and help to give a varying perspective. personal information are adequately managed. One of our most recent supplements was Salterbaxter’s –R equests from third parties for access to personal Human Rights Supplement. A thought leadership piece information are adequately managed. that brings awareness to the risks that corporate activity brings to people and to the business. P17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Our KPI scorecard KPIS AND TARGETS 2016 KPIs 2015 Achievement 2016 Target 2016 Achievement SOCIAL If Only participation days 3.1 2 3 Employees proud to work at Salterbaxter MSLGROUP N/A 85% 77% Number of student placements 0 2 0 Number of interns 1 3 1 Volunteering day participation 32% 60% 26% Average hours 8.3 8.5 8.3 Staff training formal (days per employee – c) 0.4 0.5 0.5 Staff training informal (days per employee – c) 3.0 2.5 6.5 ENVIRONMENT Paper usage (kg per employee) 33.1 29.7 (10% less) 25.9 (21.7% decrease) Waste (kg per employee) 32.7 26.1 (10% less) 52.88 (61% increase) Electricity (kWh per employee) 2,179 1,952 (10% less) 1,152.6 (47% decrease) P18 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Section 2 P19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 2 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Labour Principle 1: Principle 2: Principle 3: Principle 4: Principle 5: Principle 6: Businesses should support Make sure that they Businesses should uphold The elimination of all The effective abolition The elimination of and respect the protection are not complicit in the freedom of association forms of forced and of child labour. discrimination in of internationally human rights abuses. and the effective compulsory labour. respect of employment proclaimed human rights. recognition of the right and occupation. to collective bargaining. Read more – page 21 Read more – page 21 Read more – page 22 Read more – page 22 Read more – page 22 Read more – page 22 P20 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 2 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Environment Anti-corruption Principle 7: Principle 8: Principle 9: Principle 10: Businesses should Undertake initiatives Encourage the Businesses should work support a precautionary to promote greater development against corruption in all approach to environmental environmental and diffusion of its forms, including challenges. responsibility. environmentally extortion and bribery. friendly technologies. Continued on page 23 Continued on page 23 Continued on page 23 Continued on page 24 P21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Principles Our approach and actions Principle 1: Approach Actions Businesses should support and We continue to endorse the Guiding Principles We take a number of steps to ensure that we deliver a respect the protection of internationally for Business and Human Rights introduced by the positive impact on the human rights of our employees: UN Human Rights Council in 2011, as well as the proclaimed human rights. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We support and • We promote the right to education, and encourage the development of skills through formal and informal follow the UK Government’s leadership in rolling out training and mentoring, including participation in guidance for business to integrate human rights into Principle 2: workshops and talks with different agencies. their operations. Make sure that they are not We welcomed the Modern Slavery Act becoming law in • Through the way we manage the business and the complicit in human rights abuses. 2015 as evidence that modern forms of slavery must be salaries paid, we promote the right to adequate standards of living. recognised as issues facing our society today in order to be systematically addressed and combated. • Through the way we manage the business we promote the right to freedom of expression. We take a proactive approach and assess the real and potential impacts of our business operations, direct and • We promote the right to safe and healthy working indirect across our value chain. As our business conditions through managing the work environment continues to grow in the US we must apply the same and through a comprehensive Health and Safety policy. standards when working with new suppliers in new All new employees, both permanent and contract staff, territories. are inducted in this as part of our new starter process. We have staff trained in first aid and fire risk Through our work and influence, we encourage and help assessment, prevention and response. our clients around the world to consider the direct and indirect impacts of their operations on human rights. • We have a well communicated grievance procedure that ensures employees are familiar with how to raise Publicis Groupe take a systematic and zero tolerance concerns about staff, treatment or any other aspect approach to human rights abuses, assessing the real and of our work. potential impacts of business operations across the value chain. As a subsidiary of Publicis Groupe, we report • As our business evolves and expands into new through the Groupe on this topic, however we publish territories we continuously review our approach to our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy in this ensure that we live up to best practice approaches. report (see page 26). More on this topic is covered under the Labour For more information about Publicis Groupe’s approach Standards principles on the following page. Further and policies please see their latest Report detail can also be found in ‘Our People’ in the ‘If Only’ http://publicisgroupe.com/#/en/responsibility/ section of this report. governance-reporting-rse-csr P22 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 2 LABOUR Principles Our approach and actions Principle 3: Approach Actions • We are an equal opportunities employer with regards to both our employees and recruitment processes. Businesses should uphold the freedom of A culture in which all staff are treated fairly and each • In 2016 we ran the Publicis Groupe annual employee During 2016, women made up 66% of all staff, as well association and the effective recognition of individual’s merits are promoted equally is not just a survey after benchmarking with our own process. as comprising more than half of our senior team head the right to collective bargaining. good business practice or a regulatory requirement – The systems were well aligned and it provided better positions. it is also essential to a happy and productive workforce. insight and value for the business. Through the survey Publicis Groupe’s commitment is embodied by Viva la we can measure and monitor employee satisfaction as • A ll permanent staff have access to health insurance, Difference – which embodies respect, celebration and well as gather opinions on the direction of the company. dental cover, discounted gym membership and a range Principle 4: of other wellbeing services. encouragement of human diversity. We’re an equal 72% of staff participated and the results and action The elimination of all forms of forced opportunity employer so of course there are no plan is being made and implemented by the • A ll permanent staff have access to an Employee and compulsory labour. exceptions to this mantra; we live the difference every management team. Assistance Programme which can offer a range of day, all employees at all levels. We strongly support services including bereavement counselling, online • To support the launch of Publicis’ new strategy and instruments that promote global labour standards such resources and articles on health, family, money and employee engagement approach, we ensured that we Principle 5: as the ILO Core Conventions. were aligned with the ‘Power of One’ training work matters The effective abolition of child labour. As a UK-based professional services SME, our risk of programme. These were sessions that took place in • The company also provides a pension scheme contributing to detrimental impact on labour rights is 2016 in aid of the Groupe’s transformation. Alongside according to UK legislation. very low. However, we firmly believe that excellent this the Executive Development Program (EDP) brings Principle 6: labour practices are fundamental for attracting, together 100-120 managers each year from different job • Several employees have taken up opportunities to participate in a number of initiatives including: The elimination of discrimination in developing and retaining talented people in a competitive functions, agencies and countries. respect of employment and occupation. field. We regularly review and update as required our – Egalité – a Publicis-wide employee network • Performance against objectives and compensation are Employee Handbook, which covers staff benefits, our for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender formally reviewed on a twice-yearly basis supported by Human Resources policies and procedures including (LGBT) professionals and allies. Salterbaxter informal monthly check-ins with line managers. grievance mechanisms and Health and Safety. All has continued to support the network and employees are free to join a union if they wish. • Informal mentoring takes place between staff outside of grow awareness in induction sessions and formal line management. This includes promoting events. Through our collaborative partnerships with clients and Publicis-supported events such as the VivaWomen suppliers, we also encourage them to consider – Viva Women, an international network of speed mentoring sessions which meant that there were the direct and indirect impacts of their operations women focused on supporting women to a few of our employees attending the event as well as on labour rights. succeed and lead. In 2016, staff members one of our employees mentoring at the sessions. For more information about Publicis Groupe’s attended Viva women sponsored training • Working hours are monitored through our online sessions such as Present Like a Pro which approach and policies please see their latest Report business operations system to manage employees’ was aimed at female creatives and ‘The http://publicisgroupe.com/#/en/responsibility/ work/life balance, ensuring that we take steps to Daring Way’. Penny Baxter, MD participated governance-reporting-rse-csr respond and address issues as required. We aim to at a speed mentoring event to connect monitor employees’ workload so that working hours aspiring talent with experienced are manageable. As a client-focused business we need professionals. to be agile and responsive to client needs which does require some flexibility, however we have guidelines Information on our social indicators can be found and training for managers for assessing workloads in ‘Measure and Report’ in the ‘If Only’ section of and allocating lieu time. Hours are reviewed regularly this report. in time reports and the process has been communicated to employees. P23 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 2 ENVIRONMENT Principles Our approach and actions Principle 7: Approach Actions • We use our positive influence to help our printing Businesses should support suppliers improve their environmental credentials. Since the business was founded 19 years ago, we have • In 2012 we conducted an operational review in line with a precautionary approach to been working to elevate awareness and communication ISO 14001 that identified our most significant • Our in-house printing uses PEFC-certified paper for environmental challenges. on environmental issues. Our day-to-day work involves environmental impacts. Our ambitious targets have colour prints and having recently moved to new shared helping businesses address and communicate the major been to reduce these three outputs – waste, water, facilities we are seeking to influence the central challenges facing society in the short, mid and long term. and energy – by 10% year on year. procurement purchasing of only recycled, FSC or PEFC-certified paper as the standard. We will update Principle 8: A year into Salterbaxter’s new home in the UK, 82 Baker • Salterbaxter moved into a shared Publicis-managed on our progress in our next report. Undertake initiatives to Street, it has been difficult to measure all environmental building in March 2016. While the management of promote greater environmental factors that were considered in our previous building. the facilities and procurement were no longer directly •W  e recycle as much office waste as possible, controlled by Salterbaxter, the shared facilities and from printer toners to IT equipment. responsibility. However, we continue to spread awareness where we can. As an office-based professional services business, more efficient use of office space has had a positive • We also encourage positive sustainable behaviour our own impact on the environment is relatively minimal. effect on our energy usage which has been reduced through everyday business processes including However, we understand the importance of encouraging by 47%. 82 Baker Street was refurbished in 2015 providing recycling bins, isolating a single Principle 9: and incorporates features such as automated lighting more sustainable behaviours at both a macro and micro non-recycling bin to one area of the office only, and Encourage the development level, and have a responsibility to do what we can as a and temperature control systems, a green roof with upgrading printers to provide duplex printing. and diffusion of environmentally business and to influence our employees, clients and wildflower planting and energy efficient appliances. friendly technologies. suppliers to mitigate their own environmental impacts. • Further information on our environmental indicators The Groupe’s motto for environmental policy is can be found in ‘Measure and Report’ in the ‘If Only’ ‘Consume less & better’ which has been developed section of this report on pages 13 – 16. around the EU’s 2030 strategy (https://ec.europa.eu/ • Environmental topics remain a core component of europeaid/policies/european-development-policy/2030our If Only programme. A focus on the different issues agenda-sustainable-development_en) and thus defines relating to SDG2 – Zero Hunger will encourage further specific objectives. The four priority focus areas are: understanding of global environmental challenges and – Reducing employee transport and its impact through how they relate to the food we consume. the introduction of teleconference and conference call • Environmental challenges closer to home with regard systems. to our own operational environmental footprint will – Reducing energy consumption and improving energy also continue to be front of mind, and best practice efficiency (by seeking to limit the impact relating to behaviour will be encouraged through the sharing electricity, heating and air conditioning). of information and the provision of the right tools, eg. non-recycling bins and programming printers – Reducing consumption of natural and raw materials to provide duplex printing. (mainly paper and water). • Print specifications for client publications and – Recycling and organized (non-hazardous) waste our own marketing materials aim to keep their management systems. environmental impact to a minimum. P24 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 2 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles Our approach and actions Principle 10: Approach Actions Businesses should work against Publicis Groupe’s anti-corruption policy was revised • Our Employee Handbook details our policy and corruption in all its forms, including and strengthened in 2015, as an extension to the work procedure on receiving gifts, and only permits us carried out in previous years. Training for managers to accept gifts of no substantial financial value. extortion and bribery. and support teams (Re:Sources) continued in 2016 and Any such gifts become the prizes in a Christmas at Salterbaxter we are committed to operating ethically fundraising raffle and the proceeds go to charity and against all forms of corruption at all times. to prevent any undue influence developing in our client and supplier relationships. Publicis Groupe’s Code of Conduct, known as JANUS, addresses the issues of gifts, conflicts of interest and • Our client hospitality is restricted to very occasional inappropriate or unethical relationships, either with end-of-project celebration meals, when teams on both clients or suppliers, competition and unfair practices. sides are thanked for their hard work. JANUS is shared with all staff in inductions. The • In 2016, we implemented Publicis Groupe’s Groupe’s legal experts play an important role in terms of Anti-bribery and corruption policy and all staff were awareness and the application of laws and regulations asked to declare any conflicts of interest and sign this. concerning corruption. Based in the shared services This has now been incorporated into our induction centres (Re:Sources) and functionally under the Groupe’s process. Legal Department, these legal experts keep an eye on laws and regulations dealing with corruption. They ensure agencies are made aware of the issues, work on prevention and lay down compliance procedures adapted to local markets. The aim is to maintain strict standards that comply with current applicable regulations. Progress has been made in developing new training programmes to facilitate improvement. We share all information that is shared at a Groupe level to the rest of our teams when appropriate – this is the top-down approach that we have adopted. P25 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 POLICIES Section 3 P26 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 3 ANTI-SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING POLICY The following UK policy on anti-slavery and human trafficking has been drafted in order to comply with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the ‘Act’). It extends to all of our business dealings and transactions in all countries around the world in which we do business. Policy Statement Responsibility for the Policy Suppliers Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of or anyone held in slavery or servitude, whether adults The Groupe’s UK Compliance Officer has primary and Suppliers of Salterbaxter are required to comply with fundamental human rights. It takes various forms or children, and it expects that its suppliers will hold day-to-day responsibility for implementing this policy, the supplier code of conduct (the ‘Code’) provided to such as slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory their own suppliers to the same high standards. monitoring its use and effectiveness, dealing with any them. The Code sets out minimum behaviours, labour and human trafficking, all of which have in queries about it, and auditing internal control systems standards and practices Salterbaxter expects to see This policy applies to all persons working for common the deprivation of a person’s liberty by and procedures to ensure they are effective in from its suppliers to ensure compliance with the Act. Salterbaxter or on our behalf in any capacity, including another in order to exploit them for personal or countering modern slavery and human trafficking. Salterbaxter expects all who seek to have a business employees at all levels, directors, officers, Salterbaxter commercial gain. The Groupe has a zero-tolerance relationship with Salterbaxter or any member of workers, seconded workers, volunteers, interns, agents, Management at all levels are responsible for ensuring approach to modern slavery and is committed to acting the Publicis Groupe (the ‘Groupe’) to familiarise contractors, freelancers, external consultants, those reporting to them understand and comply with ethically and with integrity in all its business dealings themselves with the Code and act in a way that third-party representatives and business partners this policy and are given adequate and regular training and relationships and to implementing and enforcing is consistent with it. (‘Salterbaxter Staff’). on it and the issue of modern slavery in supply chains. effective systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not taking place anywhere in its business This policy does not form part of any employee’s or in any of its supply chains. contract of employment and may be amended at any time. Salterbaxter is committed to ensuring there is transparency in its business and approach to tackling modern slavery throughout its supply chains, consistent with its disclosure obligations under the Act. Salterbaxter expects the same high standards from all of its contractors, freelancers, suppliers and other business partners. As part of its contracting processes, Salterbaxter includes specific prohibitions against the use of forced, compulsory or trafficked labour, P27 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 3 ANTI-SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING POLICY CONTINUED Staff Communication and All Salterbaxter Staff must ensure that they read, periods. They may lack basic training or professional Salterbaxter encourages openness and will support anyone who raises genuine concerns in good faith awareness of this policy understand and comply with this policy. licences. under this policy, even is committed to ensuring that no Training on this policy, and on the risks Salterbaxter The prevention, detection and reporting of modern (d) Accommodation one suffers any detrimental treatment as a result of faces from modern slavery in its supply chains will be slavery in any part of Salterbaxter’s business or supply reporting in good faith their suspicion that modern provided as necessary. Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may not chains is the responsibility of all Salterbaxter Staff. slavery of whatever form is or may be taking place in know their home or work address. They may live in Salterbaxter’s zero-tolerance approach to modern Salterbaxter Staff are required to avoid any activity that any part of Salterbaxter’s business or in any of its poor or substandard accommodation, or have no choice slavery must be communicated to all suppliers, might lead to, or suggest, a breach of this policy. supply chains. Detrimental treatment includes where they live or who they live with. contractors and business partners at the outset of our You must notify your manager or Salterbaxter’s dismissal, disciplinary action, threats or other business relationship with them and reinforced as compliance officer as soon as possible if you believe or (e) Finances unfavourable treatment connected with raising a appropriate thereafter. suspect that a conflict with this policy has occurred, or Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may concern. If you believe that you have suffered any such may occur in the future. receive little or no payment, or have no access to their treatment, you should inform HR immediately. If the matter is not remedied, and you are an employee, you Breaches of this policy You are encouraged to raise concerns about any issue earnings. They may be disciplined through punishment or fines. They may be forced to open bank accounts or should raise it formally using the Grievance Procedure, Any employee who breaches this policy will face or suspicion of slavery and/or human trafficking in any forced to sign documents to receive social security which can be found in our Employee Handbook. disciplinary action, which could result in dismissal for parts of Salterbaxter’s business or supply chains of any benefits, credit agreements or loan agreements. misconduct or gross misconduct. supplier at the earliest possible stage. In order to help identify modern slavery, there are a number of Subject to the relevant contractual terms, Salterbaxter (f) Appearance indicators that you should be aware of. Not all the may terminate its relationship with other individuals indicators will apply in every case, and some may not Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may suffer and organisations working on its behalf if they breach be immediately apparent. The indicators include, but injuries that appear to be the result of an assault, or the this policy. are not limited to: result of the application of control measures. (a) Restricted freedom For a full list of potential indicators please visit http://www.gla.gov.uk/who-we-are/modern-slavery/ Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may not be who-we-are-modern-slavery-spot-the-signs/ in control of their passports or other travel or identity documents. They may have false identity documents or If you believe or suspect that modern slavery, human are unable to move freely. trafficking and/or a breach of this policy has occurred or may occur you must notify your line manager or (b) Behaviour Salterbaxter’s compliance officer or report it in accordance with our Whistleblowing Policy as soon Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may be as possible. unfamiliar with the local language or may act as if they are instructed by someone else. They may show fear or If you are unsure about whether a particular act, the anxiety and be distrustful of authorities. treatment of workers more generally, or their working conditions within any tier of Salterbaxter’s supply (c) Working conditions chains constitutes any of the various forms of modern Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may have slavery, raise it with your line manager or Salterbaxter’s no contract or be unable to negotiate working compliance officer. conditions. They may be forced to work under certain conditions or work excessively long hours over long P28 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 3 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES POLICY We are an equal opportunities employer. This means that it is our policy to make every effort to ensure that there is no discrimination or harassment of employees, job applicants, clients, contractors or visitors on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, religion or belief, ethnic origin, disability, age, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, parental responsibilities, part-time or fixed-term status. Bullying is also a form of harassment and this is also covered by our policy. Our approach In issuing this policy we have three main objectives: of employment, training, salary, work allocation, promotion, disciplinary and grievance procedures. Our First, to encourage employees to take an active role people managers are given training on best practice against all forms of bullying, harassment and recruitment processes and other management skills to discrimination; second, to deter employees from reinforce anti-discriminatory behaviour. participating in bullying, harassment or discriminatory behaviour; and third, to demonstrate to all employees All employees are made aware of our equal that they can rely upon our support in cases of bullying, opportunities policy and, if necessary, undergo any harassment or discrimination at work. training and development activities to raise their awareness of equality issues. We are committed to a working environment that offers equal treatment and equal opportunities for By supporting Publicis Groupe’s Egalité and Viva all its employees, so that every employee is able Women! initiatives and encouraging staff participation to progress to their true potential. Even after in related events, we hope to foster a culture that is employment has ended, we are committed to supportive of diversity. ensuring that discrimination does not occur. In 2016 there were no breaches of this policy. This policy applies to all aspects of our working practices and therefore applies to the recruitment and selection of employees, terms and conditions P29 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 3 HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY We want our employees to be as safe as possible in our working environment and require all employees to follow these guidelines at all times. While the Company will take all reasonable steps to ensure the health and safety of its employees, health and safety at work is also the responsibility of employees themselves. It is the duty of all employees to take reasonable care of their own and other people’s health, safety and welfare. Employees should report any situation that may pose a serious or imminent threat to the wellbeing of themselves or of any other person. Our approach The Company will provide and maintain a healthy • The provision of such information, instructions, and safe working environment with the objective training and supervision as is necessary to ensure of minimising the number of health and safety the health and safety at work of its employees and other related instances. The Company will pay particular persons. attention to: • The Company also recognises its duty to protect • Maintaining the workplace in a safe condition the health and safety of all visitors to the Company, and providing adequate facilities and arrangements for including contractors and temporary workers, as welfare at work. well as any members of the public. 82 Baker Street has security personnel on site 24/7. • Providing information on first aiders, fire exits, evacuation procedures and meeting points in the event The Company may take disciplinary action against any of an emergency. employee who disregards health and safety rules and procedures, or who fails to perform their duties under • Provision of a First Aid room so that staff who are health and safety legislation. Depending on the taken ill at work have some privacy and a place to get seriousness of the offence, it may amount to potential some rest. gross misconduct rendering the employee liable to • Access to taxi services if working after 9pm to ensure summary dismissal. safe passage home from the workplace. In 2016 there were no breaches of this policy. • The provision and maintenance of equipment that is safe. P30 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROCUREMENT POLICY Our approach Paper policy Print procurement policy Where we do not have the final buying decision we will always advise clients to follow our guidelines and Where we have the buying decision, we aim to place will record where they are not able to do so. We are committed to managing and reducing the All paper specified for our major projects must adhere our print with suppliers who are managing their company’s environmental impacts. The biggest to the following as a minimum: environmental impacts in a progressive and ISO 14001 is a key part of our criteria and although we impact we have on the environment is through transparent way. understand the limitations of this system, we still feel it • Be ECF (elemental chlorine free) or TCF our supply chain and how we place work with is a useful assurance process by which we can assess (total chlorine free). This process is managed through a key suppliers list. printers on behalf of our clients. Our print and a printer’s commitment to environmental management. paper policies can be read here. • A ny virgin pulp must be sourced from sustainably We may also consider other suppliers if their activities managed forests. are transparent enough for us to assess without the • The mills which produce the paper should have ISO programme. ISO 14001 accreditation. We further aim to specify a percentage of those jobs from our ‘Top 10’ list of enhanced environmental paper stocks. All these papers are FSC accredited OR recycled with a minimum of 20% post-consumer waste. We are also looking into carbon neutral papers. P31 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Section 3 LOOKING FORWARD “ A year on from having embedded our refreshed purpose – to help companies and brands Step Up to the changing relationship between business and society – and it’s more relevant than ever. Amidst social and political uncertainty we believe in the powerful potential of business to advance the conditions for a sustainable future. Not only do we believe in this potential, we’re seeing more and more of it in our clients’ actions and ambitions. Sustainable thinking and behaviours are becoming part and parcel of business practices, and leaders are going beyond their own operations and business models and seeking out partnerships to push for solutions to global challenges. It’s our responsibility to keep this role front-of-mind and continue to push our clients in this direction. Our creative thinking and strategic know-how is our strength. Applying it motivates us to go further. Caroline Carson Senior Consultant
