Communication On Progress Implementing Global Compact Principles In the organization of Connectwerks.Org Introduction I am pleased to confirm that Connectwerks.Org reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Environment, Anti-Corruption, and Labor. In our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, environment, and daily functions. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our innovative private Cloud Site App called Connectwerks. Sincere, Danny Pearson, Principal/ Managing Director Connectwerks.Org Connectwerks.Org Connectwerks.Org: The Organization Connectwerks.Org was founded in September 2009, to address the concerns and challenges associated with at-risk youth and adults, underserved students, poverty, failing schools, high school and college drop-out, economic development, lack of self awareness and self confidence to promote the practice of education and mentoring in society and also be an important civic and social voice in addressing the social, academic, and economic statuses of the underserved and at-risk. Connectwerks.Org Implements a campaign titled “We Cover The World” that directly impact human beings all over the world, and especially within the United States. Most underserved children need you us more than ever. Great ideas come from passionate people and innovation begins with inspiration; Inspire and be Inspired. Connectwerks.Org is where talent, opportunity, and ambition drive life-transitions online. We bring people of all varying backgrounds together to share and discuss compelling life ever emerging technologies, and soft-skill qualities that can be very beneficial to both students, parents, and professionals and where any goal can be accomplished or any dream attained by planning, working hard, working smart, and being inspired. Learn about it, then compete in it, for experience at it, so that you can go do it! We want to prepare people for success in a global competitive world. People should be engaged in learning or work that is relevant to their passion and allows them to master a new skill-set in real-time. We partner with schools, organizations, agencies, companies, and individuals to use Connectwerks cloud site application as an innovative way of managing your personal identity, inspiring or learning new soft skills; non-cognitive skills (e.g. self-motivation, self-empowerment, selfesteem, self-confidence, life-navigation, self-regulation, and self-perseverance). Connectwerks.Org is an organization that develop best practices where members meet at-risk youth current challenges – and the challenges of the future using STEM and/or technology to develop best practices. We are governed by a council and a Board of Directors, which jointly formulate the organization’s mission and goals. Members of the council are elected annually by open discussion voting. Our COO, Rene Hilderbrand oversee the daily activities of the 15 employees of the secretariat and coordinate activities and goals through our private social network site application accessed at www.Connectwerks.com. Connectwerks.Org: Our Approach To The 10 Principles Connectwerks.Org had the honor of signing up to the UN Global Compact program. During that time we defined several major stakeholders, which could guide the direction of our CSR policy where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our organization. These areas consisted of:  Youth (Members) Human Rights Labor  Adults (Members) Anti-Corruption  Society (Domestically and Globally) Environment  Community (Members) Quality Education  Schools (Teachers, Professors, Educators) Equal Opportunities Economic Equality  Corporations (Volunteers) With this collaborative connection we decided to implement Human Rights for education initiatives in a way that it allows us to work with social leaders to help scale impact, build leadership, accelerate equal opportunities, enhance quality education programs, transcend traditional mentoring methods, and provide compliance for mentoring and humanity best practices to ensure that all our members and staff members internally and externally understood UN’s basic principles and ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solutions and programs throughout the organization locally and globally. Connectwerks.Org has an internal “Advocate Forward-Thinking” committee that focuses on ensuring that the best practices are set forth, the proper initiative is set for the proper programs and that we are driving this initiative to action with measurable metrics to track successes. Connectwerks.Org: CSR Policy Year One Our initial CSR initiative focuses on Human Rights and Environment. Human rights education is an integral part of the right to education and is increasingly gaining recognition as a human right in itself. Knowledge of rights and freedoms is considered a fundamental tool to guarantee respect for the rights of all. Education should encompass values such as peace, non-discrimination, equality, justice, non-violence, tolerance and respect for human dignity. Quality education based on a human rights approach means that rights are implemented throughout the whole education system and in all mentoring, teaching, and learning environments. We adopted a strategy that also aligned well with UNESCO; with a strategy based on a comprehensive approach, recognizing the indivisibility and interdependence of all rights: civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. HUMAN RIGHTS THE GOAL: Our goal is based on serving as a beacon of leadership by creating and implementing diverse innovative youth and adult character development programs and human right committees creating an environment where individuals are motivated and encouraged to achieve becoming self-sufficient shareholders in the economic and social fabric of the communities they live in. How Do We Monitor and Evaluate Performance: Our Connectwerks.Org CSR committee regularly informs the organization, which initiatives have been initiated. We also utilize our innovative cloud site application called Connectwerks.Com to consolidate our members for better collaboration, communication, and program metric evaluating. Incentives are given to group voted employee of the quarter. Connectwerks.Org: CSR Policy Year One Our initial CSR initiative focuses on Environment and Human Rights. Environment ….Greener Living. Our actions impact the environment. Each thing we do can help or hurt our planet in many ways therefore we are a true virtual company. No bricks and mortar! To save building resources, land minerals, excavation of trees we implemented a policy practice of “virtual work” where our employees can work from any where, any time, any place virtually in the world. In stead of building more building for offices let’s build more green grass parks for play. ENVIRONMENT THE GOAL: Our goal is based on serving as a beacon of leadership by creating and implementing diverse innovative youth and adult character development programs and environment committees creating environments where individuals are motivated and encouraged to achieve becoming self-sufficient shareholders to help you reduce your environmental issues in the communities they live in. How Do We Monitor and Evaluate Performance: Our Connectwerks.Org CSR committee regularly informs the organization, which initiatives have been initiated. We also utilize our innovative cloud site application called Connectwerks.Com to consolidate our members for better collaboration, communication, video uploads, and program metric evaluating. We perform group votes to determine our “Spotlight” employee of the quarter. Connectwerks.Org: CSR Policy Year One Our organization focuses on Anti-Corruption; Corruption is the abuse of entrusted power for private gain. It can be classified as grand, petty and political, depending on the amounts of money lost and the sector where it occurs. Corruption corrodes the fabric of society. It undermines people’s trust in political and economic systems, institutions and leaders. It can cost people their freedom, health, money – and sometimes their lives. ANTI-CORRUPTION THE GOAL: Our goal is to develop virtual organization chapters in more than 25 countries, pressuring governments, businesses and the powerful to take strong action against corruption. We also support witnesses and victims transparency of corruption within our own organization as well as within other corporations and organizations. Transparency means shedding light on shady deals, weak enforcement of rules and other illicit practices that undermine good governments, ethical businesses and society at large. How Do We Monitor and Evaluate Performance: Our Connectwerks.Org CSR committee regularly informs the organization, which initiatives have been initiated. We also utilize our innovative cloud site application called Connectwerks.Com to consolidate our members for better collaboration, communication, video uploads, and program metric evaluating. We perform group votes to determine our “Anti-Corruption Spotlight” employee of the quarter. Connectwerks.Org: CSR Policy Year One An estimated 5.5 million workers were impacted by the combined efforts of the civil society organizations, universities and companies that are working together as part of Fair Labor Action. The true measure of success, however, is the nature of the impact – the degree to which workers are more respected by their employers, have more of a voice in their own futures, and feel safer at work. Our organization will help bring awareness to bringing about real and lasting change for workers locally and globally, including trade union recognition; rehiring of unfairly fired workers with back pay; improved labor-management relations in factories; and training and education programs for management and workers. LABOUR THE GOAL: Our goal is to catalyze positive change for workers using our Connectwerks cloud site app to provide transparency as an essential way of upholding fair labor standards and protecting workers throughout product supply chains. Knowing what is happening behind the scenes in factories and on farms around the world will provide us with evidence based video so that we can address the issues and make positive change suggestions and recommendations internally and externally. How Do We Monitor and Evaluate Performance: Our Connectwerks.Org CSR committee regularly informs the organization, which initiatives have been initiated. We also utilize our innovative cloud site application called Connectwerks.Com to consolidate our members for better collaboration, communication, video uploads, and program metric evaluating. Connectwerks.Org: Future Initiatives In 2017 to 2018 our primary focus will be directed towards our members – Connectwerks.Org/Connectwerks and our external community members. Our Areas Of Focus Include:  Continue signing up new Connectwerks.Org members to further our initiative and goals.  Use our innovative Cloud Site App to introduce and register within the UN Global Compact framework.  Continue our organization motto of “Inspire and Be Inspire” to foster positive change behavior.  Promote and build policy around economic equality for women internally and externally.  Promote and create strategies for policy building of diverse equality in the workplace, internally and externally.  Actively encourage and promote virtual office for better work life balance; healthy living  Continue being involved in corporations Corporate Social Responsibility for volunteering; mentoring, tutoring, habitant. We Are A True Virtual Company 1 (917) 420-3774 cwerks@Connectwerks.com For Mailing Purposes Addresses HQ New York: 75 West Street (Suite 15-K) Manhattan, NY 10006 Regional Location Seattle, WA: 12345 Lake City Way NE Seattle, WA 98125
