To ensure sustainable management, all details of the value creation phases must be taken into account. The Sustainability Report for 2016 addresses a central question: uestion: What can Clariant Clarian ass a specialty chemicals co ompany contribute to the future? uture? Responsibility must guide uide every action. And asspects related to the three diimensions performance, people, eople, and planet have to bbe considered onsidered in a holistic and comprehensive mprehensive approach approach. About this Report As one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals companies, Clariant creates value with innovative and sustainable solutions. By deeply ingraining sustainability issues throughout its corporate reporting suite, the company strives to communicate openly and transparently with all stakeholders. The Integrated Report 2016 discusses how sustainability contributes to value creation through the corporate strategy, the business model, and the business areas. This Sustainability Report 2016 adds even more depth by detailing key sustainability initiatives and results related to Clariant’s three brand values Performance, People, and Planet. Lastly, the online GRI Report provides detailed data on Clariant’s material sustainability topics. Together, these three publications give a comprehensive picture of sustainability at Clariant. Requests for more information and comments concerning sustainability at Clariant are welcome at sustainability@clariant.com. reports.clariant.com/ 2016/integrated-report reports.clariant.com/ 2016/sustainabilityreport/gri Index Sustainability Report 2016 14 02 Interview with Hariolf Kottmann 04 In my real life 12 Performance 14 The Lodz Road Map 22 The foundation for long-term growth 27 A sustainability lens on the product portfolio 32 Facilitating high-quality, safe, and sustainable products 36 People 38 A forest full of possibilities 44 Fostering a globally engaged team 47 Occupational health and safety 50 Beyond the boundaries 54 Planet 56 Working with the sun 62 Embracing renewable raw materials 66 Balancing costs, culture, and technology 70 Pursuing ambitious environmental targets 72 Strategy and Materiality 38 73 Interview with Joachim Krüger, Head of Corporate Sustainability & Regulatory Affairs 75 Strategic focus on sustainability 81 Sustainability data 82 Publication details 56 1 Interview with Hariolf Kottmann »Our commitment to providing sustainable solutions is appreciated and recognized in the market.« HARIOLF KOTTMANN Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann, Clariant has identiﬁed sustainability as one of its ﬁve strategic pillars. Why do you place such high value on sustainability? HARIOLF KOTTMANN At Clariant, we are committed to creating value with innovative and sustainable solutions for our customers from many industries as well as the society. We want to become a globally leading company for specialty chemicals, and to stand out through above-average value creation for all stakeholders. We achieve this by recognizing the needs of customers, employees, shareholders, and the environment. This means that sustainability is deeply ingrained in our »corporate DNA« and is a key component of everything that we do. We apply a holistic approach to integrating sustainability into the company in both our processes and our governance. This is an ongoing journey that is shaped by our understanding of corporate responsibility and our belief that the chemical industry is central to solutions for global challenges such as climate change and resource scarcity. At the same time, a focus on sustainability helps us gain competitive advantage. Sustainability is a prerequisite for our growth and our license to operate in the long-term. What is the relationship between sustainabiliHariolf Kottmann Chief Executive Officer ty and business success? Doesn’t sustainability (CEO) since 1 October imply higher costs, which can negatively impact 2008. Member of the business performance? Board of Directors since 10 April 2008 It’s true that customers increasingly demand sustainable solutions but don’t want to pay a signiﬁcant premium. Therefore sustainable innovations have to be competitive on economic as well as sustainability performance 2 factors. Achieving this results in clear beneﬁts for the sions on the sustainability and innovation needs reﬂectcustomers and for Clariant. ed in China's New Normal and 13th Five-Year-Plan. The more than 140 EcoTain® products we offer Our strong positioning regarding sustainable solutions often outperform conventional products not only in is a clear asset in our strategy and our business ambitions terms of sustainability and performance, but also with to become a »China Insider.« regard to proﬁtability. Our commitment to providing sustainable solutions is appreciated and recognized in What feedback do you receive on the efforts by the market. For example, our 2016 customer survey not Clariant with regard to sustainability beyond your only showed that our customers particularly appreciate customer responses? the high quality of our products and technical services, One example of gratifying feedback is the recognition of it also told us that around two-thirds of our customers Clariant as one of the most sustainable chemical comsee Clariant as standing for sustainability. panies by the world-renowned Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). In fact, in 2016 we received the most As a globally active company, how does Clariant positive feedback on this topic in our corporate history. experience the interest in sustainable solutions in This tells us that our continuous journey toward intedifferent markets around the world? grating the performance, people, and planet dimensions The time when sustainability was recognized as a conof sustainability into the solutions we offer to our clicern in only a small part of the global market is long ents and into our own operations as a responsible comgone. pany is going in the right direction. With our strong presence in Europe, Clariant is consistently exposed to European regulations on environmental protection and sustainability. While in the short term this can be a challenge, as it can create an unfavorable cost position compared to other regions, in the longer term addressing strict requirements right away forces us to develop products and services that are globally state of the art. Take Brazil as an example, where we can register an increasing demand for cosmetics based on natural ingredients. The same applies for China, as conﬁrmed by our second Sustainability Dialog event in Shanghai in November 2016. More than 200 representatives of Chinese customers, distributors, suppliers, and authorities participated in the discusCLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 3 In my Real life In the series »In my real life,« six Clariant employees from Europe share their views on sustainability by answering the question: »What does sustainability mean for my professional life and in my daily routine?« The personal statements cast light on the diversity of people and their perspectives in the world of Clariant, their values and activities. PHOTOGRAPHY Jo Röttger TEXT Bertram Job I am thoroughly convinced that people are a comThere are many employees now that are part of the pany’s most valuable asset. They are what brings »sandwich generation,« looking after both children and a company to life. That is why in my position, aging parents. My situation is not unusual, and for me, I make sure there is a focus on the employees’ wellthat’s what life is all about. It is not always easy, but I being. Especially as we are asking our employees to conlove looking after my parents. After all, they looked aftinually deliver high performance, it is important that ter me so well, for so many years. I know how importwe strive towards a better work-life balance. As an HR ant it is though to get some personal respite, and I love manager, I try to put myself in the employees’ shoes spending quality time outdoors with my husband and and come up with creative solutions to allow them to my two boys. Taking our camper van to the Yorkshire balance work with the rest of their lives. Dales on weekends, discovering new walks, and sitting In the UK, we have introduced a buy-sell arrangearound the campﬁre in the evening – it’s often the simple ment for holidays and also implemented ﬂexible workthings that allow me to relax and ﬁnd some inner peace. ing hours. Some colleagues use the ﬂexible working Sometimes, it can be a challenge convincing manconditions to take their children to school, to support agers that employees do not need to be sitting in the their local church, or simply avoid the peak traffic. For office every day at set times in order to do a great job. me personally, it allows me to help my 95-year-old dad With the right IT equipment and some good individual to look after my mum who is suffering from dementia. planning, most of us are able to do part of our jobs from But it also means that I don’t miss out on those special home. These different ways of working are not just moments with my children, such as school plays and for parents who need to consider childcare. If we take a sports days. The fact that the company is willing to meet closer look at our workforce, we also have employees the employees halfway shows that Clariant recognizes supporting grandchildren, elderly parents, or sick famithe longer term beneﬁts of employee well-being. The ly members, whilst at the same time, remaining comvalue of the goodwill that is generated amongst our mitted to their career and the company. employees with these initiatives should not be underThe proﬁle of our population is changing, and not estimated. just at Clariant. As a society, we must be ready to adapt to new ways of living and working, so that we can keep juggling our commitments without sacriﬁcing our well-being. 4 IN MY REAL LIFE TRACYANN OTTESLEV Human Resources Manager, Great Britain and Ireland CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 5 I feel truly in my element when I’m with friends who share similar interests. Dogs are a very important part of my world, and my husband and I have a large circle of friends who love dogs as much as we do. We take our dogs out together, and even train them and go to dog shows together. I have already won several gold and silver medals with Rosa, my golden retriever. Once when I was with Rosa in the woods, I found another dog that had been abandoned there. She followed us to the parking lot and jumped into the car. I couldn’t afford to keep her, so I brought her to the shelter. After three months, the staff at the shelter were able to ﬁnd a new home for her. I was so happy that I wanted to thank them in some way. At work, I took up a collection, and my co-workers generously donated money and supplies such as food and medicine. When I drove to the animal shelter to present them with these gifts, my car was full. Since that time, I often visit the shelter and take out homeless dogs for a walk. Those dogs are otherwise locked up in cages the rest of the time. There are hundreds of them here, and in the country, the problem is even worse. There, the animals are simply killed if no one needs them. The people in those areas don’t even bring their dogs to the vet. They just abandon them. I was surprised at how many co-workers supported my collection. You’d think that everyone would just be too busy with their own concerns to even care. But the response was overwhelmingly positive. I believe that you can cause a lot of people to reﬂect with these types of initiatives. The people you reach just need someone to raise their awareness. In this instance, we only improved the lives of some dogs. But it really encourages a person to take on other causes as well. I know I would like to do a lot more. Caring for dogs is just the beginning. AGATA WIERUSZEWSKA Assistant Manager, Global Business Services, Clariant Shared Services Center, Lodz, Poland 6 IN MY REAL LIFE M y father took me to the nearby mountains of Catalonia when I was ﬁve or six years old. That’s when my love of this region was ignited, and it has not been dampened since. To this day, I try to spend time there as often as possible, either alone, with a co-worker or with my family. I think today’s children need to learn about nature. We live on a beautiful planet, which they should value. For me, sustainability means recognizing the value of life by respecting people, respecting the planet and trying to give one’s best. In my position, I help to ensure that the employees at the locations in Spain and Portugal return home just as healthy as when they arrived at work. I also help to ensure that we are always working in a more environmentally compatible manner. Protecting the environment and people – I think that is what motivates me the most. From my perspective, we have done a good job if the year-end statistics do not show any accidents with downtime and if there is progress: less waste, less air pollution, and less waste water – and if people understand why safety and environmental impact are so important. As long as I can convey this, I feel satisﬁed in knowing that I have done my job effectively. If something needs to be changed, people are the only resource that can bring about that change. That’s why people are the most important part of a company. That is also probably what I like the most about my job: You have to work with people and try to convince JORDI SERRAL Head of Local Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs (LSRA), them of what you’re talking about. Spain and Portugal Here in Tarragona, we have the tradition of the »castells« – towers constructed out of real people who rely on each other to climb upwards. For me, this is the best proof that we have the opportunity to achieve incredible things if we work together. The team is always mightier than the individual. Each person brings their own strengths, but those who know how best to work with others win in the end. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 7 KATRIN BACHMEIER Marketing Manager, BU Industrial & Consumer Specialties, Region EMEA 8 IN MY REAL LIFE E specially in our Business Unit, we are exI like to listen and absorb information quickly, tremely widely positioned with approximateand I am not afraid of change at all. As the digital transly eight segments, which include everything formation progresses, some jobs will certainly fall by from aircraft de-icing ﬂuids to household cleaners to the wayside. On the other hand, new jobs will be creatcosmetics. Our communication regarding our positioned. Humankind is resourceful, and individuals will ing is very good, but we must always strive to stay up to have to adapt to the changes. date. This is one reason why I’m also working toward In our own company, we have already implementa master’s degree in advanced studies with a concentraed an enormous change. I am really proud that with tion in brand and marketing management at the UniGlucoTain®, we brought a product to the market that is versity of Applied Sciences in Lucerne. I want to learn both innovative and sustainable. Since then, a surface how the marketing world will evolve in the future, parcleaner made with bioethanol from straw has also articularly with regard to digitization and Industry 4.0. rived on the market. These types of environmentally Of course, I don’t have much free time because compatible products strengthen our employees’ identiﬁthe classes are on Friday afternoons and Saturdays. But cation with the company. And as for myself, I’m more it’s incredibly fun. There are ten of us in the course, than a Marketing Manager. I’m also a consumer. And I which is quite intense. We talk about big data and the make sure that I don’t buy products made from raw maentire digital transformation that is underway. All of terials that are harmful to the environment. the course content is very practical and tailored to my needs. For instance, with what I’m learning, I can help make our portfolio digitally accessible to customers. This is extremely important for those who wish to access our information at any time of the day. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 9 CAMILLA LÅNG Site Manager Hällekis, Sweden and Site Management Gdansk, Poland, BU Functional Minerals and Country ESHA Nordics W hen I became the site manager in HälleI’ve dreamt of having a greenhouse for a long kis in 2011, we had about 30 different time, and last year, we ﬁnally bought one. I now have my safety risks at the site. There was a lot to own vegetable garden where I grow tomatoes, cucumdo to bring everything up to Clariant’s standards. But bers, peppers, and strawberries. Eating these home-grown despite the challenges, I really like my job. It is also not treats is quite special, and they taste incredible. very difficult to establish these types of objectives, beAt home, we only use »green« electricity from wind cause in Sweden, people already have an environmentaland water sources, just like at our site. We have even ly conscious mind-set. Starting in kindergarten, the lowered consumption by 50%, which I am particularly Swedes learn everything related to the environment, proud of. But I’m not going to stop there. If you have recycling waste, and other similar topics. goals, you have to work until you achieve them. And then I grew up in the countryside, and I still live there from there, new goals will always pop up! today. We had horses at one point, and I’ve been going My two daughters are proud of what their mother horseback riding since I was ﬁve years old. Spending time does and I am proud of them. I truly hope that they in nature has always been my favorite thing to do. Even and eventually their children will be able to live in a clean today, I feel at my best when I’m outdoors. I’m truly and healthy environment in the future. So I do what in my element when I’m standing in the garden with I can. Some think only the actions with the biggest efrubber boots on and digging in the soil. fects are the most important, but the small steps really add up as well. 10 IN MY REAL LIFE I ﬁrmly believe that cooperation with others is extremely important. That is why I highly value transparency. I want the people who work with me to be completely honest. I also do my best to be completely honest in return. I believe that trust is the basis for all teamwork. Luckily, I work in a company where people are regarded as a pillar of success. The value of a company lies not only in making money. Every individual is important, from the young workers in production to the members of the board. Everyone deserves respect. OSCAR MARTINI Operations Manager When I started my career as a plant manager, BU Masterbatches, Pogliano, Italy I once had a crazy day in a highly complex factory. I couldn’t answer any of the questions I was asked, and I was on the brink of tears. As I was leaving the office that evening, the foreman came to me and asked, »How was your day?« I said, »It was horrible!« »No it wasn’t,« contradicted the foreman. »The machines are running, the lights are on and the people know what to do. So it was a good day.« This attitude continues to set an example for me even today. I always feel that it’s truly a perfect day as I sit down to dinner with my family in the evenings. I am Italian, and Italians tend to do a lot together as a family. On Sundays, we all make pizza together while we talk about school, work, or perhaps a song we heard on the radio. Sometimes, my older son and I might even try to ﬁgure out the song on the guitar, and my wife might improvise and sing along. Making music with others has a lot to do with understanding the people you’re playing with. You need to be in harmony. Even at work, like in a musical group, we very often have to make decisions quickly and ﬁnd out whose playing is a little off. Sometimes the sounds come together to form a harmonious chord, sometimes they don’t. But if it works, it can be very beautiful. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 11 Performance With a focus on sustainable innovation, integrated life cycle considerations, and a robust product portfolio, Clariant vigorously embraces its production and performance. For example, by proactively pursuing collaborative sustainable innovation, Clariant is building its resiliency and adaptability as global trends oblige corporations to move beyond their status quo. Additionally, Clariant sets an ambitious standard to ﬁne-tune its product portfolio continuously toward sustainability while identifying products that stand out for their sustainability excellence using its trademark label, EcoTain®. Lastly, Clariant’s devotion to safety and compliance supports and enhances its robust product stewardship and its overall performance. 12 PERFORMANCE FACTS & FIGURES BEST-IN-CLASS SUSTAINABILITY PRODUCTS > 140 Products awarded with the EcoTain® label for their sustainability excellence SUSTAINABILITY CRITERIA R&D SPEND GROUP SALES in CHF m 36 6038 6076 6116 5847 criteria grouped in six categories are considered in the Portfolio Value Program (PVP) to screen the 206 5807 product portfolio for sustainability. CHF m spent in Research & Development in 2016. Since 2012, approximately CHF 1 b has been spent on R&D. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Performance SCIENTIFIC COLLABORATIONS SALES BY REGION Group sales CHF m 5847 Integrated sustainable Performance business advantages 2004 Europe People 125 1458 Asia/Paciﬁc active collaboration projects with universities research institutes, and external partners. 1120 North America Safe use, transparency Addressing megatrends and information and societal needs 846 Latin America ACTIVE INNOVATION PROJECTS Planet 419 Middle East & Africa EBITDA MARGIN Resource efficiency Raw materials and and environmental sustainable sourcing 320 15.2% protection of which 60 »Class 1 projects« that show double-digit million sales potential or are of strategic importance before exceptional items CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 13 14 The Lodz Roadmap For its ambitious managing director, the Shared Services Center in Lodz, Poland is an opportunity to put leadership qualities to the test. The bundling of complex services is a priority for Clariant. Those who organize these services in a more streamlined, affordable way have a decisive advantage in global competition. PHOTOGRAPHY Jo Röttger TEXT Bertram Job CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 15 T omasz Lesniewski could curse this elevator. must change the way we work as well as shape the proIt is probably the slowest elevator in central cesses we are responsible for.« Lodz, if not the entire Republic of Poland. It This means clearly deﬁned, standardized customer feels like it takes an eternity to move between two ﬂoors. services like order-to-cash, data-to-insight, sourceFar too long for someone who has such ambitious goals to-pay, etc. And those who believe these processes are a and is always pushing forward. Yet Tomasz still relies secondary matter are very much mistaken. In the opon the old elevator for talking with his employees, as they erational business of international companies, these bustle about on several ﬂoors of the »Orange Plaza« – types of computer or IT-enabled services support imone of two buildings 500 meters apart that currently portant transactions from accounting to procurement to serve as a ﬁxed address for his company. logistics. If successful, this means leaner structures However, these circumstances don’t really annoy and greater efficiency. this tall, lanky man. They indirectly represent a probIt was no coincidence that Clariant started to lem that is good to have. When Lesniewski took over bundle these types of processes into a separate organimanagement here in mid-2015, the Clariant’s Shared zation within the company in 2013. Within Global Services Center (SSC) in Poland had 70 employees. By Business Services (GBS), methods with which the endthe winter of 2016, the number of employees had grown to-end services can be controlled as uniformly and to 220 and could soon increase to 300. There is a sense cost-effectively as possible should be optimized and imof pride in growing that quickly. More and more people plemented. This is currently being done in three global also means the need for more and more chairs, desks, services centers. They operate out of India, the Chinese and space. This works until another ﬂoor is bursting at city of Dalian, and – as mentioned – out of Lodz, Poland’s the seams. third largest city, which is home to 700000 people But there is no going back now, only moving forand located about one and a half hours west of Warsaw ward. That’s the only direction Lesniewski is interested by car. in. »Soon we will have our own building,« he tells his The decision is a vote for the location which has visitors as he rushes through the halls to quickly clarify already proven itself in other contexts. Two years something again. »We hope to move in as early as the ago, one of the most modern production facilities for beginning of next year.« Clariant’s Business Unit Masterbatches was opened Educated as an engineer and certiﬁed accountant, outside the center in Konstantinov Lodzki. Since then, he is determined to use his reputation and all of his enit has served as a model. And for Tomasz Lesniewski, ergy to expand the Shared Services Center in his it is »a great opportunity to manage my own organizahometown. This is not simply about becoming larger. tion.« He is willing to withstand the pressure that someIt is about a complete »Journey of Transformation,« thing like this entails. »It’s up to me to handle it, and he emphasizes. It should redeﬁne the value of the locait is up to me to deliver in line with expectations. I am tion. It is no longer merely the starting point of payment responsible for this.« transactions in Europe, but a globally operating nerve He has had enough training to think outside the center for far more complex services. End-to-end probox. Soon after his graduation in Lodz, Lesniewski cesses, as they are referred to in process-management worked for a hardware multinational in Ireland. Back jargon. in Poland, he was then employed in one of the ﬁrst »We want to become an ever more efficient organiservice centers, as well as for a market leader for outzation,« explains Lesniewski. »That means that we sourced services. He completed his master’s degree in 16 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 17 »We want to become an ever more efficient organization. That’s why we must change the way we work as well as shape the processes we are responsible for.« TOMASZ LESNIEWSKI Head of the Shared Services Center, Poland 18 business administration in the U.S. at the University of Illinois. And now, this challenge that goes far beyond the performance spectrum of conventional service centers: to be different, faster, more comprehensive, simply better, and more sustainable than others. »In two years, we have become one of the largest centers in the city,« adds Lesniewski when he is back in his own office – at a desk that is not unorganized despite the heavy workload. »Others need ten years to do that. And when it comes to the complexity of operations, we are already a leader.« This has to do with his ambition and his fondness for methodology at all levels. Hardly any space on the walls remains unoccupied. Memos containing diagrams, data, and arrows, which should ensure any process, are stuck all over them. Informal meetings and talks are on the daily agenda. And there is also a workforce that puts the drive of the mastermind into constant performance. The average age of its employees is 30 years old, and with 30% of its workers coming from other countries, it is most likely more international than any other in this city. Employees from Western Europe, Latin America and elsewhere can talk to their customers in the respective regions in their language. Forty people alone with Latin American roots cover the LATAM region and provide a lively atmosphere in the offices. According to Lesniewski, there is a reason why there is much more interaction here than in most of the more than 70 services centers in Lodz: »The people get to know each other here. I’ve also had other experiences in my own career...« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 19 20 A good atmosphere, multiculturalism, and social events – from bowling nights to going mountain biking together – make up for some of the downsides of the location. Lodz is still not one of the most attractive corners of the Republic. The former textile stronghold, also called »the Manchester of Poland,« strives for further restructuring. Many small shops, restaurants, and cafes have moved into deserted factories and old courtyards – nice gathering places for young employees who prefer the rough charm over the slick chic. Tiago Ferreira says he loves this city anyway. The 32-year-old from the small town of Suzano near São Paulo would love most of all to persuade his parents and all four sisters to come here. For him, the work with the procurement team was »an opportunity to ﬁnally have a life.« Douglas Campos, who shares an apartment with him and a colleague from Venezuela, views it similarly. Here, the shift often goes from noon until the late evening, says the 21-year-old, »but I can make my own decisions on the job and work in larger contexts.« These opportunities will continue to show up more frequently. Since 2015, the Latin America and Middle East & Africa regions have been tested to see whether Lodz is already positioned to offer customer services beyond Europe. In 2016, they began to manage selected processes for the Functional Minerals Business Unit from here. This did not run smoothly in every case, but optimizations have already been made. With this, two Clariant programs, »Lean« and »Excellence« play a decisive role, as well as an »ideal state« agreed on with GBS – an optimal state that is expected to be achieved at the end of a »Lean Transition Journey« in 2018. Ultimately, Tomasz Lesniewski would like to move forward quickly and methodically. Thus, failure is not an option. »We know what we are doing today and what we need to do tomorrow. And we have a very structured program here that will soon grow.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 21 S ustainable Innovation T he foundation f or long-term growth At Clariant, sustainable innovation is not just a corporate priority, it’s a way to engage with the dynamics of a changing world. Clariant’s Head of Scouting in New Business Development, Verena Niebuhr, can certainly attest to that. 22 PERFORMANCE C hallenges do not shut down Verena huge strains on the environment from Niebuhr, they wake her up. increased waste, to the challenges of supVerena Niebuhr As Clariant’s Head of Scouting in plying enough (clean) energy. These chalHead of Scouting New Business Development, Verena takes lenges will and need to propel innovation New Business Development special pride in working closely with highacross industries, and the chemical industry Verena plays an imporly skilled experts from Clariant’s research will play a crucial role in addressing the tant role managing and and development (R&D) and Business Unit challenges. inspiring sustainable (BU) teams to conceptualize and develop Clariant recognizes this, and so does innovation at Clariant. She approaches her new business with innovative and sustainVerena. »We are currently consuming work with passion and able products that address global challengthe resources of almost two planets, which pride, sometimes even es while also meeting customers’ speciﬁcaclearly exceeds the Earth’s capacity to engaging with visitors at the Clariant Innovation tions. According to Verena, »chemistry is regenerate. The demand for chemicals will Center to discuss the everything – the majority of products in our continue to grow and not only can we make many applications constructed as well as natural environments current production processes and products of Clariant’s diverse product portfolio. are based on chemicals. It is impossible to more efficient and sustainable, chemicals imagine a world without chemistry. I therecan also save energy and resources.« Creatfore believe that the chemical industry ing new solutions for these demands and will play a major role in addressing the chalchallenges means prioritizing sustainability lenges facing our society and planet to susin the design, production, and intended tain our world for future generations – with use of a product. This is also emphasized by Clariant leading the charge.« As both a the fact that sustainability and the innovacornerstone and touchstone of Clariant’s tion it requires are key pillars in Clariant’s How innovation and sustainability can work strategy and success, sustainable innovation strategy. This in turn has made Clariant together drives Clariant toward promising market rigorous in its R&D decisions, raising red There are many ways opportunities that support not only customﬂags and stopping non-sustainable innovachemicals can reduce products’ environmental ers, but also society and the environment – tion projects if they are not aligned or impacts while saving making it a signiﬁcant priority for Clariant. can be further developed in line with the resources. In one of company’s sustainability ambitions. Clariant’s New Business projects, for examThe reason why ple, a new nano silver Ecological, social, and economic global megaSustainable innovation conductive ink plays an trends, including those challenges resulting emerges from a place important role in the miniaturization of from population growth, urbanization, the Built around a culture of creativity, electronics – ultimately spread of typically Western consumption collaboration, efficiency, and sustainabilireducing materials and behaviors among a rapidly growing middle ty, Clariant dedicates itself to both ﬁnding energy consumption while creating a variety class in emerging countries, are expected new product innovations and promoting of new applications. to cause drastic changes that pose a variety innovation daily. The Clariant Innovation reports.clariant.com/v05 of challenges to mankind, e.g. leading to Center (CIC) helps Clariant’s employees CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 23 »We are currently consuming the resources of almost two planets, which clearly exceeds the Earth’s capacity to regenerate.« VERENA NIEBUHR Head of Scouting in New Business Development achieve this. The CIC is the ﬂagship among the research and development centers at 206 potential for our customers and for Clariant.« The CIC’s »Open Lab,« where Clariant can Clariant’s production site in FrankfurtCHF million invested in work on innovation projects together with research and developHöchst, Germany. Equipped with research customers and other development partners, ment for innovation in and application laboratories for several BUs 2016. exempliﬁes this. Innovation workshops and the most up-to-date analytics, the CIC is bring together Clariant’s customers with varalso where the Intellectual Property Manious experts from Clariant to jointly identify agement and New Business Development departments are located. 6500 and develop new ideas that ultimately provide solutions to unmet needs. In addition, At the CIC, no two days are ever the patents held by Clariant Clariant participates in more than 125 at the end of 2016. same – especially for Verena. »I am always scientiﬁc collaborations with universities, looking forward to meeting with my colresearch institutes, and external partners, leagues and team in the morning and typicalwhile simultaneously monitoring any ly spend some time to align on the most 125 and all industry trends and developments – important news and urgent tasks to prepare including pioneering projects at start-up scientiﬁc collaborations for the day. The environment and atmowith universities, research companies. sphere in our open space office in the CIC institutes, and external partners. supports this daily assembly well, and forInternal collaboration for delivering on tunately, there is no such thing as a normal sustainable innovation day for New Business Development – I highInternal collaboration also propels Clariant’s ly appreciate the diversity of both our sustainability and innovation, particularly staff and the work we do.« The CIC is a vital through Clariant’s »Sustainability Trend player in Clariant’s global R&D network, Meetings.« During these sustainability fowhich includes more than 50 Technical Cenrums, global experts from Clariant’s sustainters in Europe, North and Latin America, ability strategy, marketing, and business India, and China, with a total of about 1100 development teams discuss sustainability employees. challenges that can be addressed using Clariant’s expertise in chemistry and mateDiverse minds forge ideas rial science. By having experts from around For Verena, »a major part of my day is ﬁlled the globe and across the Business Units in with conceptual and content work as well as the meeting, the sustainability challenges external and internal networking – for exare scrutinized from different business and ample, to drive forward the search for new geographic perspectives. These meetings ideas, scouting ﬁelds, and scouting projects. often lead to new ideas for project or prodOur work involves a great deal of external uct development and business scouting, networking, which is crucial to ﬁll the pipewhich then are pushed forward by BUs, reline with ideas that provide great value gional teams, Group Technology and Inno24 Clariant’s global Innovation Network ~ 500 E  mployees a re working in the Clariant Innovation Center in Frankfurt-Höchst, Germany. 8 R&D Centers in North America, China, India, and Europe. 50 T  echnical Centers in Europe, North and Latin America, India, and China, with a total of about 1100 employees. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 25 vation or New Business Development. with Clariant’s business and sustainability Progress on the uptake of sustainability opstrategies. Verena knows this well, highSustainability portunities are reported to the Sustainability lighting that sustainable and innovative and innovation precision Council. This Council holds a meeting twice solutions at Clariant ultimately revolve To assess projects’ competitive advantages and a year at the executive level to determine around creating value: »Clariant’s approachmake them comparable, sustainability strategies for the company. es to sustainable innovation have changed Clariant established the In subsequent Sustainability Trend drastically from a theoretical concept to acCorporate Sustainability Index for R&D projects Meetings, previous ﬁndings, new challengtual products that impact us in our every(CSIR&D). es, and industry trends are once again preday working life. To deliver added value to A mandatory part of sented, analyzed, and discussed, continuing Clariant’s customers, innovation requires all major R&D projects, Clariant’s collaborative and ongoing dialog an overlap of desirability (for example, an CSIR&D assesses the relative sustainability of new around sustainable innovation opportuniunmet customer need), feasibility (for exproducts under developties. The backbone of Clariant's competiample, technical attainability), and viability ment. By using CSIR&D as tive edge is to deliver sustainable innova(for example, economic competitiveness). a tool, Clariant is able to pursue sustainable ideas tion and performance, and this is exactly At Clariant, it is understood that even when and approaches while what Verena ﬁnds so exciting in her work: providing a more sustainable alternative to ensuring that all products »This spirit of change regarding sustainabilan existing solution this may not always developed today are still viable and competitive ity can clearly be felt throughout Clariant – be sufficient. The particular performance tomorrow. especially during Trend Meetings – and beneﬁts are crucial and need to meet cusit already manifests in tangible initiatives, tomer expectations to have realistic impleprojects, and new products. I am particumentation chances.« larly proud that Clariant has also managed Many current and future challenges to spread this enthusiasm to customers, will require interdisciplinary approaches and that we are not only recognized as a and holistic solutions, and sustainability is sustainability pioneer, but that we also have thus a catalyst for innovation. Chemistry several ongoing sustainable innovation and other sciences will play a major role in projects jointly with customers that are addressing societal challenges, and industry showing continuing success.« players that rise to the top will be those that think both inside and outside of the box Moving forward in developing solutions. Clariant clearly has Sustainable innovation practices and solugreat potential to be one of these game tions are required for taking on industry changers, and already Clariant’s innovators – trends and responding to societal challenglike Verena – are using efficiency, creativity, es, which is why they have become a founcollaboration, and sustainability to develop dational pillar underlining Clariant’s persolutions in response to global challenges formance. However, sustainable innovation while continuing to leverage Clariant’s practices and solutions continue to evolve existing capabilities. 26 PERFORMANCE The journey towards the future A sustainability lens on the product portfolio Clariant’s approach to its product portfolio and sustainability performance is built upon external and internal collaborations, careful screening processes based on clear criteria, as well as a drive to continuously improve and promote sustainability excellence solutions. As an example, GlucoPure® SUN showcases how these important processes are used in practice. A simple, mild, high-performing, screening and development of its products and renewable-based detergent. and product portfolio on the basis of This was the vision when Clariant sustainability. Inspiration for the Portfolio Value came up with its EcoTain®-labeled GlucoProgram Pure SUN®, a sugar-based surfactant with A cohesive framework: The Portfolio Value a chemical foundation made from sunﬂower The Portfolio Value Program Program (PVP) is inspired by Clariant’s ambition to oil. Capable of tackling dirty jobs while Investigating the challenges and issues and steer its product portfolio remaining gentle for both humans and the mapping them across the overall life cycle toward solutions that add environment, this foamy detergent was of a product like GlucoPure SUN® is key to value through sustainability for customers and synthesized through Clariant’s dedication effective product development – especially society while ensuring to sustainable innovation and efficiency. in determining and maintaining a product’s long-term growth for it’s However, the steps involved in developing properties as they relate to sustainability business and performance leadership. this product – upstream in collaboration and efficiency. To assess, map, and label its with suppliers, during production at Clariant, product portfolio, Clariant developed the and downstream in its use by clients and Portfolio Value Program (PVP) in 2012 in end consumers – are much less simple than cooperation with the internationally rethis detergent description suggests. In fact, nowned Collaborating Centre on Sustainable when developing products, Clariant considConsumption and Production (CSCP), a ers how all necessary pieces ﬁt together – non-proﬁt organization and »think and do both with regard to how a product is used tank« founded by the United Nations Enviand how its performance, safety, and susronmental Program (UNEP) and the tainability features co-mingle across the life Wuppertal Institute. The program is based cycle of the product. As an example, Glucoon a thorough analysis of sustainability Pure SUN® offers a clean, helping hand in trends and needs, as well as on the input and understanding how Clariant approaches the views of external stakeholders, including experts, policy makers, businesses, NGOs, trade union organizations, and customers. The PVP provides the overarching framework for the company’s approach in develCLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 27 Main components of The PVP System The PVP System drives continuous improvement through transparency and targeted steering Screening Continous Improvement Promotion/Labeling Product Product Portfolio SustainPortfolio Improveability Screening ment Roadmap EcoTain® Criteria Selected Catalog Products Meeting Products Innovation Pipeline Clariant’s Sustainability Sustainability Deﬁnition Screening Stakeholder and third party involvement and veriﬁcation Internal training and communication oping its product portfolio towards more Through a cohesive interplay of innovative and sustainable products and collaborative assessments, evaluations using sales methods, enhancing also the company’s clear criteria, and sustainability labeling, sustainability performance as a whole. the PVP backs Clariant’s systematically The PVP is inspired by Clariant’s amscreened, sustainable, and innovative bition to steer the product portfolio toward product portfolio. The ﬂagship label for sustainable products solutions that add value through sustainAt the end of 2016 more ability for customers and society while enStrong basis underpinned by than 140 of Clariant’s suring long-term growth for its business external and internal collaborations products carried the EcoTain® label for sustainand performance leadership. Clariant conThe PVP is based on a collaborative and ability excellence. tinues to be inspired by the opportunities forward-looking approach. In the different clariant.com/ecotain to raise the bar in sustainability that are development phases of Clariant’s PVP, brought about by societal changes, market several discussions where held with intertrends, existing and future regulations, nal and external stakeholders. This collabcustomer preferences, and stakeholder oration and dialog process ensures an outexpectations. side-in perspective and that the PVP system meets stakeholder expectations. The development of the PVP methodology and criteria are based on the external collaboration process. To use the PVP system and screen the product portfolio, varied and extensive expertise is needed given the wide-ranging 28 PERFORMANCE »Steering our portfolio towards sustainability creates long-term value for Clariant and for our customers and stakeholders.« LYNETTE CHUNG Head of Sustainability Strategy & Advocacy needs and impacts to be assessed. Working 3. Products falling below the Clariant susThe criteria catalog’s six groups in conjunction with leaders in Clariant’s tainability standards, which will be part core team of corporate and business susof an »Improvement Roadmap« and particPerformance tainability experts, product managers, marularly checked for opportunities for keting managers, as well as product stewimprovement, replacement, or even disconardship and supply chain specialists are tinuation. involved in the PVP screenings. The PVP’s For GlucoPure SUN® and all other Integrated sustainable business screening process is based on the utilization products, the PVP approach incorporates of 36 criteria that reﬂect sustainability general elements of ensuring a proper analneeds and opportunities across the life ysis and screening for the different upcycle. stream, production, and downstream life Performance advantages cycle phases of a product. Evaluation by 36 criteria Most surfactants used in dishwashers People The PVP’s 36 criteria are grouped into six cause irritation to human skin. Customers categories. These categories revolve around are seeking products that are mild yet still the economic, social, and environmental performing. At the same time, environmensustainability of a product, representing tally compatible, renewable sources are Safe use, transparency, and information Clariant’s three pillars of sustainability: coming into focus. Clariant uses renewable performance, people, and planet. These crialternatives: sugar and sunﬂowers. With teria also ensure that proper consideration a 95% renewable feedstock and a mild but is given to impacts across the life cycle of effective performance when used in Addressing megatrends a product or solution, covering upstream, detergent, these ingredients seemed like a and societal needs production, use, and end-of-life phases. winning combination and a basis for Screened products are ultimately GlucoPure SUN®. Downstream, it is evident Planet divided into three broad categories: to Clariant that detergents have the poten1. Products standing out for their sustaintial to harm habitats and ecosystem serability excellence performance, which vices. This issue served as another driver in can be distinguished by Clariant’s hallmark GlucoPure SUN®’s development. Resource efficiency and environmental protection EcoTain® label. For the GlucoPure SUN® assessment, 2. Products representing a standard that is the screening team included sustainability considered by Clariant an acceptable level experts, experts from the Global Application of sustainability (which, however, goes Development and EMEA Technical AppliRaw materials and beyond the regulatory requirements). cation teams as their joint efforts were sustainable sourcing CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 29 crucial in developing the formulations and GlucoPure SUN® is made of renewable sun· Lowers amounts of waste sand by higher ensuring the product’s performance and ﬂower oil and sugar, is biodegradable, and efficiency additives mildness in various application scenarios. is still gentle on skin and effective on dirty · Helps improve the health and safety of The GlucoPure SUN® screening dishes. foundry operators, the environment, and outcome shows beneﬁts across all three neighbors sustainability pillars and in the six groups Delivering on sustainability ambitions of the criteria catalog: best-in-class perforTogether, the EcoTain® label and the PVP Ceridust® 8090 and 8091 mance and multi-functionality, reducing form a very important step in delivering on A 100% bio-based, sustainable additive the use of components such as VOC solvents Clariant’s sustainability ambitions. Reviewfor wood coatings: and stabilizers. Besides this, it presents ing its product portfolio from a sustainabil· Non-hazardous 95% of renewable carbon index, enables ity perspective, thereby highlighting prod· Made of renewable raw materials Nordic Swan and EU EcoLabel, allows ucts such as GlucoPure SUN® and taking milder detergents without an irritant label actions for steering its product portfolio toHostavin® 3330 Disp and 3070 Disp and delivers the same cleaning performance wards sustainability and increasing perforWater-based UV absorber and light of traditional non-green formulations while mance requires consistent commitment and stabilizer dispersions for coatings: also helping to adjust the formulation’s visefforts across the company. This needs a · Reduces emissions cosity and appearance. gradual approach, transparency, and under· Contains less hazardous components than standing of the portfolio’s sustainability competitive systems Branding sustainability excellence performance in order to deﬁne roadmaps · Easy dispersion enables reduction of Building upon the PVP’s comprehensive and action plans. This ensures the long-term energy consumption sustainability screening, Clariant further value not only for Clariant, but for Clariant’s clariﬁes sustainability performance features customers and stakeholders as well. Would you like to learn more? of its product portfolio using a distinguishclariant.com/ecotain ing label: EcoTain®. Products awarded the EcoTain® product highlights EcoTain® label must have best-in-class Licocene® for hotmelt adhesives sustainability performance in at least one of Used for hotmelt adhesives in furniture, the 36 criteria, offer beneﬁts in several automotive, ﬂoor-covering and packaging product life cycle phases, and not have any industries: adverse environmental or social impacts. · 100% recyclable A corporate panel of experts reviews and · Increases water and energy savings due awards ﬂagship products with the EcoTain® to the elimination of a drying process for label. By the end of 2016, more than furniture applications 140 products from all Business Units were awarded the EcoTain® label. Geko LE® GlucoPure SUN® fell into this A sustainable greensand casting additive: privileged group, receiving an EcoTain® · Lowers organic pollutants and greenlabel for its efficacy and sustainability: house gas emissions 30 Life cycle integration C  ontributing to low-carbon and circular economy By marrying steel production emissions to chemical production, the industry takes life cycle thinking to a new level of innovation: Carbon2Chem. 02 Smelting Gases Fuel Plastics 01 Steel Production 04 Chemical Plant Fertilizers 03 Energy A cross-industry venture sponsored by the German Fedthe smelting gases (mainly CO, CO2, H2) for the producin puriﬁed form. For the gas puriﬁcation, Clariant coneral Ministry of Education and Research, Carbon2Chem tion of materials (4). Demonstrating Clariant’s dedicatributes sorbents, catalysts, and expert know-how is a project that reduces industrial carbon dioxide emistion to deliver solutions to address life cycle impacts on their application. To sustainably improve the ecologisions from steel production (1) by converting smelting across different value chains, Clariant provides methanol cal performance of steel production, Clariant considers gases (2) into valuable chemicals. Smelting gases catalysts and the necessary application expertise to it an important step to capture and convert compoare currently used for power generation (3) in the steel evaluate the catalysts’ suitability. Clariant also particinents of the smelting gases, which contain considerable plants. The objective of the Carbon2Chem project is pates in the upstream processing of the smelting gases, amounts of syngas (carbon monoxide together with to go one step further and develop a solution for using as methanol can only be acquired from smelting gases hydrogen) that can form the basis for chemicals. Product Stewardship F acilitating high-quality, s afe, and sustainable p roducts Product stewardship is a crucial facet of Clariant’s business approach. Through carefully managed assessment, testing, and customer engagement processes, Clariant’s Product Stewardship offers customers and Business Units professional service that contributes to the high safety and legal compliance of its products. O utstanding products are never as safety, Product Stewardship also integrates simple as they may ﬁrst appear. sustainability and innovation into the design To achieve a high level of quality, of a product, thus creating added value. performance, and safety, a product requires Clariant’s Product Stewardship offers detailed management during its entire life support and guidance to all relevant business cycle, which includes the research and decomponents: velopment phase, production, use by cus1. Innovation, which includes evaluation of tomers, and ultimately end-of-life disposal. safe uses and performance However, high-quality products are also 2. Marketability, which includes assessment backed by carefully integrated innovation, of chemicals and registrations to chemical inmanufacturing, and marketing development ventories stages. At Clariant, Product Stewardship 3. Manufacturing, which includes classiﬁcabrings together all of these processes, delivtion and labelling, safety data sheets and storering the high performance its customers age, and safe transportation expect and require. 4. Marketing/Customers, which includes transparent supply chain communication on Product Stewardship ensures all relevant safety aspects of our products integrity and quality and offering respective certiﬁcates. Protecting both consumers and the environment in the development and use of products The various steps Product Stewardship is is one of Clariant’s top priorities. Clariant’s focusing on are complex, often requiring Product Stewardship organization offers guidthe input and engagement of various exterance for customers and all Business Units nal and internal stakeholders such as regu(BUs) in addressing, managing, and maintainlatory authorities, research and development ing product safety while also preventing (R&D), production, marketing and sales, and reputational or legal damages to Clariant or procurement. Through careful registration Clariant’s customers. This is particularly and evaluation of chemicals, strict chemical important in regard to intended use and imregulatory compliance, and customer suppacts of products. In addition to ensuring port on chemicals and uses, Clariant holistically produces products that are safe, sustainable, compliant, innovative, and high-performing. 32 PERFORMANCE Compliance and registration Registrations support to Clariant. In fact, Clariant has product business growth During the course of its design and develstewardship capacity in 30 countries, which Increased quantity of registraopment, a product undergoes a series of tions at Clariant demonstrates helps cover production at over 200 sites screenings that evaluate its safe use and ena commitment to innovation. worldwide. With Clariant’s Product StewAs Clariant innovates existing vironmental impacts. Clariant strives to ardship represented in every key region of products, expands its prodintegrate the highest degree of safety into uct portfolio, and enters new its production, marketing, and distribution, its products. Before a product is produced markets, more and more chemClariant stays up to date with any and all icals are registered across the and marketed, it is screened in accordance necessary documentation for and evaluation globe. Between 2012 and 2016, with – and often exceeds – the requireClariant nearly doubled its of its products. ments of all relevant global regulations. registration projects for new With a strong commitment to animal products in China, Europe, and All products are validated to ensure welfare, where possible, Clariant generates the United States. In China, their safety for humans and the environthis growth has exceeded the one set of data per substance with which ment when properly used. Chemicals regisnumber of registered projects compliance with all relevant chemical reguin Europe and the United tration requires data on the substance, lations worldwide may be veriﬁed. States, illustrating Clariant’s proof of safe use of the substance, and subprosperous product portfolio mission of substance data and assessments and global performance. to appropriate authorities. These authorities include, for example, the European Union’s (EU) European Chemicals Agency (ECHA), which coordinates the registration, evaluaREGISTRATON PROJECTS OF NEW PRODUCTS 2012–2016 tion, and authorization of all chemical in China, Europe, and the United States substances based on available scientiﬁc data according to the EU REACH regulation. 23 20 20 Through Product Stewardship, Clariant ful17 ﬁlls all necessary regulatory obligations. 14 9 13 Assuring the compliance of Clariant’s 8 products on a global scale 6 Clariant’s approach to product stewardship is globally oriented. Ensuring that products CN EU US CN EU US CN EU US comply with all relevant national and international chemical legislations is fundamental 2012 2014 2016 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 33 Globally emerging Chemical regulations Chemical regulations Strong regulations established and in force Regulations emerging With a global organization, Clariant’s Product Stewardship is represented in every key region. Toxicological data: that evaluates the chemical properties of Avoiding animal testing products by using alternative methods A major component of Clariant’s product to close existing data gaps. This alternative stewardship effort involves assessing the approach, Clariant’s CompTox Suite, is chemical properties and safety of products spearheaded by Product Stewardship. Short for innovation as well as for registration and for Computational Toxicology, it reduces use purposes. These assessments, coupled the need for animal testing to the greatest with registrations, conﬁrm that a product degree possible while still complying with can be used without causing harm to people necessary regulations. Using the compuor the environment. These evaluations intational methods of the AMBIT chemical volve developing toxicological data proﬁles structures database together with highfor substances and products that meet quality (eco) toxicity data from the REACH chemical registration requirements. These database IUCLID (International Uniform proﬁles are typically achieved through exChemical Information Database), the tensive animal testing. Besides impacts on CompTox Suite identiﬁes and groups subanimal welfare, such tests are often timestances into chemical categories based and cost-intensive. To achieve appropriate on common and comparable structures, toxicological assessment without animal properties, and expected effects. testing, Clariant developed a new approach 34 PERFORMANCE The CompTox Suite aids in the evaluation of chemicals 50000 documents, certiﬁcations, and regulatory advice regarding applications of its products. Thanks to the CompTox Suite, data gaps can requests per year For example, if a Chinese company wants are sent to Clariant from now be ﬁlled with robust information from to use a Clariant additive in a plastic food customers seeking structurally related substances by using all documents, certiﬁcations container that is destined for American conrelevant already existing data together with or regulatory advice sumers, the customer would need certiﬁcaregarding applications computer-based predictions instead of animal tion that the Clariant product may be used in of its products. experiments. It provides information about this application and in this market. Customthe effects of chemical substances, allows for ers receive this information from the cerReducing animal testing veriﬁable documentation, is widely accepted across the industry tiﬁcates, which in turn enhances Clariant’s by registration authorities, and may even with the CompTox Suite perception of market trends and customer The Clariant CompTox deliver suggestions and tips for product imrequirements. Suite saves time and inprovements or desirable product composition. novation costs and avoids CompTox Suite considerably reduces animal unnecessary animal testProducts built with safety, ing, making it easier to testing or the need to spend huge amounts innovation, sustainability, and comply with regulations of time and resources gathering toxicity inforgoverning chemicals, by performance mation from diverse sources. removing animal testing With a pulse on regulations and an innovafrom the process, but tive approach to bringing new life to estabstill receiving all necessary Creating value for customers toxicology information lished safety and toxicology testing procethrough open dialog thanks to a computer dures, Clariant is moving the frontier of program. To maintain high quality and ensure the product stewardship in the chemical indushighest level of safety, Clariant’s Product try forward. Customer support and collaboStewardship supports customers by providration are crucial to understanding how ing them with information on the safe and products fulﬁll their intended purposes, and appropriate use of its products. For speciﬁc what can be improved or innovated during questions, Clariant experts are available to production. Thus, listening to customers’ answer inquiries throughout all development concerns is extremely important to a prodand production phases, providing safety uct’s quality and ultimate success. As products data sheets, comprehensive information on continue to develop, receive feedback from optimum handling and application, hazard customers, and endure a variety of applicaand risk proﬁle, transport and packaging, and tions, they are often improved and their proﬁnally waste disposal. Supporting open dialog duction evolves. However, Product Stewardaround the safety and integrity of its products ship will always guarantee a rigorous process along the value chain is one of Product Stewof assessing, testing, and registering products ardship’s top initiatives. so that they have superior performance, Clariant also responds to about 50000 reproducible properties, maximum safety, requests per year from customers seeking optimized costs, and innovative design. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 35 People Clariant’s foundation for success is its team of ambitious, diverse, and dedicated people. More than any other factor, close collaboration drives Clariant’s achievements. Clariant prioritizes creating a diverse and inclusive environment for its employees in all of its global sites, labs and offices. Ensuring employee occupational health and safety is crucial, so Clariant continuously enhances its safety culture and employee engagement. Additionally, Clariant collaborates with the suppliers in its value chain to commit to sustainably sourced resources. To Clariant, the diversity, health, and safety of employees and suppliers are key to business prosperity. 36 PEOPLE FACTS & FIGURES GENDER DIVERSITY 14% Proportion of women 22% Proportion of women in global management of Clariant workforce (general staff) (management level 1–5) GLOBAL WORKFORCE AGE DIVERSITY LOST TIME ACCIDENT RATE (accidents with at least 1 day lost/200000 30–50 60.3% working hours) 17442 >50 25.3% 0.33 total staff in full time equivalents (FTE) 0.26 <30 14.4% 0.23 0.19 0.17 EMPLOYEES BY BUSINESS AREA BUSINESS AREA FTE 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT CARE CHEMICALS 2574 CATALYSIS 1548 SUPPLY BASE NATURAL RESOURCES 3235 PLASTICS & COATINGS 6737 (SERVICES) 3348 GRAND TOTAL 17442 69% 25000 of employees participating in the global employee survey in 2016 EMPLOYEES BY REGION (FTE) (compared to 65% in the previous survey in 2014) total staff 17442 suppliers worldwide provide products and services 7645 Europe TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT to Clariant every year 4321 Asia/Paciﬁc SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENTS 2531 Latin America 2132 North America 813 Middle East & Africa 200000 total hours of training, >60% of supply base* covered by with 11000 employees participating sustainability evaluations in trainings in 2016 *by spend on raw materials CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 37 A forest full of possibilities The trainees of today could very well be the company’s important employees and decision-makers of tomorrow. From the beginning and along the way, they should be familiarized with their options and the culture of their company, for example, with the help of a motivational camp led by an Olympic champion. PHOTOGRAPHY Jo Röttger TEXT Bertram Job O ne thing is clear in the minds of the participants as the bus drops them off at their destination on Monday morning: they can kiss urban living good-bye. There is not even a stable internet connection – only trees as far as the eye can see. A handful of rustic houses and a large building with a common room and kitchen will be the center of the action for the next few days. It’s hard to believe that such a transition can happen so quickly. A one-and-a-halfhour bus ride from Frankfurt-Höchst suddenly brings you to a completely different world. Normally, seminars for managers looking for new inspiration and motivation in their jobs begin this way. However, the 32 young people who arrive in the Hunsrück today have only begun their careers just over a year ago. They are Clariant trainees in the Höchst Industrial Park, who are now about to explore something other than dry academic textbook material at the Soonwald Forest Experience Center. The material covered will include different perspectives on issues that will impact their ways of thinking and their inﬂuence on the company – from the many facets of teamwork and how one presents oneself and organizes one’s environment to the vision of sustainability. »Recognize your strengths« is the motto of the motivational camp. The camp begins when Christian Schenk, a nearly six-and-a-half-foot-tall hulk of a man, suddenly appears before the participants. In a friendly tone, he provides an overview of the event and describes the planned modules. They will include presentations NICK RÜCKER and talks (»How Healthy Is Our Forest«), a potential Industrial manager in training 38 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 39 analysis using personality proﬁles, information on preparing for tests, communication training, team-building exercises, as well as sports and recreational activities. The activities move along quickly from 9:00 a.m. until 8:30 p.m., leaving no opportunity for anyone to get bored. It spreads quickly that Christian Schenk has worked hard for his physical achievements. He was a decathlete for a while and even earned an Olympic gold for the GDR. But that is only a side note now. In his current position, it is more important to him that his years as an athlete represent values that make achievements possible in the ﬁrst place, such as will, discipline, VANESSA HAHN commitment, and perseverance. The 52-year-old is conAspiring laboratory chemist 40 »The company is showing us that it values trainees, and that it is also interested in our continued growth after the training.« CHRISTIAN SCHWARZ Chemical laboratory assistant in a dual study program With a casual style, the teacher and his two employees come a long way in accommodating the wishes and needs of their young audience, but they don’t try to win their favor by pretending to be like them. In this manner, they are able to foster an atmosphere of mutual acceptance. Nick Rücker, an industrial manager in training, quickly changes his mind regarding the value of the event. Before the camp, he occasionally thought that his time could be used differently. »But once you’re here, you realize there might be something you can get out of this,« he explains. And the passionate county league soccer player from the Main-Taunus area is not even referring to the trip to the Mainz 05 German soccer club, where a junior coach is giving a talk on optimal training and true CHRISTIAN SCHWARZ Chemical laboratory assistant in a dual spirit. Instead, he is referring to the practical tips on study program how to better focus one’s efforts when preparing for the ﬁnal examination. (»Passing is all in your head.«) Or he is referring to the potential analysis using personality proﬁles, which will be discussed on Tuesday. And yes, even the challenges related to teamwork that he must successfully deal with on Wednesday with Klaudia, Vanessa, and Christian – building the highest possible freestanding sculpture out of spaghetti and marshmalvinced that this kind of mind-set can be »a beautiful thing lows, moving matches to create new geometric ﬁgures, to impart« to young employees of a company. Ultimateand so forth. »You have to get involved,« says Nick, ly, this is the distinguishing feature of the events that »otherwise you’ll just be left out. And this is good for his agency has offered for over eight years to individuals breaking the ice.« starting out in their studies or in their professional His friend and soccer buddy, Christian Schwarz, careers. a chemical laboratory assistant in a dual study program, »The opportunity lies in allowing young people thinks it’s very important to take an in-depth look at to encounter something new,« says Schenk – himself sustainability. »This will certainly help us in the future,« an ambassador of SOS Children’s Villages – between Christian explains. He also describes the encouragetwo modules to a smaller group. »We are creating a metment he feels from sensing »that the company also wants aphorical bouquet of ﬂowers here. Everyone can take to convey something to us with the training. They’re something out of it for themselves. How someone assessshowing us that they value trainees, and that they are also es what they take depends on how they’ve been socialinterested in our continued growth even after the ized and their intelligence...« training.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 41 KLAUDIA MISETIC Chemical technician in training Beate Georg couldn’t have expressed the deeper young colleagues are while completing the camp’s enpurpose of the camp more clearly. As the training coortire program. They also listen carefully as a feedback dinator, she wants to have this very effect on the 109 session after Schenk’s lecture on self-presentation and trainees at the site in Höchst. »They should not feel left communication concludes the last day. out or alone, and they should get an initial feel for the At the end of the event, only details and speciﬁc type of company they work for.« Hence the traditional content are critically evaluated by the group. The purfour-day introductory trip that Nick, Christian, and pose of the whole program is crystal clear to everyone. the other participants took to Cologne in their ﬁrst year. The event is even given an A for participant satisfaction. And now, one year later, this second four-day event This means that the Olympic champion Schenk and his has been added for the ﬁrst time, with the hope that it colleagues have also passed the test. Vanessa Hahn, an will reinforce the supporting role of the company aspiring laboratory chemist, was not overly enthusiastic through a second motivational section. about the trip to Mainz 05. »I couldn’t see much beneﬁt There is also a sustainable strategy behind it. in it,« she said. The potential analysis and the material Today’s trainees are the company’s valuable decion sustainability offered her so much more. The latter sion-makers of tomorrow. In this respect, it is in the was »perhaps a way of showing us where we can focus employer’s best interest to offer support along the way. our efforts a little bit more,« Klaudia Misetic explained, Throughout Germany, there are about 30% of trainees who is training to be a chemical technician. »This is who »don’t stay the course,« Schenk points out, referan issue that concerns all of us to a certain extent,« she ring to the rate of individuals who don’t complete their adds. training program. At Clariant in Höchst, the rate tends The valuable feedback will help Schenk and his towards zero. In addition, there are those who team to ﬁne-tune future programs. For Beate Georg, the do not feel integrated. They turn their backs on their feedback straight from the mouths of the participants companies soon after their ﬁnal examination and take is encouragement to continue supporting the trainees. their valuable potential with them. These are serious In light of this, it has already been decided that the inlosses on everybody’s part. troductory trip for the ﬁrst year of training will now be Thus, it is better to invest early, Beate Georg exextended to ﬁve days. plains, who has positioned herself as a ﬂy on the wall in the common room of the Soonwald Forest Experience Center for a few days. Likewise, Hermann Stoelzel, among others a long-serving member of the works council, has his eye on the trainees. The two veterans are both amazed at how punctual and focused the 42 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 43 Appreciating the voices of employees F  ostering a globally e  ngaged team Diverse, talented, and highly engaged employees are a backbone to Clariant’s success. Hence, engagement, recruitment, onboarding, and training strategies are top priorities for Clariant. A t Clariant, a diverse workforce this conversation regularly – often acknowlis an essential driver to deliver edging Clariant’s strategies to recruiting, better results. Employees are onboarding, and engaging employees as esnot only considered as human capital, but sential to the success of the organization. 17442 employees from more than 90 nationalities are expected to act as a global Strategy shaped and driven by team, jointly collaborating across the globe engagement to bring Clariant forward. Bringing up At Clariant, engagement follows clear prinperformance while keeping the proper inciples and measures, and it often manifests terests and needs of our people in mind, itself as a spirited exchange. In fact, that Clariant’s employees are a topic of ongoing is exactly what it sounds like when Monica conversation at the various Clariant premises and Alberto discuss engagement in LATAM: around the world and a permanent priority To Monica, »employee engagement, coufor the Global Management of the company. pled with motivating leadership, drive innoClariant’s Head of Region Latin America (LATAM), Monica Ferreira Vassimon, and the Region Human Resources Head for Latin America, Alberto Mendes, spearhead »Employee  engagement is a Monica Ferreira Vassimon Head of Region Latin America prerequisite for us to achieve As Head of Region Latin America, Monica our goal of industry leaderreinforces that employee engagement, coupled ship and long-term proﬁtable with motivating leadership, drive innovation and entrepreneurship. and sustainable growth.« MONICA FERREIRA VASSIMON Head of Region Latin America 44 PEOPLE »We  want employees that are ready to take risks with responsibility, that lead their organizations into higher performance.« ALBERTO MENDES Region Human Resources Head in LATAM vation and entrepreneurship at Clariant. employees, and to generate an action plan To diagnose the current work environment for several projects grouped into three clusand identify actions to leverage the enters: Social Dimension, Communication, gagement of our population, Clariant uses and Organizational Development. Moreover, the employee engagement survey. Feedback on a regular basis, the committee members from surveys provides insights for Clariant’s assumed the role of communication agents team, and the results from the latest survey to get our employees’ view and to underheld in 2016 will serve as a basis for planning stand what motivates them. Monica reinand implementing further changes that forces that »it is important to have a robust create value for employees and the company structure like the Engagement Committees, moving forward.« as well as planning and discipline for Alberto Mendes Region Human Resources In Alberto’s terms, the survey that execution. Nevertheless, the most impactHead in LATAM almost 11000 of Clariant’s employees paring factor is listening to our employees and In his role as Region ticipated in globally, »is certainly an effective building up together with them the best Human Resources Head, tool. Clariant tends to approach this survey solutions for the improvement areas. People Alberto strives to make sure that Clariant continlike it’s a diagnosis, and the global and make the difference, and our employees ues to create an inclusive regional engagement strategies developed must actively contribute to drive the changand supportive atmosthereafter are the prescription. In other es within our organization. The leadership phere for its workforce in LATAM – especially words, the survey takes the temperature of team plays a crucial role by supporting and through engagement Clariant’s current workforce and working encouraging our people in this process.« committee projects. environment to identify what actions could help drive employee performance.« Recruiting and onboarding the right people, faster Ongoing engagement If you ask Alberto and Monica about ﬁnding Strategies that engage employees even furthe right people to join Clariant’s team, ther are ongoing and growing at Clariant, they speak enthusiastically: Alberto describes including in LATAM. In Brazil, for example, how »Clariant jumps at the opportunity a nominated Committee analyzed the reto attract a new member of the team. Our sults from employee engagement surveys to recruiting model helps walk applicants understand the improvement areas. This through a smooth interviewing process that led the local committee to collect over 500 leads them into our onboarding program. ideas on engagement initiatives among Our recruiters also use a toolkit of online CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 45 1675 platforms – including Clariant’s MyRecruitment and MyCareers web programs, and Setting the stage for new employees, and for Clariant as a whole New employees external platforms like LinkedIn. These tools Onboarding and training employees is vital hired by Clariant in 2016 help us ﬁnd the right people for Clariant to their long-term success – and affect faster, while supporting our initiative to be Clariant’s performance. The organization a preferred employer in our industry.« helps new hires adjust to their jobs smoothly Clariant encourages current and so that they are capable of performing Encouraging a culture future employees to embody a culture of efficiently upon starting. Alberto has seen of Excellence excellence, an openness to change and the approach to onboarding ﬁrst-hand, Excellence & Change opportunity, and an attitude of respect and commenting »Clariant’s goal is to help new We expect, recognize, appreciation. employees hit-the-ground running as soon and reward excellence and high performance. For Alberto, recruiting at Clariant is as they start. A buddy-system that pairs new We embrace change, also about being proactive in preparing for employees with experienced mentors also strive to continuously change. »We see demographic change as a helps them feel included as part of our comquestion the status quo and discover value. relevant factor for Clariant – especially in pany and remain for the long-term. We LATAM. With a ﬂourishing local population have attracted differentiated professionals Freedom & Opportunity of young adults in LATAM and a number to our teams, who have quickly delivered We trust you with the of employees close to retirement, we have on results and challenged the organization freedom to change and to create value through into think strategically about keeping the in a very positive way.« novative and sustainable right balance in age and experience.« With Beyond established and recently ensolutions. employees that vary in age, gender, position, hanced engagement strategies, Clariant location, and skills, Clariant strives to continues to explore the changing needs of Respect & Appreciation We recognize each continue supporting and growing its diverse current and future generations while mainindividual’s contribution team. taining open dialog. Whether in LATAM and appreciate openness or across the globe, employees are invaluable in thinking and ﬂexibility in acting. We work assets that drive Clariant’s success – maktogether in a respectful, ing them an extremely high priority and open-minded environment. worth supporting through all engagement, recruitment, and onboarding processes. 46 PEOPLE Safety counts at Clariant O  ccupational health and safety Health and safety are ongoing priorities at Clariant. With an occupational health and safety strategy that revolves around prevention, training, incentives, and open dialog, Clariant focuses on making sure employees are safe and feel comfortable in their workspace. T he health and safety of any perThe LTAR, which reﬂects the number of son is and continues to be occupational accidents with at least one day extremely important to Clariant. of work lost in relation to 200000 hours Winning safety: our safety awards For Clariant’s consumers and customers, of work, has reduced by more than half since In 2015, Clariant’s Daya safety is addressed by Clariant’s product 2007, and in 2016, Clariant had an LTAR Bay, China, production stewardship initiatives (see page 32). Howof 0.19. site received Clariant’s inaugural Platinum Safety ever, to ensure the safety of Clariant’s hardClariant’s »Safety Counts!« cards also Award for demonstrating working and diverse employees, many play a part in ensuring health and safety, superior safety perforstrategic and multifaceted health and safety often eliminating critical situations that could mance. With this award, as well as Clariant’s other programs are set in place. In other words, lead to an accident. Every month, safety safety awards, the comoccupational health and safety is a holistic deviations that occur at the sites are recordpany motivates employcommitment that incorporates much more ed with these cards, and implemented imees to continuously strive for safety excellence than just wearing necessary chemical provement measures are shared locally. across all sites. safety gear. This allows the production teams to share the lessons they have learned from acciSafety starts with a resolved, dents and safety deviations, correcting besafety-oriented leadership culture havior and operations (where necessary), Employee safety and accident prevention and promoting a preventive mind-set means that using safety gloves and goggles throughout the entire company. are second nature. It also requires that a set of cohesive management programs and leadership measures back Clariant’s occupational health and safety strategy. AvoidingAccidents@Clariant, a global program aimed at creating safe working environments and raising awareness of safety concerns is an example of this. When AvoidingAccidents@Clariant ﬁrst started in 2007, Clariant had a lost time accident rate (LTAR) of 0.92. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 47 AvoidingAccidents@Clariant S  afety counts! Communicate results & implement Safety Counts »Safety Counts!« cards help employees and plant/department managers raise awareness and exchange knowledge on important safety approaches. Plant/ Employees Department Manager Gather cards & process Prevention is essential for Clariant the concept of work safety in the employees’ awareness. ELEMENTS ACCOUNTING FOR A Preventing occupational accidents is an essential What has been essential for success has been the SUCCESSFUL SAFETY CULTURE component of Clariant’s production activities, and the commitment on the uppermost levels of management, company’s measures for this purpose greatly exceed which has led to a distinctive culture and approach with y leaders legal requirements. Clariant closely monitors everything regard to safety. The high quality of the safety programs fet hi p sa that could lead to an accident, examines its employees’ is proven, for example, by the global OHSAS 18001 health on a regular basis, and keeps precise track of certiﬁcation, an internationally applied standard for accidents – not only of its own teams, but also those of occupational health and safety management systems. an APPREdr prevention supervised staff. Clariant’s commitment to the safety a eh CIATION eco safe b gnition of its employees includes clear safety rules and mandatory personal protective equipment to prevent injuries, vi or s rd while additional regular safety and health trainings and awa a concept of local internal trainers work to implement PEOPLE »The AvoidingAccidents@Clariant program and safety awards are key elements in our striving for our ultimate goal: zero accidents.« VOLKER HAUTZEL Head of Occupational Health & Safety Prevention means taking action before anything happens a team spirit. The Platinum Safety Award, for example, is based on 16 criteria that 0.19 For Clariant, the most critical health and focus on leadership, training programs, and was the lost time accident rate (LTAR) safety goal is zero accidents. The most safety reports. Clariant recently celebrated per 200000 hours of effective way to reach this goal is to prevent the inaugural winner of the Platinum Safety work in 2016 (2015: 0.17) occupational and safety accidents from Award, Clariant’s Daya Bay site in China. happening in the ﬁrst place – thus, prevenThis exciting accomplishment in Daya Bay tion is at the core of Clariant’s health and helps motivate employees to continue imsafety strategy. Clariant closely monitors proving health and safety practices across everything that could lead to an accident, the entire company. In addition, the Phoenix examines its employees’ health on a regular Safety Award is presented to one site annubasis, and keeps precise track of accidents – ally in recognition of the most signiﬁcant not only of its production teams, but of all improvement in safety program delivery and staff at all locations. performance. In 2016, the Sant Andreu (Spain) site received this award for the ﬁrst Safe behavior time. Clear safety rules and mandatory personal protective equipment like safety shoes and Health and safety: an ongoing safety glasses help to prevent injuries, but commitment additional regular safety and health trainClariant’s ongoing dedication to occupationings combined with lessons from internal al health and safety is about both adhering trainers that encourage safe operations emto important safety guidelines – like wearbed safety into the culture and habits of ing appropriate protective equipment for Clariant’s employees. Clariant Safe Behavcertain work – and continuing an open conior Trainings (CSBT), for example, are versation around this important topic to conducted by internal trainers at Clariant ensure safe behavior. To Clariant, the health locations to spread and ingrain health and safety of its employees is crucial and safety behaviors. to its operations and sustainable success. Awards and recognition Safety recognition awards, such as Clariant’s Platinum Safety Award, also incentivize employees at production sites to maintain and improve the highest level of health and safety at their sites. These awards recognize excellent performance in safety, and an entire site will receive an award to foster CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 49 Closer collaboration along the supply chain B  eyond the boundaries Suppliers represent an integral part of Clariant’s strategy and success. In order to take into account aspects of quality and performance, environmental and social criteria in each stage of the value chain, signiﬁcant efforts and close collaboration are necessary. This includes all relevant categories and geographies globally. W arm, humid air blankets a Suppliers are essential to Clariant’s human rights, prevent discrimination lush ﬁeld of tropical foliage, success against employees, exclude forced and child while bushels of small, A company does not excel without taking labor, ensure freedom of association of the bright-red palm kernels are harvested. Alcare of ensuring quality, performance and workforce, comply with environmental though Clariant does not source directly sustainability. With this in mind, Clariant standards, accept product stewardship, and from palm oil producers, this place is just as takes special care in selecting and managing ensure fair competition. important as the labs where Clariant proits suppliers. Clariant procures products cesses its chemical products: It is the locaand services from more than 25000 suppliChallenges lead to opportunities and tion where farmers harvest one of Clariant’s ers worldwide every year. To reach and collaboration renewable raw materials – palm oil. In line maintain high sustainability standards for It is very difficult for any company to be with its sustainability commitments, Clariant the products and services procured, fully aware of every detail in its entire supselects suppliers, outsourcing partners, and Clariant expects suppliers to apply compaply chain – particularly upstream where service providers based on extensive envirable standards in the areas of human rights, materials are sourced further away from its ronmental, performance, and social criteria, employment conditions, environmental own operations. To address and manage because Clariant pursues the highest quality protection, and corruption prevention as this challenge, Clariant leverages different of raw materials, packaging, capital goods, Clariant applies to itself. channels and collaboration initiatives with services, and other inputs needed. All of other stakeholders to enhance supply chain Clariant’s global suppliers – including those One step further: Supplier Code of transparency. One of these channels is the that supply palm oil – are valuable assets to Conduct and the UN Global Compact Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, the company, and therefore Clariant is Clariant’s suppliers are located across the which Clariant joined in April 2014 to focused on maintaining strong, collaborative entire world, but they abide by the same elevate supplier sustainability monitoring relationships with each of them. principles: providing high-quality and susand improvements. tainable sources, with production carried By participating in TfS, Clariant and out under ethical employment conditions. the other chemical company members Clariant outlined these expectations in assess the sustainability performance of a its Supplier Code of Conduct integrating, supplier using a set of sustainability criteria among others, the principles contained in tailored to the requirements of the chemical the United Nation’s (UN) Global Compact. industry. These criteria are based on the The goal of this commitment is to respect principles of Responsible Care®, the UN 50 Principles of the RSPO S  upply chain certiﬁcation Supply chain certiﬁcation requires compliance with the requirements of the RSPO supply chain certiﬁcation standards, which are based on a quality management system in which production identiﬁcation and control are the key objectives. Segregated supply chain Future path: Segregated Many current challenges to overcome: RSPO-certiﬁed RSPO-1106234 Third-party · High complexity for palm oil IT reporting system certiﬁcation palm derivatives · Increasing costs · Difficult supply situation Segregation ensures palm oil from certiﬁed supply bases. Mass balance supply chain Current status: Mass Balance · Enhanced collaboration with suppliers RSPO-certiﬁed RSPO-1106234 Third-party · Increase of real share palm oil IT reporting system certiﬁcation of certiﬁed palm material · Paving the way for segregated supply chain Conventional palm oil Conventional supply chain No third-party certiﬁcation The RSPO developed environmental and social criteria tor certiﬁed palm based material throughout the value production, which Clariant undergoes as conﬁrmed by that companies must comply with in order to produce chain. Mass Balance Certiﬁcation conﬁrms that the RSPO auditors who have visited all of Clariant’s relevant Certiﬁed Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO). These criteria amount of incoming RSPO-certiﬁed palm-based matesites. In future, in a segregated supply chain, sustainable can help to minimize the negative impacts of palm oil rial is equal to the outgoing amount of material. Ensuring palm oil from different certiﬁed sources is kept separate cultivation. RSPO offers certiﬁcation schemes to monisuch certiﬁcation requires careful monitoring of the from ordinary palm oil throughout the chain. 2020 By 2020, Clariant intends to achieve an RSPO segregated supply chain certiﬁcation for all relevant sites. 17% of global palm oil is certiﬁed according to the RSPO standard. 100% of all relevant Clariant sites are RSPO-certiﬁed following the mass balance rules as of 2016. Global Compact, the International Labour tomers, Clariant is intensifying its efforts to Collaboration in action: Sustainable Organization (ILO), and national laws. achieve sustainably sourced palm oil derivPalm Oil and Traceability in Sabah Thanks to this innovative and collaborative atives to reduce the negative environmental (SPOTS) program, more than 60% of Clariant’s yeareffects and adverse social impacts associatFor Clariant, collaboration has proven to be ly raw materials purchases are covered by a ed with palm oil production. an effective tool for enhanced traceability supplier sustainability evaluation. The foundation to enable more susand supply chain transformation. To this tainable choices is transparency. To ensure end, Clariant teamed up with Wilmar InterPalm oil & the Roundtable on this, Clariant achieved its goal of certiﬁcanational Ltd, The Global Amines Company, Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) tion from the Roundtable on Sustainable Wild Asia, and L’Oréal to both support The tropical, bright-red kernels harvested Palm Oil (RSPO) to all sites manufacturing small Malaysian palm oil producers on susfrom palm plantations produce a substance products based on palm-based raw materitainability, certiﬁcation, and supply chain that is increasingly used as a renewable raw als (i.e., Clariant’s personal and home care traceability, and to increase productivity by material in a broad variety of applications: products). Under RSPO Mass Balance Cer20% until 2020. This joint venture, known palm oil. Clariant does not use palm oil, but tiﬁcation, the volume of palm kernel oil in a as Sustainable Palm Oil and Traceability derivatives based on palm kernel oil, mainly product reﬂects an equivalent volume of in Sabah (SPOTS), implements speciﬁc action in the personal and home care sector. Unpalm kernel oil produced by RSPO-certiﬁed plans regarding the sustainable sourcing fortunately, some palm oil agriculture conmills and plantations. By offering products of palm oil and palm-based derivatives by tributes to deforestation and negative efbased on RSPO Mass Balance Certiﬁed working on the transparency of the fects on local communities. As a result, in palm oil derivatives, Clariant provides its collaboration with its suppliers and its cuscustomers the chance to claim a contribution to the production of certiﬁed sustainable palm oil. For a description of RSPO and Mass Balance Certiﬁed palm oil, please view page 51. 52 PEOPLE »Mass Balance Certiﬁcation underlines our commitment to sustainable sourcing of renewable raw materials.« RALF ZERRER Head of Strategic Marketing, Business Unit Industrial & Consumer Specialties affiliates’ supply chains and supporting independent smallholders to increase their conducted through the TfS Audit Program, and 1773 new supplier assessments were 25000 income, improve their quality of life, and conducted through EcoVadis. suppliers worldwide provide products and sustainably enhance welfare. With this services to Clariant. project, everyone involved enjoys beneﬁts: Value chain collaboration continues the companies, organizations, and smallClariant strives to be the bridge between holders as well as the ecosystems and communities surrounding the palm oil plantasuppliers and customers. This means attempting – wherever and whenever pos>60% tions. sible – to trace and manage complex sourcof Clariant’s raw material purchases are evaluated es so that high levels of sustainability and based on sustainability Together for Sustainability quality are achieved. This holds true for criteria. Together for Sustainability (TfS) was suppliers down the street from Clariant as founded in 2011 by the Chief Procurement well as those across the globe. However, for Officers of six major multinational chemical companies and meanwhile has grown to Clariant to excel, its suppliers must excel, so it is important that suppliers are provided 6383 19 members. TfS develops and implements with the right resources and education to suppliers have been rated based on EcoVadis a global supplier engagement program to succeed. Collaborative efforts – such as criteria since 2011. assess, audit, and improve sustainability SPOTS and TfS – have proven successful in practices within the supply chains of the managing this vital part of Clariant’s busichemical industry. TfS members have two ness, and Clariant hopes to pursue more optools at their disposal to evaluate the susportunities that expand collaboration and 724 tainability management of their suppliers: improve transparency with suppliers to ensustainability audits TfS assessments, conducted via EcoVadis, hance sustainability of products and the have been conducted by and TfS audits, on-site inspections conductindustry overall. means of the TfS Audit Program since 2011. ed by pre-approved audit companies. The results are then anonymously shared amongst the members with the supplier’s consent. This collaborative approach increases efficiency for both suppliers and members. Since the start of the TfS initiative, the sustainability performance of 6383 suppliers has been rated based on EcoVadis assessments and 724 TfS audits have been conducted by means of the TfS Audit Program. In 2016, 241 new TfS audits were CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 53 Planet Maintaining energy efficiency, optimizing operations, and reducing emissions through technology and behavioral changes contribute to Clariant’s goal of reducing environmental impact. On top of this, Clariant is helping to develop innovative water management solutions to protect and preserve this irreplaceable common resource. By using renewable raw materials in its chemical products, Clariant takes on new avenues for sustainable production. Clariant cannot achieve its intention to become more and more sustainable in the long-term with the implementation of isolated solutions, but rather with a holistic approach – this is the only way to meet the ambitious environmental targets. 54 PLANET FACTS & FIGURES ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS 2025 (in % per t produced goods compared to 2013) –30 –30 –35 Reduction of Energy Reduction of Reduction of Emissions Consumption Direct CO2 Emissions from Greenhouse Gases –35 –40 –35 Reduction of Water Reduction of Volume Reduction of Volume Consumption of Waste Water of Waste ENERGY CONSUMPTION GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY WASTE WATER in kg per t produced goods, corresponding to –27% since 2013 2950 252 232 218 13 m kWh energy used in Clariant facilities in 2016 m m3 of effluent, including 3rd party waste water 2014 2015 2016 ENERGY CONSUMPTION INTENSITY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS WASTE WATER INTENSITY in MWh per t produced goods, corresponding to –22% in m3 per t produced goods, corresponding to –30% since 2013 since 2013 0.81 0.78 0.72 0.89 3.6 3.6 3.2 Direct and indirect emissions in m t 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 DIRECT CO2 EMISSIONS WATER INTENSITY WASTE 0.41 11.7 147 from boilers and combustible sources in m t m3 per t produced goods, corresponding to thousand t of hazardous and non-hazardous waste –28% since 2013 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 55 56 Working with the sun Treating the earth responsibly when removing its valuable minerals: this is a vision of sustainability that generates enthusiasm even in the driest corner of Sardinia. There, a bentonite mine presents the best example of open-pit mining carried out in an environmentally compatible manner. PHOTOGRAPHY Jo Röttger TEXT Bertram Job CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 57 T he main island of Sardinia is divided into clearly spelled out in the guidelines (»Our Mission«) about 20 topographical areas, and if it were of the Functional Minerals Business Unit, which state, up to the 2.5 million tourists a year, La Nurra »We create value through sustainability and innovawould be at the bottom of the popularity scale. On the tion.« other side of the sheer, hard-to-reach cliffs, the dry plaThese are guidelines that Loi and his team are teau in the northwest area of the second largest Medionly too happy to comply with and improve on. Every terranean island appears to offer only bushes, dust, and February, after the rainy season, they resume excavatpersistent winds for the most part. More than ﬁfty years ing the precious clay from the expansive, sprawling after malaria was eradicated here, proper villages, let open pit. Tractor-trailers take the clay to the adjacent alone noteworthy towns, can hardly be found to this day. factory load by load until November. The factory is On average, there are ﬁve people per square kilometer. an open station comprising silos, office containers and For geologists and mineralogists, however, the region a well-equipped laboratory in which Alessandro, the ranks near the top. Layers of earth from the early Terchemist, analyzes samples of the excavated material for tiary period, which are of great interest, are hidden all relevant parameters on a daily basis. in its limestone and shale. There is evidence that silver Loi explains that for a long time, his people were was mined at Capo dell’Argentiera since Roman times largely limited to pressing a few buttons in the silo facup until 1963. And further inland, at s’Aliderru, crawlers tory. That was enough to activate the bentonite with soand excavators bring a special treasure to light each dium carbonate and to prepare it for further processing day: white bentonite, a clay buried up to 40 meters bein Santa Giusta – the main plant in the port of Oristano, low the earth’s surface, and formed between other geowhere it is dried and shipped to Europe. However, this logical layers over many millions of years. Its impresalso meant hauling the raw material, which still consive absorbent and binding properties are primarily due tains around 40% water, a distance of 160 kilometers – to the layered minerals of the bentonite, which has been and using a lot of oil and energy at the destination to formed from compressed ash under high pressure for further reduce the water content to around 12%, the millennia. level required for further transport. This entailed a Worldwide, there are 57 different types of the great deal of emissions, from the truck to the rotating precious clay, which is further processed in very differdryer. ent industries – for puriﬁcation of edible oils and fuels, Since that time, however, the site manager and as an additive for pharmaceuticals, in papermaking, for his engineers have been able to signiﬁcantly improve drilling, etc. For calcium bentonite, which is mainly the process. Now, as Loi notes, they are all much busier used in foundries and the pelletization of steel, this area outside, because clay of various colors is now spread is reputed to be one of the best, even far outside of the out ankle-deep around the plant. With this, one can easregion. Francesco Loi explains this sooner or later to ily guess what is taking place here. Resources are being every visitor onsite. »This is the backbone of our opporconserved by using solar energy to dry the bentonite. tunities in Europe,« he says in a penetrating, bassy voice In this manner, the rock is sent to Santa Giusta with a with unmistakable pride. signiﬁcantly lower percentage of liquid, where it can With this, he is referring to the Società Sarda di then be dried faster. Bentonite (SSB), which manages the operation, and for Ultimately, this saves some tons of weight per which Loi, a man in his ﬁfties with jet-black hair, works truck and reduces the transport costs signiﬁcantly. This as Operation Sites Manager. He is also referring to the means less strain on the environment, lower costs for Clariant Group, which, as the owner, strives for the the company – and noticeably greater efficiency. »We are long-term use of the deposit – an ambitious strategy that now able to produce more material in less time,« Loi is not limited to exploiting the resources. This is also sums up. This is a signiﬁcant advantage in international 58 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 59 »We should not leave any footprint on the land, because it is not ours. We must eventually return it to our children.« FRANCESCO LOI Operation Sites Manager, BU Functional Minerals competition, in which a great deal revolves around the predictive calculation of demand. This progress is entirely to the liking of the native islander, who is a dyed-in-the-wool patriot like many others here. It does not take long to realize that these plots of earth are the greatest thing of all to him – and thus also the most worthy of protecting. In addition, this technological breakthrough goes hand in hand with the thriving Clariant Business Unit’s philosophy, which always strives for both long-term access to minerals through sustainable development and a leading role in the global market. This aspiration is underscored by 39 mines on three continents and 1.9 million tons of bentonite production per year for customers in some 130 countries. The company has provided substantial funding for the restructuring of the drying process. To acquire land for drying in the sun, an additional 18 hectares of land were leased in s’Aliderru. Clariant guaranteed the municipalities that the land would be returned unharmed at a later point. Moreover, another mine further north was closed. Additional clay can now be dried in this area. Contractors use a respectful approach to soil management. Each cubic meter of excavated soil is expected to be backﬁlled exactly where it was taken from after the mining. And the surface is subsequently recultivated at the company’s expense and returned to the farmers for ongoing agricultural use. 60 Under these circumstances, Francesco Loi someperiments. There, they attempt to dry the bentonite times has the air of a conductor. He must set the tempo, even further with the help of the sun before it is open up the soil, temporarily store large amounts of brought to Santa Giusta. This is a real challenge, with earth, and then ﬁll them back in at the appropriate time. the last percentage of water being particularly difficult The landowners, including many small farmers, beneﬁt to get out of the clay. By this point, the clay has been from the lease. It ensures their existence. And for Loi laid out up to seven times, which takes a few weeks. himself, there is no alternative to this use of resources. But isn’t tenacity a quality that people on this »We should not leave any footprint on the land, because island want more than any other? »We believe in our it is not ours. Everything is merely borrowed. We must idea,« says Loi. This was the case a few years ago when eventually return it to our children.« their idea was ﬁrst developed in an exchange among What has been started with this apparently has engineers and decision-makers distributed throughout not yet reached any endpoint. Loi and his staff have Sardinia, Switzerland and Bavaria. »And now we are long kept some of the surfaces of the mine open for eximplementing it step by step.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 61 MARKUS RARBACH Head of Start-up Business Project Biofuels & Derivatives 62 PLANET Remaining at the forefront of change E mbracing renewable r aw materials As a sustainability leader in the chemical industry, Clariant prioritizes its strategy of responsible procurement of renewable raw materials, increased use of renewable raw materials in products, and development and production of innovative bio-based chemicals and biofuels. F ueled by a need for more efficient renewable raw materials – to produce bioA partnership for renewable raw materials and sustainable solutions, indusbased chemicals and biofuels – will be In 2016, Clariant became tries across the globe, including key to moving forward, and Clariant embracan anchor shareholder chemical companies, are on the verge of es this. Basically, staying competitive and and exclusive global distributor of South Korean changing the materials they use: Renewable innovative while reducing our carbon footBioSpectrum, a leading raw materials are an emerging and innovaprint as much as possible and offering the provider of natural active tive solution to sustainable energy and prohighest possible performance motivates us ingredients for personal care. This strategic duction needs. With this in mind, Clariant to continue offering our customers sustainpartnership will support became a pioneer in the renewable raw maable bio-based solutions. Clariant’s initiative to terials space. An interview with Clariant’s utilize highly innovative active ingredients Head of Start-up Business Project Biofuels What is your primary involvement based on renewable raw & Derivatives, Markus Rarbach, explores with renewable raw materials? materials. Clariant’s innovative plant-based sunliquid® At Group Biotechnology, we focus on develtechnology as well as the opportunities asoping new products and processes based sociated with utilizing renewable raw mateon renewable raw materials. My team focusrials in a changing world. es on the conversion of lignocellulosic material into valuable products. This means How would you describe the increasing we take non-food plant material, such as importance of renewable raw materials wheat straw or bagasse, the remains of sugin the chemical sector? arcane processing, and use biotechnology MARKUS RARBACH Industry and society as to convert these materials into sugars. Suga whole, face the challenge of maintaining ars build the foundation of biotechnological economic growth and quality of life in a conversion, as they are the nutrient for a sustainable way. While limited fossil relarge number of different microorganisms – sources make up a huge part of feedstock and when these organisms digest the sugin the chemical industry currently and in ars, other products such as alcohols or acids the foreseeable future, it is important for are produced. Our team designs processes chemical companies to investigate alternaand works with microorganisms to produce tive resources that support high-quality these products in the most efficient and products. Sustainable processes that use sustainable way. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 63 sunliquid® – Competitive and sustainable cellulosic ethanol Beyond its use as sustainable biofuel, with catalytic conversion, the cellulosic ethanol sunliquid ® based on sunliquid® can also serve as feedstock for bio-based chemicals. Agricultural sunliquid® Cellulosic Catalytic Bio-based Catalytic Cellulosic residues sugars conversion chemicals conversion ethanol Bi o te ch no lo g y Collaborations prove everyday suitability What projects or innovations ars. On top of that, the sunliquid® technolof sunliquid® with renewable raw materials are you ogy is thoroughly developed and has been · With Mercedes-Benz currently working on? validated in our pre-commercial plant in and Haltermann, Clariant successfully tested sunAlthough the concept of using renewable Straubing. liquid®20 – a blend that resources is nothing new, using inedible contains 20% cellulosic plant material for chemical products is relaHow does the material used for ethanol – in a ﬂeet test with series vehicles. tively new, and the challenge with doing sunliquid® impact the amount of ener· Clariant tested three so is ﬁnding processes that convert plant gy needed to produce ethanol? Scania trucks running on materials into products in an economically The sunliquid® technology is energy selfethanol at its production plant in Suzano, Brazil. efficient and sustainable way. Clariant’s sufficient, which is one of its greatest · In a collaboration with sunliquid® project resolves this challenge. advantages. About four to ﬁve tons of straw Werner & Mertz, the With sunliquid®, we can convert wheat produce one ton of ethanol through producer of products of the Frosch brand, the straw or other agricultural residues into sunliquid®’s process. Lignocellulose, which use of cellulosic ethanol ethanol, while both achieving greenhouse is the biomass base of sunliquid®, is essenhas been extended to gas savings of 95% compared to fossil fuels tially mother nature’s most stable way to detergents, cleansers, and cleaning agents. and keeping production costs at a ministore sugars. Nature uses sugars as energy clariant.com/sunliquid mum. This makes sunliquid® a competitive storage units, and lignocellulose consists of option for our customers, who are looking cellulosic sugars bound in long chains. By for alternatives to starchor glucose-based breaking these chains and converting these products. We offer a 100% cellulose-based, sugars into ethanol, they turn into a liquid entirely integrated process that delivers energy carrier with a high-energy density high-quality ethanol or fermentable sugthat can be stored and transported easily 64 PLANET »Clariant views the use of renewable raw materials as an opportunity to take customer needs to the next level.« MARKUS RARBACH Head of Start-up Business Project Biofuels & Derivatives without losing much energy in the process. produced in the ﬁrst step can be used for Renewable raw materials for EcoTain® Also, two additional plant-based byproducts fermentation of other bio-based chemicals products come out of the sunliquid® process, and and building blocks (see ﬁgure page 64). Clariant uses lignocellulose in sunliquid®. together these generate enough energy to Beyond this, many EcoTain® products are power the entire production process. What inspired Clariant’s use of renewbased on renewable raw materials: able raw materials, and how is Clariant What is a real-world application hoping to continue advancing their use Plantasens® Olive Squalane for ethanol produced from Clariant’s now and in the future? Personal care ingredient based on sunliquid® technology? I think there are many different aspects that renewable raw materials The most obvious application is in vehicles – need to be considered here. First of all, sus· Exceptionally silky touch sunliquid® ethanol is an efficient and most tainability is one of Clariant’s strategic pil· Plant-based (100% olive origin) sustainable energy source for liquid fuels. lars, and one aspect of this pillar is reducing · Emollient and heat stable This is of special importance as biofuels our carbon footprint by increasing the use of continue to play an important role in reducrenewable raw materials. This is not just imGlucoTain® ing carbon dioxide (CO2) in transportation. portant to Clariant, but also to many of our Surfactant based on renewable raw Clariant, for example, took advantage of the customers. Secondly, the core of our efforts materials opportunity of using sunliquid® in its own focusses on discovering value for our cus· Plant-based, available as RSPO Mass trucks starting at its Suzano plant in São tomers. Renewable raw materials play an Balance quality (Roundtable on SustainPaulo, Brazil. Through a partnership with important role here. By leveraging the poable Palm Oil) Scania, a heavy-duty vehicle manufacturer, tential that lies within the use of renewable · 94–95% RCI (Renewable Carbon Index) Clariant acquired three cargo trucks, now materials, we can add value to existing prod· Approved by the recognized COSMOS known as Ecotrucks in mid-2015. After nearucts and also discover value in new products standard ly a year of using the Ecotrucks, Clariant and applications for our customers. This experienced a 90% reduction in CO2 emisadded value may have its foundation in innoQuinacridone pigments sions compared to the diesel engines used vation, but it also supports economic comHigh performance pigment based on rein its trucks before. In a second phase, petitiveness, sustainability, and feedstock senewable raw material (succinic acid) the trucks started using second-generation curity. The chemical industry is looking to · Lower carbon footprint compared to fosethanol produced from sugarcane bagasse broaden its feedstock base. Renewable matesil-based products with Clariant’s sunliquid® technology. It was rials are, in general, not typically subject to · Identical product speciﬁcation (bio/petroalso demonstrated in a ﬂeet test with Merhigh price ﬂuctuations compared to limited chemical succinic acid) cedes-Benz series vehicles that sunliquid® fossil resources. And fortunately, renewables ethanol helps increase sustainability in will be available in substantial amounts for transportation without having to change the long-term. Clariant will always focus on vehicle ﬂeets and infrastructure (see page customer needs – and as the bio-based in64). Beyond this, with catalytic conversion, dustry grows, Clariant will remain at the cellulosic ethanol can be utilized as feedforefront in bridging customer needs with stock for bio-based chemicals or the sugars sustainable and innovative solutions. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 65 Energy efficiency, emission targets, and optimization Balancing costs, culture, and technology Using comprehensive management tools and programs that integrate technology, data, and behavioral guidelines, Clariant achieves energy efficiency, operational optimization, and reduced carbon dioxide and greenhouse gas emissions. E nergy efficiency lives at the intereWATCH: Energy management section of technology, data, and all in one place behavior – where operational eWATCH savings Energy efficiency, at its core, is a balancing Through large and small projtechnology and digitized environmental inact. Achieving reduced environmental imects, by end of 2016 energy dicators converge with human habits and consumption per kilogram of pacts requires high-level and focused manbehavior to drive energy reduction. Simply manufactured products has agement, a culture of performance, and a decreased by more than 20% put, this is the intersection where Clariant look at costs. For Clariant, this certainly in total compared to the base aims to constantly reside – especially while year 2013. In the same period is the case: maintaining high performance pursuing its ambitious energy and emission CO2 emissions have decreased and quality in operations and throughout by about 15% and greenhouse goals: reducing energy consumption by the entire product life cycle is vital. Howevgas emissions by approx. 27%. 30%, direct carbon dioxide (CO2 ) emissions In terms of ﬁnancial savings, er doing so in a way that is energy efficient by 30%, and emissions from greenhouse Clariant managed to save is equally important from a cost and susCHF 3.4 million in 2016 alone gases (GHG) by 35% per ton of produced tainability perspective. To achieve this balthanks to eWATCH. goods between 2013 and 2025. Through ance, Clariant developed a comprehensive the development of innovative, ongoing proenergy efficiency program that identiﬁes grams that manage energy use, costs, optisavings potential through the detailed analmization, and training, Clariant pursues ysis of energy consumption across Clariant’s energy efficiency in a way that ultimately entire operations. This program is called enhances operational and production eWATCH, and as an innovative and insightequipment, improves the energy-reduction ful tool, it fulﬁlls the triple task of enhanchabits of employees, and most importantly, ing employees’ energy awareness, helps reduces energy use and greenhouse gas achieve business objectives in energy manemissions. agement, and further improves energy efficiency of machinery processes. eWATCH oversees all forms and usages of energy at Clariant – electricity, heating and cooling, steam, natural gas, nitrogen, and the production of deionized water – by taking into account the design and setup of equipment and processes across Clariant’s facilities. It also records and analyzes Clariant’s energy consumption, including information on energy ﬂows, prices, and 66 usage optimization. It maintains information on total energy usage patterns and requirely improve energy efficiency of equipment. By providing every employee speciﬁc guid721 ments and will increasingly consider mainance on intelligent utilization of energy, kWh of energy used by Clariant per ton of prodtenance activities, changeovers, cleaning, Clariant captures a complete picture of enucts produced in 2016 and production planning and scheduling in ergy consumption and builds an improve(2015: 782 kWh). the future. It also contains information on ment process that engages employees conbest practices, optimization of equipment, stantly along the way. CEIG helps personnel and situations in which employees should shut down equipment that may not be runperform sufficiently exact and quick calculations about topics like insulation, pressure 50000 ning at full capacity. In other words, loss, CO2 footprint, or the efficiency of onkWh energy savings in total could be realized eWATCH is a full package, holistic system site energy production. CEIG also contains in 2016 via the eWATCH that guides both operations and mind-sets, an abundance of useful training material program. ultimately helping to manage Clariant’s enabout how to save energy in practice. tire spectrum of energy use. To create ongoing engagement and encourage behaviors that promote energy Clariant Energy Intelligence Guide and efficiency, Clariant also encourages employemployee engagement ees to submit suggestions for improvements One aspect of Clariant’s approach to energy in production processes. For example, a management is technology-based – comteam of employees within the Business Unit puters log environmental data and opera(BU) Pigments suggested improvements tional programming watches trace energy to optimize the production process of pigconsumption and emissions. However, ments. In that speciﬁc process, this led to Clariant’s approach also includes a dynamic, reductions in effluents by 50%, wastewater behavioral component in eWATCH: the pollution by 20%, reductions in steam conClariant Energy Intelligence Guide (CEIG). sumption by 40% and electricity and ice This guide is a database that combines inby 50% per kilogram of pigment. On top of formation, advice, best practices, and sucthat, the suggested improvements in the cessful optimization projects, as well as key production process nearly doubled the batch ﬁgures and tools that support energy effiquantity. This illustrates how embedding ciency, while enabling users to systematicalenergy and operational efficiency into the habits and behaviors of employees can lead to positive outcomes. Jose Luis Arranz, Head Site Management & Services at the CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 67 JOSE LUIS ARRANZ Head Site Management & Services, BU Industrial and Consumer Specialties (ICS), Suzano, Brazil Suzano site in Brazil, is fully aware of this, Clariant Operational Excellence too: »At our Suzano site, we involve all the Another element of Clariant’s efforts to Clariant’s energy efficienpeople on the ground in trainings and acbalance and integrate technology, behavior, cy program that identiﬁes tions aligned to CEIG eWATCH, encouragand environmental data to save energy and savings potential through the detailed analysis ing employees to contribute suggestions reduce emissions is the Clariant Excellence of energy consumption for better ways to improve energy manage(CLNX) initiative. CLNX encompasses four across operations. ment and efficiency, and spreading awareareas: Operational, Commercial, Innovation, ness on how energy savings lead to cost and People Excellence. Operational Excelsavings and a reduction in CO2 and GHG lence, in particular, focuses on efficiency 18 emissions.« He elaborates, »It is important improvement and creating added value for to realize that the participation of employClariant and its customers, and deals with CHF m of yearly recurring savings on energy costs ees – coupled with operational excellence – all steps of product and service creation – could be achieved via the creates a strong energy efficiency culture.« including, for example, order receipt, proeWATCH program since duction planning, production itself, trans2013. porting products to customers, and the entire sales process and subsequent custom3.4 er care. As a complement to eWATCH, Operational Excellence also involves compreCHF m energy costs hensive training to make sure optimization, could be saved with the efficiency, and excellence are implemented eWATCH program in 2016. and ingrained in the minds of all employees. 68 PLANET »The employee suggestions are an important success factor in improving energy management.« JOSE LUIS ARRANZ Head Site Management & Services, BU Industrial and Consumer Specialties (ICS), Suzano, Brazil Production efficiency and comprehensive picture of energy optimizaoptimization: CPS YEE tion. Through CPS YEE, Clariant identiﬁed Clariant’s Operational Excellence program savings of approximately CHF 51 million expands efficiency initiatives even further between 2013 and 2016. through the Clariant Production System (CPS), which supports optimal productiviCapturing the whole efficiency picture ty, sustainability, and ﬁnancial performance Driven by its environmental targets for production for all BUs. CPS operates in 2025, Clariant achieves energy and emisthree dimensions – management, employee sions reduction through the combined use engagement, and operating systems – in a of eWATCH, CLNX, and CPS YEE. In the way that standardizes, simpliﬁes, and past, the development and implementation modernizes production processes while enof these programs have enhanced process hancing performance and sustainability. By efficiency and increased employee awareaddressing all of these moving parts, CPS ness. Benchmarking environmental indicasupports Clariant’s business objectives, nurtors, which illustrates progress while protures the efficiency mind-set and behavior moting greater efficiency, has led Clariant to of Clariant’s employees, and optimizes experience great success. The company operating systems. will continue to dedicate itself to strategies Clariant addresses production effithat incorporate these elements. ciency with a thorough, detail-oriented, and holistic approach. The CPS YEE (Clariant Moving forward Production System Yield, Energy, EnvironAll of Clariant’s German locations are ment) takes into account the fact that costs certiﬁed under ISO 50001, an international related to yield (raw materials), energy, and standard for establishing efficient energy environment usually make up a major part management systems in companies. Moving of production expenses. However, this tool forward, Clariant hopes to certify more of directly serves to increase yields and imits sites with ISO 50001. Clariant also plans proving energy efficiency and reducing waste on implementing more projects that reduce streams by analyzing speciﬁc production energy use and emissions, replace operaprocesses or production units to create a tional equipment, and increase employee engagement. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 69 Innovative solutions for water management Pursuing ambitious environmental targets Sustainable water management is a broad and complex issue – and one that Clariant strives to support through its goals of reducing water consumption and wastewater production. Through collaborative and innovative initiatives, Clariant intends to develop efficient water use solutions that are applicable in industrial settings across the globe. I n Eastern Spain, in Catalonia, lies Solutions to better This not only supports Clariant in creating a both ancient and modern city that wastewater management sustainable technologies that reduce impact boasts thriving human innovation: Like societies at large, Clariant depends on on the environment, it also limits increases the city of Tarragona. Dry, yet saturated a healthy environment and the long-term in production costs. with culture and Mediterranean beaches, availability of natural resources, including Tarragona hosts an archeological world water. As a result, Clariant strives to reduce Beyond the Tarragona microcosm heritage site and a cluster of chemical comfreshwater consumption as much as possiAlthough the individual technologies intepanies, including Clariant. Recognizing that ble, especially as water shortages increase grated by INSPIREWATER are not new, responsible water use is an extremely imin frequency in many regions. In the province their combined use is innovative for effluent portant environmental issue now and in the and city of Tarragona, where reduced river treatment as they work in harmony to future, Clariant joined a wastewater treatvolumes put pressure on local municipal enhance the efficiency of the wastewater ment project introduced in 2016 known as and industrial consumption, Clariant focustreatment processes. On top of that, INSPIREWATER to help pursue its ambies on advanced technologies applied in INSPIREWATER’s innovative use of memtious water goals – reducing water consumpnew combinations to enhance performance brane technology helps Clariant achieve tion by 35% and wastewater by 40% per and create optimal recycling conditions. its ambitious wastewater reduction goals. ton of produced goods between 2013 and 2025. Based in the microcosm of chemical companies nestled in Tarragona’s waterlimited region, INSPIREWATER brings together eleven industrial and scientiﬁc partners through a European Union-funded grant to explore wastewater treatment »To Clariant, the best efficiencies using innovative membrane technologies at Clariant’s Tarragona site. The wastewater is wastewater eleven partners of the consortium span that barely exists.« eight industries, including steel, paper, and chemicals, and the project is funded by FRIEDHELM ZORN Head of Competence Center Environmental Technologies the European Union’s (EU) framework program for research and innovation, Horizon 2020. Clariant represents the chemical industry within the consortium and provides the testing ground for innovative wastewater treatment solutions. 70 Striving for ambitious environmental targets An integrated plan for water treatment By utilizing a multi-membrane technology, Clariant sidesteps high costs and energy requirements. Production Well water/city water Waste Water Treatment (WWT) side stream treatment Limitation in water abstraction requires Higher discharge standards require more membrane ﬁltration before usage in efforts in wastewater treatment. production River Water Puriﬁcation WWT Central Membrane technology River INSPIREWATER is a public-private partnership (PPP) duced by efficient waste water treatment (WWT). Using reverse osmosis techniques, Clariant sidesteps high by Clariant and 10 other partners. The concept helps Clariant’s Tarragona facility as a testing ground, it takes costs and energy requirements of using reverse osmosis to reduce wastewater up to zero liquid discharge and a renewed approach to water treatment. By utilizing alone. Unlike reverse osmosis, the semi-permeable fresh water consumption by recycling of cleaned waste a multi-membrane technology that incorporates antimembrane involved in forward osmosis does not require water. At the same time, energy consumption is refouling, catalysts, and forward osmosis with standard hydraulic pressure, therefore reducing cost and energy. With these environmental goals in This creates multiple uses for every drop of mind, Clariant believes INSPIREWATER water needed. Water use and waste has both broad beneﬁts and broad applicaSaving resources and reducing enviwater declining tions, creating not only end-of-pipe wasteronmental impact may ultimately start a Over the past four years, water consumption at water treatment solutions with energy and ripple effect among Tarragona’s microcosm Clariant’s production emission reductions, but also a knowledge of chemical companies. However, facilities decreased from base for possible applications within earlier INSPIREWATER also has the potential 71 m m3 to 48 m m3, while waste water declined stages of the production process. For exto create a tidal wave of enhanced solutions from 20 m m3 to 13 m m3. ample, in other regions with more abundant for sustainable water use by companies river water resources, Clariant may be able across the globe – with Clariant helping lead to pre-treat these water sources as producthe charge. tion inputs and purify wastewater across its operations for recycling within production. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 71 Strategy and Materiality Clariant is dedicated to generating high-quality, sustainable, and innovative products. Therefore, when Clariant pursues sustainability initiatives, its strategic approach revolves around the three dimensions of sustainability: performance, people, and planet. The programs discussed throughout the preceding sections of this report are built upon relevant sustainability topics that were identiﬁed through a materiality assessment. A major part of Clariant’s approach is concerned with the development and sustainable production of competitive and future-oriented products as well as the processes that are necessary for this. The human factor plays a major role in the success of the company. Finally, all elements of this sustainability strategy contribute to positioning Clariant as one of the leading sustainable companies in the global chemical industry. 72 STRATEGY AND MATERIALITY »To create sustainable value, Clariant must constantly stay on the pulse of customer needs and the latest developments in the industry.« JOACHIM KRÜGER Head of Corporate Sustainability & Regulatory Affairs Joachim Krüger, what does sustainability success For example, the number of Clariant’s sustainability at Clariant mean to you? What do you see as ﬂagship products awarded the EcoTain® label for their major indications of progress for your team and excellent sustainability proﬁle grew from 60 in 2015 Joachim Krüger Head of Corporate Clariant as a whole? to more than 140 in 2016. Sustainability & JOACHIM KRÜGER To foster progress and innovation, the Regulatory Affairs Corporate Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs team How is customer interest in sustainability stays in close and regular touch with employees across developing, and is there a willingness to pay a the whole company to keep them engaged in sustainpremium for certain sustainable solutions? ability issues. Strong interest and awareness of the staff Our customers are expressing an increasing demand for combined with stringent processes such as the Portfolio products that offer sustainability excellence. In this reValue Program, which analyzes the sustainability spect, we get very positive feedback on the EcoTain® aspects of Clariant’s products, are the basis of success. label as a solid and transparent tool that supports them To create sustainable value based on this, Clariant in their own sustainability targets and market differenmust constantly stay on the pulse of customer needs tiation. and the latest developments in the industry. Our SusHowever, the willingness in the marketplace to tainability Dialog events held in Frankfurt in 2015 and pay a premium for more sustainable products and Shanghai in November 2016 are important for this. services remains limited. Sustainable innovations have Insights from these events feed into our knowledge of to be competitive compared to benchmark solutions or market needs, which ultimately supports the developeven offer additional value. For example, Clariant’s ment and expansion of sustainability solutions offered bio-based pigments, sugar-based home and personal care to customers. products, sustainable additives, and non-halogenated ﬂame retardants combine sustainability and business advantages for our the customers. Overall, our EcoTain® products also generate higher margins than the average product portfolio. This shows that sustainability and business can go hand in hand. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 73 You’ve talked about the sustainability of (TfS) initiative since 2014, which shares results from solutions offered to customers. What about the supplier assessments and audits by independent certiﬁed sustainability of Clariant’s own operations? experts among all participating companies. In 2016, this As an open company that communicates in a transparallowed us for the ﬁrst time to cover more than half of ent manner with all stakeholders, Clariant publicly our supply base by expenses with sustainability evaluasets environmental targets and holds itself accountable tions. In the future, we want to further increase conseto them. After we exceeded our environmental targets quence management and corrective action plans. that were set in 2011 for 2020 well ahead of time, we committed to further signiﬁcant environmental improveWhat else do you see on the horizon for ments by 2025 compared to production volume based sustainability at Clariant over the next years? on 2013 levels. While in 2016 we have achieved further We want to continue working on sustainability issues progress toward all of them, in order to continue to at the Business Unit level, including detailed sustainabiladvance and optimally align investments, a cross-comity roadmaps. We will further work on our targets topany 2025 Target Team closely works together to ward our commitment to the sustainable sourcing of identify further improvement areas. palm-based raw materials, phase out heavy-metal-based In addition to environmental topics, issues such pigments in the Business Unit Masterbatches, and reas the health and safety of our employees are central to place Cr(VI) Catalysts through innovation currently the sustainability of our operations. Since its inception in progress. Generally speaking, collaboration beyond in 2007, the AvoidingAccidents@Clariant initiative has our own boundaries will become more and more imhelped to signiﬁcantly reduce Clariant’s lost time acciportant to achieve our ambitious sustainability targets. dent rate (LTAR). This rate, which reﬂects the number Best-practice like the SPOTS initiative of our Business of occupational accidents with at least one day of work Unit ICS are examples that show the way into the future. lost in relation to 200 000 hours of work, fell from 0.92 in 2007 to 0.19 in 2016. Further areas of exploration include deﬁning additional social targets to complement our sustainability target set and increasing integration of human rights aspects into sustainability assessments to ensure that we continue to have a comprehensive, well-rounded approach to corporate sustainability. How do you include your suppliers in your sustainability initiatives? Today’s complex supply chains offer major opportunities and risks with regard to sustainability. To work on these in a collaborative manner, Clariant has participated in the chemical industry’s Together for Sustainability 74 Strategy and Materiality S trategic focus on s ustainability As one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals comFull integration into corporate strategy panies, Clariant creates value with innovative and susTo ensure that it is factored into all of Clariant’s activitainable solutions for customers from many industries. ties, sustainability has been ingrained as one of the ﬁve Corporate sustainability supports long-term success pillars of the overall corporate strategy since August in the marketplace, as illustrated by positive customer 2014. This integration is not only paramount to ensure feedback and take-up of Clariant’s sustainability offerClariant’s success and growth, but also to align this ings. Sustainability programs also underscore Clariant’s success with social and environmental targets. role as a corporate citizen, committed to environmental In 2016, the strategic pillars were reviewed and protection and social responsibility, and driving positive reﬁned. Following innovation, which is seen as the straimpact. tegic starting point, sustainability is the next guidepost For Clariant, sustainability management encomfor future-oriented value generation. Repositioning passes environmentally compatible, ethical, socially the portfolio, intensifying growth, and increasing profresponsible and forward-looking action, the careful use itability then build on these two initial pillars, further of raw materials, and the fair treatment of customers strengthening the focus on value generation for shareand employees. While the preceding chapters have deholders and other stakeholders. Clariant’s Business scribed key aspects of sustainability management at Units then substantiate these ﬁve pillars in their respecClariant in more detail, this section provides a summary tive Business Unit strategies (see page 42 in the Inteoverview of how Clariant strategically addresses these grated Report). sustainability topics. THE FIVE-PILLAR STRATEGY 1 2 3 4 5 Focus on Add value with Reposition Intensify Increase innovation sustainability the portfolio growth proﬁtability through R&D Innovation Excellence · Commercial Excellence · Operational Excellence · People Excellence INTEGRATED REPORT page 8 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 75 MATERIALITY MATRIX BY CLARIANT high · Business ethics & Compliance · Corporate Governance · Emissions · Employment conditions · Energy · Life cycle integration · Human rights · Product Stewardship · Social engagement · Renewable raw materials · Water · Stakeholder dialog · Substitution & alternatives for hazardous substances · Sustainable innovation · Sustainable supply chains · Transparency · Value chain collaboration Relative importance to stakeholders · Employee training & · Biodiversity development · Demographic changes · Logistics · Food security · Occupational health & · Urbanization safety · Wealth & consumption shifts · Process safety · Waste Relative Impact on Clariant high Focus on material issues and external experts. A full materiality assessment has To focus its approach to sustainability, Clariant deterbeen conducted in 2012 including market analysis and mines the most relevant (or »material«) sustainability stakeholders surveys. During the course of 2013, Clariant aspects through a materiality assessment. These issues carried out further analyses and collected data to upare shown in the »Materiality Matrix« above. date and ﬁne-tune the matrix. This matrix displays the sustainability topics for The Clariant Sustainability Council, the central Clariant and its interest groups (»stakeholders«) with steering committee for sustainability chaired by the CEO, the highest relative relevance. It is the result of a comevaluates the results and determines those sustainabiliprehensive stakeholder and trend analysis by Clariant ty issues and ﬁelds that currently are of particular rele76 STRATEGY AND MATERIALITY vance or are especially important with respect to curClariant also considers the heterogeneity of its rent projects and objectives of the company. Regional employees, who come from over 90 countries, a comsustainability committees ensure that the sustainability petitive edge in the marketplace. These employees have strategy is adopted accordingly in the regions and imdiverse cultural backgrounds and bring varying skills plemented consistently. In addition, Clariant’s next full and talents to the company – the basis for innovative and materiality assessment is planned for 2017. creative solutions. In order to document its social commitment to diversity, Clariant has adopted the global Open communication for sustainability Employment Policy, a workplace related internal direcComplementing surveys and conversations, Clariant tive that includes the promotion of a diverse workforce has conducted annual stakeholder discussions on susand aims to ﬁnd the best candidates for open positions. tainability since 2015. The ﬁrst Sustainability Dialog People processes at Clariant are managed using was held in Frankfurt in 2015, followed by the second in state-of-the-art digital technologies with particular Shanghai in November 2016. focus on the performance management process, which At this event, more than 200 customers, suppliplays a key role in employee engagement and in supers, and authorities participated in presentations, panel porting the change agenda for a high-performing orgadiscussions, and parallel sessions that offered insights nization. In addition, global engagement surveys bolster from Clariant specialists and external experts on China’s Clariant’s strong focus on employee motivation and sustainability challenges and performance. With the participation. The second of these surveys was conductChinese government now steering customers and mared in 2016 with 15803 employees in 26 countries (18 kets toward more sustainable solutions, Clariant languages) that have been invited to participate (2014: demonstrated its proactive support through products 10583 – 10 countries). This relates to almost 90% of the and services linked to three global megatrends: EnviClariant global workforce, the overall response rate has ronmental Protection, Globalization & Urbanization, increased and in some countries even comes close to and Resources & Energy. 100%. Going forward, Clariant wants to ensure that the Employees and people processes Clariant strives to be a preferred employer, attracting, engaging, and retaining strong candidates dedicated to its development as a high-performing company. Therefore, recruiting the right employees, onboarding and integrating them quickly and effectively, and supporting their professional development are all paramount to Clariant’s success. It is at the core of Human Resources’ priorities to strengthen Clariant’s reputation as employer, attract new talents by fostering new ways of working. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 77 company responds effectively to the changing global laof Conduct can be reported is the »Clariant Integrity bor markets and the diverse cultural requirements of its Line«, including discrimination or violations of human increasingly globalized workforce (see page 44 in this rights. Also any workplace related compliance issues or Report and page 15 in the Clariant Integrated Report). questions can be channeled globally via this tool. In close collaboration with the Compliance Team, a global Business ethics and compliance HR Case Manager organization within Group Human Business ethics and compliance is also a key corporate Resources is taking care of any such substantiated sustainability topic. Clariant is committed to respect concerns. and support human rights, both in its own operations and in business relationships. This commitment is enProduct safety, sustainability, and innovation as shrined in the Clariant Human Rights Policy Statement. base for developing solutions The Clariant Code of Conduct, launched in 2007 and As a specialty chemicals company, product stewardship publicly available in the corporate governance section for ensuring protection of human health and the enviof Clariant’s website, covers responsible behavior, proronment is key. Clariant’s Product Stewardship organitection of the reputation of the company, and mitigation zation ensures regulatory compliance for the company of risks for shareholders and is binding for all Clariant products in the markets the company is active as well employees. To implement these commitments, we as relevant communication to customers on the safe use assess, monitor and manage our human rights impacts, and management of our products (see page 32). Going both in our own operations and in our supply chains beyond product safety, screening for sustainability is a and work to make sure that we do not contribute, mandatory step for all major research and development knowingly or unknowingly, to any adverse human rights projects at Clariant and the Portfolio Value Program impacts. (PVP) systematically analyzes the product portfolio The ten compliance principles at the core of the for strengths and weaknesses in terms of sustainability Clariant Code of Conduct require all employees to over the entire life cycle (see page 27). Through the avoid conﬂicts of interest, active or passive bribery, inPortfolio Value Program, the company sets an ambitious sider traiding, anti-trust violations, money laundering, standard and approach for steering its product portfolio account fraud, disclosure of conﬁdential information, toward more innovative and sustainable solutions. and abuse of business assets for private interests, and to To draw particular attention to its sustainability prevent environmental hazards and abstain from disoffering in the marketplace, Clariant has launched the crimination and harassment. Clariant does not tolerate group-wide EcoTain® label, which recognizes products any violation of the Code of Conduct. All employees are showing sustainability excellence and having a deﬁned encouraged to conﬁdentially report noncompliant behavior to the compliance organization. An important channel through which all violations against the Code 78 STRATEGY AND MATERIALITY best-in-class performance. The more than 140 EcoTain® priate, and is developing and producing innovative products available by the end of 2016 from all Business bio-based chemicals and biofuels (see page 62). Units and examples are presented in both this report To mitigate environmental impacts from operaand the Integrated Report 2016 (see page 27 in this retions, Clariant wants to achieve signiﬁcant improveport and page 30 in the Integrated Report). ments in six major areas compared to the base year 2013 and in relation to the volume of goods produced, as Environmentally compatible and safe production shown in the »Environmental Targets 2025« graphic. The sustainable use of renewable materials is increasCompared to the previous year, in 2016 in all six ingly important in the chemical industry to conserve areas a progress toward the 2025 targets has been valuable resources and reduce emissions and waste. recorded (see page 54). Progress toward these environCustomers and consumers are also increasingly mental targets is supported by Clariant’s comprehendemanding solutions based on renewable materials. sive analysis and continuous improvement efforts. The Clariant is gradually increasing the use of renewable YEE (yield, energy, environment) program helps to raw materials in products wherever possible and approidentify potential improvement areas in the production system, deﬁning measures and ultimately resulting in ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS 2025 environmental and ﬁnancial beneﬁts. Clariant’s (in % per t produced goods compared to 2013) eWATCH energy efficiency program and its participation as a chemical industry representative in the Reduction of Reduction Reduction of Energy of Direct Emissions from European Union’s INSPIREWATER public-private partConsumption CO2 Emissions Greenhouse Gases nership for innovative wastewater treatment are further elements of the company’s holistic approach (see page 70). –30 –30 –35 Health and safety are also overarching priorities at Clariant. The company’s approach and goal is to continuously aim for zero accidents. The company’s occupational health and safety strategy emphasizes Reduction Reduction Reduction of Water of Volume of Volume prevention, training, incentives, and open dialog and is Consumption of Waste Water of Waste supported by the global AvoidingAccidents@Clariant program (see page 47). –35 –40 –35 Supply chain sustainability Balancing cost efficiency, high product quality, environmental standards, social standards, and security of supply is a challenge in an increasingly globalized value chain. Since suppliers form an integral part of Clariant’s CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 79 network, the company expects them to commit to Recognitions ethical and sustainable business practices. These expecIn 2016, Clariant received a number of recognitions tations are expressed clearly in the Code of Conduct for its sustainability programs and performance includfor Suppliers, which can be downloaded from our coring Responsible Care® awards in the United States, porate website and is being distributed to suppliers. Brazil, Chile and Venezuela or the Clean Industry CerClariant expects its suppliers and business partners to tiﬁcation for two sites in Mexico. A key recognition maintain the same high standards with regard to huwas Clariant’s repeat listing in the European as well as man rights as it has set for itself. Our Code of Conduct the global Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, receiving for Suppliers makes it clear that we will not tolerate the best-in-class scores of 100 points in the Innovation use of child labor or forced labor anywhere in our busiManagement, Environmental Reporting, and Operationness and supply chains and protect our employees’ and al Eco-efficiency categories. RobecoSAM analysts supply chain workers’ rights in key human rights areas, conﬁrmed that Clariant is among the top 3% of compaincluding non-discrimination, working conditions and nies in the global chemical industry on economic, freedom of association. environmental, and social dimensions of sustainability, In addition, Clariant’s Group Procurement Serand Clariant received the RobecoSAM Sustainability vices has developed a 2017 Sustainability Roadmap Silver Class 2017 Award for its performance. In addition, that includes goals such as generating 100 new supplier Clariant is listed in other sustainability-oriented indices assessment scorecards and improving re-assessment such as FTSE4Good, Vigeo Europe 120 Index, and the scores in more than three-quarters of suppliers via the SXI Switzerland Sustainability 25 Index. The company Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative. TfS allows is considered a leader in terms of sustainability by Clariant, in collaboration with other chemical company analysts such as Sustainalytics and IMUG/eiris. members, to assess the sustainability performance of suppliers against a set of criteria tailored to the requirements of the chemical industry (see page 50). Its participation in TfS enabled Clariant to cover more than 60% of its raw materials supply base (by spend) with sustainability evaluations by the end of 2016. 80 GRI Online Sustainability Report Sustainability data To provide transparent and comparable sustainability disclosure to all stakeholders, Clariant has been reporting detailed data on its sustainability performance against the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) sustainability reporting frameworks since 2007, and since 2014 in accordance with the GRI G4 version of the GRI guidelines. GRI is an international independent organization that helps businesses, governments and other organizations understand and communicate the impact of business on critical sustainability issues (see www.globalreporting.org). PwC provided limited assurance on the quantitative 2016 sustainability indicators disclosed in the sustainability online report as well as the management and reporting processes to collect and aggregate the sustainability data. reports.clariant.com/ 2016/sustainability-report/gri CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 81 Publication DETAILS Publisher Editor and sustainability reporting consultant Clariant International Ltd, Muttenz Sustainserv, Zurich and Boston Contact Design, Graphics and Layout Group Communications Kammann Rossi GmbH, Cologne Daniel Kaufmann Mutabor Design GmbH, Hamburg Tel. +41614695479 Credits Investor Relations Rui Camilo Photography: p. 52 Anja Pomrehn HG Esch Photography: p. 25 Tel. +416146967 45 Fernando Gardinali: p. 44, 45, 68 Ivgenia Moebus Photography: p. 25 Enquiries via e-mail to Jo Röttger: p. 1, 5 – 11, 14 – 22, 38 – 43, 56 – 61 sustainability@clariant.com Scanderbeg Sauer Photography: p. 2, 62, 73 Website Printing www.clariant.com Neidhart + Schön, Zurich Ordering Address Note About Forward-Looking Statements Orders may be placed on the Clariant website This report contains forward-looking statements based on current www.clariant.com assumptions and projections made by management. Such stateor sent in writing to the following address: ments are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and Clariant International AG other factors which may cause the actual results and performance Investor Relations of Clariant International Ltd to differ from those expressed in, implied Rothausstrasse 61 or projected by the forward-looking information and statements. 4132 Muttenz The information published in this report is provided by Clariant Switzerland International Ltd and corresponds to the status as of the date of publication of this report. ® Product and service marks protected by Clariant in many countries ™ Product and service marks licensed to Clariant in many countries © 2017 Clariant International Ltd, Rothausstrasse 61, 4132 Muttenz, Switzerland Disclaimer Clariant International Ltd publishes Sustainability Reports in English and in German. The English version is legally binding. 82 Steering our portfolio towards sustainability creates long-term value. The compaLynette Chung ny is showing us that it values trainees, and that it is also interested in our continued growth after the training. We Christian Schwarz should not leave any footprint on the land, because it is not ours. We must eventually return it to our children. Francesco Loi To create sustainable value, Clariant must constantly stay on the pulse of customer needs and the latest developments in the industry. Joachim Krüger Change starts with us. CLARIANT INTERNATIONAL LTD Rothausstrasse 61 4132 Muttenz Switzerland © Clariant International Ltd, 2017 SAP-Nr. 1243964 CLARIANT.COM
