UNITED FOR PROGRESS Corporate responsibility report 2015-2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS 4 Our commitments with regard to Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals 5 Editorial: from earth to life 6 Our value chain 8 Our characteristics 10 Our materiality analysis prioritises our CSR commitments 12 Our challenges, our solutions 14 Our CSR strategy is jointly developed with our internal and external stakeholders 15 Our 3 CSR priorities 16 Proposing innovative and responsible agri-food solutions 17 Developing high value-added technological plant and seed solutions with low negative impact 18 Providing product accessibility, safety and quality for customers and consumers 19 Supporting the development of different agricultural models for a sustainable world 20 Carrying out our activities in an ethical, sustainable and effective way 21 Encouraging long-term development with our partners and the transfer of their knowledge 23 Expressing and circulating our business ethics 24 Optimising the use of natural resources in a sustainable way and controlling our impact on climate change 26 Building new relationship methods and creating value 27 Bringing together employees and members around a shared project and culture 28 Dialoguing richly with our stakeholders 29 Encouraging collaboration and collective intelligence in our ecosystem 30 Being involved in society and acting to develop local region 32 Methodological note OUR COMMITMENTS EDITORIAL Limagrain’s initiatives with regard to corporate responsibility WITH REGARD TO GLOBAL COMPACT are many and varied. Icons have been used in this report in order to clarify the way in which our actions contribute to AND SUSTAINABLE the Global Compact and to the Sustainable Development Goals. DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Global Compact’s ten principles are cited at the end of the document. For the Sustainable Development Goals, the following icons are used: from earth to life Jean-Yves FOUCAULT Emmanuel ROUGIER Chairman Managing Director Between now and 2050, the worldwide population will living together, and a guaranteed way of sustaining the have grown by 34% according to the Food and Agriculture special link between a company and its regions. Above Organization (FAO). To provide for future needs, all, it calls for strict practice of our responsibilities, the agricultural production needs to increase by more than expression of our social utility and our uniqueness. This OUR ORGANISATION CHART 70%... A growth in production such as this, with natural spirit of cooperation is at the heart of our company culture, resources that are already stretched, is not feasible without it is the cornerstone of the balance between respect for the an advancement in our agri-food production systems. environment, social equality and economic performance. As an international cooperative Group, guided by Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) goes beyond COOPÉRATIVE LIMAGRAIN agriculture and science culture, our mission and the sphere of a seed company to contribute to the future of responsibilities are to develop agriculture in order to meet agriculture and farmers as a whole. It requires commitment, the food challenges ahead. To do this, each year we invest agility and perseverance from everyone: employees and LIMAGRAIN COOP almost 15% of our turnover in research, to develop, from members alike. It opens the doors to our stakeholders and our core business, seeds, innovative and responsible facilitates dialogue. It is a powerful driver for growth that solutions to improve the economic performance of encourages new initiatives for each person, initiatives that GROUPE LIMAGRAIN HOLDING value-added crop production sectors. At Limagrain, we benefit everyone. This is a source of opportunities to grow, never forget that our primary customers are farmers and cooperate, and act together in the long-term. that selling seeds depends directly on the ability of farmers In 2013, we committed to signing the United Nations FIELD VEGETABLE CEREAL to invest in quality products and services. This is why our Global Compact and thus made official our vision to be SEEDS SEEDS PRODUCTS plans include an international sustainable development a responsible company. In 2016, for the third consecutive process. year, we are proud to renew our commitment to the This sustainable growth requires, of course, scrupulous 10 principles via the publication of this CSR report, this Field Seeds Vegetable Garden Cereal Bakery respect for the rules. It also requires the emergence of year enhanced with concrete examples of our contribution • Limagrain Europe Seeds Products Ingredients Products collective, shared intelligence, indispensable for better to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). • Ag Reliant Genetics (50%) • HM.CLAUSE • Vilmorin Jardin • Limagrain • Jacquet Brossard • Limagrain Asia • Hazera Céréales • Limagrain Cereal Seeds • Vilmorin-MKS Ingrédients • Limagrain South America 4 • Limagrain Africa 5 Limagrain, an international cooperative agricultural group, created and managed by French farmers SEED INDUSTRIAL OUR VALUE CHAIN PRODUCTION VALORISATION IN THE FIELDS OF SEEDS By our farmer On our plants in THE COMPANY 10,000 members and partners, farmers France and worldwide employees worldwide and market 50 YEARS M€2.5 M€46 gardeners of expertise in seeds, created and total sales net profit 2,000 Almost 300 new varieties launched cooperative each year. N°5 field managed by French member farmers farmers seed company, N°2 vegetable seed company. HIGHLY INTERNATIONAL 55 77% + 70 countries and turnover nationalities 13 business units achieved represented close to the markets internationally among our SALES AND employees MARKETING Field seeds and FARMERS, GROWERS vegetable seeds AND CANNERS AND DISTRIBUTORS RESEARCH & Garden products DEVELOPMENT CONSUMERS VIA MASS DISTRIBUTION GENETIC Cereals CREATION OF Field (wheat and corn) ASSETS NEW VARIETIES crop External sales seeds Semolina, wheat and NEED AGRICULTURAL Corn flours, texturing ANALYSIS ASSETS agents, dietary fibre AGRI-FOOD CREATION OF NEW MANUFACTURERS PRODUCTS, SERVICES External sales INDUSTRIAL ASSETS AND PROCESSES Corn Corn and and Sandwich loaves, wheat wheat specialty breads, crisp MANUFACTURE breads, pastries CONSUMERS VIA PRODUCTION OF GRAIN OF BAKERY MASS DISTRIBUTION FIELD SEEDS PROCESSING PRODUCTS 2nd largest In our French, baker and By 2,000 cooperative In our French Belgian and 3rd largest members factories pastry Brazilian factories producer in (45,000 ha of production France under contract) RESEARCH-SUPPORTED INVESTMENT 14.6% + 130 + 20% of the professional research centres employees turnover invested worldwide contributing to the research in research process SHORT MANUFACTURING CIRCUITS 6 7 OUR Working for a company focused on people is about seeking each day the best for the general interest CHARACTERISTICS instead of individual or financial interests. As the cooperative president and a farmer, I consider myself an Limagrain is exceptional among the world leaders in seeds. equitable owner, the guardian of our cooperative tool. It is also about being fully committed to a model that encourages capital stability, continuity in strategic vision, and the choice to reinvest a large proportion of turnover to prepare for the future. Jean-Yves FOUCAULT Limagrain Chairman A GOVERNANCE MODEL TO ENCOURAGE LONG-TERM COMMITMENT We do not consider profit as an end in itself, but as a means to carry out our plans. Our performance is part of the long-term and our AN INTERNATIONAL UNIQUE • This partnership style is reproduced within turnover should allow us to pay members and Limagrain’s six operational activities worldwide; COOPERATIVE AGRICULTURAL GOVERNANCE employees fairly and also ensure the Group’s • The company’s senior executives hold shares GROUP stability, development and sustainability. in the Cooperative’s stock alongside the farmer members. They are represented on INTERNATIONAL Since our shareholding is made up of member the board of directors, whatever their country farmers, we are a company of people and of origin. DEVELOPMENT BASED ON The roots of Limagrain can be found in the late RESPECT FOR LOCAL REGIONS 19th century cooperative agricultural world that not capital. Our members are committed to This model encourages proximity between was present in various countries. In 1942, to a democratic operating method: one person members, their elected representatives and AND THEIR GROWTH control the supply of seeds necessary for their = one vote, regardless of the number of the leadership bodies. It enables effective activity, farmers from the French Limagne plain shares held by an individual member. They decision-making, thanks to a shared stratecame together in a cooperative. They became nominate the section delegates who in turn gic vision and cross-disciplinary perspectives Limagrain in 1965, and supported the developvote at the General Meeting. 5 sections are between administrators and salaried managers. We believe that the proximity of humans ment of their farms with the production of corn geographically-based, the 6th represents the Members participate actively in the life of the and their markets is essential to understand seeds. Today, the Limagrain Cooperative is: salaried managers at Limagrain. Limagrain’s company, by getting involved in Progress challenges and respond in the best way. Our governance also involves minority share-holClubs, which organise training or study trips to Business Unit organisation covers all our •Almost 2,000 members in Limagne, ders in the Groupe Limagrain Holding, Group subsidiaries, in France and worldwide. operational activities and encourages this associated with their cooperative both as positioned within certain subsidiary structures. proximity. Our international development is suppliers and customers; This culture of cooperation, Limagrain’s DNA, carried out with great respect for each other’s This stable, supportive system of share is shared by members and employees. It • 45,000 ha under production contract; cultures. We always recognise and value the ownership provides a long-term strategic vision extends to scientific, industrial and commercial • The parent company of a world-wide group, and ensures long-term economic performance, history of the companies that become part of collaborations in our Group, all over the world. present in 55 countries. as long as it is supported by administrators on our organisation. The combination of respect for our strategic decisions and an awareness the ground, strongly involved in governance. of local cultures is the model that underlies our Our governance model is based on three performance. characteristics: • The Group is co-managed by a chairman, an elected farmer and the managing director, who is an employee chosen by the board of directors; 8 9 4,0 The Map of challenges of the group Limagrain 3,5 Importance given by civil society 7 OUR MATERIALITY 4,0 29 23 24 6 ANALYSIS 1 21 3,0 3,5 28 9 Importance given by civil society 7 6 23 29 22 224 PRIORITISES 18 4 1 21 2,5 3,0 17 10 28 27 9 8 14 25 22 2 4 3 15 18 2,5 17 10 2,0 27 12 8 14 25 In 2016, Limagrain carried out a materiality analysis, 13 3 15 in collaboration with an external third party advisor. 12 20 19 2,0 30 The objective was to refine the identification of our CSR 13 5 19 20 challenges and to rank them, within the framework of 1,5 30 5 ongoing improvement and following the ISO 26000* standard 1,5 31 diagnosis initiated in 2012. 31 26 11 26 11 This exercise has provided us with a tool to dialogue with our 1,0 external stakeholders and to feed into our strategic thinking 1,0 16 16 linked to reviewing our CSR processes. 0,5 0,5 0,5 1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 3,5 4,0 0,5 1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 3,5 4,0 Priority CSR subjects for Limagrain Priority CSR subjects for Limagrain Key Environment Products and Services Social Governance Human Resources 1. THE EVALUATION OF 2. THE FORMALISATION OF THIS STUDY WAS MATERIALITY CRITERIA THE MAP OF CHALLENGES 1. GHG emissions and 13. Efficiency of farms (use 22. Social dialogue 3 CARRIED OUT IN air pollution of resources) and participatory management 2. Water and effluent 14. Responsible marketing What is materiality? management and quality and communication 23. Diversity and equal An internal appreciation of the importance of the Created by drawing up a list using elements issues listed comes from the consolidation of from the CSR diagnosis carried out in the Considered material: 3. Waste management and (including customer opportunities the evaluations carried out via the ISO 26000 different Business Units, complemented by information) diagnosis, complemented with interviews to recent developments in international reference The issues that value-creation 15. Partnerships and 24. Employees’ health, safety and well-being 4. Preservation of ensure a correct representation of our activiframeworks. have a direct or biodiversity innovation with customers 25. Development of local ties. The results were weighted according to the turnover of each Business Unit. The indirect impact on 5. Soil quality 16. Awareness of diversity regions of tastes and cultures external importance was defined via an evaluathe organisation’s 6. Transparency and 26. Awareness of tion of three criteria, allowing us to reflect the 3. THE FORMALISATION OF ethical business 17. Nutritional quality of agricultural diversity expectations of the wide range of Limagrain’s THE MATERIALITY MATRIX capacity to create, products 27. Food safety stakeholders. 7. Governance method preserve or destroy 18. Sanitary quality of 28. Economic 8. Responsible purchaproducts Namely: • our investors, mainly via the evaluation of the level value [...] for itself, sing policy 19. Monitoring and performance of farms and development of These results provide the keys to interpretation STAGES for its stakeholders of expectations of non-financial ratings agencies; 9. Relationship with response to market subsidiaries and help us to distinguish what is important • the market, via the evaluation of the level of stakeholders and particievolutions (needs, awareness by competitors of the different challenfor the present and the future success of the and the whole of pation in public debate acceptability of 29. Support of ges and an analysis of questionnaires returned by company in terms of CSR, and what is less communities and our customers; important. We envisage that we will re-evaluate society . 10. Respect for human technologies, digital patronage • the consumers and civil society, via the evaluation these results regularly, to encourage progress, rights transformation, etc.) of media coverage of the different issues in the 30. Environmental impact in order to best factor in the contextual developSource: Global reporting initiative 11. Access to progress 20. Traceability general and financial press, both in France and of packaging ments and stakeholder expectations. (intellectual property) worldwide. 21. Attractiveness and 31. Food waste * ISO 26000: primary voluntary international norm, providing 12. Adaptation to climate management of talents general guidelines for companies to operate responsibly with regard to the impacts of their decisions and activities on conditions and the local worldwide society and the environment. product conditions 10 11 OUR CHALLENGES, OUR SOLUTIONS FEEDING 10 BILLION PEOPLE ACCESSING SEEDS AND USING GMOS AND NEW DOING BUSINESS WHILE SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL PROMOTING REGULATION WELL AND REDUCING OUR FINANCING RESEARCH TO SELECTION TECHNOLOGIES GUARANTEEING ETHICAL DEVELOPMENT THROUGH OF AGRICULTURAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MEET THE AGRICULTURAL IN THE SAME WAY AS PRACTICES LOCAL MANAGEMENT MARKETS CHALLENGES FACING OTHER TOOLS FOR PLANT AGRICULTURAL, FOOD AND DEVELOPMENT THE ENVIRONMENT Business ethics can often by summarised by Limagrain is a strong local player, involved The globalisation of agricultural markets leads a list of good practices covering the execution in the local Auvergne area where it draws on to a financialisation of this industry and very For Limagrain, GMOs are an additional tool that of company activities. We believe that it is and cultivates cooperative values, thanks in volatile prices, which penalise and destabilise Today 795 million* people in the world are allow us to complete, improve and accelerate essential to rethink ethics as a whole, in all particular to the 2,000 cooperative members farmers and their families, placing farms in suffering from hunger and more than two Plant breeding is at the heart of improving the the natural thousand-year-old process of plant our activities, to create space for dialogue and around 2,200 employees in the Auvergne danger. billion* suffer with malnutrition. At the same competitiveness of our agricultural. It requires evolution and varietal creation. and windows for reflection, which will raise Rhône-Alpes region. It aims to make this region To ensure food security in the long-term, we time, almost two billion* adults (over 18) are time, and technologies that are increasingly questions and highlight conflicts between a zone of excellence in agricultural. Our Group believe in the strategic role that agricultural overweight due to an unbalanced diet and high-tech and expensive. On average, We respect the laws and regulations of the what we perceive in the short term and what is also an international player on five continents. has in the economic and social development too much food. And 600 million* of them are 7-10 years of R&D is required before a new countries in which we develop an activity. We is practicable and desirable in the longer term. It is this vision of a balance between local and of every country. It is at the base of the considered obese (BMI > 30). seed is developed. Each year Limagrain invests only grow and sell GMOs in the places where Thus defined, our ethical focus opens the door international development that leads us to history of every civilisation. We strive for the However, we need to feed an ever-growing almost 15% of its turnover in research, a higher they are authorised. Our position is clear on to progress, while allowing us to undertake our favour an approach that respects the diversity of implementation of an international agricultural worldwide population: more than 9.6 billion level than the norms in the most innovative this subject: GMOs are one of the existing individual and collective responsibilities. cultures among those we work with. and food policy. people in 2050 (8.3 billion in 2030*) and industrial sectors. solutions allowing farmers to better respond to the great agricultural challenges by producing Ethical situations are rarely all identical and Today Limagrain achieves 77% of its turnover To allow farmers to produce in the very best support nutritional transition while respecting We pay particularly close attention to protecting more and better. Biotechnologies can facilitate, vary very widely depending on culture, country, outside France, with subsidiaries in 55 countries conditions, obtain fair prices and fair pay for culinary traditions and dietary balance. To meet the rights of the creators of new varieties, an in particular, growing techniques, and can limit profession, or stakeholders concerned. To deal and sales in 150 countries. Fully conscious that their work, all agriculture in the world and all this challenge, agricultural production needs essential source of financing research. This the use of chemical products, making plants with this problem, we have implemented tools the future of our growth will play out essentially available fertile species are necessary. It is to increase by 70% by 2050**, in quantity, in is a necessary force for innovation to pursue more tolerant to difficult weather conditions. to encourage our employees to instinctively outside of our borders, our Group is working to unthinkable that food depends on the goodwill quality and in diversity, which requires an genetic progress and improve plants. We ask questions. The objective is to encourage reproduce worldwide its management model of of a few and that food security can be left in increase in yields, an optimisation of our use prefer New Plant Variety Certificates (COV in Our position is identical when it comes to new a personal sense of responsibility and to use proximity that has made it successful in France. the hands of investors motivated by short-term of land and valuing our agricultural industries. French) to protect our plant varieties. The COV technologies for improving plants, which allow collective intelligence in order to learn how This includes the integration of local management, interests in volatile markets. Because our mission is to enable agricultural preserves the free use of protected varieties, us to complete the array of available tools to manage ambiguities, complexity and to as we are convinced that the proximity of to progress in order to better meet food used as genetic resources by the scientific and widen the possibilities for use of genetic Limagrain, as an international seed producer, interpret the rules with discernment, in all people to the market is essential to be able to and environmental challenges, innovation community to create new plants, thanks to the diversity with even greater precision. supports initiatives by Momagri, the movement situations. It is necessary to determine the path understand challenges and respond in the best is our driver. Innovation in all its forms – process called “breeder’s exception”. We use for a worldwide agricultural organisation, of We recognise the usefulness of a debate in between respect for the rules to be observed way. The current organisation in 13 Business varietal, genomic, agronomic, technical and patents only to protect our biotech innovations. which they are one of the founders. This Think order to respond to society’s questions, to not inflexibly and the factoring of requirements that Units covers all Limagrain’s operational activities technological, among others – encourages play on fears, but provide answers relevant to Tank was created in 2005 on the initiative of the are often contradictory for many stakeholders; and encourages this proximity with our different co-existence of all kinds of agricultural in a the diversity of agricultural practices. We want French agricultural world and is a recognised initiating a critical ability, which is constructive markets on 5 continents. balanced and diverse mix. It is by inventing the regulations to be put into place based on focus group. It collaborates with international and positive, individual and collective, because agricultural styles that are more respectful of science. We also ask that smalland mediumbodies to create new evolution tools and we cannot isolate this decision from the social the environment, more productive and more in sized seed producers keep their capacity to draw up proposals for a more sustainable link that connects us to our communities. line with society’s and farmers’ expectations, carry out research in French and European international agricultural and food policy. that we will be able to develop a sustainable environmental issues, avoiding isolation and competitive model, capable of meeting in GMOs. For us, this is about defending food challenges. a balanced and responsible approach to progress. * Source: FAO ** Source: FAO and IFPRI Impacts 12 13 OUR CSR STRATEGY IS JOINTLY DEVELOPED WITH OUR INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL S TA K E H O L D E R S Faithful to Limagrain’s cooperative roots, our CSR strategy has been constructed with a systematic and Almost 180 internal and external stakeholders were solicited to carry out diagnostic tests. All types of stakeholders PROPOSING 3 Proposing innovative and responsible agri-food solutions •P •S  • Develop PRIORITIES plant and cultivation solutions, with high added value, high-technology and low negative impact.  rovide customers and consumers with product access, safety and quality.  upport the evolution of different agricultural models OUR CSR Limagrain’s CSR strategy was formalised at Group level in 2012. Revised in 2016 to include in particular the results of the materiality analysis, today it is deployed with 3 focuses. Our strategy has been developed in a coherent way with our Business Units and adapted according to geographical, cultural and market particularities. The first focus aims to take into account, from the innovation process onwards, the impacts of products and services. It must allow us to identify the needs of the different links in our plant sectors in terms of sustainability, to ensure safety, quality and the suitability of our offerings, while limiting for a more sustainable world. their negative impact, with economic performance, social, partnership-based vision in order to that Limagrain is in contact with on a societal and environmental requirements. create sustainable commitments. daily basis were addressed. In addition, The second focus is in line with our position as a company. This emanates from the work in each Business Unit concerned organised The objective is to make ourselves more agile, ethical and CARRYING OUT our Business Units. Since 2012, an internal working group to define the responsible, in order to position our Group more effectively the BUs have formalised their own medium-term objectives and formalise in new markets in the long term. This area of improvement CSR policy based on the ISO 26000 their own action plan as the meetings Carrying out our activities should also allow us to limit the withdrawal of resources; framework, and adapted to the agritook place. in an ethical, sustainable to contribute to creating and preserving value in the short, food sector as well as the 10 principles This method, based on co-construction, and effective way medium and long term, by participating in the development of Global Compact. allowed us to define a strategy that •E  ncourage the long-term development of our of Group activities and optimising the management of Six Business Units out of 13, meets the most important CSR issues employees and the transmission of their knowledge environmental, social and societal risks, in varied and representative of our activities, have in each activity while adapting the action •E  xpress and circulate our business ethics changing business contexts. a management role in the creation of plans to the specifics of each profession •O  ptimise the use of natural resources in a sustainable The third focus concerns sharing our CSR principles with our CSR policy: LCI, Vilmorin Jardin, and geographical area. It also provides way and control our impact on climate change our stakeholders, in the widest sense of the word. It’s about building new partnerships, new relationship methods, and Limagrain Europe, Jacquet Brossard, coherence with the CSR priorities creating shared value thanks to an ongoing dialogue, Limagrain Coop formalised by the Group. active listening and responsible relationships. It is also and Limagrain Asia As a result, various types of programmes about participating in the development of our regions, while (China). They have are carried out in the Business Units ensuring our activities have a positive impact and that we all followed the same to raise employee and member contribute to providing access to high-quality, healthy and The Business Units follow methodology: awareness, allowing them to claim for balanced food for everyone. the same methodology : • CSR diagnosis, themselves subjects relating to CSR, As part of their induction programme, new executives • CSR Diagnosis, • Prioritisation of and inform them of our commitments Building new relationship attend a CSR awareness session. The Group CSR issues, and progress in this area. The objective department offers a dedicated training module, along with • Prioritisation of issues, methods and creating value BUILDING • Definition of is to guarantee their involvement, a key •U  nite employees and members around a common communication tools (eco-friendly behaviours, videos “CSR • Definition of objectives, objectives, element of success in a CSR process. project and shared culture in 90 seconds”, “CSR at Limagrain”, etc.). It also provides • Formalisation of a 3 year • Formalisation of a This could take the form of information •E  ncourage collaboration and collective intelligence the Management Committee in each Business Unit with an 3 year and a 5 year articles in internal newsletters, e-learning in our eco-system analysis of their non-financial reporting and a dialogue on and a 5 year action plan. action plan. modules on certain issues such as anti•U  ndertake rich dialogues with our stakeholders good internal practices and achievable progress. The CSR discrimination, and partnerships between •B  e involved in society and act to develop local department is also increasing awareness sessions and members, employees and NGOs. areas. experience sharing with external stakeholders (customers, investors, suppliers, public bodies, staff representatives and representatives from the community, the academic world and the economic sector). The Group, via its subsidiary Vilmorin & Cie, has adopted the Gaia 2016 Index, which informs investors about the CSR performance of Small and Mid-caps (SMID): a strong sign of recognition of transparency, and their commitments with regard to CSR. 14 15 DEVELOPING HIGH VALUEADDED TECHNOLOGICAL With our research, we carry out PLANT AND SEED SOLUTIONS programmes that launch us into the longterm. Working for a Group managed by WITH LOW NEGATIVE IMPACT farmers makes sense: we speak the same language as our clients and we are building for the future. In accordance with principles 8 and 9 of the United Nations Global Compact. During the years to come, agricultural must face the convergence of big Ido HORRESH & PROPOSING worldwide challenges: a growing population, heightened competition for Manager of R&D Supporting access to water and energy resources that are continually declining, and Functions at Hazera – Brurim climate change. Our main contribution as a seed producer is to improve (Israel) our responsiveness and capacity to adapt crops. This is the major contriINNOVATIVE bution that our breeders will make. Their work will allow varieties to be adjusted to the agricultural ecosystems, to their limitations (climate, soil and top layer quality). They are creating the varieties of the future, KEY FIGURES varieties that meet farmers’ performance requirements; varieties that allow the development of biodiversity within each worked area; varieties that preserve the places in which they are grown. RESPONSIBLE HM.CLAUSE at the service 319 50 of the industry AGRI-FOOD vegetable and field new grain crop varieties products SOLUTIONS ... have been launched in The HM.CLAUSE teams are at the service of all key players in the the market in 2015-2016. vegetable, specialist market gardener, generalist and short circuit sectors, and offer a wide range of original, high-performing products. In Limagrain dedicates more than 20 million euros 2016, this range was enriched with 20 new varieties, among them: the each year to conserving genetic diversity of the Jeroboam* cauliflower, which is resistant to frost, has upright leaves species we work with. For corn in Europe, that and is very easy to harvest; the Mini Sweety** sweet pepper that shows represents 30,000 varieties (lines and populations) its difference through its mini-horn shape, its attractive colour and preserved in our collections. sweet taste, making it ideal for salads; and the Cupidissimo** tomato with its exceptional taste and good capacity to adapt to cold shelter. I nnovation is a priority to guarantee Limagrain’s competitiveness and perforAgricultural innovation: agricultural practices are improved thanks to the integration of Hydraneo by Limagrain mance. Our research and development genetics and digital technologies. Our efforts Europe, a unique tool for budget represents 14.6% of our professional focus in particular on precision agricultural, turnover in 2016. which complements the view and experience managing water stress of the farmer, allowing them to be modelled, in INNOVATION, THE KEY data form, on innovative production systems. TO OUR PERFORMANCE This results in a better knowledge of soils and Adapting seeds to local soil and weather conditions and improving Research involves 22% of our staff over how to protect them, and how to implement a resistance to disease and water stress is one of our research priorities. 3 stages of our value chain. biological control process in greenhouses. Since the end of 2015, Limagrain Europe has been offering an innovaVarietal Innovation: Scientific progress, Industrial innovation: improving industrial tive way of managing drought, called Hydraneo. This solution combines especially in the genetic sphere, has allowed us procedures and solutions and implementing a method of evaluating tolerant varieties, a computer diagnosis of the Eskimo by Vilmorin, the new developmental projects to optimise our main risk factors in the agricultural plot, varietal recommendations and to make rapid and useful progress to improve plants. The results of varietal creation now productivity and / or better meet the societal, agricultural advice. Hydraneo thus provides overall support for farmers to carrot that resists the cold economic and environmental expectations of protect their yields to the maximum in difficult conditions. Hydraneo has allow us to offer more productive varieties been launched in Bulgaria, Russia and Ukraine and will soon be available that are better adapted to climates and our professional customers and consumers. in other European countries. other characteristics of particular regions, The carrot variety “Eskimo”, developed by teams at Vilmorin, is more resistant to disease and pests, while destined for winter harvests in northern Europe. Thanks to this variety, guaranteeing optimum nutritional qualities. English producers have greatly limited the use of straw and polyurethane during a part of the harvest period. Its excellent tolerance to frost, Our teams work on more than 60 species, thus its great performance in cold conditions and its yield have thus cut the contributing to the enrichment of the plant world. carbon footprint for protecting crops by three. * Professional turnover includes turnover from all seed activities (field seeds and vegetable seeds) for farming professionals; it only includes sales and no royalties. It does not include Jacquet Brossard, LCI, Vilmorin Jardin or Limagrain Coop. * Variety undergoing the acceptance process ** Variety undergoing the acceptance process – Name undergoing validation. 16 17 All our industrial sites have implemented a quality PROVIDING PRODUCT management system and several of them are also ISO 9001 certified. SUPPORTING THE KEY FIGURES ACCESSIBILITY, SAFETY AND All our European companies present in the bakery-pastry markets (Jacquet Brossard) and in the grain ingredients DEVELOPMENT OF DIFFERENT Limagrain Coop sets up precision QUALITY FOR CUSTOMERS markets (Limagrain Céréales Ingrédients) have obtained Agricultural MODELS FOR A agricultural in Limagne food safety certification (BRC, IFS, FAMI-QS or ISO 22 000 AND CONSUMERS FSSC)*. SUSTAINABLE WORLD Nitrogen balance for * BRC (British Retail Consortium; IFS (International Featured Standard); FAMI-QS (Quality and Safety System for Specialty Feed Ingredients and their Mixtures). 100% in the traced chain In accordance with principles 8 and 9 of the United Nations Global Compact. LCI also develops solutions without allergens. Thanks to a collaboration with the University of Foggia (Italy), it has recently developed the first Management of irrigation via Genetic resources are the primary materials that our local communities gluten-free corn flour especially for making pasta, called Westhove corn the installation of 10 and researchers need to contribute to the improvement of the quality 23. This flour can be used for pasta manufacture and has taste characteAgronomic innovation aims to improve agricultural practices, thanks to as well as the quantity of food production. Biodiversity is one of the ristics that are very similar to pure wheat flour pasta. In parallel, thanks to the development of high-performance and pragmatic solutions, which most important resources on our planet to satisfy the requirements of a new thermal treatment tool called Prado, the “Nutricorn” range by LCI, are easy to use by farmers. agricultural and food. It expresses the necessary variability, in all its weather stations in Limagne, based on corn germ, introduces the development of “toasted” ingredients It is by placing innovation at the service of farmers that agriculture will forms, for the adaptation and survival of living organisms in their evolving for a product that is interchangeable with hazelnuts, which are highly be both more respectful of the environment and more productive as well environments: diversity of ecosystems, the diversity of species and, the allergenic. Limagrain thus offers its members the opportunity to optimise as moving in line with societal expectations, especially those of farmers. diversity of genes and their make-up (which is less visible). Our work on genetic resources and biodiversity thus contributes to food security and nutritional diversification – that is, the availability of a range of varied and their production – corn germs were until now used for animal feed or oil preparation – and provides manufacturers with renewed ingredients with different qualities, tastes and colours. This innovation should bring about technical and human progress, at the service of sustainable and competitive agriculture. 100 farmers use the internal suitable foods – essential for human health and development. decision-making tool, In parallel, offering safe, high-quality products is one of Limagrain’s primary objectives. To ensure a reliable level of traceability, from harvest Limagrain promotes Limagine. through to marketing and sales via processing, our Group implements quality management systems that meet the highest European and The improved precision farming International standards. Our tools, part of an ongoing improvement process, are implemented and make an impact progressively each year nutritional profile to strive towards operational excellence. of Jacquet Brossard Since 2015, the Cooperative has placed “Limagine Décision” at the disposal of its farmers. This decision-making tool enables the recording Tinty, the Hazera red products and management of plot crops (crop rotation, fertiliser plans, all interventions…). Available both in the office and out in the fields, on computer, pointed cabbage tablet and smartphone, its aim is to reduce the usage of fertilisers and water, while improving yields. participating in In the context of increased preoccupation by consumers with the impact of food products on their health, Jacquet Brossard places nutrition at the At the same time, LG offers a special dashboard for each farm. It has all the Decision-Making Tools of the LG brand, created for producers. food diversity heart of its focuses. The company centres its efforts on optimising the nutritional quality of its products and on formulating new recipes in line with These tools are free and accessible online. The LG Dashboard won a prize at the 2016 Sommets d’Or, an innovation competition open to all public health objectives: reduced sodium content, reduced fat and simple exhibitors at the Sommet de l’Élevage, the professional European show sugar content, and increased complex carbs and fibre… to contribute to a for industry professionals. Among these decision-making tools, there is the better diet for the French population. one dedicated to managing irrigation, LG Vision Irrigation, created in 2013. Since the end of 2015, Hazera has offered a new variety of cabbage, Tinty, On 17th February, Brossard was the 1st brand in the industrial bakery It allows the farmer to manage his or her water inputs depending on the which combines the colour of a red cabbage with the shape and taste of a sector to sign a Voluntary Commitment to Improve Nutrition as part of rainfall and the needs of his or her crop. This tool has real environmental pointed cabbage. This innovation enjoyed great success during a presentation at the trade fair Fruit Logistica, in early 2016 in Berlin (Germany). the framework of the Programme National Nutrition Santé (National Programme for Nutrition and Health) with the Ministry for Health. The value: to provide the right quantity of water at the right moment. It also has economic value, since for corn water stress during a sensitive period can Friseline by Vilmorin-MKS, Tinty has thin, flexible leaves as well as a sweet, pleasant taste that means it can be used in salads, sautéed, or steam cooked, thus facilitating acquisition of this charter of commitments is a result of a number of efforts carried out, and others planned, in order to improve the nutritional qualities result in considerable yield losses. a cross-disciplinary consumption. To better fit with consumer habits and to limit food waste, it is sold in different sizes, between 300g and 1.3kg, and can be wrapped of the products that are emblematic of the brand. innovation for the French individually, or in twos with a green cabbage. It also has a long shelf life. This commitment is part of many ongoing initiatives taken over a long Offered for sale in a large chain of European supermarkets, it comes with period, such as removing palm oil from the list of ingredients. Rigorous endive industry a leaflet with two sample recipes for consumers in order to guide them in work by Jacquet Brossard teams allowed the creation of a range of bread how to use it. that was 100% without palm oil in 2011. A substitute was created using rape seed oil, one of the oils that is lowest in saturated fat. The company is getting ready to make the same replacement with its pastry products, Vilmorin-MKS supports endive producers in the north of France in the LCI Clean Label where rape seed oil is already used in 78% of the range. context of a difficult market, allowing them to develop in a new market, the salad market, as a complement to their core business. A result of allergen-free ingredients more than 20 years R&D, the Friseline endive is the fruit of a collaborative process with producers and different teams in the company. As well as the availability of this new variety, Vilmorin-MKS also offers technical KEY FIGURES support, branding and attractive 100% Made in France packaging, as well as shared promotional tools. In exchange, the producers commit to LCI, specialising in the development and manufacture of authentic, Jacquet, objectives for bread in 2018: following strict specifications, and activating the promotion of the product functional grain ingredients for the agri-food industry, provides Clean in store, in order to ensure the product has uniform quality and to support, Label solutions. This concept, positioned in the natural health segment, alongside Vilmorin-MKS, the development of this ground-breaking innovaallows manufacturers to reduce artificial additives as well as simplifying ➡ Find advice and recipes on tion. Vilmorin-MKS’s ambition is to develop this innovation internationally. their recipes, and it allows consumers to benefit from a more understandable, more natural list of ingredients for an improved diet. 70% of the range 35% 70% of the range with of the range www.friseline.com Thus, this new salad is being sold in the USA, under the name Coraline, in order to adapt it to the specific features of the market. with 3% fibre less than 3% fat with 1.27% salt Also follow us on 18 ENCOURAGING LONGTHE INTERNATIONALISATION TERM DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE AND WITH OUR PARTNERS AND PROVIDENCE PROGRAMME: TRANSFERRING THEIR CARRYING OUT KNOWLEDGE 100% of employees covered by 2018 OUR ACTIVITIES During the 2014-2015 financial year, an audit was carried out in all non-French companies in order to evaluate the In accordance with principles 3 and 6 of the United Nations Global Compact. level of cover provided by the company. The survey was & not carried out in France, since all employees already IN AN benefit from good quality cover. The audit results showed that 67% of overseas employees To preserve and develop our human capital in line with our strategy ETHICAL, SUSTAINABLE had Health cover and 72% Providence cover. The study also and environment, Limagrain is deploying programmes to reinforce the allowed us to define a new target based on the standard of employability of staff, to guarantee high standards in health and safety each country. By the end of the next two financial years, at work, to monitor the consistency of our social policy all over the world, each Limagrain employee will benefit from: and to reinforce the sense of belonging to the Group, as well as links between employees and members. All Group employees are furthermore associated with Limagrain’s sales results and that of their respective • a Health programme at the level of market practices, Business Unit, in the framework of an overall incentive scheme. This • Providence cover offering at least 1 year compensation to family in the event of death. EFFECTIVE WAY incentive programme, implemented at Group level, takes place in all the countries where we are located. Since the study, the cover has already been extended to 215 additional employees. Actions to promote mobility and the development of skills The employability of Limagrain’s 10,000 employees is a major focus of T o develop in France and internationally, Limagrain carries out its activities responsibly, with a We want to anticipate and meet our human resource needs in line with our values and strategic direction. our Human Resources (HR) policy. We do not offer a set career path. To enable the employees to progress and adapt to changes in their professional life, we use various processes: reviews carried out throughout the balanced, participatory vision in the We are conscious of environmental career, personalised support, training, experience sharing, and internal mobility to encourage promotions between countries, subsidiaries and long term. issues in the context of restricted even professions. Because respect for people and cultivable areas and limited natural An annual talent review (managers and employees who are graduates nature is fundamental to the resources. We want to provide real or have post-graduate qualifications), carried out by our “career achievement of our ambition; solutions and we are working, each committees”, at Business Unit level and consolidated at group level, because our values – progress, day, to extend towards operational enables us to identify potential and optimise opportunities for mobility perseverance and cooperation – excellence to make us an exemplary and promotions. Similarly, all the available jobs are accessible to all guide our way of doing and rule our partner. employees via the Group intranet site. decisions; because our expertise, Our project must allow each person, our innovative spirit, our brands, today and tomorrow, “to be at ease in our international development, our and alongside Limagrain”. multi-culturalism, the commitment In parallel, we also incorporate of our employees and our members fundamental themes from Global sustain our Group, we are convinced Compact – human rights, employment Limagrain offers first internatioMentoring, a win-win that we have all the assets needed rights, environmental protection and to achieve our ambitions for the fight against corruption – into nal professional experience for 12 to 24 months thanks to VIE (Interexperience sharing process sustainable international our development strategy. These national Volunteers in Business). development. principles are at the heart of our Each year, between 10 and 20 graWe have the desire to human resource policy, our ethical duates leave to go abroad on this This year, Limagrain has launched a mentoring programme for young managers, who will be develop talent in all those policy and our commitments to scheme (to South Africa, Mexico, supported for 6 months by a mentor in a different business unit and different job, with no hierarchiwho want to share in the preserving the environment. USA, Myanmar, Brazil, etc.). In cal link. This exchange provides an enriching experience, which recognises the knowledge of human adventure that is 2015-2016, 13 graduates particiexperienced managers and benefits both the mentor and mentee, as well as the Group overall, our project. pated. by encouraging creativity, sharing of values, as well as inter-organisational and inter-generational communication. 21 An ambitious policy A commitment to diversity KEY FIGURES for employee safety: HM.CLAUSE’s “employment policy” in the “American” zone follows the guiding principles of current national policies reduce the frequency and satisfies all recruitment and employment requirements, especially via specific training tools. In this context, in acThe diversity of employees within Limagrain is an integral part of our DNA. We are a multi-cultural Group, made up of more than 70 nationarate of lost-time accidents cordance with laws preventing sexual harassment and with company policy, HM.CLAUSE managers and executives, lities, which we see as true richness. 4.2 134 Limagrain is committed, with a spirit of openness and equality, to by 50% in 3 years those already in post, newly hired or recently promoted to a management position, follow a 2-hour e-learning course treating its employees with respect for their dignity and physical and moral integrity. All Group employees are thus recruited without discrimillion euros invested in employees aged under on preventing harassment. This training is renewed every mination against gender, age, origin, religion, sexual orientation, 134,994 hours of training 26 years old employed two years. physical appearance, health record, disability, membership of unions, (+11 620 hours in comparison under permanent 100% of managers in the “Americas” are signed up to the or political belief. We are convinced that there cannot be sustained performance without with the previous year) contracts worldwide e-learning system and 90% have successfully followed the Collective agreements have been negotiated to encourage equality safety. Founded on strong management involvement, the goal of our safety at work policy is to take action on both our organisation and complete training course. between the genders and intergenerational equilibrium. Other on behaviour, which are essential for the causality of accidents, in measures have been taken to encourage the employment and integraorder to effectively prevent them. Beyond the fact that each person tion of disabled people within several of the Business Units. is responsible for their own safety and that of their colleagues, very strong management involvement is also expected. During this exercise, in keeping with the previous year, the Manage391 426 ment Boards’ safety training plan has been continued. To date, all the Business Unit management boards have undergone training in KEY FIGURES EXPRESSING AND CIRCULATING order to carry out management safety visits in their area. They have new employees from interns worldwide higher education been able to measure the effectiveness of the process which aims above all to provide warning of exposure to any professional risk. It OUR BUSINESS ETHICS also provides a reinforcement of the managerial model that Limagrain promotes, considering the interests of all those working for and with the company, whether they are employees, temps, interns, sub-contracTLost-time work Work accident In accordance with principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 10 of the United Nations Global Compact. tors or visitors. accident frequency rate: severity rate: 14.8 0.46 A Safety Committee leads the management of this policy, supported by the actions of the Safety Coordinator. The Business Units manage this policy internally, in close collaboration with the line managers and Students and young safety experts. They are in charge of internal communication, boosting managerial involvement and motivation at all levels of the hierarchical (136 lost-time work accidents) (excluding HM.CLAUSE Vietnam) The Code of Conduct aims to structure the fundamental principles and commitments that Limagrain would like followed in all its entities by all its graduates: a collaborative chain, of training all employees, evaluating risks and defining norms and standards to mitigate those risks, monitoring indicators linked to employees, whatever their profession and country. This document draws on the international framework provided by the and stimulating managing the safety policy, analysing accidents of any severity, and drawing out lessons from all situations of material failure. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation Conventions, The United Nations Convention on the Rights of professional experience 22.9% the Child, the guiding principles of OECD and Global Compact, which Limagrain signed in 2013. Encouraging social dialogue of training hours Limagrain offers various internship and work-study programmes undertaken are dedicated to health and safety. The principle of (apprenticeships, professional training contracts) in a wide range of professions and qualifications, in France and abroad. We also have questioning at the heart good relationships with the educational world and develop targeted In order to ensure that social dialogue is constructive, Limagrain partnerships all over the world. Schools and universities are selected encourages collective negotiation with its social partners. Group of the Code of Conduct based on our core sectors and also for their international outlook. As agreements thus ensure a common policy between Business Units. well as multiple teaching collaborations, these are also an important The European Works Committee (CEE) meets twice a year with the recruiting ground. We regularly meet students during forum events, we goal of ensuring that employees stay informed and establishing a participate in lectures, we supply study topics and open our sites for positive relationship with employee representatives in our European Our Code of Conduct specifies the different current rules and regulations educational visits. companies. It deals with economic, financial and social issues that are to which employees must conform, while inviting them to adopt an indiviAgainst this background, to be a leading employer capable of of global interest and go beyond the framework of a particular country. dual culture of questioning. attracting inquisitive personalities, with an international outlook, and It is made up of 29 employee representatives from nine European It is made up of 5 principles intended to guide employees by providing the experience of an atypical career path, with varied talents from countries. Limagrain capitalises on the good practices of its ethical references that are useful for carrying out their jobs and managing wide-ranging experiences, we have just launched our programme In most of our countries, employee representation bodies exist in Business Units to build a common health and safety risks relating to: “Campus Ambassadeurs”. It aims to value our employees’ experience different forms (works councils, employee forums, and employee reference framework and instill a culture of safety • the company image and reputation; and expertise, to increase the understanding and visibility of the jobs representatives). throughout the organisation. • company shares; and employment opportunities in the Group, to support higher education • conflicts of interest; In parallel, surveys on the quality of life at work are carried out in our establishments in their thinking about developments in education and • non-public financial information; companies. For the latest survey, 36% of full-time staff replied, 58% Limagrain Coop and LCI have implemented a system of training and finally, to complement the students’ education through • intellectual property rights. higher than the last time it was carried out. objectives. It is accompanied by “safety flashes” after each an immersion in the workplace via mentored projects and research incident, circulated to all employees and ad-hoc studies are And it includes 7 commitments with regards to internal and external partnerships. carried out depending on the recurrence of accidents, for stakeholders: example, on the subject of wearing gloves. • respect for shareholders; HM.CLAUSE records work accidents on a system that covers all • respect for employees; • preservation of the environment; the countries in which it is located. • loyal behaviour with regard to competitors; Limagrain Europe has initiated an internal WhatsApp network • customer-user and consumer satisfaction; to facilitate awareness and communication as well as Safety • long-term balanced relationships with suppliers and partners; Corners on all sites. • responsible conduct with regard to local regions. 22 23 It is currently translated into ten languages: French, English, Spanish, Portuguese, Chinese, Dutch, Italian, Ukrainian, Hebrew and Turkish. In order to facilitate its acceptance and use, it Respectful Energy Thanks to the optimisation of the speed and number of people in comes with a complete communication kit including a dedicated e-learning module, which uses role play methods. There are four operational role-play situations (gifts, safety, data confidentiality water usage efficiency, a vehicles, Jacquet Brossard has saved the equivalent of 86 tonnes and anti-trust) and employees must resolve the ethical issue by using a questioning reflex to act with common sense and discernment. way of limiting of CO2 each year since 2009. The question of water is approached in two greenhouse gases ways: the quality of discharge into water and our consumption of it. The respect for human rights, The Group Risk Management Reference Waste volumes Following the energy audits carried out in an enforceable principle in all Framework provides for an analysis of all our aqueous discharge and its treatment where 2015, almost a million euros were invested limited and in improving energy efficiency in our facilities. our Business Units necessary. Our sites are equipped with suitable arrangements to minimise the risk of pollution, In France, the process is facilitated by an recovered in particular the water reprocessing basins. Energy Committee, who bring together all the industrial entities concerned. In parallel, over the past year, the increase in our water consumption is essentially due With a concern for ongoing improvement, Our Code of conduct is based on respect for human rights as defined by international organisations since 2013-2014, Limagrain has used and Global Compact. It is therefore an enforceable document for all our Group entities all over the to changes in the scope of our activities and The recovery of waste has been carried out for climatic variations, as well as improvements ADEME’s reference framework to estimate a long time within the Group: 85.9% of waste world. its greenhouse gas emissions. Its direct made to our non-financial reporting. Our is recovered (+6% in comparison with 2015), Some Business Units have complemented the Code of Conduct with their own rules within a local companies deploy for reducing water emissions are essentially a result of the essentially as animal waste and compost. context. In India, Bisco Bio Science, grants bank holidays, which is not systematic in that country and consumption in line with their activities. Some combustion of fossil fuels on its sites and the Other sectors (recycling, energy, etc.) are KEY FIGURES also supplies purified water to the production staff. HM.CLAUSE India has just hired two people to companies have put in place drip irrigation use of fuels for the vehicle fleet and owned used, depending on local specificities. carry out internal audits of the network of farmers and companies on child labour and the minimum systems, off-ground cultivations, or field farm machinery. wage. In parallel, and with the support of the Group, HM.CLAUSE India participated actively in Our actions also relate to the prevention mulching and Jacques Brossard’s production Now, when new equipment is replaced or and limitation of waste. Various investments drawing up the position of APSA (Asia & Pacific Seed Association) on the subject. lines are dry cleaned. In Brazil, Limagrain purchased, many of our companies evaluate have thus been made to finance 66 actions In Japan, Mikado Kyowa Seed has added “Anti-Social forces” exclusion clauses in its contracts with South America has installed a complete drip energy performance or energy economy. resulting in the reduction of waste production certain clients to protect itself from individuals who seek economic advantages by using violence, irrigation system in the Sorriso and Londrina and facilitating their elimination and recycling force and fraudulent means. research centres. (crushers for organic waste, sorting bins, partnerships for recycling batteries, etc.). 26.3% of employees, 2,253 permanent staff OPTIMISING THE USE OF NATURAL Good agricultural took the e-learning module in the RESOURCES IN A SUSTAINABLE WAY practices to Code of Conduct at 30th June 2016.. AND CONTROLLING OUR IMPACT ON preserve the soil CLIMATE CHANGE The soil is our primary production tool. Our farmers are continuously improving their agriculLimagrain Brasil has implemented In accordance with principles 7 and 8 of the United Nations Global Compact. tural practices to preserve the soil and our an “ethics channel”, a space for research teams carry out various work to improve dialogue to allow all company agronomic management. Different prospective employees to report any ethical and corrective actions are implemented, while dilemmas they encounter during The impact of our activities on the environment is a preoccupation that is managed close to the respecting registered products and prescribed their working activities. ground, at Business Unit level, using a voluntary, responsible process. doses. We also develop seed varieties that are resistant to insects and to viruses, thus allowing Each year, the Group communicates an analytical comparative report to the Business Units, showing the reduction of treatment products, and requiring non-financial data, such as environmental data. This document makes an inventory of good practices less fertiliser during cultivation. observed internally as well as those used in a range of benchmark companies. This complements the local actions, providing information and raising employee awareness of environmental issues. New ways of working the soil are explored. For example, in the area of vegetable crops, rotating crops allows the preservation of the macro fauna and micro-organisms. Vilmorin SA innovates KEY FIGURES with new techniques such as ceasing ploughing, investment in tools that work the soil superficially and thermal weeding. 2,109 108,450 1.24 521,240 3,152,594 hours of training tCO2 eq emitted million euros invested MWh of energy m3 of water on protecting (+ 9,565 tCO2 eq) in improving consumed consumed the environment environmental impact (+ 67,889 MWh) (+ 627,178 m3) 24 25 BRINGING TOGETHER EMPLOYEES KEY FIGURES L imagrain encourages dialogue with its stakeholders and develops a partnership thanks to these close links built up over a long period with key players in our ecosystem, that AND MEMBERS AROUND A SHARED approach. we can improve our performance day after PROJECT AND CULTURE A detailed knowledge of the agricultural world, day. coupled with knowledge of our suppliers and Some partnerships also have the goal of customers, guarantee products and solutions constructive company engagement in the 514 In accordance with principles 1 and 8 of the United Nations Global Compact. that are in line with the needs of the market. To areas where we are located. Our Group and prepare for the future in the best possible way, its subsidiaries are developing or linked to the development of our activities is based on numerous social and educational actions. This people attended collaborative team work and an exchange of is a way for our Business Units to participate To strengthen Group spirit, over the past few years, Limagrain has implemented several tools to the Business Unit good practices between Business Units, as in local life and express their social utility while encourage the emergence of a common company culture. The objective is to facilitate communiinduction program well as on multiple partnerships with private also contributing to raising awareness and cation and sharing of information between all the entities in the world, and to encourage the and public laboratories and research bodies increasing the value of the agricultural world sense of belonging and the involvement of each person in Group activities. in France and worldwide, and also with and food issues worldwide. New managers all over the world are therefore asked to participate in an induction programme companies at the forefront of their sector. It is to learn about Group strategy, activities and values. During the induction, they visit a farm belonging to one of our members, to improve their understanding of the specificities of the agricultural profession. This programme is also an opportunity to raise awareness of our CSR commitments and our Code of Conduct. Each year, seminars and conventions bring together senior executives, senior managers or different communities of professions. They encourage exchanges and the strengthening of links between employees and member farmers. Multidisciplinary networks of experts – in law, human resources, communication, IT, finance, CSR, etc. – have also been established to facilitate the 98 people attended exchange of good practices between Business Units. the Group induction program Limagrain Academy, a training programme available to the whole Group Work carried out with Limagrain Céréales Management, personal development methods, multidisciplinary themes (finance, cooperation, etc.) and knowledge of the Group (introduction to varietal creation, etc.): the courses administered Ingrédients has allowed by Limagrain Academy since 2013 aim to support our development, thanks to the acquisition of us to improve our overall skills, aptitudes and abilities necessary to carry out our activities. They are complementary to the training provided within each Business Unit. performance. The proximity Limagrain Academy courses increasingly use new learning methods such as webinars or e-learto the Limagrain’s farmers ning. They use internal and external expertise to provide bespoke programmes, adapted to the and varietal expertise needs of the different people (by profession, country, level of expertise, etc.). These programmes are aimed at our employees and our coop members . They encourage intercultural exchanges and in corn contributes to collaboration between our different activities and different staff populations. the optimisation of our BUILDING productions and allows us to maintain a high product NEW quality, while retaining & reasonable price levels for the whole sector. RELATIONSHIP KEY FIGURES METHODS Julien MOREAU Purchasing Manager at Europe Snacks, client of Limagrain Céréales Ingrédients, Montaigu CREATING (France) 579,679 51 VALUE euros in the budget of Limagrain Academy training sessions, 721 participants 26 27 Developing knowledge and DIALOGUING ENCOURAGING sharing best CSR practices RICHLY WITH OUR KEY FIGURES COLLABORATION AND STAKEHOLDERS COLLECTIVE INTELLIGENCE Because there is still too much vagueness in the area of CSR, we are IN OUR ECOSYSTEM convinced of the necessity to develop education, training, interactions and cooperation at different levels in the company. Thus, CSR will be In accordance with principles 1, 2, 8 and 10 of the United Nations Global Compact. perceived as a completely different dimension to our professional activities and not just as a simple regulatory compliance, or communication and reporting tool. 65% of our 160 active suppliers 22 companies, representing In accordance with the principle 9 of the United Nations Global Compact. Limagrain has thus chosen to encourage all its employees to adopt a For 50 years, our Group has been forming many scientific collaborations are committed to a CSR 55.1% of turnover have responsible attitude. We have created an eco-gesture guide, available on with public and private research laboratories all over the world: Arcadia process and 56% have integrated CSR criteria into the intranet and published in a series, every 2 weeks, on the network of (USA), Evogene (Israel), GIS Biotechnologies Vertes (France), INRA an ISO certification their procurement policies. To respond better to tomorrow’s food challenges, Limagrain encourages internal screens. It brings together the ideas, behaviours, attitudes that can (France), CSIRO (Australia), CAAS (China), University of California, the exploration of new actions and supports original initiatives, in contribute to the preservation of the planet and improve quality of life for Davis (USA), Hebrew University (Israel), John Innes Centre (UK), Max accordance with our fundamental values. all without compromising that of future generations. We believe that being Planck Institute (Germany), University of Wageningen (Netherlands), In the Auvergne region, the home of the Cooperative, Limagrain invests eco-socially responsible is above all a state of mind that each person is Université Pierre et Marie Curie (France), etc. in various projects that aim to make this a region of excellence: the invited to adopt and share every day, as much on a personal level as a Group is a member of the competitiveness cluster Céréales Vallée and professional one. We hope that this document will become a vector for the Nutravita Cluster. It therefore participates in the local scientific and exchange of good practices. economic life and collaborates with professional regional organisations In the autumn of 2016, with the CSR representatives in our Business Units, we initiated an environmental self-evaluation process in order to Participation, co-creation and regional authorities. Furthermore, it sponsors the ASM Clermont Auvergne (Sports Association) and supports the project to make the assess the importance and the performance of the actions we carry out. The idea was to prioritise environmental issues, distinguishing those that and joint-venture Chaîne des Puys Faille de Limagne a UNESCO world heritage site, thus helping to strengthen the attractiveness of the Auvergne region. the Group could engage in from those that the Business Units would take These types of commitments are reproduced in the different areas responsibility for adapting to their activities, their geographical locations where our companies are based. and the expectations of their markets. This means drawing up road maps As well as these partnerships, we also have holdings in companies and to attain our objectives and, in the long term, ensuring internal and external joint-venture companies. For example, in the area of field crop seeds, communication on our environmental strategy. This work is based around three essential points: co-construction with internal operational teams, Limagrain is a majority shareholder in Biogemma (Europe and USA), Bivouac specialising in plant biotechnologies. The Franco-German co-venture respect for legitimate areas and data recorded wherever possible. Genective was created with the seed producer KWS in order to develop GMO corn characteristics. In the area of vegetable seeds, Limagrain participates in KeyGene (Netherlands) in plant biotechnologies. In Committed to digital transformation, our Group is thus one of the nine addition, there are joint-ventures and minority, but significant, holdings all over the world, such as AgReliant, Seed Co, Hengii, AGT, LCS and LCRC, A responsible private partner companies in Bivouac, the base camp and start-up accelerator for digital projects in the Auvergne, certified as ‘French Tech Clermont which open new paths for selection, production and commercialisation of field seeds. procurement policy Auvergne’. During the inauguration on 16th June 2016, our chairman, Jean-Yves Foucault, emphasised that “the development of agricultural will to consolidate links be based around innovation and the digital sector”. Through this partnership, Limagrain is committed to provide expertise, skills and knowledge of its markets to benefit start-ups engaged in Bivouac The “Laboratoire with our suppliers programmes. d’Innovation Territorial” ➡ www.lebivouac.com (Regional Innovation Convinced that the relationships with suppliers are an important lever for Jugaaddict creating value, the Group Procurement Department has, since 2014, been Laboratory) developing processes to integrate socio-environmental criteria, using their own reference framework for responsible procurement. In this context, in 2016, our purchasers signed a “Responsible Supplier Relations” charter Limagrain is the patron and main partner of the Jugaaddict project, and were trained in the practice of responsible purchasing by the AFNOR launched in 2015 by three life-science engineers who graduated from Furthermore, since 2015, the Limagrain cooperative has implemented (French Standardisation Association). AgroParisTech, and who wanted to show that resourcefulness and the resourceful programme, “Laboratoire d’Innovation Territorial” (LIT) The department implemented a Request for Information (RFI) for all active frugality were the answers to the food challenges of the future. Currentfor field seeds in Limagne-Val d’Allier, in the Auvergne. This ambitious suppliers in order to better identify and determine any inherent risks. These ly exploring Africa and Asia looking for local innovators who are meeting project – inspired by living lab models and supported by the Ministry of provide information on the organisation, strategy, financial data, quality the challenges linked to food, they will write a prospective study on the Agriculture – is dedicated to agro-ecology. It aims to experiment and invent policy, risk management, CSR, progress plans, supply chain organisation, theme of innovative and sustainable agricultural to 2030 and then create a new ways of innovating in agricultural, in order to make the Limagne Val and the motivation to develop partnerships with our Group. start-up to continue their actions. d’Allier an area of agricultural excellence and encourage the emergence Progressively, the Business Units will also factor this into their purchasing ➡ www.jugaaddict.com of new economic models and start-ups. The LIT is a joint venture with policies. In India, all Bisco Bio Sciences and HM.CLAUSE procurement the competitive cluster Céréales Vallée, the INRA (the National Institute contracts now include specific clauses on child labour and respect for for Agricultural Research) and the IRSTEA (National Research Institute of Science and Technology for Environment and Agriculture), and is based minimum wages in sub-contractors. In Israel, Hazera audits its suppliers periodically, including the respect for human rights among the criteria Jac’Idea around collecting feedback on the farmer’s eco-system. used. Vilmorin Jardin uses a questionnaire to ensure that they have better ➡ www.lit-terresdelimagnes.com knowledge of the practices of their suppliers in terms of CSR and draws up a map of their key suppliers. The Business Units are also involved in mobilising initiatives in their respective working areas. Jacquet Brossard invented Jac’Idea, an internal competition that rewards and implements the best innovative ideas proposed by employees. Recipes and packaging, organisation and operation, social responsibility, brands: all these areas are open to ideas. 29 BEING INVOLVED IN SOCIETY HM.CLAUSE’s AND ACTING TO DEVELOP initiatives for LOCAL REGIONS preserving the environment In accordance with principles 4, 5, 6, 7 and 10 of the United Nations Global Compact. HM.CLAUSE is committed to preserving flora and fauna, especially Being involved in Capital through actions for protecting the natural habitat of bank swallows in Our involvement in society and in our local regions is an expression of our societal responsibility Davis (USA) and in wooded areas in Wisconsin. In Kenya, teams are Filles is a real challenge. actively involved in protecting biodiversity by working with local GMOs and a way to make our tagline “from earth to life” concrete via actions selected for their consisWe have a particular tency with 3 main themes: the earth and the environment, the agricultural profession and its who work to preserve the forests, biodiversity and eco-systems of sectors, community progress via access to quality food and education, for all. Mount Kenya as well as working to save the black rhinoceros that are responsibility towards hunted for their ivory horns. Several remarkable projects have been implemented this year. In Japan, for 2 years, Mikado young girls. The human Kyowa Seed has organised workshops by a dozen volunteer employees in a nearby elemenTo extend this commitment, HM.CLAUSE was present at the 9th factor is fundamental and tary school in order to raise awareness among pupils about nutrition and the origins of food “Journées Biodiversité Végétale” (Plant Biodiversity Day) organised by (Kabocha squash planting, visits to production sites). In France, Vilmorin Jardin continues the GNIS (National Interprofessional Seed and Plant Group) on 11th and can be transposed into partnership it has been committed to since January 2014 with the French national association 12th May 2016 in the Drôme department of France. The objective was “Les Restos du Cœur” and also its social integration workshops “Les Jardins du Cœur”, in order to explain to school children, but also the general public and elected very varied direct or crossto create a social link based on gardens for under privileged people, the lonely, disabled, etc., representatives, the reasons for preserving and enriching cultural disciplinary management via an annual gift of seeds to all 42 workshops in the organisation. biodiversity, via testimonies by professionals from the seed industry. situations. Through contact with my mentee, I have learnt about managing Nurseries for Nurseries, relationships and a lot Limagrain’s initiatives for a Limagrain China KEY FIGURES about myself! biodiversity with the LPO initiative For two years, in collaboration with the Ligue pour la protection des oiseaux (League for the In 2016, in partnership with the French Ambassador in Beijing, Protection of Birds) in Auvergne, Limagrain has been participating in protecting the Montagu’s Noémie JONNEZ Innovation Partnership Manager Harrier, a protected bird of prey which nests in the wheat fields. Thanks to the natural observational talent of our farmers and a group of volunteer employees, a growing number of nesting couples have been sighted this year. We have a record number of nests being monitored: 281 Limagrain China launched a flower and plant growing competition open free of charge to local schools. 22 establishments participated. The schools reserved 20 m2 of their outdoor space to create a vegetable 22,000 school children fledglings were counted in 2016. One must look back as far as 1995-2000 to find as many young garden and do lessons on the theme of gardening and life-sciences, experienced gardening Harriers in the Auvergne. thanks to educational kits supplied by Limagrain, who also donated seeds from all over the world along with tools, natural fertilisers and natural insecticides. Limagrain works for The programme will be repeated in 2017. equality between boys and girls via Capital Filles Hazera’s social KEY FIGURES commitment in Israel The French programme Capital Filles encourages access to the world of business for female high school pupils. The programme is for girls of modest background, attending schools in high-priority districts or rural areas, aged between 16 and 19, and following professional technological or For several years, Hazera has carried out a programme of actions general courses. The support of the Group in this initiative is translated by a willingness to play a focused on the education of young people in three Israeli sites situated role of catalyst in the local area where the cooperative was founded. This is a way of expressing in disadvantaged areas. our social usefulness via initiatives in education, with a focus on orientation, career information, and promotion of gender equality… This first year of involvement is a trial year and Limagrain This programme is made up of different initiatives for raising awareness In 2016, has provided 11 Holding employees and an administrator to act as mentors in the Educational and education, based around employees’ skills in biology and agricul130 Area of Clermont-Ferrand. If the test proves successful, we envisage extending this programme tural. In this context, introductory agricultural sessions are organised to the Business Units in all our French regions. in nurseries and genetics workshops are proposed in laboratories and greenhouses in Hazera. actions and 1.5 million euros In parallel, and over several years, the different Business Units in the Group have implemented were dedicated to societal varied societal initiatives as a response to specific local issues. They are thus contributing to the A community, called Kedma Youth Community, has also been created actions, including 0.42 million improvement in the quality of life in the regions where they are based. and has its own dedicated organic greenhouse. The objective is to euros to philanthropy encourage young people to carry out a manual activity and acquire knowledge about plants, while also training them in project manage(74 actions) ment. 30 31 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE The environmental, social and societal reporting process used by Limagrain Group is based on: Methodological • the ten principles of the UN’s Global Compact, Procedures • regulatory measures linked to article R. 225-105-1 of the French Code of Commerce; • the principles and recommendations of the ISO 26000 norm that allowed the Group to define its priority issues in terms of Group procedures are made up of: societal responsibilities in order to meet the expectations of • a draft procedure sent to all Business Unit coordinators, including a stakeholders; reverse schedule, the scope definition, a help document for using the • guidelines for Sustainable Development reporting from the G4 Excel documents and control and validation procedures; Global Reporting Initiative reference. • an Excel document for societal and environmental reporting for each The reporting period is based on a financial year (1st July 2015 company including data input consistency tests; to 30th June 2016). • an Excel document for social reporting for each company including data input consistency tests. Consolidation External checks Scope and internal control Relevance and For the period 2015-2016, reporting procedures for non-financial indicaEach entity and Business Unit is responsible for the data they supply, as The objective of the reporting scope is to be representative of Limagrain Group’s activities. For the period 2015-2016: choice of indicators is the Department in charge of the consolidation of the published indicator. tors were checked externally by SGS for the Vilmorin & Cie scope. In parallel, sites audits were carried out, based around a selection of social, The organisation of non-financial reporting relies on: environmental and societal indicators in 8 companies within 5 Business • the environmental, social and societal reporting covers the totality of the • the Group CSR Department who coordinates the Business Units, Units that are representative of Group activity in the seed industry, in order Limagrain Group’s consolidated turnover for 2015-2016; consolidates all the non-financial data and ensures consistent societal to validate the overall quality and credibility of the reporting system: • however, the absence of monitoring by certain subsidiaries forced the The methodologies used for some social and environmental indicators and environmental data; Group to calculate certain data with reduced scope. may be limited due to: • the Group Human Resources Department, who ensure the consistency • Hazera Seeds Ltd (Israel, vegetable seed division); Concerning energy, the coverage rate(1) is 99.75% of the 2015-2016 • variation in definitions between France and other countries. Harmonisaof social data; • HM.CLAUSE SA (France, vegetable seed division); turnover. This represents 100% of the turnover of companies with an tion work was started in 2013-2014 and has continued for 2015-2016; industrial site.(2) • the Financial Department for the consolidation of data on staffing levels; • HM.CLAUSE Inc. (USA, vegetable seed division); • particularities of the social laws in certain countries; - Concerning water, the coverage rate is 94.5% of the 2015-2016 • a network of “Business Unit coordinators” who coordinate and chase the • Limagrain Brasil (Brazil, field seeds division); • changes in definition that may affect comparability; turnover. This represents 96.15% of the turnover of companies with subsidiary companies as well as validating their data; • variation in the scope of activities between one year and another; • Limagrain Europe SA (France, field seeds division); an industrial site.(2) • “company interlocutors” named by the Business Unit coordinators, who • the difficulty in obtaining information in the case of sub-contractors and/or • Limagrain Tohumculuk (Turkey, field seeds division); - Concerning waste, the coverage rate is 92.6% of the 2015-2016 enter the data for their company and supply supporting documents. a company collaborating with external partners; • Vilmorin Iberica SA (Spain, vegetable seed division); turnover of the companies surveyed. This represents 100% of the turnover of companies with an industrial site.(2) • the methods of collecting and inputting data. • Vilmorin SA (France, vegetable seed division). Checking and consolidating data is carried out in two phases: Each time an indicator is reported using restricted scope, it is stated with regard to the data communicated. With regard to the aforementioned On the other hand, certain indicators are measured using a specific The type of work carried out and the related conclusions are presented in • First phase: each entity (the Group and its subsidiaries) consolidates scopes, the non-financial consolidation rules are the same as the financial calculation: a specific statement available on request. data within their scope. During this consolidation process, consistency consolidation rules. • Accident rate (TF): indicator calculated according to this formula: (Number checks are carried out on the data. The data consolidated and checked of lost-time accidents x 1 000 000) / Number of hours worked; at entity level is then made available to the Group CSR Department who • Accident severity rate (TG): indicator calculated according to this formula: sends the social data to the Group Human Resources Department. (Number of lost-time days x 1000) / Number of hours worked. • Second phase: the Group Human Resources Department and the Group Variations in scope CSR Department consolidate the data over the entire scope and check consistency using crossmatch tests with the financial consolidation reporting system. In order to be able to calculate the variation in data between 2014-2015 and 2015-2016, calculations were carried out to measure the scope effect. (1)  he coverage rate is calculated based on at least one response given in this area. T (2) The list of companies concerned is available on request from the Group CSR Department. 32 THE GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES In this document are cited the principles of the Global Compact that meet our commitments. These principles are: PRINCIPLES: 1 6 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should contribute to the elimination protection of internationally-proclaimed human of discrimination in respect of employment and rights. occupation. 2 7 Businesses should make sure that they are not Businesses should support a precautionary complicit in human rights abuses. approach to environmental challenges. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 4 Businesses should contribute to eliminating all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. 5 Businesses should contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Photo credits Inside: Limagrain and its subsidiaries Front cover: Masterfile Graphic design PatteBlanche Printing Document printed on paper from eco-managed forests 34 Groupe Limagrain Holding Biopôle Clermont-Limagne Rue Henri Mondor 63360 Saint-Beauzire www.limagrain.com
