I N A B I L I T Y S U S T A 7 T 2 0 1 6 1 R E P O R SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 17 10 years o f t ra n s p a r e n c y Co f f ee e so procur u r c es em en s ibl tf rom r espon 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016/17 First Sustainability Coffee procurement Embedding corporate Recruitment of New Group target – women Increase in Launch of new Innovation in Improvement in the Nutrition at the center report based on GRI from responsible responsibility in the contractor employees to comprise 50% of all transparency through Sustainability Strategy wastewater nutritional profile of – Strauss Group’s new guidelines sources supply chain to Strauss management positions digital channels to 2020 treatment products and advancing nutrition strategy healthy lifestyles as a primary approach in our social investments First Sustainability Diversity and Business development Significant reduction Positive changes Launch of Alpha Focus on diversity and Launch of our Extensive innovation in strategy inclusion as a – into the world of clean in the rate of following national social Strauss to boost to the advancement of women in the FoodTech incubator, healthy-lifestyle focused published strategic approach drinking water workplace injuries protests in Israelprice FoodTech community Group and in our communities The Kitchen products in our portfolio reductions, product Social program for improvements, social employees – Strauss benefits for employees Israel minimum Strauss Ethics program Launch of a new Significant Systematic deeper wage, savings plan Responsible agriculture New leadership model New solutions Strauss Coffee supports gets underway, with the health policy for environmental engagement and for every employee, cooperation with local – MOVE – to advance for nutritional women-owned green coffeelaunch of our Code of Strauss Group achievements with dialogue with participation in child farmers and growers managers in the requirements to meet growing cooperatives around Ethics reduction in energy and stakeholders daycare costs organization different health needs the world water use *Does not equal revenue as reported in the financial statements due to a different basis of calculation. With regard to financial data, the datain the official financial 2| statements prevail. |3 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY 4 10 22 42 56 64 78 About This About Strauss Health and A Great Place Protecting the Ethical Global Reporting Report Group and Nutrition to Work Environment Supply Chain Initiative – Content Sustainability Index About this report This is Strauss Group’s tenth annual Sustainability We view sustainability as a way to manage risk in Data presented in this report relates to the Entities includes in this report are all those included they challenge information and data during Please contact our Global Sustainability and Report and it describes our key activities in 2016 our business and to help identify opportunities calendar year 2016, and examples of practice in Strauss Group’s consolidated financial accounts for the reporting process as required. Internal Communications Director, Daniela to advance the sustainability performance to advance a sustainable society and planet through mid 2017. Our last report was published the calendar year 2016 with the exception of the Max Prusky-Sion: daniela.sion@stauss-group.com of our global business. The purpose of this for our stakeholders. Our robust corporate in 2016 and covered activities in 2015. No Brenner business (which was divested in early 2017). This report has been prepared in accordance report is to update our stakeholders briefly governance, our core values and ethics, and our significant restatements of information have with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and concisely about our priority performance advancement of our Social License to Operate been made; small adjustments to data are This report has not been externally verified. It Standards Core option, published in 2016. and impacts. The report also represents our management approach underpin our actions. noted alongside the data as presented. There is our policy to ensure robust internal controls For more about Strauss Group annual communication commitment to the This report integrates all these elements and are no significant changes in material topics of data. Strauss Group also works with external We thank you for your interest in this report United Nations Global Compact. showcases our key activities. or report boundaries. consultants to prepare our report content and and would be pleased to hear your feedback. WWW.STRAUSS-GROUP.COM 4| |5 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Creating a Movement of Improvement We present our tenth Sustainability Report, commitment to all those who are touched people profoundly. When we introduce zero better, healthier, life-enriching choices for which expresses the deep commitment we by our business. -sugar products to the market, we lead a our consumers around the world. have undertaken to measure and transparently change in consumption habits. When we buy report on all our social, economic and Today, their spirit lives on at Strauss and coffee beans directly from women owned As Chairperson of Strauss Group, I have always environmental impacts, and to continuously guides our actions, but the world has changed. or managed coffee farms in Africa, Latin placed value on the way we lead, both in terms and consistently work to improve in this sphere. The concept of beneficial business in society America and Asia, we lead social change in of formal governance structure and in terms As a food and beverage company whose has become more of an obligation than local communities. When we target 50% of of our work culture. With the right motivation products touch millions of people every day a choice, more of an entry-pass to the our managers to be women across our global to make a positive difference and improve and which employs more than 14,000 people competitive landscape than a differentiator, business, we lead diversity and inclusion. people’s lives, and a strong process of internal worldwide, it is clear to us that the mission more of a condition for receiving a “Social When we launch non-GMO hummus in the governance, we can continue to thrive as a we have undertaken to improve people’s License to Operate” and a condition for U.S., we lead best practice in healthy food business and play our role in helping realize lives starts with our internal commitment trust. The world, consumers, expect food production. When we invest in enhancing global priorities, such as those articulated to be better, to maintain an open dialogue companies to place health and safety and our corporate governance mechanisms in a in the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. with our stakeholders and to integrate the planet before their bottom line. way that goes beyond the requirements of their expectations and needs in the way the the law, we understand that this is the strong This year is the tenth year in which we are Company operates so as to deliver the most In today’s new world, greater commitment foundation for our existence as a business in reporting on how we improve people’s lives accurate response possible to their needs. is required to create a new balance. Our the long term. by creating a “Movement of Improvement” in consumers expect a baseline of responsible Israel, our home base, and in the world. I hope As someone who grew up in the family conduct and they are uncompromising. Our We do all of these things not because someone that this report reinforces your confidence that shares its name with the name of the formalization of a business strategy based on demanded that we do them, but because we and trust in Strauss Group and inspires you Company, I came to understand that the a Social License to Operate is a direct response are extending our traditional Strauss spirit in to make healthy, balanced choices. business is an extension of ourselves and of to these new expectations and requires us to the context of today’s business environment. the values we want to create. My grandparents, listen even more intensively to consumers, Our new Nutrition Strategy goes further Yours truly, who founded Strauss, were determined to employees and the communities we serve. than ever before in guiding our business to reflect their positive family values in the holistically deliver health and nutrition to our Company and to give our consumers a At the same time, we must go beyond customers and consumers, fundamentally uniquely beneficial experience. The Company responsiveness. We must lead. We must changing the way we approach product Ofra Strauss was an extension of their spirit and their recognize that our daily decisions affect development and empowering us to provide Chairperson 6| |7 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Trust, Corporations A Decade of and Improving Transparency People’s Lives A decade’s journey. A decade of transparency. approach in 2016 and 2017 and deepened the the world, thus contributing to the social and In today’s world, expectations of corporations are to maintain a profound, ongoing and structured aspects of sustainability. The dialogue and the I am proud and excited to present Strauss Group’s implementation of the SLTO model, expanded economic development of local communities, constantly becoming both deeper and broader. dialogue with its various stakeholders in all feedback it generates enable us to persevere in tenth Sustainability Report. The process of the dialogue and communication channels and have initiated activities in organic products At Strauss, an international food and beverage aspects of the business, and thus, to ensure that the process of improvement. preparing and publishing the report has become with our stakeholders, revised our business through Obela in Europe. Our efforts to conserve group, we are aware that we influence the quality sustainability is a central and inseparable part of part of our routine, a routine that is now an strategy and adapted our work plans in order the environment have yielded, yet again, a of life of many. This drives us to accept a high our values, culture and business. Together with a We hope that all of the above grants us a Social inseparable part of our work culture and one to deliver a more accurate response to needs reduction in consumption of key resources in degree of responsibility and a commitment to long-standing tradition of transparent reporting License to Operate and the right to be part of which allows us to measure ourselves and our and expectations, as these are reflected by our relation to our output. continuously improve all impacts of our business on our social, environmental and economic people’s lives, whether they are employees of impacts on all our stakeholders in a continuous, various stakeholders. in all aspects of the organization. impacts, at Strauss we have made sure in the the Group, consumers of our various products, consistent manner with the goal of improving All of this supports a strong business foundation past two years to place significant emphasis on suppliers and partners, investors or shareholders. as well as receiving feedback from the readers In the past year, we progressed in areas that are which, in 2016, delivered revenues of $2 billion This understanding has led to frequent aspects defined as the most substantive by our of the report. more significant to our core business. The launch and significant economic value. adjustments to the way we manage our employees and consumers. Preparation of the We wholeheartedly thank the people who have of a first holistic Nutrition Strategy in the Group economic, social and environmental impacts, Report on a yearly basis for a decade now has shared our journey of improvement in the past As a company that advocates transparency and to drive product development and improvement We are clear that sustainable business creates and to the constant change of thought patterns enabled us to maintain a consistent process decade. We are excited and looking forward to supports an open, ongoing dialogue with its decisions is a critical step towards delivering a many positive impacts. It is the foundation of in managing sustainability in the Group. of measurement and control over the various the decade to come! stakeholders, it is our obligation to manage the stronger impact in advancing healthy lifestyles. the close relationship, ongoing improvement Managing sustainability as a business area in effects of our business operations, to further a We made major changes in our portfolio to reduce and trust, which, I hope, all of us at Strauss Group all respects requires an advanced, evolving positive impact and report each impact reliably, added sugar, salt and fats in our products. Our will continue to be worthy of in the years to come. strategic perspective that is managed just fully and consistently. award-winning social initiative in Israel to provide Thank you for your interest in this report. We like any other business discipline, one that enhanced financial benefits to employees is welcome your questions and comments. contributes to building the relationship and We named our last report, which summarized crucial for our business continuity, for the longtrust between the business and all its different Respectfully yours, the year 2015, “Listening, Acting and Improving”. term wellbeing of our employees and for greater stakeholders by identifying their expectations This well expresses our approach to our journey social cohesiveness in our communities. We and needs and integrating them in our business to becoming a more sustainable company, have invested, and continue to invest, in a global strategy and work plans in the optimal, most Osnat Golan Daniela Prusky-Sion a company that has a Social License to venture for the purchase of coffee beans from Gadi Lesin responsible manner. Our major challenge at Vice President, Communications, Global Director, Sustainability and Operate (SLTO). This is why we preserved this women-owned cooperatives and farms all over President and CEO Strauss is to drive the organization as a whole Digital and Sustainability Internal Communications 8| |9 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY About Strauss Group Strauss Group is a global food and beverage opportunity for contracted employees, for the benefit of our consumers around the 0n December 31, 2016, the Board of Directors of in the annual ranking of public companies addresses social issues through collaboration company, dedicated to improving lives through franchisees, independent distributors and world. We partner with respected, leading-edge Strauss Group was comprised of eleven Directors, since the ranking was introduced more than between public, private and non-profit sectors. our fresh, delicious, nutritious, and innovative thousands of business partners and suppliers multinational corporations such as Danone, of whom six were women. In the first half of 2017, ten years ago. For the past five years, Strauss Other Executives and Managers participate in products. Our business portfolio, which includes around the world. Strauss Group is traded on PepsiCo, Haier, Virgin and, and with local two new members joined the Board, a man and was awarded the highest possible ranking, several other associations in different roles. five main business lines, provides a response the Tel Aviv 35 Index, which includes Israel's leading players such as Sao Miguel, Yotvata a woman, replacing four Directors who stood Platinum Plus. to two leading trends in food and beverage largest public companies, and earns an AA+/ and Yad Mordechai. These partners help us down. The Board is currently comprised of nine consumption: Health & Wellness, and Fun & negative credit rating from Ma'alot, a Standard deliver quality, innovative products which offer members, of whom four are women and two are Officers and Executives at Strauss Group play Indulgence. We are headquartered in Israel and and Poor's affiliate. Our brands include market healthy choices and contribute to sustainable from the general public as required by law. None an active role in civil society and public life. For we manufacture, market and sell our products leaders in several countries and categories and lifestyles for our consumers. of the Directors is an active executive of Strauss example, Chairperson Ofra Strauss is President in around 22 countries. In 2016, Strauss Group reach millions of consumers each day. Group. Six Directors are financial and accounting of Jasmine, the Association of Businesswomen generated $2 billion in consolidated sales. experts as defined in relevant regulation. in Israel and Chair of the Israel-America At Strauss Group, we have always placed great Chamber of Commerce. President and CEO We employ 13,359 direct employees, and value in partnerships, believing them to be a In Israel, Strauss is a member of Maala (Business Gadi Lesin is a member of the Round Table indirectly provide employment and economic sustainable platform for expanding our offering for Social Responsibility) and has participated Forum of the Prime Minister of Israel which g& Carin g Darin CREATING STRAUSS GROUP SALES BY REGION, 2016 STRAUSS Vision STRAUSS VALUES 31 WONDERS 17% passion & OUT OF % respons i b i lity NORTH & SOUTH EUROPE & REST OF WORLD BASICS AMERICA TEAM 52% ISRAEL 10 | | 11 2016/17 Sustainability highlights HEALTH & NUTRITION A GREAT PLACE TO WORK 100% 3 -22% 28% 1.2$ million 43% 220 hummus with no reduction in product reduction invested by Strauss women in preservatives launched prices in Israel in injury Israel in social programs management under the “Achla” brand 16,000 hours rate for employees roles more Plants with volunteered by our new gluten-free employees in than a Purpose products in Israel local communities program for tackling food deserts in the U.S. launched by Sabra 2024 nutrition 22% ETHICAL SUPPLY CHAIN 159$ improvement in and food customer satisfaction Stakeholder supporting safety strategy million at Strauss Water PROTECTING THE ENVIROMENT Relationships women coffee 10% 30% 15% Continued emphasis cooperatives spend with 670 small or women-owned suppliers on managing our Major new initiative relationship with our in Israel by Strauss Coffee new code of stakeholders, and to support women reduction in GHG reduction reduction in water implementation of the Conduct coffee green growing emissions per ton of in waste to consumption in Strauss SLTO approach across cooperatives in Africa, product landfill Coffee factory in Germany our value chain Latin America and Asia for Sabra suppliers 12 | | 13 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Performance Summary HUMAN RESOURCES UNIT 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CHANGE IN 2016 Total employees at year end Number 11,732 12,068 12,792 12,242 13,359 9% Employees on permanent contracts % 98% 99% 96% 99% 99% = Women in management % 37% 39% 41% 42% 43% 2% Women in total workforce % 43% 41% 40% 40% 41% 2% New employees % 29% 33% 29% 24% 24% = Employee turnover % 32% 31% 28% 24% 19% -19% Employees with performance % 18% 25% 25% N/A 21% reviews Unionized employees % 47% 48% 49% N/A 52% Employees above age 50 % 13% 10% 13% N/A 17% SAFETY UNIT 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CHANGE IN 2016 Injury rate per 100 5.16 4.54 2.91 3.38 2.44 -38% employees Lost day rate 113.61 94.98 66.49 60.75 40.85 -33% Absentee rate % 0.4% 0.8% 2.5% N/A 2.0% ENVIRONMENTAL UNIT 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CHANGE IN 2016 PERFORMANCE Direct energy use GJ 1,184,820 1,332,657 1,297,849 1,264,625 1,267,637 0% 99% of the financial value we Indirect energy use GJ 473,932 504,855 529,617 591,946 598,308 1% SHARING WEALTH WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS 2013 2014 2015 2016 generate as a group is distributed back to our stakeholders. Typically, Direct economic value generated 1,634 1,399 1,340 1,378 Total energy use GJ 1,658,752 1,837,512 1,827,466 1,856,570 1,865,945 1% revenues, interest on assets and investments * around 65% serves as payment Total energy consumption per ton GJ 3.52 3.70 3.28 3.22 3.18 -1% Operating costs (payments to suppliers) 1,076 937 887 896 of product for the goods and services we receive to help run our operations Employee wages and benefits 339 283 287 300 Scope 1 GHG emissions Tons CO2e 83,265 113,393 96,507 100,851 89,519 -11% and 22% goes to the employees Payments to providers of capital 94 97 99 122 Scope 2 GHG emissions Tons CO2e 88,432 82,168 67,315 62,726 60,056 -4% in our business as remuneration Payments to shareholders 68 26 54 55 and reward for their service. Total GHG emissions Tons CO2e 171,697 161,650 163,388 163,192 149,573 -8% Around 0.2% of our revenues Payments to govermments 35 34 10 52 GHG emissions per ton of product Tons CO2e 0.35 0.32 0.29 0.28 0.25 -10% represent direct investments in our -14 Total water withdrawal M3 1,506,410 1,721,527 1,670,794 1,697,047 1,844,313 9% communities as cash donations or Community investments 3 3 3 3 employee volunteering time. Water withdrawal per ton of product M3 3.28 3.54 3.06 2.99 3.20 7% Total economic value distributed 1,615 1,381 1,326 1,429 Waste to reuse and recycling Tons 57,357 61,836 85,284 84,394 62,353 -26% Economic value retained 19 18 14 -51 Waste to landfill Tons 15,371 12,374 17,716 15,939 11,216 -30% All figures are in All figures are in $US million. Conversions to $ from Israel Shekels at annual average exchange rate* Total waste Tons 72,728 74,210 103,000 100,333 75,800 -24% Waste recycled / reused % 79% 83% 83% 84% 82% -2% *Does not equal revenue as reported in the financial statements due to a different basis of calculation. With regard to financial data, the datain the official financial Waste per ton of product Tons 0.16 0.15 0.19 0.18 0.13 -26% statements prevail. 14 | | 15 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY UN Sustainable Sustainability UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE THE STRAUSS WAY CORPORATE GOVERNACE & ETHICAL CONDUCT SUSTAINABILLITY LEADERSHIP Development Goals The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) strategy and were ratified by the General Assembly of the United Nations in September 2015 and represent a global agenda of action to achieve a sustainable material focus future. While we contribute throughout our business to most of the goals in different ways, the SDG’s that reflect our greatest contribution are: This year, we revised our Sustainability Strategy, tailoring it to meet the more specific areas of impact of each of the different businesses in Strauss Group, and incorporating new elements that have gained importance since we first developed our strategy three years strategic sustainability framework ago. For example, our Social License to Operate framework has become a critical strategic driver of internal annual action planning, and the global UN Sustainable Development 6 group-wide sustainabillity focus areas Goals have gained momentum as an external global frame of reference. Our new strategy embraces these ADVANCING Ethical Reducing Product Engaging Diversity in HEALTHY supply resource transparency our everything elements, providing strategic direction LIFESTYLES chain consumption & responsible employees we do that enables each company in the & waste marketing Group to apply the framework while focusing on the actions and goals that are most relevant and most material for each business. strauss israel strauss COFFEE strauss WATER SABRA OBELA goals and targets by company 16 | | 17 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Social License to Operate As part of sustainability management, in the stakeholders, as part of a comprehensive the SLTO concept and responsible marketing. past few years we have implemented the Social process designed to receive and retain our New monitoring capabilities have enabled License to Operate (SLTO) frameowrk. The Social License to Operate in Israel and in us to track our ever-changing business connection was made following our profound our businesses around the world. In 2016 environment on a continuous basis. The understanding that to manage our business we performed a second barometer survey feedback we received led us to define new in a more sustainable way, which takes into which examined the attitude of employees, business goals designed to strengthen our consideration all of the businesses’ impacts on consumers and other external stakeholders Social License to Operate. all our stakeholders – employees, competitors, with regard to our impact on their quality of life consumers, suppliers, customers, regulatory in terms of health, fair employment, the cost The main goals and actions are described in authorities, the media, etc. – we must be in of living, trust, transparency and other aspects. this report below and are expressed, among constant, close touch with them, get to know other things, in the plans for the improvement them thoroughly, be attentive to what they The experience accumulated by our business of service in Strauss Water, in the programs to have to say, and mainly, hear, understand units in tackling changing and sometimes enhance the earning capacity of our employees and analyze their needs and expectations. unexpected challenges in our relationship in Israel, in the improvement of the nutritional Although the sustainability concept has been with our stakeholders was derived through composition of our products, and in the Group’s a core foundation of Strauss Group’s business dozens of workshops to educate managers in strategic highlights for the next few years. strategy for many years, in the past few years, simultaneously with the development of the SLTO framework, we came to understand Personal SLTO Decision Making Tool that these elements are intertwined and interdependent. We cannot manage our social, Implemented at Strauss environmental and economic impacts without being able to cultivate relationships and listen, Ethical Conduct Create a map: Our Code of Ethics, available in eleven languages, a policy was defined, determining that Strauss company and proper compliance with applicable as closely and genuinely as possible, to our Who is influenced by my decisions? guides all our employees in the behavior Group is committed to the development and laws and standards. stakeholders. Furthermore, without applying the SLTO perspective when making every corporate expected of them as part of Strauss Group. maintenance of a robust corporate governance decision, big and small alike, we will not be able Rank: All new employees are trained in the Code of operating model. We believe that adherence to Good corporate governance is based on to work as a sustainable business. What is the strength of the influence of each stakeholder group? Ethics and all employees take refresher training high standards for corporate governance is key principles of leadership and partnership. Our bi-annually. We also train at-risk employees for all our stakeholders: shareholders, employees, Board of Directors works jointly and in full This is accompanied by the challenge of building specifically in anti-corruption and we experienced customers, suppliers and service providers, cooperation with Group management and trust, which is a prerequisite for long-term no confirmed incidents of corruption in 2016. government entities, our communities and the complements, supports and strengthens the business success, especially for a consumer Analyze: environment. Doing the right things the right way management team’s work. goods business. This led to our decision to Am I maintaining direct relationships with these entities? Corporate governance and will contribute to the perpetual improvement of proactively manage our relationship with our sustainability leadership our corporate governance and will ensure our Board of Directors support stakeholders and our major business impacts robustness and success in the long term. Test yourself: The issue of corporate governance is undergoing Led by Chairperson Ofra Strauss, our Group through the prism of the Social License to What can I do regarding these relationships to increase my positive changes as expectations for transparency Board of Directors takes a keen interest in Operate concept, which is a key foundation influence and to reduce my negative influence? and the development of control mechanisms stakeholders’ trust sustainability and provides guidance and in the business strategy of Strauss Group and ensuring proper conduct by companies grow. Disclosure and clarity as to our expectations support for our direction, strategy and action its subsidiaries. The responsibility of boards of directors is and how we operate in terms of corporate plans. Our Executive Teams report annually Draw conclusions : What decision do I make in light of the answer to the increasing, and as a result boards are required to governance will strengthen our stakeholders’ to the Group Board on progress. We see In the years 2015 to 2017, we worked more be more profoundly involved in various aspects trust in us and the Social License to Operate sustainability as the responsibility of all questions above? intensively on defining our way and on of managing the business. In the past year inthey grant us, will support our values, culture, executive team members, and each company developing practical tools for the formal depth work was done in Strauss to refresh our ethical conduct and sustainability, and will in the Group has a structure in place to advance management of our relationship with our relevant work methods. As part of this process also contribute to better management of the our sustainability agenda and strategy. 18 | | 19 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Material topics 2017 targets by company THE SIX MATERIAL IMPACTS The core issues that represent our most process three years ago, and have been reTHAT FORM THE FOUNDATION important impacts and are most significant validated each year through management review OF OUR 2020 SUSTAINABILITY for our stakeholders (consumers, dieticians and and internal and external stakeholder surveys. STRATEGY ARE: nutritionists, employees, suppliers, regulatory Using these priority topics as our strategic strauss strauss strauss sabra bodies and social organizations) remain those directional goals, the companies in Strauss we identified in 2014, placing healthy lifestyles Group have defined targets for the coming at the heart of our priority focus. These topics year, each relevant to their own business, based ADVANCING HEALTHY israel coffee water obela were defined in a stakeholder consultation on specific stakeholder focus areas. LIFESTYLES improving quality of life for our employees and consumers Promote Engage in an Promote Promote Key areas of interest by stakeholders addressed healthy lifestyle initiative for ethical healthy lifestyle healthy lifestyle awareness sourcing of coffee awareness awareness in this report: Opportunity Ethical supply chain Improve Reduce environmental Improve customer Improve to engage, managing social & nutritional performance per ton of service nutritional profiles Healthy partnership, environmental risk profiles of product (versus 2016): of products food fair commercial products Energy: 2% options, dealings CO2e: 3% Advance local Water: 2% affordable sourcing of key Reducing resource Improve the Waste to landfill: 19% Increase WaterBar raw materials pricing consumption & waste financial wellbeing filter recycling by 10% SUPPLIERS preserving the planet of employees by 2018 Maintain or improve energy, water and Improve Implement new Compliance, sharing waste to landfill Product transparency & product technology to reduce of knowledge CONSUMERS & NUTRITION performance PROFESSIONALS responsible marketing affordability energy consumption helping consumers make of WaterBars by 50% informed choices per day in 2018 REGULATORS Supporting Reduce environmental Reduce packaging communities, Equal performance per ton of weight of key products protecting the opportunity, Engaging our employees product (versus 2016): by 5% by 2018 environment living wage, aligning our organization to Energy: 2% personal meet sustainability goals CO2e: 16% Water: 5% Achieve a 40% development Waste to landfill: 6% recycling rate of WaterBar lightbulbs SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS by 2018 Diversity in everything we do EMPLOYEES supporting innovation, creativity & inclusive opportunity 20 | | 21 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY He a l t h The United Nations global agenda for prosperity by 2030, expressed as 17 Sustainable Development Goals, includes two goals (Zero Hunger and Good Health and Wellbeing) that represent this complex Food and beverage companies have a powerful role to play n d relationship between food and nutrition. Clearly, a those who are hungry must have enough to eat. in helping tackle the mounting But only nutritious calories will support their good health. Similarly, overweight and obese populations must curb the amount of noor global nutrition crisis n low-nutrition calories they consume to protect i o their health and live productive lives. nu t r i t Access to Nutrition Index 1.9 billion adults overweight Nutrition center stage – our new approach Food is not enough. Nutritious food is the new normal. More than 2.3 billion people around the world are affected by under-or over-nutrition, according to the World Health Organization. In 2015, for example, 600 million people were obese. Poor nutrition continues to cause nearly half 462 million adults underweight of deaths in children under five, while childhood overweight and obesity is increasing in emerging economies at a rate 30% faster than in developed nations. It’s no longer about food security. It’s about nutrition security. 22 | | 23 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY At Strauss, we have a role to play, and it is Access to Nutrition Index probably the most important role of our As a start, we mapped our entire global At a more advanced level, we worked with an Group. However, benchmarking Strauss Group business and the way we most significantly portfolio against nutritional benchmarks that external expert to audit our portfolio using the against this best-in-class framework will help impact society. Helping people live healthy we developed internally with the assistance of methodology of the 2016 Access to Nutrition us play our role in global nutrition to the full. lifestyles has always been top of our agenda, our professional dieticians and nutritionists. Index, a framework based on international Based on this expert audit, we believe Strauss but in the past year, we have defined a more We found that a clear majority of our products scientific guidelines, standards and consensus Group would rank in the Top Ten companies structured, inclusive and focused ambition already provide a positive nutritional profile. Our and leading corporate practice. Companies in the Access to Nutrition Index, were we to be based on what the world needs as well objective is to make “Good For You” products covered by this Index represent the 20 largest included. as what our consumers want. This is also even better for you, while increasing the overall food and beverage manufacturers in the world directly linked to the feedback we received level of “Good For You” products in our portfolio. and all are significantly larger than Strauss as part of our SLTO process. Our firstever Strauss Group Nutrition Strategy is our far-reaching agenda to enhance our impact on healthy lifestyles, support our consumers and communities and contribute to our shared sustainable future. It is driven by continuous changes in the regulatory landscape that we must respect across all our operations, technology advances which make new and better foods more accessible, and consumer insight 78% regarding health and nutrition challenges. of products in our current protfolio are good for you! 24 | | 25 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Strauss Group 360 increase consumer value through nutrition Nutrition Strategy PRODUCTS & PROTFOLIO IMPROVEMENT This strategy places nutrition at the level of a new mindset LISTEN TO CONSUMERS, ETHICAL where every product development decision is guided by SCIENCE, MARKTING REGULATORS CONDUCT nutritional principles and applies to all the products in our portfolio. Our approach goes beyond product development alone TECHNOLOGY and includes engagement with stakeholders in a holistic IMPROVE INNOVATION THE way on the subject of nutrition. We continue to listen to INDUSTRY Nutrition our consumers and their evolving needs. In addition, we Strategy are expanding our R&D efforts to support better nutrition, EMPLOYEE evolving our ethical marketing guidelines, collaborating with HEALTH & groups and associations that are active in nutrition-related PEOPLE WELLNESS fields and increasing our involvement in national initiatives to promote better nutrition. SUPPORT NUTRITION Using this strategic direction as the basis we adopted in 2016, RELATED NATIONAL NGO'S we are now developing specific impact-based, Group-wide INITIATIVES targets that will reflect the ongoing improving contribution WITH GOVERNMENT of Strauss Group on nutrition, health and wellness. Initial targets we already have in place include: full compliance with food & food safety Nutrition responsibile marketing especially to regulations wherever we do business Strategy children & vulnerable populations 26 | | 27 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY healthy options for the whole family 220 Reducing sugar in chocolate milk: teaspoons per liter 63% gliuten -free wafers and more 2.7 reduction 28 2.1 In 2016, we completed our investment of NIS 3.5 million in a dedicated line for year-round production of gluten1.9 targeted free wafers in our GMP factory in the north of Israel. 1.0 From The factory now has four gluten-free manufacturing 1.5 by 2018 lines for gum, toffee, chocolate tablets, and now, wafers. Year-round gluten free production requires to 2012 2013 2015 2016 2018 comprehensive processes to be in place including Reducing salt in potato chips : grams per 100 gr separation of raw materials, controlled entry to the manufacturing floor, training in procedures for all staff gluten-free gluten-free Products in 2011 Products in 2016 22 % and stringent quality testing protocols. 640 reduction 550 500 targeted 2012 2013 519 2015 2018 by 2018 Preservative-free hummus In 2016, we launched our 100% hummus with no preservatives under the “Achla” brand. In Israel, hummus forms part of the staple diet, and more than 30,000 tons is consumed every year. Using a ground-breaking food-tech innovation, partially financed by the Office of the Chief Scientist in Israel, we brought to market the very 80% more products, less first hummus salad with zero preservatives. This 100% sugar and salt Sugar -free from the start hummus has a shelf-life equal to preserved products and enables consumers to enjoy the taste of Although our strategy is new, our practice is In 2016, we started a new approach – encouraging pure hummus without unnecessary additives. not. We have continued to make progress in consumers to get used to a sugar-free taste, To guarantee the quality and stability claims for 2016 in several areas to help our consumers rather than migrating consumers to reduced 100% hummus, we conducted more than choose healthier lifestyles. sugar content. We believe that consumers can 10,000 lab tests over more than a year. Chocolate milk and potato chips are just two sweeten products themselves, if they really need to. This both empowers consumers with control of consumers did not products where we have achieved and continue over their food choices and also offers products add sweetener to to achieve significant reductions of less nutritious ingredients. We also launched Danone Pro with which are healthier and more appealing to a broader range of consumers. We launched My My Chocolate Milk 30% less added sugar and zero fat. Over the next Gamadim (vanilla variant), and My Chocolate few years, we will have reformulated almost every Milk as sugar-free alternatives to two of our product in the Strauss portfolio to reduce salt, most popular products, taking somewhat of a sugar and, where relevant, fat content. risk as the taste is substantially different. 28 | | 29 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY A variety of fresh packaged salad Inspire Europe with a More freshness, Three new ready-to-eat products: vegetables including baby carrots and My role is to critically examine our food fresh new way of eating super convenient! lentils, kidney beans and chick peas corn, spinach, baby kale, Salanova lettuce, products from a holistic standpoint, all the and connecting In 2016, we launched a wide variety of delicious, fresh, a stand-alone meal options or for arugula and ready-to-serve greens as a way from the sourcing of ingredients right Obela expands with Florentin acquisition in Europe. In ready-to-eat products. use in quick-preparation dishes base for any salad. through planning, formulation, processing 2016 Obela, our global joint venture with PesiCo, acquired a Dutch leader in organic foods, Florentin Organic Kitchen, Part of our mission is to make healthier eating easier and and packaging – considering the final total to bring fresh new ways of eating and connecting through value each product offers to consumers. So the introduction of hummus to consumers in Europe. The more accessible to consumers acquisition was concluded for approx. $10 million and who lead busy lifestyles. We continue our leadership in this far, together with food technologists and we are now investing $3 million in a new Obela Hummus line to launch in mid-2017, while continuing to market area in Israel by continuously expanding our range of marketing teams, we have identified several Florentin’s organic foods to complement our existing delicious, fresh, ready-to-eat vegetable products, adding ingredients or processes that can be improved, healthy food range. greater variety and choice to adjusted And entirely discontinued to offer the range each year. In most even better and more natural product profiles and value to our consumers. cases, our new offerings are innovations in the local market and new experience for consumers. In 2016/2017, new products included: Michal Benishti, Gastronome, Strauss Dairies Better with Energy Life-cycle thinking in Portion-calorie-controlled cereal snacks – now with more whole grains and less salt Supporting health in education product development Beyond individual category and product while maintaining quality and taste. We are Initial steps in adopting a life-cycle approach We continue to improve and enhance our Energy brand which provides cereal snacks with nutritional value Strauss Group's Chief Technology Officer, Prof. Eyal improvements, in 2016, we went a step further. experiencing a 'back to nature' trend with in our processes include removing added for consumers who need a healthier option pick-up in Shimoni, participates in the Ministry of Education's We engaged a full-time dedicated gastronomist in our diary division to lead a holistic farmconsumers becoming more aware of the origin of their food and questioning how their food stabilizing ingredients and certain flavorings and coloring additives from yogurt and soft cross sector initiative to advance healthy between meals. In 2016, we reduced added salt content to-plate perspective while considering the affects their health and environment. Our role cheese products, as well as progressing an by 30% in almost all products and increase the whole various tremendous implications our food has as a company that provides food for millions grain content to 80%. lifestyle education in schools and kindergartens. on us, on our environment, on our society and of people every day is to ensure we act in the initiative to replace some imported fruits used in yogurts with locally sourced fruits. This initiative will deliver proposals which could economy. This means continuously examining our portfolio to identify opportunities to further most responsible, sustainable manner in the preparation of our products, providing our Overall, this contributes to a more sustainable approach in our dairy operations. have far-reaching effects on the quality of life of improve clean eating values such as minimal consumers with the reassurance and trust they seek. the next generations. process, clean label, local and seasonal food 30 | | 31 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY what is Healthy nutrition for our a food desert? Food deserts are defined consumers &the community as communities that do not have sufficient access to fresh, healthy and Every human being has the basic right to food maintained our focus on compliance and food affordable food. These that allows for a balanced diet and healthy safety beyond legal requirements. are communities with lifestyle, food that is safe to eat and is produced at least 500 people or 33% of the population More products, more while protecting the environment to the maximum. Consequently, ensuring healthier who live more than a food options are available in the market is an affordable mile from the nearest important step to improving healthier lifestyles. In 2016, we continued our program of price supermarket or grocery We also share a responsibility to make such reductions of from 3% to 22% of a range of store. They are also products accessible to consumers and to leading products in Israel to give consumers a generally low-income, improve the lives of communities. This means broader choice of products at prices they can more with poverty rates of at promoting healthier lifestyles with consumers easily afford. Following initial price reductions in least 20%. It is estimated 2015 on brands such as Yotvata, Milky, Joy and that more than 23 million and getting involved in communities to help Activia, we reduced prices on Danone Yogurt with Americans live in food change perceptions, educate about food habits deserts. (U.S. Department and healthy eating benefits and improving fruit, granulated coffee and hummus in 2016. of Agriculture) access to nutritious food. In 2016, we made Our ability to reduce prices is the result of an further reductions in the retail prices of a intensive program of process efficiency measures range of dairy products in Israel, advanced a or formulation changes that yield savings we are Part of Sabra’s Executive Committee members at the Viriginia plant garden program to combat food deserts in the U.S. and happy to pass on to our consumers. Plants with a Purpose: tackling food deserts A strategic community program aimed at Price reductions In 2016, in Israel: volunteers, a 4,000-sq. ft. organic garden on worked with students to expand and enhance the improving access to fresh and healthy food in campus at Sabra Chesterfield County plant edible garden in the school courtyard, including the U.S. In 2016, Sabra embarked on a mission was established. 35 Sabra employees regularly planting of 450 seedlings. Sabra supports and to help address the growing issue of “food volunteer to tend the garden, and the resulting hosts other activities, such as pop-up farmers’ deserts” in urban and rural areas of the U.S.. To produce goes to Sabra employees and neighboring markets at the Sabra site. Going forward, Sabra is do this, Sabra launched “Plants with a Purpose”, food desert areas. committed to continue to support this important a community engagement program, starting in initiative and expand it to more locations, starting our own backyard in Richmond, VA. Partnering In addition, Sabra invested $50,000 and employees with other Sabra sites in the U.S.. This initiative with Renew Richmond, a non-profit dedicated have volunteered more than 1,700 hours to aligns with and advances Sabra’s purpose to to strengthening communities through urban support another Renew Richmond educational inspire fresh new ways of eating and connecting. gardening, and leveraging Sabra employee project at a local high school. Sabra volunteers Improving There are several components to successfully improving Food Deserts. Access to quality and Food affordable produce must be supported by relevant education and community connections. We 10% to 14% to -3% 2.7% -11% -22% -5 % -17% -5 % are thrilled to have Sabra take a leadership role in helping meet these needs locally and shine a -13.5% -17% Deserts light on this issue nationally. Dr. M Ray McKinnie, Interim Dean at USA College Of Agriculture 32 | | 33 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Strauss Water – Strauss Water – improving consumers drink more customer service Keeping pace with food industry regulations In 2016, we focused on helping consumers Service is key for our customers, as call centers, providing additional training We have engaged our entire organization to comply with new food regulations in Israel. In understand the healthy benefits of drinking indicated in feedback we received through on quality service to representatives 2016, a significant new Public Health Protection (Food) Law took effect with new requirements water. Our 2016 survey showed that consumers our Social License to Operate process. and technicians, and improving our for manufacturers, marketers, importers and distributors of food products in Israel. We have drink more than 6 cups of water per day at home when they have a WaterBar versus 4.3 At Strauss Water, we connect with our customers regularly through our sales and online interactions and accessibility. These efforts have already delivered taken all possible measures to ensure we comply with this new law, including reviewing and Early 2017 we met with FDA cups in homes where there is no WaterBar. customer service representatives and our positive results, revising, where required, our procurement and import procedures and providing training for all local managers in these new requirements. policy-makers in Baltimore, technicians in the field. In 2016, Strauss Maryland to introduce Consumers with a Water introduced a new program to Sabra and our plan for water bar drink enhance customer service by reinforcing The new Public Health Protection Law is good continued investment for the consumer it increases competition 40% STRAUSS WATER – CUSTOMER SERVICE 2016 Q1,2017 in consumer safety. We Customer satisfaction 6.8 8.3 and improves food safety and quality committed to update the Call center waiting time (minutes) 4.02 1.35 FDA every quarter on the Technician availability within 48 hours 51% 84% measures. The law requires food industry progress we make. 81% players to take full responsibility for more products they import, distribute, manufacture water confirm family or market to consumers. At Strauss, we fully members drink more support this new regulation. water 72% Nitza Yonatany, Regulation Manager, Strauss Israel A commitment to food safety confirm family We operate our factories to the highest possible Following this incident, Sabra re-committed to members drink standards of food safety and aim to deliver safe products to our consumers with no exception. maintaining stringent safety standards and to proactively collaborating across the industry fewer sweetened Even so, in 2016 Sabra in the U.S. initiated a and with the Food and Drug Administration beverages voluntary recall on two occasions when signs of (FDA) to raise the bar on food safety standards contamination were detected in the production and controls for 'ready to eat' foods. We also 29% environment in its manufacturing facility. While made substantive changes to our production no food products were affected, and there processes and in the production environment were no confirmed cases of illness related to provide greater opportunity to detect and drink twice to our hummus, the presence of bacteria in the factory environment led us to initiate a prevent possible food safety risks. as much voluntary recall and a 3-day plant shut-down for thorough cleaning and sanitization. 34 | | 35 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY THE KITCHEN FOOTECH Innovation and collaboration We have always advanced a collaborative and accelerates their development. At the HUB start-ups: approach to food innovation for the benefit of same time, we continue to engage with and My FavorEats food entrepreneurs, the food industry, Strauss support the professional food community by and of course, consumers. Working together listening, learning, sharing and co-developing, enables innovation to thrive. Our Alpha Strauss and to support the advancement of research initiative, which we launched in 2012, maintains through the Strauss Institute and alliances a fast pace of discovering and supporting foodbetween our tech people, research institutes was established to promote the development tech innovation, and our food-tech hub, The and initiatives that further improvements in of the Israeli food tech community. To date, A personalized nutrition platform that Kitchen, funds early stage food-tech start-ups the industry. Alpha Strauss has reviewed more than 700 can adapt any online recipe to a user's technologies. In 2016 alone, we screened 54 personal needs. Using deep machine new technologies, 20 of which were accepted learning algorithms, smart-swap Yofix Probiotics, a plant based matrix for pre and pro biotic foods. as having development potential for Strauss technology provides users with ingredient The first product from Yofix, a vegan yogurt, is already on the market. operations, and 2 were implemented. Since substitutes recommendations, while 2012, 36 different technology initiatives are maintaining the integrity of the dish. in use at Strauss. Innovations include new methods for sugar and salt reduction, product shelf-life extension, environmental efficiencies, faster product testing, online quality control and more. Flying Spark A developer of alternative protein The Kitchen expands sources for human consumption, In 2015, we launched The Kitchen in partnership In addition to funding and mentoring foodcreating a superior protein out of fruit with the Israel Innovation Authority (formerly tech startups, The Kitchen maintains a lively fly larvae. The superior, meat-like The Office of the Chief Scientist of Israel). dialog with the food-tech community as protein will be added to various food The Kitchen is a food-tech incubator with a platform for the exchange of ideas and products on an industrial scale. the aim of funding and nurturing the growth creating inspiration for entrepreneurs in of food-tech startups for a better world and this space. The Kitchen hosts networking better nutrition for all. In 2015, three start-ups meetings and maintains active forums on Amai Proteins joined The Kitchen, and in 2016, a further social media. In 2016, The Kitchen hosted the three were included in the program. Along first international food-tech conference in with numerous entities and entrepreneurs, Israel, drawing 600 delegates and speakers The Kitchen is cultivating a community that from around the world, including global works to advance the food industry as a whole food companies, food-tech investors, Applies state-of-the-art computational and provides it with world-class capabilities. government officials, technology experts protein design along with biotechnology The Kitchen is located in Ashdod, Israel and and of course, many food-tech entrepreneurs production methods to produce sugar is an active member of the vibrant hi-tech and innovators. 30 local startups presented substitute with healthy stable and The Kitchen’s team community in the city. their technologies at the conference. optimal taste profiles. 36 | | 37 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Food innovation with An inclusive approach Virginia Tech University to drinking water In 2016, Strauss Group entered into a Memorandum of Understanding Through this agreement, Virginia Tech cooler to provide full accessibility for individuals in wheelchairs or with other disabilities. Our new accessible (MOU) with Virginia Tech University to help Israeli FoodTech and agriculture and the Commonwealth of Virginia have a water counter is designed to work alongside installed Strauss water coolers, and includes a tap for filling startups to expand in the U.S. while supporting the development of industry great opportunity to not only help find water bottles and a drinking tap, enabling people with disabilities to enjoy filtered water conveniently. Our and agriculture in the State of Virginia. A range of research areas are covered solutions to the challenge of feeding an design follows the most advanced international standards for accessibility of drinking water in public places, and including sugar, salt and fat reduction technologies, breeding techniques, additional two billion people globally, but also complies with Israeli Standard (IS) 1918 for public institutions, government, municipal and corporate improved nutrition methods, digital solutions, food safety, aquaculture, also to increase partnerships that will fund offices. Strauss Water is currently the only water cooler manufacturer offering a fully accessible solution, enabling soil sciences and food and product process quality monitoring. Under this research and promote economic growth. access to fresh water and convenience of use agreement, Strauss will collaborate to people with in areas of promising research and support the entry of Israeli food-tech startups to establish a presence in Tom Thompson, Associate Dean & Director of International Virginia. Programs, Virginia Tech 5th In 2016, we disabilities. held the Nutrition talk in Israel The Strauss Institute continues to support This year, the key innovation Strauss Institute offered for nutritionists and nutrition researchers as they strive to advance healthy lifestyles the professional community is a Daily Meal Planner tool for dieticians that enables a visual annual Strauss and influence dietary habits of consumers representation of meals in Institute Conference in Israel. Every year, we host workshops and meetings where we share information and real life proportions. The meal planner was with more than 100 offer skills training to support the professional designed using the delegates from the community. In 2016, the Institute awarded 3 grants to young researchers in nutrition, Israeli Ministry of Health recommended scientific, nutrition & bringing the total number of grants awarded to 16 in the past 5 years. daily intake of different food items for adults. medical communities. Strauss Institute 38 | 2017 scholarship winners | 39 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY 2 HUMMUS talk in THE U.S ta b l e s p o o n s In the U.S, we continue our outreach 0f hummus Social business incubator to promote healthy lifestyles Our investment in ‘360 Hub for Social every day is e to the professional community to build Businesses’ is yet another way of generating to the usda requivalent belief, based on science, in hummus In the past year Strauss has chosen to invest in for improved health. Sabra’s ongoing social business ventures active in the area of our strategy remains to maintain the trust and interest of a growing network of weekly intake commended key social investment program – the promotion of healthy lifestyles. In this context, Strauss engaged a social impact in a core business and social vegetables of enterprise – promoting a balanced diet and registered dieticians. We issue to our with the non-profit “360 Hub for Social Businesses”, network popular quarterly newsletters which trains social business entrepreneurs to offering meal preparation tips and recipes and most importantly, updates increase their impact in the domestic and global markets. The program, which includes both healthy lifestyles. Serving on the Advisory about our science-based research that an incubator phase and an accelerator phase, offers entrepreneurs extensive accompaniment Board of this important initiative enables me to make the right connections between the Hub’s underpins the value of hummus as an alternative to fat-based spreads. and advisory services by the finest of experts. Strauss chose to invest in a dedicated track for In 2016, for example, we worked with entrepreneurs whose social business ventures are related and contribute to balanced nutrition entrepreneurs and professionals at Strauss. Taylor Wallace PhD to develop a white paper to promote scientific proof on and healthy lifestyles. As part of this collaboration Daniela Prusky-Sion, Global Director, Sustainability and the nutritional synergies of hummus Strauss Group also provides professional guidance Internal Communications ingredients and its role in healthy eating and additional resources to the chosen enterprises. patterns. The white paper is expected to be published in the professional journal “Nutrients”. We are now focusing research on the benefits of hummus in toddlers to demonstrate positive effects on the immune system and overall digestion. We play a continued role in the Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion Social Business Hub (CNPP) MyPlate Strategic Partnership program in the U.S. to amplify the role of hummus in helping people meet MyPlate recommendations and to build relationships with nutrition policy thought leaders. We are working towards expanded inclusion in the updated Dietary Guidelines for Americans to be issued in 2020. Tulin Tuzel, Chief Technology Officer, Sabra Dipping Company 40 | | 41 10 t YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY g r e a Committed to exceeding the legal minimum wage a In 2016, we launched another phase in our new social plan for employees in Israel, with thousands of employees enjoying new financial benefits that help alleviate the daily e challenges of making ends meet and even put something c aside for the future. This is against a backdrop of continuing l a increases in the cost of living in Israel and widening gaps p between high and lower income individuals. In mid-2016, we implemented benefits for eligible employees in three primary programs: o r k Employees with one-year w Contribution seniority are provided to to child with a contribution of day-care $125 per month for each child aged 3 and younger. Outstanding Social Employer Strauss Group received an award in 2016, recognizing steps taken to improve conditions for employees. The award was presented at the “Calcalist” responsible business summit. The minimum salary at Strauss was fixed at Minimum $75 per month above the salary $ 1.2 million legally determined minimum wage in Israel . Employees earning below this amount Part of Strauss Group’s value-based way of doing business is grounded in our commitment to being a great received an increase. place to work and creating a workplace that is enabling and empowering for a diverse range of individuals in many countries, roles and with different personal circumstances. Our employees are the source of our creativity, All employees are entitled innovation and ability.to create wonders out of basics. long to a savings plan, which We consistently listen to their feedback, strive to understand their needs and provide the optimal response in term includes contributions by the the understanding that they choose us anew each and every day. Our approach to being a great place to work savings employer and the employee to includes supporting our employees by respecting their rights, providing fair reward, equal opportunity and the chance for personal development and professional growth. Above all, despite our size, we remain true to our family values. In the past two years, our Social License to an advanced savings fund. The contributions deliver a investment BY Strauss Israel to support Operate processes have yielded important insights from employees and our profound dialogue with our people tax benefit. these social programs for employees has led us to define policies and actions designed to improve the work environment and employment conditions in some of our countries of operations. 1,873 employees (62% women) benefited from these programs starting in July 2016. in 2016. 42 | | 43 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Respect for employees and human rights are above anything else at our workforce employees by region and gender 2016 Average training hours Strauss. This is a legacy that began with the company’s founders, and has been passed on from generation to generation. We feel we have a per employee in 2016 13.91 responsibility, not only to our employees, but to society as a whole, to compensate employees in a way that enables them to live with dignity and long-term financial security. Zion Balas, CEO, Strauss Israel employees by collective men WOmEn all agreements 2016 employees by region 2016 Non -unionized unionized israel europe americas employees by contract type 2016 employees by gender 2016 part time full time 44 | | 45 Advancing women & gender equality We believe in equal opportunity for remuneration and salary opportunities throughout Strauss Group are equal for equal work. At senior salary costs ratios by gender 2012 2013 2014 2016 We aspire to complete gender balance in We remain committed to gender equality, advancing women in leadership positions across the Group management level, we maintain parity or nearparity year after year as a clear demonstration towards our goal of 50%. At senior level, we have some way to go with women representing 22% of Strauss Group’s Board of Directors. In 2016 of this policy in action. At non-management levels, this policy applies across all roles. However, our executive management team. However, overall, due to our continuous work to embed a culture of the Board comprised 6 women and 6 men. a comparison of total salary costs across the 100% Today, after a number of Directors completed total number of women in non-management 97% 99% 84% equal opportunity and motivate managers to promote 96% 87% 86% 93% gender diversity for the benefit of the business, and roles versus men in non-management roles their term of office, the Board comprises 4 of society overall, we see annual increase in the shows a lower ratio for women due to the overall rates of women in managerial positions, and mix of diverse roles performed in any given in 2016, 43% of these positions in the Group were filled by women. women and 5 men. year by men and by women. We continue to review this data every year and address inconsistencies where relevant. salary costs ratio of women to men salary costs ratio of women to men (senior managers) (non -managers ) Leveraging International women in mangement Women’s Day (IWD) for dialogue strauss group * on equal opportunity International Women's Day (March 8) at Strauss is feedback from 2016 women round tables an opportunity to mark the Group's commitment to gender balance by raising awareness, celebrating achievements and encouraging dialogue. In 2016, doing could do in addition to IWD activities at each site, we also undertook special activities involving our leadership well Pride in more Opportunities for professional advancement to encourage dialogue and accountability. These the activities are part of an overall concept of driving company change, which places women’s advancement at the Family Equal 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 access forefront of intra-organizational and community values activities through support and close cooperation to social with social organizations focusing on diversity and Caring and benefits Compensation the advancement and economic empowerment attentive packages workplace of women. Confidence Dialogue with Strauss women in in manufacturing leadership Trans increased flexibility paren of inf c for mothers ormat y We held 15 round tables at Strauss sites in Israel, with young children 43% women in management roles each with 10-12 women in manufacturing roles. ion Each meeting was hosted by the Human Resources Vice President and another Executive Manager. The output from the meetings led to modifications to human resources policies and plans. *excluding Brazil 46 | | 47 International Women's Day 2017 Activities: Strauss Women advancing women Chairperson Ofra Strauss invited women from in shorts Men for Strauss Israel to write directly to her, expressing An initiative to promote their views and feelings about being a woman one short working day per working at Strauss. The women who responded were invited to attend meetings to discuss gender balance and encouraged to act to make gender balance week to facilitate worklife balance for both men Several activities led by and women. a difference within their current roles. men managers to advance a shared understanding Equal Organization initiative and agenda to support We launched a competition for any employee gender equality. to present a project idea to advance gender balance. The response was overwhelming! Five teams were selected by a Steering Team of senior managers, headed by the Strauss Group Woman to woman President, to implement their project. They Mentoring program for received a budget and resources to progress women managers and their idea. The five programs included are employees about to take on shown here: a first management role. An Equal Empowering Women Organization Admin ( magshimot ) community Training and empowerment program 90% of secretarial and for women on production lines at our admin staff are women. confectionery factory in Israel, supported This group brings them by an external association specializing together to share issues in similar programs. Women took part in and opportunities. 11 meetings to help build their skills in dealing with challenges and being more proactive in work and life. 48 | | 49 The “Magshimot” (“FULFILLMENT”) program for an Empowering workplace women’s Beyond gender equality, which develops Performance management a culture of empowerment serving both occupational 68% of managers had a formal performance women and men in our organization, we evaluation in 2016. empowerment strive to make our workplace one in which all Performance reviews We maintain an open dialogue with all employees employees can achieve professional growth and provide feedback on their performance in a by gender Magshimot is a program designed for women nonand personal ambitions. We invest in the way way that helps them understand their strengths managers who want to we communicate with our employees about and take steps to improve their contribution. make an occupational their performance, and we maintain several Two-thirds of our management receive a formal or personal change but skills development programs to empower performance review each year, and in 2016, lack the development employees to develop. 14% of non-management employees also opportunities, skills or had the opportunity for a formal performance resources to help them Leading the Way discussion. achieve their goal. The Building the right skills for our future program comprised leaders, Leading Our Way program is a New performance ten sessions in which management at group-wide development program for senior participants gained leaders that we conduct every two years. The personal and interpersonal program includes face-to-face meetings, Strauss Coffee tools and skills. 3600 evaluation using Strauss' values-based Cloud-base tracking system for better Leadership Model, shared learning in pairs and objectives setting and performance appraisal individual work. The first meeting took place In 2016, as part of its annual incentive in January 2017 for 23 managers from Strauss program (AIP), Strauss Coffee implemented companies around the world in a four-day the first cloud-based objectives setting and conference. The value of such a leadership performance evaluation platform for roll-out program is life-changing for participants throughout Strauss Coffee units across diverse and they experience a deep transformation geographies in 2017. The platform supports in personal effectiveness and leadership a single system for target-setting, review and Talking about equal perceptions and skills that serve them well both communication and is accessible from any opportunities in their role at Strauss and in other aspects connected device. In 2017, employees are In addition equal opportunity and its advancement in the Ultimately, we created a broad, rich variety of life. 30% of participants from a former starting the process by setting personal targets to the above, workplace were called upon to give TED-style talks of digital content on Strauss Group’s media program for review by their direct managers. Making Strauss Group to employees. Those who chose to speak received channels to drive the equal opportunity debate have been performance information accessible and employees in specific training on the gender issue as well as on with all our stakeholders. promoted to transparent is key to supporting performance Israel who felt the TED format. The lectures were recorded and more complex improvement over time. This platform is the they had something to offer on the subject of made available to all Strauss Group employees. roles, to date. first of its kind in Strauss Group. men women 50 | | 51 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Safety at work 33% 28% Maintaining a culture of safety and safe working Gemba safety walk. Daily reports of near-misses are practices is a primary goal in all our sites around now distributed by factory management teams to all the world, including manufacturing plants, logistics employees for learning and consideration of action centers and offices. This includes proactive leading the way to prevent similar incidents. The program helps raise measures such as a near-miss program, safety awareness among employees and managers, thus officers and the assimilation of safety standards. In contributing to a significant reduction in hazards addition, we ensure we comply with all applicable In the Strauss dairy factory and other sites in Israel, at workstations. In 2016, more near-misses were safety laws and regulations and maintain an reported than ever before, indicating attention 10 Safety Leaders were appointed as a professional intensive training program for all employees. to prevention is starting to work. group that aims to drive safe practices on a daily basis. The Safety Leaders’ work includes mentoring In 2016, our injury rates and lost day rates across Ergonomically speaking contractors and employees, hazard patrols, drafting reduction in injury the world improved significantly, the result of safety guidelines, and specialization and leadership consistent attention to identifying and addressing Improving ergonomics in logistics. In the past in specific spheres (firefighting, hazardous materials, safety risks and maintaining communications about safe working. year, Strauss Israel management conducted an ergonomic risk survey at all logistics sites and reduction in lost first aid and more). The Safety Leader program will expand to more factories in 2017. rates in 2016 across days due to injury trained all employees, including delivery drivers, in Strauss Group appropriate ergonomic work practices. We believe Reporting near-misses this has contributed to a better work environment All Strauss Group units in Israel have a near-miss program in place. For example, in our factories in and to the improvement of employee health and satisfaction, and we plan to continue this process in in 2016 across the North of Israel, we incorporated reporting and review of near-misses in our daily management the next few years to reduce the risk of ergonomic injuries and occupational illness. Strauss Group injury rate per lost day rate per 100 employees absenteeism rates 100 employees 2013 2014 2015 2016 2014 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 52 | | 53 Mentoring for social Employees contributing in our communities inclusion in Israel Strauss employees become mentors for example of a program that places senior strauss group the benefit of other employees executives in socially oriented non-profit community contributions Strauss Group maintains a strong connection individual social programs throughout the year The total value of our contribution to the community (u.s. $ million) In 2015, Strauss Israel joined forces with a organizations as chairperson, manager with the local communities where we do business in 100% of the countries where we operate. We increased in 2016 to $3.25 million. This includes non-profit initiative called “Kesem”(Magic) or executive committee members. In our and we encourage our employees to volunteer in provide cash donations, in-kind donations of cash donations, in-kind donations and the value whose mission is to mentor individuals from Synergy program, which is run in partnership social programs they care about. We manage a food and equipment where relevant, and enable of employee volunteering hours. 3.41 poor socio-economic backgrounds and help with JDC Israel and Zionism 2000, senior broad variety of globally dispersed collaborative our employees to take time to volunteer. In the them face the challenges they confront in Strauss executives are assisted in becoming initiatives with many community partners in past year, employees volunteered more than their daily lives. As part of the program, Strauss part of the executive committees of social different countries – engaging in hundreds of 16,000 hours in community projects. employees took on a new role supporting ventures. Our managers contribute their our own employees who need assistance. skills to the non-profit and help in promoting 14 volunteer mentors from Strauss meet weekly with their 14 mentees from our workforce in Israel to provide guidance. its social goals, while learning how these organizations work and benefiting from the rewards of volunteering. 2013 The entire group meets monthly to share experiences. Our volunteers receive personal 3.2 training and group training to augment their skills as mentors. This is a unique program for Strauss, empowering our employees to support their colleagues and the community, enhancing valuable interpersonal skills and 2014 developing rewarding relationships. At the same time, the employees who benefit from Food rescue in Israel the program learn how to address their own In Israel, Strauss works with a leading food 3.01 challenges and become more productive rescue organization, Latet (To give). We community members. In 2016, a second supply food items for distribution to the group was established by six employees at our Nazareth factory in Israel. needy and closely monitor our internal planning and logistics processes to rescue every pallet of surplus food products possible 2015 for the benefit of those in need. Together with other food companies, Strauss leads the “Saving Food” forum, established by 3.25 the Manufacturers’ Association in Israel and the non-profit organization, Latet. The forum intends to improve the practice of Strauss runs many more diverse social activities, in which hundreds of Group employees participate. “Synergy” is an food reclamation in the industry to reduce food waste while providing nourishment for those in need. 2016 Sabra employees at a Virginia local school activity 54 | | 55 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY t e c t i n g Pr o 2017/2018 environmental targets by company t h e strauss strauss strauss sabra ISRAEL coffee water obela o n m e nt Reduce Reduce Increase WaterBar ﬁlter Maintain or improve energy, v i r environmental environmental recycling by water and waste to landﬁll en 10% performance performance performance versus 2016 per ton of product per ton of product (versus 2016): (versus 2016): by 2018 (versus 2017) Energy Energy 2% 2% Reduce packaging weight of key products by CO2e CO2e 5% 16% 3% by 2018 (versus 2017) Achieve a We maintain our commitment to protecting the environment and reducing our impacts on climate change. This is in line with a precautionary approach considering Water 5% Water 2% 40% recycling rate of of WaterBar potential risks due to climate change and opportunities for mitigation. In all our lightbulbs by 2018 operations, we strive to improve energy and water efficiencies, reduce waste and Waste to landfill Waste to landfill 6% 19% recycle more. Implement new technology to reduce energy consumption of WaterBars by 50% per day in 2018 56 | | 57 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY environmental performance energy use per ton of product (gj) GHG EMISSIONS PER TON OF PRODUCT (TONS CO2E) energy use (mj) 2016 2015 2014 scoope 1 (fuel &gas mix) scoope 2 (purchased electricity) total 2013 GHG emissions 2012 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (tons co2e) scoope 1 scoope 2 total • Includes all operations except for Obela in Australia and Mexico • Per ton of product is calculated for production operations only: Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, Sabra • Greenhouse gases included in the calculation of CO2e are CO2, CH4 and N2O. Fuel emission factors are use IPCC Emissions Factor Database. Electricity emissions factors for Israel, Germany and Romania use national electricity grids. All other electricity emissions factors use the GHG Protocol. • We do not purchase heating, cooling or steam, and we do not scoope 1 sell electricity, heating cooling or steam Energy use from coffee scoope 2 biomass and biogas from waste water treatment are reported scoope 1 scoope 2 total as zero emissions total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 58 | | 59 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY 1,844 WATER WITHDRAWAL ( ooo 's m3) 1,722 1,671 1,697 1,506 WATER WITHDRAWAL ( m3 / TON OF PRODUCT) 2012 1,506 1,636 1,639 1,610 1,730 2013 86 32 87 115 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 withdrawn from ground water withdrawn from municipal water supplies total waste Total 2014 (tons) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Waste Composting 0 0 0 0 1,084 Recycling 9,629 7,638 10,256 7,096 14,651 Reuse 47,728 54,198 75,028 77,298 47,702 2015 Landfill 15,371 12,374 17,716 15,939 11,216 Total waste 72,728 74,210 103,000 100,333 75,800 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 waste (tons/ton of product ) Significant spills 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 • Includes all operations except for Obela in Australia and Mexico • Per ton of product is calculated for production operations only: Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, Sabra • Total waste includes a very small amount (<70 tons) of hazardous waste which is landfilled • All water discharge is to water treatment facilities • No significant water bodies are affected by water run-off from our factories 60 | • There were no signigicant spills from our factories in 2016 | 61 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Resource efficiency improving our water footprint in Germany from 59 TONs In 2016, Strauss Coffee reduced water process recycling of water. Following an exercise full year. At the same time, we have benefited consumption in Germany by 20% versus 2013. to map our entire water and drainage flows within from water process cost reductions including Each of our factories and logistics operations makes incremental changes to daily In our German coffee plant, we achieved a first the factory, we implemented a change to allow wastewater processing and transportation, of operations to improve our resource efficiency and overall environmental footprint. full year saving from our initiatives over the past water to run in a closed loop and recycle back 22% per ton of product in 2016 versus 2014, into production rather than to drainage as well returning our investment in new equipment and of waste to four years to systematically improve water use, Reducing waste in Safed,israel which is inherently intensive in a freeze-drying as additional supporting measures. As a result, processes within a year, proving that improving 55% reduction in waste to landfill at our factory in Safed. factory. Our objective was to limit our overall water in 2016, we reduced our total water use by 20% water efficiency is both good for business and In 2016, Strauss Coffee plant in Safed increased quantities of waste to recycling following a plant-wide review of all waste handling procedures. An intensive program landfill in 2015 consumption, reduce wastewater and increase versus 2013, amounting to 55,000 m3 over the for the environment. to increase recycling was initiated. This included installation of waste separation to 26 bins around the site, employee training and the appointment of 8 environmental Recycling leaders. At the same time, we revised contracts with recycling companies to ensure filters best practices for waste handling. at Strauss Water This program has been a phenomenal success so In 2016, Strauss Water continued to encourage customers to recycle far. We expected 20% waste to landfill reduction As part of the regular maintenance and quality standards for – we hadn’t imagined we could achieve more than WaterBars, our customers must TONs in replace the filters every six months 50% in under a year! This is what happens when and the UV-bulbs every 12 months. As these components do not both management and employees are dedicated to 2016 degrade naturally, they must be disposed of in an environmentally making positive change. responsible way. Starting in 2015, we provided customers with a system to route used components Boaz Ben-Ari, EHS Manager at Safed coffee factory, Strauss Coffee Israel to recycling points in Israel. In 2016, we collected almost 30 tons of filters and UV bulbs from thousands of customers. Strauss Coffee Germany Roast and Ground Coffee Plant, NDKW 62 | | 63 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY e t h i c a l Supplier code of conduct 92% y at Sabra s up p l In 2016, Sabra published a Supplier Code of Conduct for suppliers Taking another step to ensure an ethical supply chain, in the U.S., Sabra developed and surveyed suppliers published a Code of Conduct for suppliers. Sabra’s standard contracts and purchase feel Strauss Israel in 2016 orders issued to suppliers now incorporate this Code of Conduct and suppliers are behaves fairly & decently towards them n expected to sign their agreement to comply. a i In both Sabra and operations in Israel, 100% ch of new suppliers confirm their agreement to ethical standards. Listening to our suppliers A new program to improve relations with suppliers in Strauss Israel In Israel in 2016, we performed a full review of all supply-chain procedures, provided training for our procurement staff and undertook a survey of 50 suppliers to obtain insights to help us improve practices in the supply chain. As a result of the feedback we 84% 82% feel that Strauss cares about them feel that Strauss listens to them received, we made some changes, such as Our global supply chain engages more than 14,000 suppliers in the supply of supply ingredients, providing a single focal point for queries goods and services to a value of around $2 billion each year to our production factories. in our purchasing department. Most of our production is in our own 26 facilities around the world, supported by a network of warehousing, logistics and distribution operations that deliver our products to our customers. Throughout this complex supply chain, we aim to ensure fair and responsible dealings with our suppliers, sustainable and ethical sourcing of our food ingredients, other raw materials and packaging, as well as adhering to the highest standards of human rights in all our internal and external operations. 100% of our food products in each country are subject to strict regulatory guidelines and labeling of ingredients and nutritional information.We comply in full with applicable regulations and have not been subject to incidents of non-compliance resulting in fines or sanctions during the past year. 64 | | 64 | 65 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Organic hummus for Sabra Diversifying our supply chain In 2016, Sabra commenced a collaboration are certified organic – around 2.5% of Sabra’s I take a personal interest A first in the U.S. Sabra to source homewith local grower cooperatives in the U.S. to develop capabilities to grow organic chickpeas. total requirement. Organic chickpeas will be harvested for the very first time in the U.S. in grown organic chickpeas In 2016, we intensified our efforts to engage diverse suppliers in advancing small and To date, 750 acres of land for chickpea crops the fall of 2017. In Israel, we continue to work across our procurement teams to identify and onboard new small and women-owned businesses, or expand our engagement with similar women-owned suppliers current suppliers. at Strauss. I believe this Strauss Israel To date, 750 supplier diversity enhances our supply-chain results in 2016 while making a valuable Women-owned contribution to the local businesses' spend with 262 suppliersheld the 25$ economy. It remains a challenge to identify such acres of land for chickpea crops are businesses, so we cast our certified organic Small net wide & demonstrate businesses' flexibility to accommodate spend different needs. with 408 suppliers Moshe Riany, Vice President, Supply Chain, Strauss Israel Providing work for people with disabilities We enable employment opportunities for Obela and Bedford have created employment disabilities,to pack Strauss products in factories people with disabilities opportunities for more than 100 people with employing individuals living with a disability. Obela Australia regularly works with Bedford, disability over the past three years. Currently, around 100 individuals are employees a social business employing individuals living at four HaMeshakem factories assembling with a disability, for pre-packing needs. At Strauss in Israel, we engage with the different Strauss product packages such as Bedford employees help repack crackers and HaMeshakem organization, specializing coffee capsules, gift packs or multi-packs. guacamole into the right packs for customers. in occupational solutions for people with 66 | | 67 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY labeling A focus on Stopping the unnecessary practice Reducing antibiotics sustainability in used in our farms by imposing a of labelling cows. selective approach to antibiotics which are recognized as harmful over the long term. We note that Aligning with global our dairy farms this selective approach to the use best practice of antibiotics is required only in the period before calving when the cow is “dry” (does not produce milk), Strauss Israel Dairy division works since all milk reaching the dairy does In 2016, Strauss Israel joined the Dairy closely with its farmers to ensure not come from cows being treated sustainability in their dairy farms with antibiotics. Additionally, all Sustainability Framework (DSF) – a platform Over the years, we have made milk received at the dairy is tested to for dairy processors, farmers and other significant changes in our dairy farms, such as improvements to the design of Reducing calf assure that it is free of any traces of antibiotics. organizations to endorse and advance sustainability criteria and report on progress the cowsheds, increasing cows’ living space and reducing udder infection isolation practices each year. The DSF framework was developed to the minimum time by the Global Dairy Agenda for Action (GDAA) rates. In 2016, we decided to move to possible instead of isolating the next level. We mapped our dairy to provide overarching goals and alignment calves for weeks. farming processes and prioritized four of the dairy sector globally on the path to areas to address over the coming two sustainability. Strauss is proud to be the first years in order to improve animal welfare member company from Israel. and milk quality. These are: GHG emissions improved cow-feed Measuring GHG emissions at our cowsheds through Life Cycle Assessment Improving cow-feed by (LCA) and by examining key replacing imported feed with points of impact. natural, animal feed from known local sources. We maintain close, longterm relationships with our 60 dairy farmers in Israel and reward them for consistent good quality and performance against quarterly process & product audits. 68 | | 69 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY some of the partnerships that are currently active*: A commitment Strauss Strauss Coffee Strauss Coffee to women in honduras Coffee has vietnam is investing congo is financing the Strauss Coffee's 286 contributed to a bean drying 300 women in processing equipment to 1,200 women reconstruction of coffee washing women supply chain In 2016, Strauss Coffee commenced the roll-out of a growers machine to increase yields. growers improve coffee quality. growers stations to expand coffee output. multi-year, multi-project, multi-country commitment to support women coffee growers and to promote gender equity in Africa, Asia and Latin America. This From the initiative aims to empower women coffee growers by providing infrastructure, tangible assets and guidance to help them achieve better yields and quality, to farm enhance their sense of self-efficacy and to improve their annual income. Supporting women farmers is one of the keys to enabling an improvement in the prosperity of entire communities and regions. As one of the largest buyers of green coffee in the to shelf world, we believe we can make a difference. Using our resources and purchasing power to assist local coffee growers serves our mission by advancing women, supporting economies and delivering great coffee to our consumers. creating a direct link between our Our commitment is to engage in six partnerships consumers and the with women coffee-growing cooperatives and source of our coffee gender equity projects by the end of 2017. In each partnership, we are improving the capabilities and – is our new way of capacity of the growers by providing technology, enhancing our coffee resources and know-how according to the coffee value chain. growers most pressing needs and requirements. Coffee sourced from these partnerships will be used in Strauss Coffee’s leading brands such as Elite coffee, MK Cafe, Doncafé, Ambassador and others. *At the time of publishing of this Report, a total of 6 women-operated coffee farms joined the Strauss Coffee Green Coffee sustainability initiative, also including El 70 | Salvador, Uganda and Colombia | 71 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY More about women coffee growers in Honduras In 1993, a group of women formed COMUCAP to raise awareness and promote women´s rights. Today, 286 women are working in coffee and aloe production. Our partnership is a collaboration with MdH, a subsidiary of Volcafe. The World Health Organization identifies Honduras is a violent country with the highest rates of female abuse. Cooperatives provide a vital lifeline for women, offering counselling, education, business training and access to credit, enabling women to become providers for their families. Over 36% of Hondurans live in ‘rural extreme poverty’ as classified by the International Fund for Agricultural Development. Supporting women through investing in cooperatives enables them to improve life conditions for their families and communities. More about women coffee growers in Vietnam The Building women’s capacity in Vietnam is a program that supports 300 women coffee growers widows, single, minority and low/no-income women to help them gain financial independence. The program is a partnership between ACOM coffee trader and a local company in which the women coffee growers will learn new techniques and skills to help them improve coffee outputs and run their small business. Vietnam is currently the world number one producer and exporter of Robusta coffee which is widely used to make instant coffee. Enabling women to play a role in the Robusta economy is a meaningful way to improve livelihoods for all. More about women coffee growers in The Congo Rebuilding Women Hope (RWH) is a local association that supports 1,200 Congolese women coffee growers in Bukavu. RWH has been working to rebuild the hope and dignity of women in a country where women are frequently at risk from violence. Our partnership is a collaboration with Coffeelac, a coffee processor and exporter and SHIFT Social Impact Solutions, a firm focusing on responsible supply chain and women’s economic empowerment. Teaching women to improve their coffee business significantly improves the position of many women in the Congo. More about what's to come In the coming year, we plan to develop additional partnerships to support additional women operated coffee farms, reaching hundreds more women coffee growers in these countries. 72 | | 73 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Proven positive impacts We supply women’s cooperatives with what they need the most, and in doing This is not just about of supporting women so we create added value which transcends their communities. In the long run, coffee. We have met the coffee growers Improved economies we aim to cooperate with several women's cooperatives and farms in different Supporting women farmers leads women members of the to up to 30% yield improvement, increasing the economic value countries. This is our way of addressing real coffee industry long-term needs cooperatives. We see that of coffee crops and providing a boost to local economies. while adding positive impact on people’s lives. we are not only helping Amir Levin, Chief Operating Officer, them to grow coffee. We Improved Strauss Coffee coffee quality are helping them develop Women do most of the work their self-worth. This that impacts coffee quality, so an investment in women is an We continue enhances the confidence investment in quality. Healthier communities to purchase sustainable When women control the family income, 90% is spent on their families they have in their coffee including children’s health & nutrition. yield, but also the Typically, no more than 40% of male income is spent on families. green coffee In 2016 we purchased confidence they have in Equal 7,900 metric tons of verified green coffee from opportunity the Global Coffee Platform themselves as strong, In coffee, women do 70% (GCP), representing 13% of our total coffee capable women who can of the work in the fields but typically have only a 15% procurement. In 2017, the 4C Association merged with IDH to form the Global take on any challenge share of ownership. Coffee Platform. Strauss Coffee is a GCP member and we have committed to continue our purchase of sustainable coffee in order to raise the economic value Celine Bannino, Chief Marketing of coffee crops and provide a boost to local economies. Officer, Strauss Coffee 74 | | 75 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY Global Compact Principles GRI Standards Our Commitment 1 Businesses should support and respect the • Human Rights Aspects Respecting human rights at Strauss is a core protection of internationally proclaimed value. We conduct our business responsibly human rights. according to the highest ethical standards, 2 Businesses should make sure that they are • Human Rights Aspects including respect for all human beings and not complicit in human rights abuses. • Local Communities acknowledgement of their rights. We make Aspects our suppliers aware of our human rights standards and encourage them to adopt similar standards. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Freedom of Association We respect the rights of employees to freedom association and the effective recognition and Collective Bargaining of association and collective bargaining. We of the right to collective bargaining. Aspect maintain a collaborative relationship with • Labor/Management employees and address issues relating to their UN GLOBAL COMPACT 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Relations Aspect • Forced and Compulsory Labor rights in a positive manner. We do not engage in any practice which could be construed as forced labor. Strauss Group The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative of the employees are employed lawfully and of their United Nations which encourages companies around the world to adhere own free will. to ten principles of responsible business relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Strauss Group 5 Businesses should support the effective • Child Labor We respect and support the rights of children has participated in the UNGC since 2008. abolition of child labor. and we are committed to safeguarding their interests. We do not employ children in any part of our business. Statement of continued support 6 Businesses should support the elimination • Labor Practices and We maintain a policy of equal opportunity for the UN Global Compact of discrimination in respect of employment Decent Work and inclusive practices for new and current On behalf of Strauss Group, I confirm our continuing participation in the and occupation. employees in all matters relating to their UN Global Compact. We commit to upholding and promoting the ten employment with Strauss Group. principles of the Global Compact and supporting the broad objectives of 7 Businesses should support a precautionary • Environmental Aspects We adopt environmentally-oriented practices social, humanitarian and environmental goals. We confirm our intention approach to environmental challenges. in all our operations and have established to adhere to these principles and continue to promote them within our targets to reduce our impacts on the companies and with our business partners. We report annually on our 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives • Environmental Aspects environment. We aim to drive such practices progress with our Sustainability Reports which are available on our website. to promote greater environmental through our supply chain and work to identify responsibility. food technologies which support efficient food 9 Businesses should encourage the • Environmental Aspects supply and a reduction in food waste. development and diffusion of Gadi Lesin environmentally friendly technologies. President and CEO, Strauss Group Businesses should work against corruption • Anti-Corruption Aspect We are committed to behaving with integrity in all its forms, including extortion and • Public Policy Aspect and act against all forms of corruption. bribery. 76 | | 77 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTENT INDEX GRI Content Index: Material Disclosures Material GRI Standard Mgmt. Specific GRI Diclosure page Omission GRI Content Index: General Disclosures Priority approach GRI Standard Diclosure page Omission Page 102-1 Name of the organization 10 GRI 201: Economic 101-1-3: 201-1: Economic value generated and 15 102-2 Activities, products, and services 10 performance page 15 distributed 102-3 Location of headquarters 10 GRI 203: Indirect 101-1-3: 203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts 32-37, Healthy lifestyles economic impacts pages 32, 33, 102-4 Location of operations 10 43 ,66 ,70 43, 64, 70 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10 GRI 413: Local 101-1-3: 413-1: Operations with local 54-55 102-6 Markets served 10 Communities page 54 community engagement 102-7 Scale of the organization 10 Reduce resource GRI 302: Energy 101-1-3: 302-1: Energy use 58 102-8 Information on employees 45 consumption page 56 302-3: Energy intensity 59 102-9 Supply chain 64 and waste in our supply chain GRI 305: Emissions 101-1-3: 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) 58 102-10 Significant changes 5 page 56 GHG emissions 102-11 Precautionary Principle 56 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) 58 102-12 External initiatives 11 ,17 ,69 ,76 GHG emissions 102-13 Membership of associations 11 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 59 102-14 Statement from senior manager 8 305-6: Emissions of ozone-depleting 82 102-16 Values, principles, standards 11 substances (ODS) GRI 102: General 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 82 102-18 Governance structure 11 Disclosures 2016 and other air emissions 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 20 GRI 303: Water 101-1-3: 303-1: Water withdrawal by source 61 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 45 page 56 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 20 GRI 306: Effluents 101-1-3: 306-1: Water discharge 82 102-43 Stakeholder engagement 20 and Waste page 56 306-2: Waste by type and disposal 61 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20 306-3: Significant spills 61 102-45 Entities included 5 306-5: Water bodies affected discharges 61 102-46 Report content and topic Boundaries 5 Clear product GRI 417: Marketing 101-1-3: 417-1 Requirements for product and service 64 102-47 List of material topics 20 labelling and and labeling page 64 information and labeling 102-48 Restatements of information 5 responsible 417-3: Non-compliance concerning marketing 64 102-49 Changes in reporting 5 marketing communications 102-50 Reporting period 5 Ethical sourcing GRI 205: Anti101-1-3: 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and 19 and supply chain Corruption page 19 actions taken 102-51 Date of most recent report 5 102-52 Reporting cycle 5 GRI 414: Supplier 101-1-3: 414-1: New suppliers that were screened using 65 Social Assessment page 65 social criteria 102-53 Contact point 5 Diversity in GRI 405: Diversity 101-1-3: 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and 11 ,45 ,46 102-54 Reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 5 page 46 employees everything we do and Equal 102-55 GRI content index 78 Opportunity 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 47 102-56 External assurance 5 women to men 78 | | 79 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY GRI 404-3: Performance reviews by employee category and gender Engaging and GRI 401: Employment 101-1-3: 401-1: New employee hires and turnover 80 developing page 42 2013 2014 2016 employees GRI 404: Training 101-1-3: 404-1: Average hours of training 45 and Education page 42 Men Women Men Women Men Women 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee 48 ,50 ,51 Non-managers 15% 20% 16% 22% 13% 14% 404-3: Employees receiving performance reviews 51 Middle managers 65% 71% 64% 69% 66% 69% Employee GRI 403: 101-1-3: 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, 52 ,53 health, safety Occupational Health page 52 occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, Senior managers 61% 78% 91% 86% 94% 75% and wellbeing and Safety and fatalities Total by gender 23% 28% 23% 28% 20% 21% DATA CHARTS GRI 403-2: Injury rate per 100 employees 2013 2014 2015 2016 GRI 102-8: Employees by region and gender Israel 4.71 3.48 4.71 3.76 Europe 1.75 2.92 1.47 1.16 2013 2014 2015 2016 Americas 4.91 2.37 2.58 1.55 Men Women All Men Women All Men Women All Men Women All Total Group 4.54 2.91 3.38 2.44 Americas 3,300 1,682 5,012 3,767 1,898 5,665 3,850 1,970 5,820 4,042 2,106 6,148 Israel 2,806 2,588 5,394 2,896 2,597 5,493 2,485 2,309 4,794 2,878 2,784 5,662 Europe 994 688 1,662 977 657 1,634 950 678 1,628 905 644 1,549 GRI 403-2: Lost day rate per 100 employees Total 7,130 4,938 12,068 7,640 5,152 12,792 7,285 4,957 12,242 7,825 5,534 13,359 2013 2014 2015 2016 Israel 57.79 54.00 77.51 65.75 GRI 401-1: New hire and turnover rates by region in 2016 Europe 65.12 87.28 57.40 15.75 Americas 140.80 75.08 47.46 24.24 Europe Israel Americas Group Total Total Group 94.98 66.49 60.75 40.85 New hires Leavers New hires Leavers New hires Leavers New hires Leavers Women 1.6% 0.8% 4.9% 3.3% 3.5% 3.3% 10.9% 7.4% Men 1.6% 1.5% 4.6% 4.4% 6.7% 6.2% 12.9% 12.0% All 3.1% 2.3% 9.5% 7.7% 10.2% 9.5% 23.7% 19.5% GRI 302-1: Main sources of direct energy use by type (MJ) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 GRI 401-1: New hire and turnover rates by age in 2016 Biomass/ Biofuels 54 0 61 58 59 Gasoline 139 141 110 94 113 Age 30 and under Age 30-50 Age 50 and over Group Total LPG 281 298 247 246 245 New hires Leavers New hires Leavers New hires Leavers New hires Leavers Coffee biomass 30 75 17 3 3 Women 5.3% 3.5% 4.9% 3.3% 0.7% 0.6% 10.9% 7.4% Diesel Fuel 96 92 146 179 174 Men 7.1% 5.5% 5.3% 5.7% 0.5% 0.9% 12.9% 12.0% Fuel 162 134 90 90 94 All 12.4% 9.0% 10.2% 9.0% 1.1% 1.5% 23.7% 19.5% Natural Gas 422 592 617 575 555 80 | | 81 10 YEARS OF TRANSPARENCY GRI 305-1: Main sources of direct energy emissions (tons CO2e) LPG 2012 18,279 2013 19,352 2014 16,019 2015 15,543 2016 15,485 THANK YOU! Thank you for taking an interest in our Sustainability Report. We sincerely ask you to consider Gasoline 9,816 9,912 7,761 6,788 8,055 providing your feedback which will help us meet your needs more effectively. Please also Diesel Fuel 7,234 6,914 10,898 13,470 12,945 visit our website, www.strauss-group.com, where you will find additional information and Feul 12,620 10,463 6,992 6,987 7,329 our sustainability blog, which is updated regularly. Natural Gas 23,299 32,712 34,078 34,638 35,666 We acknowledge the hard work, passion and commitment of all Strauss employees who contribute to our business and sustainability performance, and to over 100 employees who GRI 305-6: Emissions of ozone depeleting substances (tons CO2e) have specifically contributed content for this Sustainability Report. 2014 2015 2016 Credits: R-22 6,145 11,305 4,977 Beyond Business Ltd-Elaine Cohen and Iris Rakovitzky (content and copy) R-12 0 0 0 Sher Consultants (environmental data) Studio Merhav (graphic design) R-134A 673 585 128 424A 105 2 0 407C 17 28 23 FEEDBACK ON THIS REPORT 507 9,603 6,715 0 R-410A 116 117 181 Total ODS 16,658 18,753 5,309 Please contact us at: Daniela Prusky-Sion, Global Director, Sustainability and Internal Communications, Strauss Group GRI 305-7: Other air emissions ( tons CO2e) daniela.sion@strauss-group.com 2013 2014 2015 2016 NOX 110 44 63 76 SO2 151 104 105 97 For more about Strauss Group PM 26 14 16 17 WWW.STRAUSS-GROUP.COM CO 32 43 52 44 Total 318 204 236 235 http://blog.strauss-group.com GRI 306-1: Water discharge (tons) https://www.instagram.com/STRAUSSGROUP 2013 2014 2015 2016 TSS 662 457 360 538 https://twitter.com/StraussGroup COD 2,284 2,114 1,479 1,789 BOD 1,063 791 992 1,123 https://www.youtube.com/user/straussgroup TOTAL 4,009 3,362 2,831 3,450 82 | www.strauss-group.com
