Connecting the Future 2016 Sustainability Report Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. Report Profile Every year since 2008, Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. ( Huawei , the company , or we ) has voluntarily released sustainability reports and disclosed our sustainability performance so that the public can better understand the strategy, approach, Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. and implementation of our sustainability efforts. Doing so helps us be more sustainable and facilitate communication, awareness, and ture Connecting the Fu interaction with our stakeholders and the public. y Report 2016 Sustainabilit & Holding Co., Ltd Huawei Investment This report covers all entities that Huawei either has control of, or a significant influence over, in terms of financial and operational policies. The scope of the entities covered in this report is consistent with the scope of organizations discussed in the 2016 Huawei Annual Report. Unless otherwise specified, this report describes the economic, environmental, and social performance of Huawei and its subsidiaries worldwide during the January 1, 2016 2016 Sustainability Report to December 31, 2016 reporting period. All data contained herein is derived from Huawei's official documents and statistical reports. This report is prepared in accordance with the Core Global 2016 Sustainability Report Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Huawei engaged TÜV Rheinland, an external assurance provider, to verify the reliability, fairness, and transparency of this report and to issue an independent assurance statement (see Appendix IV). 2016 Sustainability Report As an independent record of sustainability, this report is published Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. online and in print in both Chinese and English in June 2017. (The previous report was published in August 2016.) The 2016 司公限有股控资投为华 Sustainability Report can be viewed at www.huawei.com. We would like to thank all stakeholders for sharing their feedback and recommendations as we strive to continuously improve both our sustainability performance and this report. For any report-related questions or suggestions, please contact: Tel: +86 (0)755 2878 0808 E-mail: sustainability@huawei.com Contents Sustainability Management ·Connecting the Future 12 ·Message from the Chairwoman 12 Corporate Profile 12 Sustainability Management ·Message from the Chairman of the 12 Sustainability Strategy 12 Corporate Sustainable Development Risks and Opportunities 12 Committee Managing Sustainability 12 ·Overview of Huawei's Sustainability 12 Stakeholder Engagement 12 Initiatives in 2016 Sustainable Operations Operational Compliance 12 Sustainable Operations Caring for Employees 12 Safe Operations 12 Appendix I: Huawei's 2017 Sustainability Goals 12 12 Green Operations 12 Appendix II: GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Appendix III: Terms and Abbreviations 12 Sustainable Supply Chain Ecosystem 12 Appendix IV: Assurance Statement 12 Sustainable Products and Services Cyber Security and Privacy Protection 12 Sustainable Products and Services Green Products and Services 12 Safe Products 12 Sustainable World Bridging the Digital Divide 12 可持续的世界 Sustainable World Supporting Network Stability 12 Contributing to a Greener World 12 Supporting Local Communities 12 Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 12 1 Connecting the Future Like air and water, connectivity has become so pervasive that it is weaving its way into every aspect of our lives. A Better Connected World is taking shape – it is destined to profoundly influence every individual, organization, and industry. Connectivity is everywhere: between businesses, between people, between people and things, between things, and even between people's emotions. Enhanced connectivity will change the world for the better, allowing individuals to better sense and seize opportunities. However, the road ahead is beset with challenges. With a growing global population, deepening urbanization, and increasing resource consumption, we are faced with a worrying dilemma: How can we do more with less to be sustainable? As a key player in the information and communications technology (ICT) industry, Huawei leverages connectivity-based ICT technologies – such as cloud computing, 5G, and the Internet of Things (IoT) – to drive global sustainability and build a Better Connected World. Our innovative ICT technologies bring people closer together and reunite the separated, no matter where they are. Our ICT technologies also create considerable business opportunities, deliver efficiency gains, and move the industry forward. Huawei's vision for sustainability is to Connect the Future. In the future, we will bridge the digital divide with communications technologies; honor our responsibilities to support network stability and security; deliver innovative technologies to make our world greener; devote ourselves to employee care and well-being; build harmonious communities and make dreams come true; and partner with industry players to achieve shared success. We stand ready to collaborate with all our stakeholders to establish a robust business ecosystem and build a Better Connected World. 2 Message from the Chairwoman approaching ubiquitous connectivity, and smart devices have become an important part of our daily lives. Smart applications based on big data are emerging, including smart transportation, smart manufacturing, and smart healthcare, and all industries face the need to go digital. This will change both production and business models. It will also dramatically change the way we work and live; it will boost efficiency and value creation, and effectively reduce resource consumption. As an enabler and driver of an intelligent world, Huawei has invested heavily in developing future-proof technologies, solutions, and business models. We work closely with all stakeholders to cultivate an ICT ecosystem that promotes positive, expeditious change. As our world evolves into an intelligent world, the only way we can ensure a sustainable future is by actively embracing change. Responsive and responsible leadership At the World Economic Forum in January 2017, I signed The Compact for Responsive and Responsible Leadership on behalf of Huawei. We will ensure that our company's strategic goals are aligned with the long-term goals of society as a whole. We Information and communications technology (ICT) has played a are committed to sustainable value creation, and will not significant role in stimulating economic growth and social sacrifice long-term economic prosperity and social welfare for progress. Now we must further leverage its potential to our own short-term interests. Huawei will hold true to the promote global prosperity, inclusiveness, and sustainability. convictions outlined in the compact and adhere to sustainable Huawei is a staunch supporter of the United Nations' development practices. We will launch favorable policies and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and we firmly believe initiatives to achieve sustainable growth and contribute to the that ICT will play a critical role in helping the UN implement its UN's Sustainable Development Goals. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development at scale and with quality. Building a sustainable, better connected world Increasing connectivity to achieve sustainable development To reach the targets set out in the SDGs by 2030, we must fully unleash the potential of ICT. Every organization along the value In essence, ICT is an accelerator. It gives more people access to chain needs to deploy ICT infrastructure more extensively networks, increases overall connectivity, and raises efficiency. around the globe, especially broadband networks. We also need It also enables the widespread use of the technologies and to create a favorable policy environment to promote the solutions that are necessary to achieving the SDGs. For efficient application of ICT. This will drive greater economic, example, in Kenya, more than 200,000 residents now use social, and environmental prosperity, helping ensure Huawei's digital clinics and telemedicine platform, which has widespread sustainable development. helped dramatically reduce medical costs. Another example is WTTx, a broadband access solution that uses wireless Huawei continues to maintain strategic focus, patiently technology to provide fiber-like experience to households. Both applying ourselves to breakthroughs in key domains. It is our in densely populated urban areas and also in vast, remote rural responsibility to support the UN in its pursuit of the areas, WTTx has lowered the costs of last-mile broadband Sustainable Development Goals, and it's one that we take access by 75% compared to fixed networks. Now more people seriously. Through open collaboration with our partners, we aim can integrate more closely with the outside world. ICT has to connect all people and all things, and build a sustainable, created new opportunities for building a sustainable future. better connected world together. Building a robust ecosystem to promote positive, expeditious change Ultra-broadband has provided the foundation for emerging technologies like data centers, cloud computing, big data, artificial intelligence, and the Internet of Things (IoT), which are Sun Yafang all becoming engines of economic growth. We are gradually Chairwoman of the Board 3 Message from the Chairman of the Corporate Sustainable Development Committee Short-term thinking has become widespread amongst enterprise investors and executives, especially with the increase in global uncertainties and downward economic trends of the past few years. Strong determination and commitment to sustainable development on the part of executives can significantly reduce operational risks and drive healthy business development. At Huawei, our corporate strategy aims to achieve long-term and sustainable value creation. We also regularly review our sustainability strategy so it can be better aligned with our corporate strategy. Our sustainability strategy is comprised of four strategic objectives: Bridging the Digital Divide, Supporting Network Stability and Security and Protecting Privacy, Promoting Environmental Protection, and Building a Healthy Industry Ecosystem. By realizing these strategic objectives, we have contributed to progress in the economy, environment, and society, and will continue to do so in the future. Huawei has been fortunate enough to play the role of building and enabling a Better Connected World. In this role, we help to bridge the global digital divide. Our products and solutions now connect approximately 3 billion people in more than 170 countries and regions, including many underdeveloped and remote regions with harsh geographic environments. For example, in Nepal, Huawei and a local carrier deployed a network connecting the entire route up to the South Base Camp of Mount Everest. Thanks to our efforts, the base camp – once a blind spot with no signal coverage – was linked to the rest of the world. In Myanmar, our networks have connected 13 million people (about one-fifth of the country's population) for the first time. We achieved this by overcoming many challenges during network deployment, such as a complicated geographical landscape and patchy transportation infrastructure. Connectivity itself cannot bridge the digital divide – there is also a critical need to create an enabling and inclusive environment and to boost ICT adoption. Participation in digital transformations will fall short if there is a lack of ICT skills. By the end of 2016, the Huawei Authorized Information Network Academy (HAINA) had trained over 20,000 students from 32 countries, with over 8,000 of these students gaining formal certification. Our flagship CSR program Seeds for the Future has benefited more than 25,000 students from 96 countries and regions. Our ICT technologies and solutions are popular across a range of sectors – Safe City, finance, transportation, and healthcare in particular – and are enabling efficiency and agile innovation in those areas. In 2016, our Kenyan smart healthcare project was completed. Its telemedicine and digital clinic solution has been deployed at over 40 medical facilities in Kenya and benefits more than 200,000 residents in remote areas like Lamu Island. It is essential that the networks built by Huawei always remain stable and secure. Whenever a disaster occurs (such as an earthquake or tsunami), we are ready to take on the challenge 4 and keep networks stable. In 2016, we delivered robust network improvements to quality of life and well-being. We do support services during nearly 200 key events and natural everything we can to support and give back to local disasters worldwide, including the G20 Summit held in communities, bringing direct benefits to local people. In 2016, Hangzhou and the magnitude 7.8 earthquake in Ecuador. we ran approximately 200 community support programs in 70 Supporting network stability is the ultimate social countries and regions, through which we made significant responsibility of all network equipment providers, and this is contributions to local society. true for Huawei as well. We adopt an open and transparent approach to cyber security. Our commitment to cyber security As our 2016 sustainability maturity assessment indicates, will never be outweighed by our commercial interests. We have Huawei has taken sustainability management to the next level. built an end-to-end global cyber security assurance system. In We achieved this by continuously optimizing our organizational addition to ensuring our own cyber security, we also emphasize structure, policies, and processes. But we aren't done yet. cyber security for our partners, helping to improve expertise in Moving forward, we will continue to view sustainability as one cyber security management across the supply chain. All six of of our strategic priorities and invest in sustainability over the our supply centers worldwide were ISO 28000 certified in 2016. long term. Huawei is committed to investing more than 10% of its annual In 2017, we will focus on innovation in sustainable development revenue in R&D. Our R&D investment in 2016 totaled US$11 and also on risk control, aiming to build competitiveness in billion, and this enabled us to develop innovative green sustainability. We will integrate sustainability further into our products and build green communications infrastructure. In business operations to create greater value for business. In 2016, we improved the energy efficiency of our core routers and external communications, we will remain fact-based and wireless base stations by 18% and 20%, respectively. We objective as we seek to earn the trust of our stakeholders. Our applied multiple technologies, such as Symbol Power Saving goal is to build a robust ecosystem for Huawei to sustain its and Carrier Intelligent Shutdown, to reduce the energy usage of long-term development. our base stations. These technologies, now widely used in carrier networks, have reduced the energy usage of our remote radio units by more than 20% during non-peak hours. Also in 2016, eight Huawei smartphones, including the P9, Honor 8, and Mate 9, passed the UL110 Platinum green certification. Huawei's leading green ICT technology and extensive experience in this field are crucial to our competitiveness in sustainability. Huawei proactively contributes to projects aimed at mitigating and responding to climate change. Our goal is to reduce our carbon emissions per unit of sales revenue by 30% by 2020. To that end, we have launched multiple energy conservation and emissions reduction programs. For example, in 2016, we upgraded our energy systems to save 45.7 MWh of electricity, equivalent to a CO2 emissions reduction of approximately 42,000 tons. We have built solar power stations with a total capacity of 19.3 MWh. In 2016, these solar power stations generated more than 17 MWh of electricity, achieving a reduction in CO2 emissions equivalent to over 15,000 tons. Huawei is a responsible corporate citizen and operates with integrity and in compliance with the law. Adherence to business ethics, international conventions, and national laws and regulations is key to our global operations. In an increasingly complicated business environment, we leverage the certainty of legal compliance to tackle the uncertainty of international politics, to bridge discontinuity in the macro environment. The contributions we make to the countries where we operate are not just in the form of direct tax payments, job opportunities, Kevin Tao and positive influence on local industry. More importantly, we Chairman of the provide innovative ICT solutions to enable digital engines and drive digital transformation, economic growth, and Corporate Sustainable Development Committee 5 Overview of Huawei's Sustainability Initiatives in 2016 Everest 1,500 Provided mobile signals to connect the Everest South Supported the stability of over 1,500 customer networks Base Camp with the rest of the world Arctic Circle 200 Deployed a 100G submarine network in the Arctic Circle Guaranteed network stability during approximately 200 to meet communications needs in Greenland major events and natural disasters worldwide 200,000 Fourth Delivered a Smart Healthcare Project in Kenya to benefit Released the fourth cyber security white paper that 200,000 people addresses cyber security in the global supply chain of the ICT industry 96 ISO28000 Rolled out the Seeds for the Future Program in 96 Obtained the ISO 28000 certification for all distribution countries and regions to promote ICT knowledge transfer centers of global supply centers and a prosperous industry 6 23 % CNY11.2 billion Increased the energy efficiency of major products by Invested CNY11.2 billion in employee benefits 23% on average 8 39 Received the UL110 highest-level green certification for Conducted independent third-party EHS audits on 8 mobile phones base stations in 39 countries and regions 20.6% IPC-1401 Reduced carbon emissions per unit of sales revenue by Led the development of the IPC-1401 Supply Chain 20.6% in 2016 compared with the benchmark year Social Responsibility Management System Guidance 123,000 200 Used green packaging in 60% of products to reduce the Launched approximately 200 community support use of wood product by over 123,000 m3 programs in 70 countries and regions 7 Sustainability Management 8 01 Sustainability Management Corporate Profile Sustainability Strategy Risks and Opportunities Managing Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 9 Sustainability Management 1.1 Corporate Profile Who is Huawei? nuclear contamination after the Japanese tsunami, and the massive earthquake that struck Sichuan, China, we hold fast in Huawei is a leading global information and communications disaster zones to help restore communications networks and technology (ICT) solutions provider. Driven by a commitment to ensure the reliable operation of essential telecom equipment. sound operations, ongoing innovation, and open collaboration, To further promote sustainability, we help develop the next we have established a competitive ICT portfolio of end-to-end generation of ICT talent with our global Seeds for the Future solutions in telecom and enterprise networks, devices, and program, in which we give college students from 96 different cloud technology and services. Our ICT solutions, products, and countries and regions around the globe the opportunity to visit services are used in more than 170 countries and regions, Huawei's headquarters, undergo training, and gain first-hand serving over one-third of the world's population. With 180,000 experience in the ICT industry. employees, Huawei is committed to enabling the future information society, and building a Better Connected World. We provide dedicated employees with a strong growth platform. Inspiring dedication is one of Huawei's core values, What do we offer the world? and it manifests itself in many ways. We assess employees and select managers based on their performance results, as well as We create value for our customers. Together with telecom the extent of their responsibilities. We provide our teams with a carriers, Huawei has built over 1,500 networks, helping global development platform, giving young team members the connect over one-third of the world's population. Together with opportunity to shoulder greater responsibilities and accelerate our enterprise customers, we employ open cloud solutions and career growth. In this way, we have enabled hundreds of agile networks to drive efficient operations and agile thousands of Huawei people to yield ample returns for their innovation in domains like Safe City, finance, transportation, individual efforts, and gain memorable life experience. and energy. With our smart devices and smartphones, we are improving people's digital experience in work, life, and What do we stand for? entertainment. For the past 29 years, hundreds of thousands of Huawei people We promote industry development. Huawei advocates have maintained an unwavering focus on our core business, openness, collaboration, and shared success. Through joint refusing to cut corners and rejecting opportunism. With a solid, innovation with our partners and peers, we are expanding the practical approach to everything we do, we have invested value of information and communications technology to patiently, amassing the long-term, focused effort that leads to establish a robust and symbiotic industry ecosystem. Huawei great moments of technological breakthrough. Our ability to is an active member of over 360 standards organizations, maintain this strategic focus boils down to our core values of industry alliances, and open source communities, to which we staying customer-centric, inspiring dedication, persevering, have submitted over 49,000 proposals to drive standardization and growing by self-reflection. and pave the way for more effective collaboration. We have joined forces with industry partners to innovate in emerging The digital era has been generous. We will make the most of the domains like cloud computing, software-defined networking historic opportunities it presents, and boldly forge ahead to (SDN), network functions virtualization (NFV), and 5G. Together, build a Better Connected World. we promote ongoing, collaborative industry development. Our Value Propositions We boost economic growth. Huawei generates tax revenues, ICT is converging at an increasingly rapid pace. New increases employment, and stimulates the development of the technologies, especially cloud computing and big data, are ICT value chain in the countries where we operate. Perhaps becoming key enablers for ICT innovation and development. more importantly, we deliver innovative ICT solutions that drive They are completely reshaping the communication technology the digital transformation of all industries, thereby fostering (CT) industry, and creating enormous business opportunities economic growth and greatly improving the quality of people's through information technology (IT) and CT convergence. In lives. response to these revolutionary changes, Huawei continues to We drive sustainable development. As a responsible corporate innovate around customer needs, focusing on the development citizen, Huawei has made a significant contribution to bridging of leading technology that meets those needs. Through open the digital divide, leaving our mark in places as remote as partnerships, we focus on providing future-oriented Mount Everest and the Arctic Circle. We are keenly aware of the information pipes to build a Better Connected World and importance of telecommunications in emergency response continuously create value for customers and society. Huawei situations. Having faced Ebola-affected areas in West Africa, aims to become a strategic partner that assists carriers in 10 Sustainability Management future transformation efforts, a leading enterprise ICT infrastructure provider, and a top smart device brand that consumers prefer and trust. Building a Better Connected World Ubiquitous Broadband Agile Innovation Inspired Experience Ubiquitous networks with a superior One-stop ICT infrastructure Consumer centricity; a top smart user experience device brand preferred and trusted by Adapted to vertical industry consumers Enabling customer transformation requirements towards digital operations Innovative, premium products Leading industry cloudification with Integrating global content, open hybrid cloud architecture Device-cloud synergy that provides a applications, and development superior user experience across all resources Big data-enabled identification of scenarios business opportunities Staying customer-centric; innovating at the crossroads of customer needs and leading technology; building an industry ecosystem that thrives on shared success Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 11 Sustainability Management Business Review 2016 In 2016, we maintained our strategic focus, continued making breakthroughs, and created real value for our customers. Our annual revenue was CNY521,574 million, up 32.0% year-on-year. Five-Year Financial Highlights Revenue Operating profit Cash flow from operating activities CAGR: 24% CAGR: 23% CAGR: 18% CNY Million CNY Million CNY Million 600,000 50,000 47,515 60,000 45,786 45,000 52,300 521,574 49,218 500,000 50,000 40,000 34,205 35,000 41,755 400,000 395,009 40,000 30,000 29,128 300,000 288,197 25,000 30,000 20,658 24,969 239,025 20,000 220,198 22,554 200,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 100,000 10,000 5,000 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year Revenue Performance by Region 2016 Americas 44,082 (CNY Million) 2016 2015 YoY 13.3% China 236,512 167,690 41.0% 8.5% Asia Pacific China EMEA 156,509 127,719 22.5% 67,500 236,512 12.9% Asia Pacific 67,500 49,403 36.6% 36.6% 45.3% 41.0% Americas 44,082 38,910 13.3% 30% Others 16,971 11,287 50.4% EMEA Total 521,574 395,009 32.0% 156,509 22.5% 12 Corporate Governance By staying customer-centric and inspiring dedication, we have sustained long-term growth by continuously improving our Sustainability Management corporate governance structure, organizations, processes, and appraisal systems. Shareholders' Meeting Board of Directors Independent Auditor Supervisory Board Executive Committee Human Resources Finance Committee Strategy & Development Audit Committee Committee Committee CEO/Rotating CEOs Group Functions Corporate Cyber Security Human Resources Finance Strategy Marketing Quality, BP & IT &User Privacy Development Protection Joint Committee PR & GR Legal Affairs Internal Audit Ethics & Compliance of Regions 2012 Laboratories Supply Chain, Purchase, Manufacturing Products & Carrier BG Enterprise BG Consumer BG Solutions Huawei University Huawei Internal Service Regional Organization (Regions and Representative Offices) Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 13 Sustainability Management Shareholders Board of Directors and Committees Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (the Company or The Board of Directors (BOD) is the decision-making body for Huawei ) is a private company wholly owned by its employees. corporate strategy and management. The BOD guides and Huawei's shareholders are the Union of Huawei Investment & oversees the overall business operations and makes decisions Holding Co., Ltd. (the Union ) and Mr. Ren Zhengfei. on significant issues regarding strategy and operations. The BOD has established the Human Resources Committee, the Through the Union, the company implements an Employee Finance Committee, the Strategy & Development Committee, Shareholding Scheme (the Scheme ), which involved 81,144 and the Audit Committee, which operate as authorized by the employees as of December 31, 2016. The Scheme effectively BOD. aligns employee contributions with the company's long-term development, fostering Huawei's continued success. Supervisory Board Mr. Ren Zhengfei is the individual shareholder of the Company Pursuant to the requirements of the Company Law of the and also participates in the Scheme. As of December 31, 2016, People's Republic of China, Huawei has established a Mr. Ren's investment accounts for nearly 1.4% of the Supervisory Board. The key responsibilities of the Supervisory Company's total share capital. Board include overseeing internal and external compliance, examining the company's financial and operational status, The Shareholders' Meeting and the monitoring the responsibility fulfillment of BOD members and Representatives' Commission senior management, as well as the legitimacy of BOD operations. Members of the Supervisory Board attend BOD The Shareholders' Meeting is the highest authority within the meetings as non-voting participants. Company, and comprises two shareholders: the Union and Mr. Ren Zhengfei. The Company's major issues, which involve the decisions of the Rotating CEOs Union as a shareholder of the Company, shall be primarily reviewed and decided on by the Representatives' Commission Huawei implements the rotating CEO system under the BOD's (the Commission ). The Commission consists of all leadership. As the primary owner of the company's operations representatives of shareholding employees ( Representatives ) and crisis management during the tenure, the Rotating and and exercises rights on behalf of all shareholding employees. In Acting CEO is responsible for the company's survival and 2016, the Commission held two meetings, at which it reviewed development. and approved proposals on annual profit distribution, capital increases, and long-term incentives, also voted in a new The Rotating and Acting CEO convenes and chairs the Supervisory Board. company's Executive Management Team (EMT) meetings. During routine management decision making, the Rotating and Acting CEO promptly notifies BOD and Supervisory Board members of responsibility fulfillment. For more information about Huawei's corporate governance, see the Corporate Governance Report section in the 2016 Huawei Annual Report. http://www.huawei.com/en/about-huawei/annual-report 14 1.2 Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Management Huawei's role is to responsibly build a Better Connected World. positive business environment, and, above all, serving our We will accomplish this by fulfilling our sustainability vision – customers and sharing benefits with society. Our sustainability bridging the digital divide and promoting the harmonious and strategy has been prepared to achieve our vision and integrate sustainable development of the economy, the environment, and sustainability firmly into our company, so it is aligned with our society. corporate business strategies. It is based on our materiality assessment and identifies the key challenges we face across Our approach is based on operating with integrity and legal our entire value chain. compliance, cooperating with stakeholders, contributing to a Sustainability Strategy ◆ Provide people across all geographic areas with easy access to voice communications services ◆ Ensure ubiquitous broadband for all and promote future-oriented ICT technologies to address global challenges ◆ Establish training centers and launch joint teaching initiatives to develop local talent, transfer knowledge, and increase people's engagement in the digital society Bridging the Digital Divide ◆ Provide customized ICT applications and solutions that meet individual, corporate, and regional needs to improve economic performance, quality of life, productivity, and competitiveness ◆ Prioritize network stability and security over commercial interests, especially at critical times (e.g., earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters and emergencies) ◆ Enhance the robustness and defense of products through continuous innovation and full consideration of business continuity and network resilience; support independent testing, verification, and certification of products to provide internationally recognized security assurance to customers; work Supporting Network and communicate proactively with stakeholders in an open and transparent manner; comply with Stability and Security and Protecting Privacy applicable security standards, laws and regulations ◆ Emphasize the protection of privacy; work with partners on privacy protection; adopt recognized methodologies and practices; integrate privacy protection into our day-to-day business activities ◆ Incorporate green concepts into product planning, design, R&D, manufacturing, delivery, and O&M; continuously innovate technology to improve resource utilization efficiency and provide leading energy-conserving and environmentally friendly products and solutions to customers ◆ Increase resource utilization in offices, production facilities, logistics centers, and labs to reduce waste and greenhouse gas emissions and build Huawei into a role model for environmentally friendly operations Promoting ◆ Continuously ensure the environmental compliance of Huawei's products and our partners' operations; Environmental Protection promote energy conservation and emissions reduction across our supply chain and improve Huawei's competitiveness in the industry ecosystem ◆ Continuously promote green and integrated ICT solutions to support energy conservation and emissions reduction in various industries; and proactively drive an energy-saving, environmentally friendly, and low-carbon society ◆ Provide employees with varied career paths based on their particular skill sets to help them realize their individual value ◆ Make significant contributions in all communities and countries in which we operate ◆ Abide by strict ethical business practices; oppose corruption, dumping, and monopoly; operate with integrity and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations Building a Healthy ◆ Focus on sustainability risk management in our own operational activities and services, gradually Industry Ecosystem become the sustainable development leader in the industry and around the world ◆ Work closely with suppliers to develop standards and benchmarks; shift our focus on supplier risk management to efficiency management, leading sustainable development in the industry ecosystem Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 15 Sustainability Management Huawei Signs Compact for Responsive and Responsible Leadership At the 47th Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Huawei Chairwoman Ms. Sun Yafang and executives from over 100 other leading global enterprises signed The Compact for Responsive and Responsible Leadership, which is a commitment to long-term sustainable global investment and growth. The Compact emphasizes that corporate objectives must be aligned with the long-term goals of society. Enterprises should not sacrifice long-term economic prosperity and the welfare of society for the sake of short-term financial gains. 16 1.3 Sustainability Risks and Opportunities Sustainability Management ICT is advancing rapidly, and innovative solutions are being unconnected, environmental pollution, and waste, among proposed to address many of the world's sustainable others. development challenges. These solutions include teleconferencing, telemedicine, and mobile finance. The UN As a key ICT player, Huawei takes sustainability very seriously in Broadband Commission believes that ICT solutions, especially our product design, procurement, manufacturing, delivery, and broadband, are absolutely crucial for achieving the Sustainable deployment. We want to ensure that we are making effective Development Goals (SDGs). The three pillars of sustainable business decisions in our operations. When we develop our development (economic social , and environmental sustainability strategy and goals, we take the risks and development) rely on ICT as a key catalyst. But numerous opportunities into full consideration. Through this, we are problems and challenges are threatening sustainable better able to contribute even more positively to our customers development worldwide. These include excessive energy and society. consumption, climate change, growing inequality for the Sustainability Risks, Opportunities, and Approaches ◆ The digital divide is narrowing, but more slowly than before. Risks ◆ The digital divide is also rapidly deepening: Less people are getting left behind, but the consequences for those left behind are greater. ● Innovation in technologies and business models to deliver affordable products and Bridging the services in emerging markets and developing countries and regions. Digital Divide ● Provide products and services that help bridge the digital divide between people of Opportunities different income levels in developed countries and regions. ● Apply ICT technology to drive efficiency improvement, carbon emissions reductions, and social progress. Huawei has always worked relentlessly with our customers to bridge the digital divide, narrowing differences in access to connectivity, digital services, and tools around the world. By building more than 1,500 networks in over 170 Approach countries and regions, we have brought affordable and high-quality connections to people in emerging markets, developing economies, and developed countries. Thus far, we have helped provide more than a third of the world's population with access to digital services. We are committed to leveraging our full spectrum of ICT advantages to create economic, environment, and social, benefits in all communities where we operate. ◆ Risks of cyber security and user privacy reduce the demand for ICT or the use of ICT. Risks ◆ Connectivity has become such an important part of life that network disturbances can lead to serious economic and social consequences. Supporting Network Stability and Security ● Continuously provide more secure, reliable products and services to earn customer and Protecting Privacy Opportunities trust and support, and increase ICT adoption and efficiency. Our commitment to cyber security will never be outweighed by commercial interests. Establishing and implementing an end-to-end global cyber security assurance system is one of our core development strategies. We strive to ensure Approach that everyone is able to communicate, access data, and share information anytime, anywhere. To that end, we have continuously increased investment in network stability and established a comprehensive customer network support system that considers a range of factors, including organizational structures, designated personnel, processes, and IT tools. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 17 Sustainability Management ◆ Network energy consumption grows as a result of more connections and requirements for higher bandwidth. ◆ Negative environmental or social consequences result from the use of products with Risks low energy efficiency and toxic materials. ◆Carbon emissions grow due to the use of non-renewable energy or energy-intensive technology during operations. Promoting ◆Improper behavior on the part of suppliers affects the environment as well as Environmental Huawei's supply chain, environmental performance, and brand reputation. Protection ●Develop energy-efficient products and solutions to make our offerings more competitive that results in more business opportunities. Opportunities ●Launch energy conservation and emissions reduction programs to reduce our operating expenditure and support Huawei's goal to be a green company. Our decision-making process takes the above risks into full account, ensuring that Huawei is well positioned to provide our customers and consumers with more energy-saving products and services. Our approach to environmental protection is diverse. For example, when we design or package products, we emphasize their resource efficiency, durability, recyclability, and reusability. We take back, reuse, and recycle as many products as possible. To Approach promote the circular economy, we reduce the use of energy, water, and other resources, and increase the use of renewable energy. We undertake multiple initiatives to make the supply chain greener and more efficient and competitive. These include introducing green technology into our business activities; launching green manufacturing and green operation programs to drive down costs; and collaborating with our customers and suppliers throughout the supply chain. ◆Complexities in the global legal environment for operational compliance could cause major challenges to the company. Risks ◆Risks could occur during product manufacturing and deployment. ◆Partners or suppliers could fail to fulfill their social responsibility. ●Develop and retain outstanding employees, and give timely and proper rewards to Building a Healthy dedicated employees. Industry ●Incorporate social responsibility into our procurement strategy and practices; use Ecosystem Opportunities procurement quotas as a means to drive the continuous improvement of our suppliers; participate in industry collaborations; and facilitate standardization. ●Serve as a responsible corporate citizen to create more jobs and contribute to the local economy, the environment, and society. We view integrity and operational compliance as the lifeblood of the company. At the same time, we put the sustainability of the entire ecosystem high on our agenda. Occupational health and safety is one of our key focus areas. We continuously improve our products and services so that when they are delivered and used, they will not adversely impact the safety of individual users or society in general. In collaboration with our customers and suppliers, we integrate social responsibility into our procurement strategy Approach and practices, and use procurement quotas as a means to drive the continuous improvement of our suppliers. We also take solid action to facilitate the development of social responsibility standards. By launching social contribution projects in countries and regions where we operate, we give back to the local communities and enable them to prosper and grow. A case in point is our Seeds for the Future program, which has now been rolled out in 96 countries and regions. 18 1.4 Managing Sustainability Sustainability Management Organization and Leadership In 2010, Huawei established the Corporate Sustainable Development (CSD) Committee, which is comprised of approximately 20 members representing our value chain, including research and development (R&D), manufacturing, procurement, human resources (HR), and project delivery. The committee is responsible for implementing the company's sustainability strategy, making decisions on critical issues, and supporting internal collaboration. It also sets forward-looking goals that Huawei uses to guide future actions. At the beginning of every year, the committee reviews the sustainability strategy with consideration to short-term business plans and long-term strategic plans, to ensure it remains focused and reflects our strategic objectives, as well as our internal and external business environments. The committee meets quarterly to assess performance and coordinate efforts to ensure that its work is on track. The CSD Committee is chaired by Mr. Kevin Tao, President of the Quality, Business Process & IT Management Department, and Chairman of the CSD Committee. Mr. Tao reports directly to Huawei's rotating CEOs. President of the Quality, Chairman of CSD Committee Business Process & IT Management Department Director of CSD Management Department Executive secretary Corporate Marketing Dept Government Affairs Dept Human Resources Mgmt Dept 2012 Laboratories Global Cyber Security and Privacy Strategy Dept Global Technical Service Dept Legal Affairs Dept Corporate Quality & Operations Regions Mgmt Dept Logistics Service Dept Manufacturing Dept Procurement Qualification Mgmt Carrier BG Enterprise BG Consumer BG Capital Construction Mgmt Dept Office of Ethics and Compliance Dept Protection Office Dept Structure of CSD Committee Establishing CSD Sub-committees In 2016, we established CSD Sub-committees under the Corporate CSD Committee in various departments. This initiative has further solidified our CSD organization and enabled the involved departments to achieve more sustainable operations. The sub-committees' job is to break down the corporate sustainability strategy into actionable tasks based on their areas of focus and relevance, and define their own sustainability responsibilities, objectives, and plans. With the guidance of the corporate CSD Committee, the sub-committees present routine work reports to the Committee and management of the respective departments. In 2017, Huawei will optimize the organizational structure and expertise of these sub-committees as we strive to attain our sustainability goals in a more systematic, professional, and efficient manner. Sustainability Management System Huawei has established a sustainability management system based on leading international standards including ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 (as well as SA8000 in Huawei's Consumer Business Group ), and adopted the ISO 26000 guidelines to refine the system further. We have also put in place sustainability policies and processes in all business domains. The sustainability management system, policies, and processes allow us to systematically plan, implement, monitor, and improve our performance so our business becomes more sustainable. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 19 Sustainability Management In 2016, we continued rolling out processes to systemically plan, implement, monitor, and improve our sustainability efforts, and integrate sustainability requirements into our business operations. To help focus our improvement efforts, we conducted an annual and comprehensive Sustainability Maturity Assessment (SMA) to review the effectiveness of our sustainability management. The results identify weaknesses and pain points that show us where we need to improve. In this way, we ensure the continuous improvement of our system and management capabilities. Improving the sustainability management system environment environment Managing 1.Leadership Business Business customer voice (effective voice) CSD strategy, principles, and goals CSD policies, rules, and standards Level-by-level authorization CSD culture, incentives, of CSD mgmt and discipline Stakeholders Stakeholders Managing customer voice 3.Resource mgmt (capability) 4.Performance appraisal (closed-loop improvement) Staff training Measurement C&Q mgmt CSD maturity assessment & review Issue Management Continuous Capability building Knowledge mgmt Customers Customers tracing review improvement 2.Process operation Adjustment Operations of main business processes (IPD+, CRM+, ISC+) VOC Delivery Balance Requirements Customer satisfaction Resolution and improvement management of special issues Satisfaction 5.Quality and operations organization Framework of sustainability management system Growing Maturity in Sustainability In 2016, we refined our Sustainability Maturity Assessment rules; process integration; monitoring and measurement; and (SMA) tool to better align it with our business, so the results stakeholder communication. could reflect how mature our operations were in a more objective way. It examines the strategies and responsibilities In 2016, we found a notable increase in the scores across all of major departments, and covers eight dimensions: strategy SMA dimensions, indicating that our sustainability and policy; risk management; Key Performance Indicators management system was improving and becoming more (KPIs) and priorities; organization and staff; standards and mature. 2016 2015 Strategy Risk KPIs Organization Standards Process Monitoring Stakeholder and policy management and priorities and staff and rules integration and measurement communication SMA scores in 2015 and 2016 20 Huawei Ranked First Among Chinese Private Enterprises with the Highest CSR Score Sustainability Management On October 30, 2016, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences published the 8th edition of the Blue Book of Corporate Social Responsibility. The Blue Book provides a CSR evaluation of leading companies in China and covers Chinese state-owned enterprises, private Chinese companies, and foreign companies. The report also provides the CSR scores of 16 key industries such as electricity, banking, and food. Huawei ranked 1st among Chinese private enterprises with a CSR score of 88.6. Sustainability Objectives To guide our sustainability efforts, we have set both annual and midto long-term objectives. In the following sections of this report, we disclose our 2016 performance and major objectives, which were set based on our strategy workshops and analysis. The following table summarizes our performance in 2016: Item 2016 Objective Performance Progress Successfully implement the Digital Divide project The project was successfully completed in October (Huawei's eHealth project in Kenya 2016 Support 100% network stability during major events Successfully supported network stability during (including natural disasters) nearly 200 major events and natural disasters worldwide Implement an end-to-end cyber security and user privacy Continuously improved the cyber security and user protection system that covers design, operations, privacy protection system awareness, and expertise Reduce the energy consumption per unit of data Increased the energy efficiency of major products traffic of major products by 10%–30% by 23% Launch energy conservation projects to reduce the energy Energy use in manufacturing, laboratories, and data use in manufacturing, laboratories, and data centers. centers was reduced by over 40 MWh. The carbon Sustainability Strategy Execution Discuss and define Huawei's carbon emissions reduction emissions reduction goal was agreed as 30% over goal for the next five years the next five years compared to the benchmark Ensure the green building design solution for Huawei's Huawei is committed to LEED certification, and it is new Global Compliance and Testing Center is LEED under way (USGBC) certified Huawei achieved a 20.6% reduction in carbon emissions per unit of sales revenue. Influencing Decrease the carbon emissions per unit of sales revenue factors included significant business growth by 25% (compared to the 2012 benchmark) (Huawei experienced a 32% increase in revenue growth in 2016), expansion of our building area, and upgrade of our working facilities Ensure five smartphone models obtain the UL110 Eight smartphones obtained the UL110 Platinum Platinum Green Certification Green Certification Expand the Global Green Recycling Program to deploy Expanded the Program to deploy 705 recycling 700 recycling stations in 31 countries and regions stations in 36 countries and regions Ensure that no more than 2.0% of waste goes to landfills 1.55% of waste was landfilled Adopt green packaging to reduce the use of wood product Reduced the use of wood product by 123,000 m3 by 100,000 m3 worldwide Release an employee relationship whitepaper The draft report was completed. It will be officially released in 2017 Expand the Seeds for the Future program to 80 countries The program was expanded to 96 countries and and regions regions Carry out social contribution programs around the world Launched nearly 200 social contribution programs Conduct onsite audits on all of the 53 mediumand Conducted onsite audits on all mediumand high-priority suppliers high-priority suppliers Complete the 2016 Sustainability Maturity Assessment (SMA) The assessment was completed successfully Management Provide sustainability training to enhance internal expertise Held more than ten departmental sustainability training sessions System Presented quarterly sustainability reports to the Present quarterly sustainability reports to senior Board of Directors, Supervisory Board, and CSD executives to support leadership engagement Committee Achieved In progress Not achieved Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 21 Sustainability Management 1.5 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is at the core of our sustainability management effort. We work closely with our stakeholders, listen to their needs, and use them as key inputs for management improvements. We have established the Stakeholder Engagement Management Process to engage with stakeholders through a broad range of activities, including individual meetings, attending or hosting meeting events, publishing whitepapers, and participating in industry working groups and pilot projects. Several examples are listed below: ◆We pride ourselves on being customer-centric and proactively engage with our customers regularly. ◆Our Public Affairs and Communications, Legal Affairs, and Standardization and Industry Departments regularly engage with governmental and intergovernmental bodies and community groups, while participating in hundreds of specific industry standards bodies and associations. ◆Our HR, Procurement, Finance, and Public Affairs and Communications Departments regularly engage with key stakeholders (e.g., employees, suppliers, financial institutions, and the media) and have specific strategies for doing so. From all these activities, we seek to understand stakeholders' expectations, requirements, and suggestions. Following this, we adjust our sustainability goals and actions accordingly to ensure we respond rapidly and effectively. Stakeholder Group Engagement Approaches and Activities ◆Customer satisfaction surveys ◆Customer meetings Customers/Consumers ◆Huawei Fan Club (for consumers) ◆Participation in audits, surveys, and collaborative projects on sustainability (e.g., joint audits with the ICT industry's Joint Audit Cooperation [JAC]) ◆Meetings with employee representatives Employees ◆Employee surveys (e.g., organizational climate survey) ◆Manager feedback process ◆Supplier meetings and audits ◆Supplier contracts and questionnaires Suppliers ◆Supplier training sessions and conferences (e.g., the Huawei Global Supplier Sustainability Conference) ◆Government policy meetings ◆Inputs to government standards and consultations Governments ◆Governmental and inter-governmental conferences ◆Participation in government projects (e.g., green projects of the Chinese government) ◆Industry forums and working groups (e.g., ITU, GeSI, EICC, and QuEST Forum) ◆Industry standards workshops Industry/Standards Associations ◆Publication of research reports (e.g., the ICT Sustainable Development Goals Benchmark Report ) ◆Participation in community projects ◆Attending conferences organized by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and inviting NGOs and Communities them to attend our conferences ◆Meetings on specific issues of mutual concern ◆Responding to requests for information ◆Individual meetings and interviews ◆Specific events for the media and opinion leaders in key markets (e.g., the Huawei Global Media and Opinion Leaders Analyst Summit) ◆Inviting the media and opinion leaders to attend our events ◆Engagement through social media ◆Joint research projects and technology collaboration (e.g., cooperating with a research Research Institutes/Academia institute on the ICT Sustainable Development Goals Benchmark Report) ◆Participation in events 22 Sustainability Management We have identified areas for further focus, while in no way reducing our attention to existing stakeholder engagement activities. These include: ◆Being more proactive when engaging with stakeholders on cyber security and privacy due to the rapid changes in this field, as well as diverse regulations around the world. We regularly engage with legal experts, attend events, and talk to specific stakeholders about this topic. ◆Deepening our relationships with academic institutions and the developer community. We have established our European Research Institute to manage our R&D facilities in Europe, and hired new staff to engage with academia in key countries. We have also launched new initiatives to engage with the developer community. ◆Expanding our engagement with the sustainability community. We seek proactively to learn from others' best practices, share our experiences, and identify opportunities to collaborate closely. Therefore, we have been more active in engaging with sustainability experts, participating in external events, and organizing our own events. Actively Participating in China's Environmental Protection Initiatives Made in China 2025 is an initiative to comprehensively upgrade Chinese industry. One of its core components is green manufacturing, carried out through special project initiatives and the implementation of green manufacturing projects. Green manufacturing is one of China's Five Major Development Concepts (Innovation, Coordination, Green, Openness, Sharing) that are conducive to the coordinated development of industry and the natural environment. Huawei has actively responded to the Chinese government's calls to strengthen environmental protection, and is proactively participating in the country's green manufacturing initiatives. In 2016, Huawei Device (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. was approved for the pilot project Extended Producer Responsibility Pilot for Electrical and Electronic Product Manufacturers , an initiative of the Chinese government. It participates in the Ecological (Green) Design Pilot initiative of China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. Stakeholder Engagement Activities In 2016, Huawei participated in more than ten high-level sustainability conferences in Asia, Europe, and the US, to communicate our sustainability strategy and performance. We also hosted multiple events to engage with our stakeholders and interact with sustainability communities. The following are a selection of events in 2016： 10th CSR Asia Summit In September 2016, Huawei sponsored the 10th CSR Asia Summit (Hong Kong) and was an event partner of the 5th Responsible Business Forum on Sustainable Development (Singapore). These two events were an excellent opportunity for regional stakeholders to come together and share innovation and experiences. Huawei representatives at the CSR Asia Summit 2016 Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 23 Sustainability Management 2nd Huawei–CSR Europe Sustainability Conference In December 2016, Huawei and CSR Europe co-hosted the 2nd conference in Brussels, Taking Action: One year on from COP21 and the launch of the SDGs . This one-day event brought together over 150 guests from the European Parliament, European Commission, business communities, NGOs, and other CSR groups. 2nd Huawei–CSR Europe Sustainability Conference 2nd Huawei Sustainability Salon At the 2nd Huawei Sustainability Salon held in December 2016, 40 CSR directors from CSR Europe, businesses, and NGOs came together to discuss the fulfillment of the UN SDGs and the Paris Agreement. Huawei Sustainability Salon Receiving a CSR Award from the Government of the Netherlands In January 2016, the government of the Netherlands issued a CSR award to Huawei in recognition of the company's contributions to the cooperation between China and the Netherlands, and for Huawei's CSR best practices. Receiving CSR award in the Netherlands Material Issues ( Materiality ) Assessment By identifying our material issues, we are able to focus our efforts for improvement and optimize our sustainability management. To assess our material issues, we specify which issues affect our business and which issues are important to our stakeholders. The result is a matrix that displays the issues of highest concern to stakeholders (vertical axis) and to our own business (horizontal axis). Based on the overall rankings from the survey reports of multiple stakeholders, we determine the priority of issues on the vertical axis. Based on risk analysis (led by in-house experts), strategy alignment, and maturity assessment results, we then determine the priority of issues on the horizontal axis. 24 High Sustainability Management Broadband inclusion for all Supply chain sustainability management Compensation and benefits for employees Social contributions and charity Level of Stakeholder Concern Product safety Contributing to UN SDGs Actively responding to cyber security challenges Green products and services Communications for all Sustainability management system Supporting network stability Employee capability development Reducing energy consumption and carbon footprint Operational compliance ICT applications Resource efficiency and circular economy Health and safety Nurturing ICT professionals Workforce diversification High Low Impact on Huawei Participation in Sustainability Initiatives Through proactive cooperation with our partners, customers, and other stakeholders, we exchange and share best practices in sustainability management, explore opportunities for further collaboration, and drive standardization. Our goal is to help industry grow more sustainably. At present, Huawei is a member of global and regional arms of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development, Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), CSR Europe, QuEST Forum, and Business for Social Responsibility (BSR). UN Global Compact Global e-Sustainability Electronic Industry UN Broadband CSR Europe QuEST Forum Business for Social Initiative Citizenship Coalition Commission Responsibility Recognized as a SDGs Business Pioneer by Joining the EICC the UN Global Compact Huawei joined the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Huawei received the SDGs Business Pioneer title at the (EICC) in October 2016. We have adopted the 2016 SDGs China Summit, an event organized by the organization's Electronic Industry Code of Conduct for Global Compact Network China in August 2016. supplier management; launched EICC-based joint audits with leading global companies; and recognized the results of EICC joint audits. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 25 Sustainable Operations 26 02 Sustainable Operations Operational Compliance Caring for Employees Safe Operations Green Operations Sustainable Supply Chain Ecosystem Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 27 Sustainable Operations 2.1 Operational Compliance Context Approach Operational compliance is crucial to the survival of every Adherence to business ethics, international conventions, and company; it also leads to healthy business development and laws and regulations is key to Huawei's operational economic benefits over the long term. In an increasingly compliance worldwide. This also reflects our unwavering complicated business environment, it is vital to leverage the commitment to business integrity. To ensure operational certainty of legal compliance to tackle the uncertainty of compliance, we advocate fair competition, trade compliance, international politics, to bridge discontinuity in the macro and protection of intellectual property, and oppose bribery environment. An excellent compliance system can help us and corruption. We proactively embrace best practices and gain unique strengths and lead the pack in this complicated embed compliance requirements into our corporate policies, business environment. regulations, and processes. Professional teams are in place to manage our compliance. Improving Compliance Management and externally – to ensure it can reinforce our compliance system. Operational compliance is always high on our agenda. We have incorporated compliance requirements into our routine Huawei Rotating CEO Mr. Guo Ping re-affirmed our commitment operations. In key domains such as trade compliance and cyber to compliance at a meeting with an external compliance security, we have established an operational compliance consultant group in 2016. Mr. Guo also explained how our management system that meets industry standards and has executives have always valued and supported the company's been scrutinized by third-party auditors. progress on compliance. In 2016, Huawei shared its compliance concepts and achievements during several meetings with To ensure compliance, we hold frequent dialogues with government agencies and partners. Moving forward, we will government agencies and undergo their audits. Our active continue to implement the individual accountability efforts have earned us recognition from government mechanism to discipline acts of non-compliance, thus gaining stakeholders. more benefits from our robust culture of compliance. We maintain routine communication with all stakeholders, Building a Global Operational Compliance System aiming to spur transparency, mutual understanding, and trust on an ongoing basis. Together with our stakeholders, we aim to In 2016, we went to great lengths to build an operational create a healthy business environment and define full compliance system in our subsidiaries outside China. In terms compliance as a baseline. of organization, we appointed and trained compliance officers for 97 countries and regions. In terms of business development, In partnership with external consultants, our Legal Affairs we engaged with world-class consultants as part of our wider Department provides legal guidance on building a global effort to ensure compliance. For example, we ran a pilot project compliance system, trade compliance, IPR protection, in our German subsidiary, using Germany's IDW PS 980 anti-bribery and anti-corruption, and HR management. The standards to comprehensively evaluate the maturity of the department also conducts issue identification and evaluation, unit's compliance management system. Our subsidiaries specifies compliance requirements, and releases warnings delivered on their compliance goals and fostered their about internal and external legal risks. This helps other expertise in compliance. We achieved this by bringing departments ensure legal compliance throughout their industry-leading compliance management concepts and operations. methodologies into Huawei, and by adopting viable measures against compliance risks. In addition, we established Fostering a Culture of Compliance supervisory organizations in subsidiaries to systematically oversee operational compliance and align the objectives of A robust compliance system cannot work without a culture of compliance management with corporate compliance strategy. compliance that pervades the entire organization. Huawei All these efforts helped our subsidiaries operate in compliance continuously fosters a culture of compliance – both internally with local laws and regulations. 28 Protecting Intellectual Property Rights Operational Compliance White Papers of Huawei Subsidiaries Outside China Huawei respects the intellectual property rights (IPR) of others, complies with international IPR laws, and resolves IPR issues In 2016, our subsidiaries outside China prepared and through negotiation, cross-licensing, and product cooperation published operational compliance white papers as part of – in an open, positive, and friendly manner. We also employ our efforts to improve local subsidiary compliance legal means to protect ourselves against malicious systems. In order to guide the operational compliance of infringements on our IPR. subsidiaries, these white papers serve as guidelines on Huawei is one of the world's largest patent holders and compliance management and operations, and provide investors in R&D, so protecting IPR is in our best interest. definitions and details concerning the following items: As of December 31, 2016, Huawei had filed 57,632 patent applications in China and 39,613 outside China, with a total of Sustainable Operations ◆Compliance management policies and objectives; 62,519 patents granted. ◆Compliance management organizations and their roles and responsibilities; ◆Operational compliance mechanism; and ◆Strategies for managing critical compliance risks 62,519 In 2016, Huawei Russia, Huawei UK, and over 100 other patents subsidiaries released their operational compliance white As of December 31, 2016, Huawei is a member of over 360 papers. standards organizations, industry alliances, and open source communities, and holds more than 300 positions of We uphold high standards of integrity and corporate responsibility within these organizations. Huawei is a board governance in Russia, and carry out business in a legal, member of IEEE-SA, BBF, ETSI, TM Forum, WFA, WWRF, OpenStack, Linaro, OPNFV, and CCSA. In 2016, we submitted ethical, and honest manner. Responsible business more than 6,000 proposals to standards organizations (over conduct in all aspects is critical for achieving long-term 49,000 to date). business success and gaining the trust and confidence of In 2016, we ranked second in terms of invention patents in our stakeholders, including the government, customers, China, 7th in Europe, and 25th in the US. business partners, and employees. Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption —CEO, Huawei Russia Integrity is at the core of our operations, and we have zero tolerance for bribery or corruption. We have launched various activities to increase employee awareness of business ethics and legal compliance. For example, all employees are required to understand and sign our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs) and pass an online test on the subject every year to increase their awareness of anti-bribery and anti-corruption efforts. To increase our positive influence on suppliers, we include strong ethical provisions in all contracts with suppliers, and require them to understand and sign the Honesty and Integrity Agreement. In addition, we have established complaint channels through which employees and other parties can report unethical and illegal behavior. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 29 Sustainable Operations Business Conduct Guidelines Full Implementation of Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption Measures The BCGs include regulations on the general business Huawei adheres to all applicable laws and regulations of the conduct that all Huawei employees must abide by. All countries and regions in which we operate, as well as new hires must study and sign these guidelines. relevant international conventions. We have anti-bribery and anti-corruption processes and systems, and implement a Public channels for submitting complaints series of measures to achieve tangible prevention of bribery and reporting violations: and corruption. E-mail: BCGcomplain@huawei.com 1. Organizational construction: Established subsidiary supervisory organizations, as well as the role of compliance Tel: +86 (0)755 2856 2338 officer . Huawei strictly protects the information and legal rights 2. Formulation of systems and policies: These include letters of whistleblowers who report BCGs violations under their of commitment signed by company management, own names. We forbid any attempts – direct or indirect – anti-bribery and anti-corruption systems, Business Conduct to obstruct, suppress, retaliate against or discriminate Guidelines (BCGs), rules for gifts and receptions, and against whistleblowers. systems for handling of complaints. 3. Full implementation: Subsidiaries have a full series of anti-bribery policies that are completely and seamlessly implemented in all operating activities. 99.63% 4. Inclusion into supplier contracts: Anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and other business ethics requirements are incorporated into contracts that Huawei signs with its suppliers. of employees studied and signed the BCGs. 5. Anti-bribery and anti-corruption training: All Huawei employees receive training on our BCGs, with special training and awareness campaigns that target staff in sales, procurement, and other key positions. 6. Risk appraisals and improvements: We carry out compliance risk appraisals to identify all potential risks and non-conformances. We appoint owners who handle risks to promote improvement. 30 2.2 Caring for Employees Context Approach Workforce development is a key issue that every company Inspiring dedication is one of Huawei's core values, and it must address as it goes increasingly global. Specifically, the manifests itself in many ways. We assess employees and company must give employees equal access to learning and select managers based on their performance results, as well promotion, irrespective of their nationality, gender, age, race, as the extent of their responsibilities. We provide our teams or religion. The company also needs to increase its workforce with a global development platform, giving young team localization and effectively select, deploy, develop, and retain members the opportunity to shoulder greater responsibilities talented staff to unlock their fullest potential. A positive and accelerate career growth. In this way, we have enabled workplace where employees can work in harmony and take hundreds of thousands of Huawei people to yield ample good care of each other is also essential. returns for their individual efforts, and gain memorable life experience. Sustainable Operations Workforce Diversification Ratio of female employees to male employees (2013–2016) Male Female As of December 31, 2016, Huawei employed approximately 180,000 staff in various business segments worldwide. In total, 45% of our employees – approximately 80,000 people – were 78.9% 79.3% 79.8% 79.9% involved in R&D. Percentage of R&D staff: 45 % 21.1% 20.7% 20.2% 20.1% 2013 2014 2015 2016 Hailing from many different countries, races, and ethnicities, our 180,000 employees form a diverse family. They come from 163 countries and regions around the world. In China alone, our In the global industry as a whole,there is a relatively low ratio of employees are from 38 ethnic groups. We have developed and female employees. To address this issue, we emphasize gender launched many diversity initiatives in areas such as nationality, equality in employment and prohibit gender bias in strict gender, age, race, and religion. compliance with all applicable international conventions as well as local laws and regulations. The ratio of our female employees has remained stable over the past several years. We also prioritize the selection of female managers and give female employees priority for promotion if they have the same Over 50 1.9% qualifications as their male counterparts. In 2016, women made up 7.9% of our management team. Of our 17 board members, four are women. Below 30 29.0% Age of employees (2016) 30-50 69.1% Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 31 Sustainable Operations In response to a suggestion from our customer Strategic Reserve Enables Capability Vodafone, in 2016 Huawei became a supporter of Transformation and Talent Mobility HeForShe, a solidarity campaign for the advancement of women initiated by UN Women. The president of Huawei's Strategic Reserve is the most important medium through which the company improves internal vitality and Huawei's Public Affairs and Communications provides mobility and enablement to outstanding Department is leading the initiative, calling for the employees. As members of the Strategic Reserve, company's male staff to support UN Women and to sign outstanding employees can receive training and work in key the HeForShe commitment. We are also spreading the projects to hone the expertise required to become a manager. Through training and hands-on practice, word to our suppliers and partners at events like the outstanding employees can also rapidly learn new skills in Huawei Global Engineering Partner Convention. key domains on which the company focuses. The Strategic Reserve utilizes a combination of training and practice to provide employees with opportunities for capability transformation and career development. Since its establishment in 2014, more than 10 elite teams have been formed under the Strategic Reserve, covering all of the company's major divisions. In 2016 alone, more than 23,000 employees joined the Strategic Reserve, learning new skills and upgrading their knowledge base. As a global company, we actively recruit staff from all over the world to boost workforce localization. Hiring local employees enables us to better understand the unique culture of each country and region where we operate, while promoting local employment and economic growth. In 2016, Huawei employed more than 35,000 staff in countries outside China, with a localization rate of 71% for non-managerial employees and 16.2% for middle and senior managers. Training and practice with the Strategic Reserve Workforce localization rate: 71 % Capability and Career Development As part of our efforts to help employees grow and unlock their value, we provide equal and ample access to training and promotion opportunities. In 2016, Huawei provided a total of 1,626 training courses that benefited 88,921 trainees. Each trainee spent an average of 29.42 hours in training. Training hours per trainee: 29.42 hours 32 Our iLearning platform offers employees easy access to online courses on their mobile devices whenever and wherever they wish. The platform keeps our staff up to date with the latest practical skills, allowing them to develop personal competence and keep pace with the knowledge economy. The iLearning platform provides a wide variety of quality courses, including courses on competency & qualification (C&Q), general skills, R&D, delivery, finance, and other domains. By the end of 2016, there were a total of 48,500 courses on iLearning. Sustainable Operations Huawei's iLearning platform We value professional development and encourage our staff to Total attendance at iLearning training sessions from 2013 to 2016 (Unit: million) chart their own careers in a way that suits their abilities and 10.87 interests. We provide two career paths: managerial and professional. Our effective performance management system 6.54 inspires managers at all levels to pay more attention to employee growth and development. We also explore different 4.92 ways to improve how we manage employee performance, 3.32 helping everyone to grow together with the company. In 2016, all employees received a performance appraisal and career development assessment. In line with talent needs and corporate policies, we accelerated the promotion of outstanding employees, helping them grow their career more 2013 2014 2015 2016 rapidly. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 33 Sustainable Operations Compensation and Benefits One of Huawei's core values is Inspiring Dedication. To live this granting time-based units to employees so they can share in core value, we encourage employees to hone their expertise, the benefits of Huawei's growth. This long-term incentive and at the same time we offer them the support they need to mechanism aligns employees' personal contributions with the realize their individual value. We provide both monetary and company's long-term development, thus enabling Huawei's non-monetary incentives to promote employee well-being. continuing success. Huawei has a highly competitive compensation system. We We have implemented an effective employee benefits system, have established long-term partnerships with consultancies which acts as an umbrella to protect our employees. Employee (e.g., the Hay Group and Mercer), regularly surveyed benefits include three parts: social insurance, commercial compensation data, and promptly adjusted employee insurance, and medical assistance. Apart from mandatory compensation based on survey results, corporate performance, insurance plans, we offer every employee global accident and individual performance. There is no gender bias in our insurance, critical illness insurance, life insurance, medical compensation standards. insurance, and business travel insurance, as well as other forms of commercial insurance. We have also implemented We employ a Contribute and Share bonus distribution system, medical assistance mechanisms to protect our employees which links employee bonuses to corporate, departmental, and under special circumstances. By combining these three types individual performance. In line with our corporate of employee benefits, we are able to offer sufficient benefits to compensation policy, we review the bonus distribution plan protect employees from trouble and difficulty. each year and revise it as necessary. In 2016, we continued implementing the Time-based Unit Plan (TUP) worldwide, Our 2016 investment in global employee benefits exceeded US$1.69 billion (CNY11.27 billion), an increase of 22% Medical assistance year-on-year. Commercial insurance 2016 investment in global employee benefits: Social insurance CNY 11.27 billion Natural disasters, critical illnesses, and deteriorating safety Investment in global employee benefits from 2012 to 2016 (CNY1 billion) situations in certain regions could have considerable implications for employee health and safety. Huawei regards 11.27 employee safety as a top priority, at all times and under all 9.24 circumstances. We convey this principle to our employees, and 7.39 5.81 6.30 have collaborated with international insurance companies and emergency rescue institutions to offer 24/7 employee healthcare services all over the world. In the event of an emergency, we waste no time in rapidly taking action. For employees suffering from critical illnesses or accidental injuries, we help them and their families address financial concerns and mental pressures. Employee care is an integral part of our corporate obligations. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 34 iHealth Centers Employee health and safety is always our top priority, and we have established a comprehensive employee benefit system. In 2016, we built multiple iHealth Centers where leading healthcare service providers offer our staff convenient access to specialized basic services. In April 2016, we launched an iHealth Center in our Beijing Research Center, on a pilot basis, to provide the following services: iHealth Center at the Wuhan Research Center ◆Consulting: customized one-on-one health guidance, disease tracking, and intervention; ◆Emergency treatment: providing first aid for emergency Sustainable Operations cases before the patient is taken to hospital, and offering first aid training and drills; and ◆Health awareness: spreading healthcare knowledge iHealth Centers opened in our research centers in Nanjing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Wuhan, Chengdu, and Xi'an in November 2016, serving approximately 70,000 employees. iHealth Center at the Xi'an Research Center Creating a Relaxing and Efficient Working Environment Huawei believes in creating a positive workplace where series of activities, including Family Day , 3+1 , and a Charity employees can enjoy both work and life. To this end, we foster Fun Run . These initiatives encourage managers at all levels to an efficient, relaxing, and caring working environment, which devote themselves to employee care. Our employees are also gives employees a strong sense of happiness and inspires them inspired to care for others, remain optimistic, and spread to find the right work-life balance. Every year we organize a positive energy to change the workplace for the better. Family Day Since 2009, every department within Huawei holds an annual Activities include parent-child games, artistic performances, Family Day event, which has become a key activity for our delicious buffet meals, and more. By touring the company employees and their families. It is a day that brings together offices, canteens, and product showrooms, family members can the work of employees, the development of the company, and gain a better understanding of the company. In 2016, over the happiness of families into one cohesive whole. 27,000 employees and their family members participated in Family Day events. Family Day in Huawei Nigeria Parent-child games Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 35 Sustainable Operations To maintain a positive workplace, we regularly run Creating a Favorable Workplace organizational climate surveys, the Manager Feedback Program (MFP), employee interviews, and hold open discussions with As a global company with a presence in over 170 countries and staff. The aim is to better understand employee opinions and regions, Huawei has built a global value chain with the best expectations for the company; identify issues that negatively resources from around the world. In every country and region, affect our workplace; analyze root causes for those issues; and we operate in compliance with local laws and regulations, and design constructive solutions to improve management. share value with our global partners and customers. When executing corporate HR management policies, as well as developing and implementing local regulations, we always keep Manager Feedback Program in mind local laws, regulations, and industry standards. We also give special consideration to local customs and conventions. Our Manager Feedback Program (MFP) is a regular initiative that conveys Huawei's basic requirements and key We place significant emphasis on the management and expectations for HR management. This program empowers development of local hires. In addition to boosting the managers to continuously optimize the way they manage operating efficiency of our local offices, we support local their staff. By filling out an online questionnaire, staff can communities by creating jobs and paying taxes. Through offer recommendations to their managers, and provide smooth communication, we enhance mutual understanding feedback on how well their managers work and where they between Huawei and local governments, the media, and other need to improve. Based on the feedback, managers create external stakeholders. Our goal is to become an innovative and execute targeted improvement plans. enabler of the information society and a collaborative industry contributor. The questionnaire-based survey is anonymous, with the process and results kept confidential. The 2016 MFP When recruiting, promoting or setting compensation for covered every department across the company, with employees, we never discriminate against our employees on the feedback received from approximately 120,000 employees. basis of race, gender, nationality, age, pregnancy, or disability. We prohibit the use of forced, bonded, or indentured labor. Moreover, we have enacted detailed, equitable regulations covering each major phase of an employee's relationship with the company, including recruitment, employment, and exit. No incidents of forced labor have taken place over the course of Huawei's history. We strictly prohibit the use of child labor, and have effective polices and preventative measures in place to prevent the recruitment and use of child labor. We also require the same of our suppliers and conduct regular audits to ensure their compliance. We respect employees' legal rights with regard to freedom of association and collective bargaining. In our China HQ and overseas subsidiaries, we have established or joined labor union organizations, and signed or endorsed collective agreements. Our local subsidiaries abide by local laws and regulations on labor unions, and have formed close relationships with labor bureaus, employer associations, and consultancies. We never prevent employees from participating in the lawful activities of registered labor unions as long as participation is voluntary and is not in violation of local laws. Our Employee Relationship Department has created streamlined communication channels to collect and understand employees' opinions and suggestions. Employees can file complaints through the following channels: complaint hotline of the Committee of Ethics and Compliance (CEC); BCGs violation hotline; HR services complaint and suggestion hotline; grievance mailbox for performance appraisals; and complaint mailbox for procurement. 36 2.3 Health and Safety First Context Approach Safety remains a major challenge to companies pursuing In all countries and regions where we operate, we implement higher levels of sustainability. Every ICT company should an effective environmental, health, and safety (EHS) emphasize both operational safety and the safety of in-house management system and corporate-level global staff and contractors working in high-risk environments, accountability mechanism for safety incidents. We enforce especially during project delivery. our EHS Absolute Rules, strengthen manager involvement in project operations, and cultivate a robust safety-first culture. These actions enable us to minimize safety risks and protect the health and safety of our employees, contractors, and other stakeholders. Global Safety Management System Sustainable Operations We have incorporated occupational health and safety requirements into our operations, and taken concrete action to deliver on our commitment to occupational health and safety assurance. These efforts are conducive to our role as a responsible corporate citizen – and to our business 25 Our subsidiaries in additional 25 countries were development. We believe employee health and safety form the certified in terms of OHS management foundation basis of Huawei's survival and development, and are also crucial for our competitiveness. We take EHS incidents very seriously and adopt multiple In 2016, we continued to uphold our principles of putting safety initiatives to mitigate risks. For example, we have an IT-based first and caring for employees. We deployed and optimized our EHS incident management platform that enables incident EHS management system in accordance with OHSAS 18001 reporting, investigation, and improvement. If an incident standards. Our subsidiaries in an additional 25 countries were occurs, we follow it through until it is resolved and closed. We certified in terms of health and safety management. To better discipline managers who are involved in EHS incidents with protect the staff of both Huawei and our contractors, we significant implications, and we also reward best practices in improved our management standards for occupational health safety management. Through a variety of safety management and manufacturing safety, and continuously reinforced health initiatives in 2016, we significantly reduced the number of EHS and safety management when we deliver projects. incidents, especially those with serious implications. Optimizing the EHS Management System of Huawei North Africa Regional Office In 2016, our Northern Africa Regional Office continued to optimize its EHS system based on OHSAS 18001 standards and with reference to local business activities. Major measures included bolstering EHS leadership and culture; incorporating EHS standards into operations; deploying IT tools for risk monitoring; managing supplier EHS; and adopting a six-step approach to real-time tracking of onsite EHS management. These efforts achieved a significant reduction in EHS risks across the region. Building EHS leadership: 200+ onsite Building safety awareness and compliance with EHS inspections by managers at all levels EHS Absolute Rules through safety-oriented activities Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 37 Sustainable Operations On November 30, 2016, Huawei and Egypt's Ministry of Manpower and Immigration held a signing ceremony for an EHS Comprehensive Cooperation Agreement in the Prime Minister's Office. In his remarks at the ceremony, the Minister praised Huawei for the work done in Egypt over the past 17 years, and for Huawei's continued investment in the telecom industry's management of EHS. The minister expressed his gratitude for our dedication to driving EHS standards in the telecom industry, and for having cultivated over 40 local contractors to comply with EHS requirements. Egypt's Prime Minister witnessed the signing of the EHS Comprehensive Cooperation Agreement Developing an OHSAS 18001 Management System in Huawei Southern-East Asia Regional Office In 2016, our Southern-East Asia Regional Office began to management, propelling the development of its management develop an OHSAS management system, aiming to further systems to the next level. improve and institutionalize EHS management, and standardize operations to achieve the target of zero injuries By December 2016, all ten subsidiaries under the regional and fatalities . The president of the regional office office had their management systems certified. They also sponsored the initiative and the president's office led the released work mechanisms and a 2017 work plan to execute establishment of a program to manage the initiative. With the management systems. An accountability system for safety guidance from Huawei headquarters and external was also in place to build safety awareness amongst consultants, the regional office adopted quality employees. This has resulted in ongoing improvements to the management methodologies for effective and improved EHS management of work safety. Huawei Nepal EHS training for contractors Huawei Thailand EHS training by government experts Manufacturing Safety In 2016, we maintained our manufacturing safety levels. We technical standards; achieved this by constantly optimizing how we manage ◆Carried out targeted projects for improving battery safety and manufacturing safety; enlarging the scope of our precision manufacturing; safety-enhancing processes and technology; and improving ◆Refined our approach to mitigating health and safety risks; health and safety oversight. Our goal is to build safety ◆Examined the compliance of positions involving health and awareness, manage minor risks, and prevent major incidents. safety risks; We undertook multiple initiatives in 2016: ◆Organized physical checkups for staff vulnerable to health and safety risks ◆Increased expertise in safety assurance; ◆Refined design for manufacturing safety; ◆Released over 600 safety baselines; ◆Developed and utilized a safety process and technology In 2016, the injury frequency rate was 0 per million system and a safety toolkit; man hours of manufacturing, and there were no ◆Ran safety design certification for over 20,000 units of serious safety incidents. This meant that Huawei equipment; had successfully ensured safe manufacturing. ◆Published 16 safety management specifications and 38 Dealing with Safety Risk from Discarded Building a Culture of Safe Manufacturing Lithium Batteries Huawei works with leading companies to exchange ideas on Huawei has initiated a program to minimize the risks relating safe manufacturing. This enables us to learn from others in the to lithium battery disassembly, storage, shipping, and industry, build a culture of safety, and bolster our safety disposal. achievements. The program enables the safe and hazard-free processing of In 2016, Huawei held an Experience Sharing Forum for discarded lithium batteries, including those from Huawei, Advanced Safety Manufacturing Management and an electronic manufacturing services suppliers, and high-level Experience Sharing Event on Transportation Safety , which repair centers. This is achieved through creating and were attended by over 10 equipment manufacturing suppliers, adopting safety technology norms and standards; improving equipment vendors, and security consultancies. Huawei also risk control technology for lithium batteries; developing and arranged training and educational tours for safety personnel to adopting solutions for new lithium battery discharge fixtures improve their safety awareness and capabilities. and safe processing of damaged lithium batteries; and minimizing shipment risks. Sustainable Operations New lithium battery discharge fixtures Experience Sharing Forum for Advanced Safety Manufacturing Management Office Safety A safe, pleasant workplace can contribute to higher work efficiency. It is appealing to potential hires, and supports our brand as well as overall employee health and safety. Working with a world-leading safety services provider, Huawei has established safety management baselines and standards for different country offices based on their specific business activities and risks. We have evaluated safety risks in 25 high-risk countries, and developed a safety management plan for each of them. Safety assurance services are now available in our overseas offices and staff dormitories. We have upgraded the safety protection systems for our facilities, and provided safety training and drills for our staff and their families. In addition, we run multiple social contribution programs in countries and regions where we operate, offering help to the needy and contributing to a safer society. Risk assessment Risk intelligence Security guard Emergency plan Emergency drill Relationship Emergency materials Regulations & rules Organization Transportation Rescue system Supplier management Site selection Physical defense Safe house Technology Training & publicity Budgets 18 aspects of our safety management baselines: building safety via software, hardware, training, and social contribution programs Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 39 Sustainable Operations Improving Workplace and Living Facilities Project Delivery Safety In 2016, we pressed ahead with efforts to upgrade offices and With a firm belief that health and safety matter most, we set a living facilities in our subsidiaries outside China. Our goal is to goal of zero injuries and fatalities for project delivery, and create a safer, more convenient environment for our employees, continuously optimize our EHS management around the world. especially those in hardship regions. Our accountability mechanism extends beyond project managers and requires managers at all levels to be responsible Backed by our corporate policies for hardship regions, we for safety. Our leadership development programs include the invested US$110 million in the phase-I project and US$84 fulfillment of safety goals from the top down. We have also million in the phase-II project. By the end of 2016, our phase-I established an EHS management maturity model for our project team upgraded offices, dormitories, cafeterias, project delivery activities, and have adopted IT systems for vehicles, and safety and fire systems in 72 countries across automatic measurement and efficient digital management. more than 10 hardship regions, providing tangible benefits to Through these measures, we have increased our EHS maturity our employees, both at work and in life. score from 1.93 in 2015 to 2.71 in 2016, an increase of 40%. Our major delivery EHS management initiatives in 2016 were as follows: Our EHS maturity score grew from 1.93 in 2015 to 2.71 in 2016, an increase of 40 % Cafeteria in Huawei Zambia ◆Improving expertise We have continuously invested in safety assurance, putting the required tools, equipment, and human resources in place. We have assigned EHS managers to 1,000 large delivery projects in over 170 countries and regions, and issued over 44,000 safety qualification certificates to our partners. More than 12,000 Huawei delivery engineers have taken part in EHS-related online training and exams. ◆Applying OBD for road traffic safety Cafeteria in Huawei Uganda Logistics Safety Support We developed a mobile app to improve onsite EHS management at 250,000 base stations. To improve road safety, EHS is part of our property service contracts, and we we installed on-board diagnostics (OBD) systems that assist collaborate with suppliers so our subsidiaries can be served by driver safety. A total of 8,000 OBD-aided vehicles were EHS experts and capability. Our administrative service teams accident-free for 140 million kilometers. outside China are able to deliver 24/7 logistics support and safety assurance by adopting advanced approaches to manage ◆Launching third-party checks facilities and safety, and respond to requests for logistics In terms of EHS management, we work closely with third services. We have carried out safety checks in our cafeterias parties that carry out independent onsite checks and around the world, and took concrete actions to address the proactively identify safety risks. As a result, our field offices identified problems. In 2016, we installed the on-board are able to promptly fix their problems and protect the safety diagnostics (OBD) and GPS systems in company-used vehicles of our customers, Huawei staff, our partners, and other at more than 80% of our subsidiaries. These tools effectively stakeholders in our delivery projects. identify speeding and driver fatigue, making our vehicles safer and ensuring compliance with EHS standards. These tools also track the movements of vehicles and provide data for evaluation to ensure their effective utilization. 80 % In 2016, we installed the on-board diagnostics (OBD) and GPS systems in the vehicles of more than 80% of subsidiaries. EHS onsite check at a delivery site 40 Earning Recognition for EHS Management Our performance has been recognized by governments in countries where we operate. For example, in 2016, we received the Excellent Work Skills Improvement and Contribution Award from the Indonesian government as well as the Excellent Commitment and Improvement Towards EHS at Workplace Award from the Malaysian government. Sustainable Operations Excellent Commitment and Improvement Towards EHS at Workplace Award in Malaysia Strengthening EHS Communication and Cooperation with Our Customer The 10th Vodafone and Huawei Group EHS Summit was held expressed interest in learning more about them and expanding in August 2016. At the event, Huawei explained our them on a larger scale. achievements and commitment to managing EHS in delivery projects. To achieve these results, Huawei had continuously improved its leadership, organizational structure, expertise, and resource deployment. It had also reduced the occurrence of EHS incidents and achieved a record of zero injuries, fatalities, and serious incidents in Vodafone projects for 48 consecutive months. At the summit, Huawei also shared its best practices of using advanced tools and platforms (e.g., OBD, Smart QC [quality control], and drones) to optimize EHS management. Vodafone highly recognized Huawei's positive practices and 10th Vodafone and Huawei Group EHS Summit Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 41 Sustainable Operations 2.4 Reducing Our Environmental Impact Context Approach Global emissions of carbon dioxide have increased over 50% Minimizing the environmental footprint of our operations is a since 1990, according to the UN Millennium Development long-term initiative at Huawei and we use a number of Goals Report. Global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions show approaches to reduce our energy consumption and CO2 no sign of abating and have serious implications for the emissions. These include implementing an ISO 50001-based world's climate, which in turn affect natural ecosystems, energy management system, launching energy conservation weather patterns, the frequency of extreme weather events, programs, achieving managerial and technological and result in substantial social risks. Reducing GHG improvements, and utilizing clean and renewable energy. Our emissions remains a critical and pressing challenge to our goal is to help fight climate change. planet. Sustainable development goals will be impossible if existing production and consumption patterns are not changed. Minimizing Energy Consumption and Carbon Emissions Solar power stations with a total capacity of Huawei has established an energy management system in accordance with the ISO 50001 standard and applicable laws and regulations. We have made our energy management system more effective through routine energy monitoring, energy 19.3 MWh audits, internal reviews, and technology upgrades. This allowed In the past year, we took the following initiatives to cut energy us to minimize energy consumption, make the best use of usage by our offices, laboratory equipment, and energy, and meet our energy management principles and goals. manufacturing facilities. Huawei's ◆Strengthening energy management: We regularly collected Energy-efficient， Green energy management and analyzed energy statistics to better meet our energy low-carbon development principles targets. We also expanded energy management training, and improved awareness with internal promotional events. Our energy management system, with a full clarification of the energy management responsibilities of different departments, ◆Improving electricity metering and management systems: We provides the necessary framework for ensuring the built and connected electricity management systems in our sustainability of our energy conservation efforts. Breaking campuses to monitor and analyze real-time electricity usage down energy conservation goals into actionable tasks and in different locations and to effectively manage our energy defining responsibilities are vital for us to achieve our goals at consumption. different stages of development. ◆Optimizing energy management in laboratories: In 2016, we As a result of our business growth and building expansion, in cut laboratory energy usage by replacing legacy direct 2016, our energy consumption (measured in standard coal current power modules with more efficient equipment; equivalent) totaled 224,000 tons, an increase of 27.3% from deploying automatic switch-off tools; identifying and 2015. That said, we decreased our energy consumption per unit removing idle equipment; and enclosing the hot and cold air of sales revenue by 20.2% compared to our benchmark year conduits within air conditioners. As a result, we saved 32.92 (2012). Our China region operations saved 45.7 MWh of MWh of electricity. electricity, equivalent to a CO2 emissions reduction of approximately 42,000 tons. We also utilize renewable energy. By ◆Promoting more efficient technologies: We continued to the end of 2016, we had installed solar power stations with a upgrade our lighting systems (e.g., installing more total generating capacity of 19.3 MWh. They generated 17.07 energy-efficient bulbs, LED bulbs, and lighting control MWh of electricity in 2016, equivalent to a CO2 emissions systems) and air conditioners (e.g., centralizing refrigeration reduction of over 15,000 tons. controls and improving maintenance procedures). In 2016, these measures helped us save 3.5 MWh of electricity. In 2016, our energy consumption per unit of sales revenue decreased by ◆Optimizing our manufacturing: In 2016, we reduced energy 20.2 usage by 3.86 MWh. This was achieved by reducing energy consumption (e.g., upgrading our air compressors and % removing evaporative cooling pads; and adjusting the compared to the benchmark year (2012). working hours of air conditioners), optimizing equipment 42 (e.g., the operational usage of air conditioners, adjusting the time of temperature testing, retrofitting improved machinery, and electricity self-circulation during product aging procedures), and upgrading lighting systems (e.g., replacing metal-halide lamps and installing energy-efficient bulbs). Huawei's Energy Consumption Statistics from 2012 to 2016: Energy Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Natural gas 10,000 m3 450 423 491 522 993 Gasoline Ton 1,543 1,668 390 363 358 Diesel Ton 48 60 46 41 116 Sustainable Operations Electricity MWh 86,885 94,082 113,325 134,700 168,653 Steam Ton 25,447 20,854 19,881 20,561 20,352 Increasing Energy Efficiency in R&D Labs Some of our first R&D labs were scattered in different energy efficient. As a result, our labs are able to save 71 MWh places, and their air conditioners and power systems were of electricity every year, equivalent to a CO2 emissions inefficient, with an average power usage effectiveness (PUE) reduction of over 65,000 tons. as high as 2.5. To increase energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions, we built large centralized labs in the Chinese cities of Dongguan, Langfang, and Chengdu. Leading technologies and facilities – such as free cooling, separation of hot and 65,000 of CO2 emissions avoided tons cold air conduits, and efficient power supply cabinets – reduce lab PUE to below 1.5 and make the labs 40% more Large centralized labs with higher energy efficiency Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 43 Sustainable Operations Greenhouse gas (GHG) management is an integral part of our Huawei's Greenhouse Gas Policy operations. We have adopted the ISO14064 standard to identify GHG emissions, and have taken concrete steps to save energy ◆Set increasingly challenging goals for GHG emissions and reduce emissions. reductions, conduct regular internal audits and management reviews, and continuously monitor and After quantifying and analyzing our GHG emissions, we set a improve GHG management performance; goal of reducing the GHG emissions per unit of sales revenue by 30% by 2020 compared to 2012 (our designated benchmark ◆Introduce green concepts at the design phase to year). At present, we are continuously monitoring and improving maximize products' energy efficiency and reduce GHG our GHG management performance. To decrease our carbon emissions at the usage stage; footprint, we have established energy management systems, rolled out energy conservation projects, and introduced clean ◆Develop a procurement strategy that highlights safety energy sources. and green concepts, and strive to influence suppliers in terms of GHG management; ◆Actively reduce resource consumption and promote clean production approaches to lower GHG emissions during operations. GHG Emissions by Type Type of GHG CO2 CH4 N2O HFCS PFCS SF6 Total Emissions (Unit: Ton) Emissions (t-CO2e) 1,566,199 6,641 40 12,489 0.00 0.00 1,585,369 Proportion 98.79% 0.42% 0.003% 0.79% 0.00% 0.00% 100.00% Proportion of Each Scope's GHG Emissions In 2016, the GHG emissions of our China Region Indirect emissions from energy: 98.41% operations totaled 1,585,369 tons, an increase of approximately 24.5% from 2015. Mobile combustion emissions: 0.31% Stationary combustion emissions: 0.07% This increase is attributable to two factors. First, our business grew significantly, with annual revenue Fugitive emissions: 1.21% increasing to US$75.1 billion, up 32% from 2015. Second, we expanded our building facilities. Scope 1 includes stationary combustion emissions, mobile combustion emissions, and fugitive emissions. Note: Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from energy. CO2 emissions per unit of sales revenue down by 20.6 In 2016, our CO2 emissions per unit of sales revenue were 3.04 tons per million RMB, 20.6% lower compared to the benchmark year. % Total GHG emissions from 2012 to 2016 Intensity of GHG emissions from 2012 to 2016 Unit: ton Unit: ton/million RMB 1,585,369 3.83 1,272,553 3.77 1,071,833 3.71 901,084 3.22 843,883 3.04 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 44 Our effluent discharges come primarily from domestic sewage. 2016 Best Chinese Supplier with Effective Domestic sewage at all of our campuses is sent to municipal Response to Climate Change Award wastewater plants for treatment, and is monitored by third parties to ensure compliance with local and national standards. As a member of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Huawei's high-quality GHG report was recognized and Lowering the Waste to Landfill Rate honored with the 2016 Best Chinese Supplier with Effective Response to Climate Change Award. We obey laws and regulations relating to electronic waste in all countries in which we operate. By recycling and reusing as many waste products as possible, we have lowered the landfill Water Resource Management rate of waste from our operations. Huawei takes water conservation seriously and has launched In 2016, we disposed of 11,718 tons of waste globally, of which initiatives to better manage our water consumption. We are 98.45% was recycled or reused, and only 1.55% ended up in seeking to use water more effectively and reduce waste by landfills. adjusting the proportion of water types and changing the way we use water. For example, we have built facilities to recycle Sustainable Operations 98.45 and reuse rainwater, wastewater, reclaimed water, cooling water, and condensates. We have also effectively managed and maintained water supply networks, water facilities, equipment, % and appliances to prevent water leakage. of waste was recycled or reused Most of the water we consume in our operations is used for landscaping, canteens, and air-conditioning systems. To reduce water usage, we have rolled out clean production technologies and adopted a variety of measures such as Landfill rate of waste from 2012 to 2016 collecting rainwater, recycling cooling water, and buying 3.40% reclaimed water for cleaning and landscape maintenance on 2.57% 2.37% campuses. 2.03% 1.55% In 2016, we used 9.36 million m3 of water, an increase of 2.36 million m3 year-on-year. This increase was largely attributable to our business growth, larger construction and landscaping areas, and the use of reverse osmosis water purification systems on all our campuses. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 For our new building projects, we deployed rainwater harvesting systems and water reclamation facilities to reuse In 2016, we continued to work with leading waste management reclaimed water and increase water utilization efficiency. For service providers in Asia Pacific, Northeast Europe, and the example, by using reclaimed water for cleaning and Middle East who are able to meet our needs and local landscaping on our Beijing Campus, we managed to reduce the government requirements. Our close collaboration resulted in use of ordinary municipal water by 90,000 m3. more effective disposal of e-waste, a lower landfill rate of waste, and improved green processing. 90,000m3 ordinary municipal water saved Water consumption in Huawei's China Region from 2012 to 2016 (Unit: 10,000 m3) 936 700 548 495 449 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 45 Sustainable Operations 2.5 Sustainable Supply Chain Ecosystem Context Approach In recent years, awareness is growing about issues such as Sustainability is part of Huawei's procurement strategy and climate change, labor, human rights, and the protection of process. It is a prerequisite for our supplier qualification and consumer rights and benefits.Large companies have focused selection. To be eligible to work with Huawei, our suppliers more resources on the impact of their supply chains on local must be able to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and economies, the environment, and society. They are also Huawei's Supplier Sustainability Agreement. We use concerned about supply availability and risks, and the overall procurement quotas as a means to continuously drive compliance and sustainability of their suppliers. supplier improvements. We also take viable measures to Sustainability has become not just be a strategic goal of the monitor and control risks, thereby contributing to a more buying company, but its importance is also being recognized healthy supply chain ecosystem. by suppliers. In 2016, we more broadly implemented our Quality First reinforcing a market-driven green supply chain mechanism: Our strategy. As sustainability is a key element of our Broad Quality supplier audit tools and processes used the enterprise Principle, it was assigned greater weight during our materials environmental data of the Institute of Public and and supplier qualification, performance appraisals, and Environmental Affairs (IPE). In 2016, routine queries about the procurement decision-making. We strengthened cooperation in environmental data of 500 key suppliers revealed 15 violations sustainability with customers, suppliers, and industry of environmental protection rules. Together with the IPE, we organizations. In addition, we adopted the Top Four Initiatives audited ten suppliers onsite and asked that they make on a larger scale, which aims to achieve IT-based management, improvements within a predefined timeframe to meet our promote production automation, develop employee expertise, requirements. In the same year, we attended multiple and retain staff in key positions. Our redline requirements for workshops on green supply chain, and introduced our sustainable development were continuously enforced, and we Three-Pillar green supply model. We participated in developing employed procurement quotas as a tool to help suppliers China's green supply chain management guidelines, and become more sustainable. All these efforts enabled us to defining the green supply chain management and evaluation minimize supply risks, increase customer satisfaction, and requirements of China's Ministry of Industry and Information boost the competitiveness of the supply chain. Technology (MIIT). In 2016, we focused on the following areas as we managed ◆Enhancing cooperation with industry players to develop supply chain sustainability: standards and drive joint actions: In 2016, Huawei was an expert member in a project dedicated to establishing CSR ◆Enhancing cooperation with customers to expand joint audits management systems and standards for China's ICT industry. and increase supply chain transparency: In 2016, Huawei and We played a leading role in developing the IPC-1401 Supply three customers carried out onsite audits on ten suppliers, and Chain Social Responsibility Management System Guidance. We we shared audit results with customers. Additionally, Huawei advocated that social responsibility should be integrated, as a and two customers used Laborlink to survey the staff of ten suppliers, and adopted mobile technology to improve customer requirement, into product lifecycles and the value employer-worker communications in the supply chain. In April chain. We also drove collaboration across industries and along 2016, Huawei and Deutsche Telekom held a joint workshop on the supply chain, helping industry players fulfill their social Creating Value for Business Through CSR and Sustainable Development, where industry experts, customers, and suppliers responsibility and become more competitive. discussed business model innovations that could result in a more sustainable supply chain. Annual risk ranking ◆Enhancing cooperation with suppliers and building Supplier system qualification sustainability into procurement and supplier lifecycle management: In 2016, we reviewed 57 potential suppliers in Supplier terms of their sustainability performance, and the 12 suppliers Onsite audit Industry sustainability that failed the review were denied the opportunity to cooperate and issue collaboration management resolution with Huawei. We audited 938 suppliers with respect to model sustainability risks, and conducted onsite audits on 53 suppliers. Among the 951 suppliers that took part in our performance appraisals, two suppliers had their business with Training & Performance Huawei restricted due to poor performance in sustainability. capability appraisal building ◆Enhancing cooperation with governments and NGOs, and 46 New Supplier Qualification We have a comprehensive qualification process for all new suppliers, including suppliers' sustainability systems. This Number of Qualified New Suppliers (2013 to 2016) qualification process examines suppliers' capacity and their compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and the Supplier 120 Sustainability Agreement. This process includes three stages, 100 110 in which different departments of Huawei shortlist, audit, and 80 review suppliers to ensure fairness throughout the process. 60 56 57 40 38 Shortlisting phase: Sustainability requirements are one of the 20 minimum conditions that potential suppliers must meet. Those 0 who fail this phase are excluded before formal selection begins. 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sustainable Operations Qualification phase: Onsite audits are performed to assess whether a supplier meets the criteria stipulated in the Supplier Sustainability Agreement. The audits include activities such as employee interviews, document reviews, onsite inspections, and third-party information searches. Review phase: An expert panel reviews the results of the supplier audit. Compliance with sustainability requirements is Supplier Audit Results from 2013 to 2016 the precondition for acceptance. Any supplier that fails to meet High-priority suppliers Medium-priority suppliers Low-priority suppliers the standards will not be accepted. Suppliers are also required 900 857 to conduct regular internal audits to make continuous 800 797 improvements. 700 666 Risk Ranking and Auditing 600 561 500 We divide suppliers into different categories to ensure their 400 continued compliance with our requirements. Every year, we 300 audit suppliers, which combined represent 90% of our 200 146 procurement spending, and assign them one of three priority 100 67 59 67 28 20 14 14 levels: high, medium, and low. On this basis, a list of suppliers 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 which require particular attention is drawn up. The factors considered during the audits are: supplier location; product/material category; potentially high-risk manufacturing processes; business volume and relationships; sustainability performance; environmental risks; and risk management systems. Routine audits are a key part of our approach to supplier Supplier Onsite Audit Results from 2013 to 2016 sustainability management. Through audits, we discuss with High-priority suppliers Medium-priority suppliers suppliers' management teams about their buy-in and 67 ownership concerning sustainability, find out where problems 70 57 exist, and then seek to solve those problems and prevent the 60 59 occurrence of future issues. Huawei performs onsite audits on 50 mediumand high-priority suppliers every year. 40 39 30 28 20 If we discover a problem during an audit, we help the supplier 20 14 14 10 analyze root causes, identify ways to mitigate, and take 0 targeted actions using Huawei's Check, Root Cause, Correct, 2013 2014 2015 2016 Prevent, and Evaluate (CRCPE) methodology. All problems are logged in Huawei's Supplier Corrective Action Requirement (SCAR) system for follow-up until closure. We are always ready to help our suppliers improve. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 47 Sustainable Operations Problems Discovered during 2016 Supplier Audits 140 120 120 117 115 110 100 98 80 78 64 53 60 40 37 33 27 25 20 0 Chemical Fire control Equipment Management Working Freedom of Dormitories Child and Environmental Discrimination Business Forced safety safety safety systems hours association and underage protection and ethics labor and and and canteens labor punitive health salaries communication measures Note: During supplier audits in 2016, we did not discover any instances of child labor or forced labor, though the management systems of certain suppliers were found to be incomplete. Deepening Cooperation with Customers phone-based communication platform at ten suppliers as a way to better connect workers and employers through Sustainability is a key component of customer requirements. To employee surveys. The brief training gave employees the boost transparency across the supply chain, we take multiple knowledge they needed to use the platform wherever and initiatives, such as joint audits on suppliers, employee surveys, whenever they wished to provide anonymous responses joint workshops, and supplier capability improvement projects. to questions about overtime hours, working conditions, In 2016, Huawei and three customers ran onsite audits on ten and living conditions. Survey results collected in this suppliers. confidential manner have provided a more objective reflection of actual factory conditions and sentiments of Joint Audit Cooperation employees. The approach has improved the transparency of the supply chain, and made it easier for customers and The Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) is the primary supply chain suppliers to assess the strengths and weaknesses of CSR joint auditing organization established by leading factory management, allowing for the formulation of European and US telecom carriers. The 13 carriers that targeted improvement measures. participate in JAC have unified standards, and delegate a third-party auditing firm to carry out supplier audits, share Supplier Performance Management audit results, and collaboratively encourage suppliers to make improvements. This helps to reduce repeat auditing We appraise suppliers' sustainability performance annually and accelerates improvements along the supply chain. based on their onsite audit results and improvements. Performance appraisals cover key factors such as labor, health In 2016, Huawei designated eight suppliers to participate in and safety, the environment, business ethics, and management JAC joint auditing, with expert groups from a third-party systems. Suppliers are classified into four grades (A, B, C, and D) auditing firm carrying out onsite audits. The auditing experts based on their performance, which represent their performance and customers expressed satisfaction with the results of the level in descending order. In 2016, we appraised the audits on the eight suppliers. In particular, the suppliers performance of 951 suppliers and rated 488, 366, 95, and 2 were found to have incorporated customer CSR suppliers as A, B, C, and D, respectively. requirements into their internal operations. By making improvements related to social responsibility, the suppliers enhanced internal operating efficiency, customer satisfaction, and employee satisfaction. Two suppliers In 2016, we restricted the tendering rights or reduced the Using Improved Mobile Technology to quotas of two suppliers due to poor sustainability performance. Strengthen the Link Between Employers and Workers within the Supply Chain The amount of business we do with each supplier depends on their performance, which is also a factor considered in our Using innovative technology and methods to drive supply tendering, supplier selection, portfolio management, and other chain sustainability has become a trend of development in processes. Suppliers that perform well are given higher recent years. As mobile phones have become more procurement quotas and more business opportunities, while prevalent, using mobile technology to conduct surveys of the reverse is true for low-performing suppliers. Depending on employees has facilitated a better link between workers the situation, we instruct low-performing suppliers to correct and employers. This has resulted in more transparency existing issues within a specified timeframe and may even within the supply chain. terminate business relationships with suppliers that display exceptionally poor performance. In 2016, we restricted the In 2016, in collaboration with two customers, we invited a tendering rights or reduced the quotas of two suppliers due to third-party organization to promote the use of a mobile poor sustainability performance. 48 Supplier Capability Development Sustainability awareness and capability development are essential to ensuring suppliers are managing their own operations effectively. We provide training and coaching for suppliers as necessary. We also encourage them to embed sustainability into their business models and strategies, and to view sustainability as the key to reducing their business risks and enhancing operating efficiency. Alignment of understanding among peers and learning best practices are low-cost and efficient ways for capability development. Sharing Best Practices, Improving Supplier Capabilities In April 2016, Huawei held a workshop that asked the In June 2016, to address the popular topic amongst suppliers of question: How can the turnover, work quality, and how to prevent factory fires, Huawei invited industry experts to productivity of factory employees be improved? Huawei provide special training to 64 suppliers. The training gave new invited suppliers to share their best practices, and some perspectives to safety engineers, and explored the use of beneficial ideas were discussed about how to address the proactive safety management approaches through the common issues faced by modern manufacturing. The combination of safety management and factory operations. Sustainable Operations discussions provided a good framework upon which to Safety management was used as a way to reduce risks and pursue subsequent improvements to factory efficiency and improve efficiency. to reduce employee turnover. Workshop on improving employee turnover Special training on prevention of factory fires Joint Workshop on Supply Chain Sustainability In April 2016, Huawei and Deutsche Telekom held a joint Accountability International (SAI), and the Association workshop on supply chain sustainability titled Creating Connecting Electronics Industries (IPC). Attendees discussed Value for Business Through CSR and Sustainable the challenges and opportunities relating to sustainable Development . In attendance were over 40 customers, development, and exchanged insights, experience, and case experts, and supplier representatives, including individuals studies. Attendees also committed to working collaboratively from Orange, GE, the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI), Social to accelerate tangible progress for sustainable development. Joint Workshop on Supply Chain Sustainability Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 49 Sustainable Operations Building a Greener Supply Chain Sustainable green supply chain The Huawei Green Partner (HW GP) Program aims to ensure that no Huawei products or parts contain any chemicals banned by law or our customers. The program requires full compliance with environmental laws, directives, standards, and Integrating environmental Supporting and requirements. It inspires our suppliers to systematically protection into the business learning from manage their environmental protection efforts, and to follow and value chain peers and suppliers green initiatives throughout a product's lifecycle, from green design to green manufacturing. By controlling the use of Taking concerted restricted substances from the outset, we can contribute to a action with industry peers and customers greener supply chain. In 2016, Huawei certified 11 suppliers as Green Partners. Reducing the Carbon Footprint of the Supply Number of Certified Huawei Green Partners Chain 60 53 We always encourage our suppliers to audit their energy usage, 50 47 identify opportunities to reduce energy use and CO2 emissions, 40 34 study industry-leading practices and business case studies, 30 and develop and implement their own energy conservation and 11 20 emissions reduction plans. In 2016, a total of 20 suppliers took 10 part in our program, together reducing CO2 emissions by 55,000 0 tons. 2013 2014 2015 2016 Since 2011, Huawei has been a member of the Green Choice 55,000 Alliance, which was established by the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE), a non-governmental organization. We have added a query function connected to the IPE's tons enterprise environmental database to our supplier audit list and supplier self-checklist. When query results show that a of CO2 emissions reduced supplier violates environmental rules, Huawei immediately asks them to solve the problems within a designated timeframe. In 2016, routine queries about the environmental Number of Suppliers CO2 Emissions Reduction (Ton) data of 500 key suppliers revealed 15 violations of 80,000 77,144 40 environmental protection rules. Together with the IPE, we 70,000 35 35 audited ten suppliers onsite and asked that they make 60,000 50,000 30 improvements within a predefined timeframe to meet our 50,000 53,652 25 requirements. On the IPE's 2016 Greening the Global Supply 40,000 20 20 39 20 Chain – Corporate Information Transparency Index (CITI), 30,000 15 Huawei was scored as the leading Chinese company and 20,000 23,839 10 ranked 5th in the ICT sector. 10,000 4 5 0 0 No. 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 Prohibiting the Use of Conflict Minerals On the IPE's 2016 Greening the Global Supply Chain – Corporate Conflict minerals refer to tantalum, tin, tungsten, gold, and Information Transparency Index (CITI), Huawei was scored as other minerals that are mined under conditions of armed the leading Chinese company and ranked 5th in the ICT sector. conflict, notably in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. The profits from the sale of these minerals In 2016, Huawei attended multiple workshops on green supply finance ongoing armed conflicts in the countries where they are chain where we introduced our Three-Pillar Green Supply mined or smelted. The problem of conflict minerals has drawn Model. We participated in formulating China's green supply the attention of the electronics industry and other sectors. chain management guidelines, as well as the green supply Governments in the US and Europe have passed laws to chain management and evaluation requirements of China's address the problem. The types of conflict minerals and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT). We regions involved are expanding. The problem is complex and recommended that environmental protection be incorporated will only be resolved through collective commitment and close as a procurement requirement into product certification and cooperation between businesses, governments, and NGOs. supplier qualification, so that procurement quotas can be used as a tool to drive continuous improvement in the environmental Huawei takes the problem of conflict minerals very seriously, performance of both products and suppliers. and has taken solid action in this regard. We began to address 50 this problem in 2002, and have released an open statement announcing that we will not procure or support the use of Leading the Development of the IPC-1401 conflict minerals. We require all suppliers to not procure Supply Chain Social Responsibility conflict minerals. We also ask our suppliers to cascade this Management System Guidance requirement to their suppliers. Through the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), we work with companies around the Electronics Industries (IPC) named Huawei and Flextronics world to jointly address this problem, using the CFSI conflict as leaders in the development of the organization's Supply mineral questionnaire and the OECD Due Diligence Guidance Chain Social Responsibility Management System Guidance. for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Over the past three years, Huawei has organized over 10 Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas to survey the supply workshops with more than 160 volunteer experts from chain and share results with our customers. In 2016, we shared nearly 80 electronics companies and 10 industry the survey results with over 10 customers, including the survey associations. Together with these experts, we analyzed how results of the company and products. We are also an active supply chain social responsibilities have evolved over the participant in the projects of multiple industry organizations, past two decades – as well as the actions, challenges, and seeking to jointly work out viable solutions to conflict mineral needs of customers and suppliers. All participants agreed issues. that it is necessary to adopt compliance audit models beyond traditional approaches; implement ISO management Sustainable Operations Huawei Statement on Conflict Minerals: systems and frameworks; leverage industry best practices; regard social responsibilities as customer requirements and as requirements for products and production; and integrate http://www.huawei.com/en/about-huawei/declarations/statem social responsibilities into procurement strategies, ent-on-conflict-minerals procurement processes, material qualification, supplier qualification, and procurement decision-making. It is widely We are aware that when it comes to conflict minerals, the accepted that procurement quotas should be used as a international community is setting its eyes beyond tantalum, means to drive the continuous improvement of suppliers, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG) and the Democratic Republic of and that social responsibilities should be fulfilled to improve the Congo. With this in mind, Huawei proactively works with business competitiveness. other members of the IDH Indonesian Tin Working Group in pursuit of effective solutions to tin-related issues. To help The IPC-1401 Supply Chain Social Responsibility reinforce governance in the cobalt supply chain, Huawei – as a Management System Guidance has passed three rounds of core member of the Responsible Cobalt Initiative (RCI) – drives review and will be published and enacted in 2017. the supply chain's due diligence system and standards. We also partner with other industry players to design sustainable solutions aimed at addressing human rights and labor issues in the cobalt supply chain. Moving forward, Huawei will seek to play a bigger role in industry organizations like the GeSI, IPC, and CFSI. Together with our customers, suppliers, and other industry players, we will continue to explore sustainable solutions to conflict mineral issues. Industry Cooperation Cooperation with industry players is a key factor for building a sustainable supply chain. In partnership with industry players, we can better address sustainability opportunities and challenges. Through industry organizations, we engage in cross-sector dialogs and initiatives to align understandings, take well-coordinated actions, and share resources. In a nutshell, collaboration allows us to combine strengths and gain leverage to boost industry competitiveness. In 2016, Huawei experts played a central role in the development of the CSR standard for China's ICT industry, which has incorporated Huawei's proposals. This standard uses the framework of the ISO 9001 quality management system, and demands that social responsibility – as customer needs – should be embedded into products and their lifecycles as well as into the value chain. The standard was released in 2016. IPC-1401 Supply Chain Social Responsibility Management System Guidance Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 51 Sustainable Products and Services 52 03 Sustainable Products and Services Cyber Security and Privacy Protection Green Products and Services Safe Products Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 53 Sustainable Products and Services 3.1 Cyber Security and Privacy Protection Context Approach Technological innovation is accelerating in cloud computing, At Huawei, we adopt an open, transparent, pragmatic, and IoT, video, big data, and artificial intelligence, while smart rigorous approach to cyber security. Huawei's commitment to devices are connecting more and more people. Against this cyber security will never be outweighed by its own commercial backdrop, the scale of personal data shared and collected is interests. Establishing and implementing an end-to-end global growing at an unprecedented rate. Rapid technological cyber security assurance system is one of our core development and globalization are constantly presenting development strategies. In addition to steadfast concentration new challenges to cyber security and presenting us with a on cyber security assurance, Huawei places special emphasis fresh set of challenges related to privacy protection. on user privacy, ensuring that we comply with all local laws and regulations related to privacy and personal data protection. Global Cyber Security and User Privacy Protection Committee Our Global Cyber Security and User Privacy Protection Committee is the company's highest organization for managing cyber security and user privacy protection, and has been operating in this capacity for many years. We have a stable and capable security workforce, and our Global Cyber Security & Privacy Officer reports directly to the CEO. All of Huawei's relevant business units have cyber security and privacy offices. We release a large number of policies and ensure the timely and comprehensive update of all related processes. We recently published the Huawei General Privacy Protection Policy, which specifies the privacy-related responsibilities of Huawei's business departments and employees regarding the processing of personal data. Protecting end users' privacy and freedom of communication has been included in Huawei's Employee Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs), and all Huawei employees around the world are required to learn, sign, and comply with the BCGs. Joining Efforts to Address the Global Challenge of Cyber Security It is our belief that all stakeholders must work together, joining efforts to address the global challenge of cyber security. We have taken the initiative to share our ideas and practices and have presented a proactive voice in cyber security: ◆In February 2016, Huawei Global Cyber Security & Privacy Officer John Suffolk delivered a keynote speech at the Munich Security Conference entitled Upcoming Security Challenges and Ways to Deal with Them. In the speech, he elaborated on Huawei's approach to cyber security, and highlighted the importance of focusing on today's cyber security issues while John Suffolk delivers a keynote speech at the Munich Security Conference also reviewing tomorrow's security risks. ◆In March 2016, David Francis, European Cyber Security Officer (CSO) at Huawei, delivered a keynote speech at the Commonwealth Cybersecurity Forum 2016. He explained that security should be built into devices, network architecture, and employee ethos– rather than bolted on as an afterthought. Francis also outlined why organizations need to take an open and cooperative approach to cyber security, to ensure product security is given the same priority as product quality. Shola Taylor, Secretary-General at the Commonwealth Telecommunications Organisation, applauded The Secretary-General at the Commonwealth Telecommunications Organisation has recognized Huawei's efforts in cyber security. Huawei's cyber security practices. 54 ◆In June 2016, Huawei published its fourth cyber security Provider™ Standard – Mitigating Maliciously Tainted and white paper, entitled The Global Cyber Security Challenge – It is Counterfeit Products (O-TTPS) for our Wireless Business Unit's time for real progress in addressing supply chain risks. Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) product line. The certification Authored by Huawei's USA CSO, Andy Purdy, the white paper covers the full lifecycle from product R&D to manufacturing, was designed to inform ongoing efforts, best practices, and transportation, maintenance, and retirement, and has stringent standards on how the global ICT industry can address supply requirements for supply chain management. Achieving this chain security challenges. The white paper discusses how to accreditation demonstrates the maturity of Huawei's cyber ensure security in the global supply chain, shares best security management system and our security management practices from supply chain experts and standards bodies as capabilities. Huawei is the world's first and only vendor to be well as Huawei, and calls for all stakeholders pick up the pace accredited for both hardware and software. of collaboration to address this common challenge. ◆In October 2016, Huawei and REDtone were presented with the Cybersecurity Project of the Year award by CyberSecurity Malaysia in recognition of our B2B public cloud services for government and businesses. The award was an endorsement of the security of Huawei cloud services. ◆After awarding the Protocol of Security Development Assurance (PSDA) stamp to several of our products in 2015, Telefónica presented this certificate to Huawei again in 2016 in recognition of our USN, UGW, and eNodeB products and our product security capabilities. ◆In October 2016, our distribution centers in the Netherlands and Panama received ISO 28000 certification. All six of our supply chain distribution centers around the world have now ◆In November 2016, the Third Huawei MBB Cyber Security passed ISO 28000 certification. We have established an ISO Mindshare Forum was held in Tokyo, which focused on the 28000 security management system to ensure the cyber security challenges introduced by 5G/NFV, advocating security management capabilities of our supply chain and industry-wide cooperation. A number of carriers (including continue to earn customer trust. Telefónica, SoftBank, Telenor, O2, and Bharti), international Sustainable Products and Services organizations (including 3GPP, P3, and Infineon), and Huawei's cyber security experts reached a consensus on 5G cyber ISO 28000 certification for all security challenges and how to address them. At the event, Huawei released its second white paper on 5G cyber security entitled 5G Scenarios and Security Design, which was well six of our supply chain received by attendees. Huawei also released a 2016 distribution centers technological cooperation initiative for cyber security, and established technology focused partnerships with Deutsche Telekom, Telefónica, and China Mobile. End-to-end Cyber Security Assurance System ◆At Huawei, we recognize the value of connecting directly with While actively communicating with external parties to develop carriers' security teams, and are committed to in-depth transparency and trust, we are constantly building and collaboration. As of the end of 2016, we have established direct improving upon our end-to-end cyber security assurance working relationships with the Computer Emergency Response system. We use a built-in approach and an ABC model (Assume Teams (CERTs) of 31 leading global carriers. We have put in nothing, Believe nobody, Check everything) to provide place a robust collaboration apparatus for security emergency comprehensive cyber security assurance in the areas of response to reduce security risks on our customers' live strategy, processes, laws and regulations, employees, R&D, networks, an initiative that has received positive recognition verification, supply, and audits: from our customers. ◆On an annual basis, we develop a strategic plan for cyber Wide Recognition of Huawei's Cyber Security security and privacy protection, which reviews the results we Practices achieved over the previous year, seeking to identify gaps, adjust goals, and continuously improve our end-to-end approach to Governments, customers, industry organizations, and other cyber security and privacy above and beyond Huawei's stakeholders have commended Huawei's cyber security efforts, processes, strategies, and regions. which are expected to drive closer and more pragmatic cooperation. These efforts include the following: ◆We provide basic and business domain specific cyber security awareness education, training, and competency & ◆In September 2016, the Open Group announced that Huawei qualification (C&Q) assessments that target all employees on has been accredited under the Open Trusted Technology Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 55 Sustainable Products and Services an ongoing basis. In 2016, 99.4% employees studied and signed ◆We have controls in place within our supply system to ensure the BCGs, and the job qualification certificate system was end-to-end security. We have improved suppliers' delivery implemented in all key countries. quality and compliance with security agreements and have required them to promptly provide solutions and patches for All vulnerabilities in third-party software. In doing so, we have put in place a comprehensive security mechanism for managing suppliers. The job qualification certificate system was implemented ◆We have established a mature system for tracing supply in all key countries. chain components and enhanced security management through version control, reverse logistics management, and traceability. For software incorporated into configuration ◆Our mature code compilation, configuration management, management, the time required to automatically identify tool management, and traceability platforms in the R&D affected products and customers after a vulnerability's domain have enabled us to steadily develop our security disclosure has been shortened from 10 days to less than one engineering capabilities. The test automation rate of product hour. security cases has continued to improve, and vulnerability tracing and automatic virus scanning capabilities are ◆We have continued to conduct independent third-party cyber industry-leading. Our assessment results based on the Building security and privacy protection audits from different Security in Maturity Model (BSIMM) are well above industry perspectives (i.e., processes, BGs, and countries) to ensure that average in all aspects. We are an industry leader in key security all of our approaches and requirements are effectively technologies, including trusted computing, prevention of implemented and managed, risks are promptly identified, and product tampering during runtime, and improvements are made. anonymity/anonymization technologies. These technologies have been used to bolster the security capabilities of our Direction of Future Work products. Looking ahead, we need to accept that what we have done in ◆We are now a leader in security technology standards with a the past will not continue to be adequate in a fully digitized, strong team of senior technical experts. In 2016, 154 of the cloud, mobile, DIY world. There are many things to consider. security proposals that we submitted to 3GPP SA3 were How can we optimize our development processes to enable approved, and 60 of our proposals were approved by ETSI NFV. rapid service launch while also continuously improving security We hold 17 chairperson/vice chairperson positions in security capabilities? As 5G and IoT create a potentially global attack standards organizations. surface, how do we secure a world we cannot see or touch? How can we adapt evolving quality standards to meet customer ◆Our independent verification approaches, such as the model requirements? How should we change our O&M models? adopted at the UK-based Cyber Security Evaluation Centre, Concerns about cyber security will shift from cyberspace Huawei's Internal Cyber Security Lab model, and third-party security to data security. security verification models, have been recognized by numerous governments and carrier customers. Our Internal An intelligent world is rapidly approaching. In the areas like IoT, Cyber Security Lab performs independent security evaluations big data, and cloud computing, cyber security assurance must on products before launch to ensure products are secure prior ensure the security of integrated solutions, not merely to reaching customers. In recent years, the density of individual products. As an ICT leader, Huawei has extensive security-related issues has dropped on a yearly basis, with the experience in the technology, deployment, and management of average density from 2014 to 2016 going down 66% integrated network products that cover devices, data pipes, year-on-year. The number of security issues identified during and the cloud. We will leverage our decades of experience in CT external testing has also been reduced significantly, with the security technology to align security products with market average number from 2014 to 2016 going down by 43% demand at the strategic level, and further explore and develop year-on-year. approaches to ensure the end-to-end security and privacy of solutions and products. ◆We have continued to improve the compliance levels and delivery quality of our cyber security activities throughout the We are aware that as we progress toward an intelligent world, service delivery process. We have effectively reduced privacy the industry needs to continue fleshing out its technical risks by using mature processes and platforms to process solutions and management methodologies for cyber security customer data stored on spare parts. In addition, we have and privacy protection, and continue to raise awareness. This will underpin the sustainable development of the ICT sector. We enhanced the security of our managed services and Global will continue to work with all stakeholders across the industry Network Operation Centers (GNOCs) and validated all tools to continuously improve cyber security and privacy capabilities, currently in use to improve field delivery quality and ensure so that security and privacy will be protected to the maximum security in all delivery activities. extent possible while still enabling users to enjoy the many conveniences of new technology. 56 3.2 Green Products and Services Context Approach As society continues its rapid development, the number of Our approach to environmental protection is based on the network connections is soaring, leading to enormous traffic concept of the circular economy, which seeks to improve growth and huge bandwidth demand. ICT infrastructure is resource and energy efficiency and enable the reuse of raw becoming smarter and can offer faster and smoother materials, components, and products. At the product design connectivity. However, ICT infrastructure and smart devices stage, we aim to maximize product lifespan and ensure easy are consuming increasingly more energy and resources. The take-back, maintenance, recycling, and reuse. Our design ICT industry is facing the significant challenge of how to approach also adopts the lifecycle assessment (LCA) maximize the efficiency of networks and minimize energy methodology and tools to help us select recyclable or consumption and other environmental impacts, without compostable materials, thus minimizing material use. We are compromising network performance and user experience. committed to providing our customers with green and efficient products and solutions that consume less energy, so as to lower operating expenses (OPEX) and carbon emissions. Leading Green ICT Technologies We strive to provide highly efficient and energy-saving green products and solutions that help customers slash their operating expenses and carbon emissions. To make this happen, we have embedded green requirements into our end-to-end product lifecycle, from development and manufacturing to delivery and O&M. All our offerings meet or exceed applicable laws, regulations, standards, and customer requirements, allowing our customers to enhance their environmental performance. Through continuous technological innovation, we offer energy-efficient solutions for networks, sites, and equipment that enable customers to operate at lower costs and with higher energy efficiency. Sustainable Products and Services Green Certification for Mobile Phones We are conscious of the environment when we design our consumer products, and we implement rigorous controls throughout product lifecycles, from selection of raw materials, manufacturing, packaging, transportation, and usage to scrapping, disposal, and recycling. Our goal is to minimize the impact of our products on the environment. In 2016, Huawei smartphones, including the P9 series, Mate 9 series, and Honor 8, received the highest level (Platinum) of UL110 certification. L110 Platinum Certification for Huawei Mate 9 In 2016, we implemented the following initiatives regarding Energy efficiency of core routers up by energy conservation and emissions reduction of our products 18 and solutions: ◆We saw high energy efficiency as a key element of our design % and development activities, and part of our effort to continue to improve our product and solution capabilities. Through Energy efficiency of wireless base stations up by low-power chips, efficient cooling of power supply, improved 20 software design, and dynamic energy management technologies, we increased the energy efficiency of core routers and wireless base stations by 18% and 20% compared % with 2015. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 57 Sustainable Products and Services ◆We researched innovative energy-saving technologies to Switch Products Awarded TÜV Rheinland Green support future network evolutions: In active collaboration with Mark Certificate universities and research institutes from home and abroad, we made ground-breaking progress in multiple 5G areas such as At HUAWEI CONNECT in August 2016, TÜV Rheinland granted Massive MIMO, network architecture, air interface, and Green Mark certificates to two models of the Huawei S5320 all-digital radio frequency technology. These technologies lower series switches. Equipped with the Energy Efficient Ethernet end-to-end network costs while boosting spectrum utilization (EEE) technology, the switches can start working and energy efficiency. In other domains, we worked closely with immediately after being powered up. When there is no traffic customers to enhance their energy efficiency and contribute to passing through the switch port, the port's PHY chip shuts their goals of achieving energy savings and CO2 emissions down automatically, which can save power consumption of reduction. the entire device by 30%. The entire switch also supports sleep mode power saving. When there's no traffic passing ◆We provided services to enhance the energy performance of through the switch, the switch chip can be set to sleep customers' existing networks. Network modernization is an mode. In doing so, the switch saves power consumption by efficient, cost-effective approach which carriers can adopt to more than 63%. cope with rapid business development. Energy conservation is one of the key factors needed to push network modernization. We help customers redesign networks according to actual conditions such as traffic distribution, networking characteristics, and the power consumption of equipment and infrastructure. Our energy conservation solutions and configuration policies are highly feasible and ensure the networks' quality of service. In 2016, we applied multiple technologies to reduce the energy usage of our base stations, such as Symbol Power Saving, RF Channel Intelligent Shutdown, Huawei switch products awarded Green Mark Certificate and Carrier Intelligent Shutdown. These technologies, now widely used in carrier networks, reduce the energy usage of remote radio units by more than 20% during non-peak hours. Contributing to Low-carbon Networks with Our Highly Energy-efficient Cluster Router Energy usage of remote radio units down by more than 20 In September 2016, Huawei released the NE5000E 1T cluster router at the annual IP Technology Gala. The cluster router, with a capacity of up to 128 Tbit/s, supports flexible 1 Tbit/s % line card and high-density 100GE/10GE ports. With capacity doubled, the router will be able to meet traffic demand for the next 5 to 10 years. New-Generation Kirin 960 Chip Achieves Enabled by innovative energy-saving technologies such as Improvement in Performance and Energy the cutting-edge chip design, and dynamic frequency Efficiency modulation, our NE5000E cluster router is energy efficient. It consumes as little as 0.9 Wh of electricity per gigabyte of The Huawei Mate 9 Pro is equipped with a new-generation data per second, 40% more efficient than the industry Kirin 960 System-On-a-Chip (SOC), featuring pioneering average. The router supports SDN-based traffic Cortex A73 CPU and Mali G71MP8 GPU. Compared with its optimization, which allows balanced optimization of predecessor, the Kirin 960, with a multicore CPU, is 18% network-wide bandwidth utilization and flexible adjustment more efficient and consumes 15% less energy. GPU image of traffic at the data center egress. These features maximize processing has also been greatly improved, with a 20% the usage of network resources. As the router is compatible increase in energy efficiency. with legacy 400G and 100G line cards, it has a longer lifespan, thus helping protect our customers' investment. ◆Through open collaboration, we drove the research and development of energy conservation and carbon reduction standards for the ICT industry. In 2016, we were an active member of and major contributor to energy conservation and carbon reduction standards teams of ITU, ETSI, 3GPP and CCSA, and we submitted multiple proposals. These proposals involved base stations, radio access networks, routers, servers, NFV, and circular economy in the ICT sector. We thus helped boost the standards' accuracy and feasibility. Huawei releases the NE5000E 1T 2+8 cluster router at the annual IP Technology Gala 58 To minimize the impact of our product packaging on forest Huawei's SEE Became International Standard resources, Huawei has sought FSC® certified packaging for our After ITU Approval products. FSC is a supply chain management certification that ensures the materials for our packaging come from In 2016, Huawei's Site Energy Efficiency (SEE) proposal was well-managed sustainable forests. approved by ITU as an official international standard. The SEE indicator can be further divided into telecom equipment In 2016, the packaging for many of our products was FSC efficiency (TEE) and infrastructure energy efficiency (IEE). certified, including the P9, P9 Plus, P9 Lite, Honor V8, Nova, The division of energy efficiency indicators can help analyze Nova Plus, Mate 9, Mate 9 Pro, and Honor Magic. and solve energy efficiency issues through understanding and comparing the indicators of different sub-networks and Management of Hazardous Substances sites. Therefore, SEE is better suited to telecom and tower operators' construction and O&M organizations, and can Hazardous substances are substances that pose a potential facilitate quantitative management of energy savings and danger to people, other living things, or the environment. As emissions reduction efforts. environmental problems continue to escalate and technologies advance worldwide, more and more substances are being banned or their use curtailed. Complying with laws and regulations such as RoHS and REACH on hazardous substances is not our only goal: We have gone one step further by restricting the use of hazardous substances that are not yet prohibited but which can significantly affect the environment. In 2016, Huawei restricted the use of six substances in our consumer products, including new mobile phones, tablets, and wearables. These substances include brominated flame retardants, chlorinated flame retardants, PVC, phthalates, Paolo Gemma, President of the ITU-SG5 WP3, antimony trioxide, and beryllium and beryllium compounds. introducing Huawei's SEE standard Number of restricted and reported substances between 2012 and 2016 Use of Renewable Materials Restricted substances Reported substances Sustainable Products and Services Bioplastics offer unrivaled advantages in terms of 120 environmental protection as compared to traditional plastics. 100 115 115 90 90 Unlike traditional plastics, bioplastics are made from 80 73 plant-based raw materials which are a substitute for 60 nonrenewable resources such as oil. This helps protect the 40 32 35 35 45 45 environment and the earth's nonrenewable resources. 20 0 In 2016, Huawei utilized bioplastics in smartphone products 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 including the P9, P9 Plus, Mate 9, Mate 9 Pro, and the Honor 8. The bioplastics used in these products contain more than 30% castor oil, and achieve a reduction in CO2 by 60% compared Green Packaging with traditional oil-based plastics. Huawei strictly complies with environmental regulations across the entire lifecycle of packaging materials, including selection, manufacturing, usage, and disposal. We have implemented a green packaging strategy with Right Packaging as the core. Our renewable steel pallet plus high-density cardboard packaging solution has replaced wooden pallets and plywood crates, cutting our use of forest products and emissions of green house gas. The Mate 9 shell utilizes bioplastics 60 % less CO2 emissions Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 59 Sustainable Products and Services Metal packaging Lightweight pallets Shipped 240,000 units, Shipped 19,000 units, saving 50,300 m of wood 3 saving 1,500 m3 of wood Corrugated cardboard Industrial packaging in packaging overseas supply centers Shipped 310,000 units, Saved packaging materials for saving 44,800 m3 of wood about 12,000 pallets, or 2,000 m3 of wood Used lightweight box plank to save 256,000 m3 of wood product Huawei's green packaging initiatives and results In 2016, Huawei shipped 621,000 units of green packaging, saving 123,000 m3 of wood and 225,000 tons of CO2 emissions. 225,000 of CO2 emissions avoided tons Green packaging (units) Reduced use of wood (m3) 122,726 621,449 83,551 504,867 45,717 44,164 214,882 247,193 93,185 19,853 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Contributing to a Circular Eco The growing population and demand worldwide is leading to increased resource scarcity, environmental pollution, and ecological damage. This forces all industries to raise sustainable development to a strategic level, and this is how the idea of a circular economy originated. Under the circular economy model, substances are managed in a closed-loop manner. The goal is to maximize product value and reduce waste and resource consumption, as well as environmental and ecological impact. Huawei has incorporated circular economy practices into our product design. We use the latest technology to improve resource efficiency. And we conduct cradle to cradle recycling practices, implement circular economy policies and requirements, and reward circular economy efforts for sustainable resource use. 60 Elements of Huawei's Design Approach for the Circular Economy: ◆Recyclable design: Use more recyclable materials and secondary raw materials ◆Coatings: Coatings compatible with product recycling processes ◆Design for disassembly: Avoid welds, glue, rivets, and other permanent joints where possible ◆Uniformity of materials: Reduce recycling costs for higher returns ◆Surface mounting: Improve the reusability of PCBs We have put in place a global management system for returned materials, incorporating the collection, storage, disassembly, testing, repair, and disposal of waste. Every scrapped item is categorized by lifecycle phase and quality, so that we can recover as much of its value as possible. Reusable materials are allocated to our internal reuse channels – such as the R&D, manufacturing, parts, and assets departments – where materials are reused or auctioned off without incurring cyber security risks. For reusable equipment, we perform final assembly test (FAT) of the whole product to avoid unnecessary material waste caused by dismantling. Non-reusable materials are allocated to the raw material recycling channel, in which certified recycling service providers dismantle and recycle the materials. Global Green Recycling Program for Mobile Phones Huawei runs a Global Green Recycling Program, in which we strive to fulfill our extended producer responsibility. As of late 2016, we had 705 recycling stations in 36 countries and regions around the world for handling of scrapped mobile phones, tablets, and other electronic products. In addition, through our recycling initiatives including in-store and online trade-in, we Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable Services give consumers greater understanding of the benefits of properly recycling products such as mobile phones, and allow them to participate in the process. By collaborating with leading, qualified product recyclers, we maximize the value of the electronic products and ensure the scrapped items are properly processed in an environmentally responsible manner. This reduces environmental pollution and damage caused by e-waste, and promotes the development of a circular economy. USA1 Brazil 1 Poland 20 France 2 Japan 2 Germany 2 Vietnam 6 Sweden 2 Belgium 12 South Africa 5 Denmark 1 Finland 3 Russia 20 The Netherlands 3 Germany 1 Croatia 1 Malaysia 5 France 2 Sweden 2 Italy 15 Hungary 1 Poland 20 Japan 2 Spain 20 Serbia 1 South Korea 50 Spain 20 Greece 2 Myanmar 17 Pakistan 10 Mainland China 387 USA 1 The Netherlands 3 Qatar 1 Finland 3 Italy 15 Belgium 12 UAE 3 Greece 2 Slovenia 1 Myanmar 17 The Philippines 33 Saudi Arabia 3 Hong Kong 1 Hong Kong 1 Oman 9 India 33 Indonesia 35 Vietnam 6 The Philippines 33 Thailand 15 South Korea 50 Malaysia 5 Croatia 1 Singapore 1 Slovenia 1 Serbia 1 Indonesia 35 Denmark 1 Brazil 1 Hungary 1 India 33 Pakistan 10 South Africa 5 Australia 1 UAE 3 Saudi Arabia 3 Thailand 15 Oman 9 Mainland China 387 Qatar 1 Australia 1 Singapore 1 Russia 20 Global distribution of recycling stations (as of end of 2016) Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 61 Sustainable Products and Services 3.3 Safe Products Context Approach In recent years, mobile broadband, smartphones, and Huawei has developed strict systems for product safety wearables have advanced rapidly and are now reshaping the control, and enforced strict product safety standards. Our way people work and live. ICT products and services are areas of focus continue to be reducing electromagnetic and delivering rich user experience while also increasing safety laser radiation and improving electrical safety . Our goal is to challenges, and this is why users are more concerned about deliver safe, reliable products and services to customers and product safety (e.g., electrical safety, electromagnetic consumers. radiation, and noise) than product quality. Electromagnetic Radiation our products are safe in terms of electromagnetic radiation. We have a dedicated lab that tests the radiation levels of our Huawei has developed strict standards for controlling products, including mobile phones, tablets, and wireless electromagnetic radiation. Our ongoing research and innovation routers. In addition, we collaborate with third-party verification helps to ensure that our products conform to all legal and organizations in major countries and regions to ensure that our technical standards. Base stations are becoming smaller and products comply with security laws and regulations of different lighter, and are being installed closer to ground level. In countries. response, we are building additional electromagnetic radiation protection into their design, and carrying out more research and Electrical Safety testing. This allows us to deliver both excellent communications services and product safety. Huawei has established a systematic electrical safety assurance system, and we implement safety baselines, In 2016, we hired world-leading scientists in electromagnetic standards, and requirements at different stages throughout the field exposure and product conformity testing. By coordinating lifecycle. To deliver safe and reliable products, we continue to electromagnetic safety compliance, standardization, and invest in the research and application of key technologies supervision issues, they help us resolve product radiation relating to electrical safety protection and risk mitigation and problems at the R&D and market stages. detection, and we are actively involved in standards initiatives led by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). The increasing penetration of smartphones and new form factors of device products pose a big challenge to the industry. Huawei has a dedicated electrical safety lab that is certified by There is a trade-off between the control of a device's both the American Association for Laboratory Accreditation electromagnetic radiation level and the improvement of its (A2LA) and the China National Accreditation Service for signal strength. Stricter regulations on electromagnetic Conformity Assessment (CNAS), and is a long-term strategic radiation of consumer products are being released in many partner of major testing and certification organizations such as countries. To conform to relevant standards, manufacturers UL, TÜV, and ITS. We perform product design and testing in have to invest a lot more in product R&D, manufacturing, and strict compliance with international safety standards and cost control. Huawei attaches great importance to consumer differentiated national standards to ensure the electrical safety safety. We invest in product R&D and manufacturing to ensure of our products. Safeguarding the persons and property of users and ensuring electrical safety for a Better Connected World! Huawei Electrical Safety Assurance System Objectives & roadmap Clear responsibilities Capacity building Security redlines Technical specifications Arbitration & scheduling R&D Incoming materials Manufacturing Installation Maintenance Standard platform – defect prevention Detection platform – defect identification Security tag design standards Structural safety design standards Hardware security design standards Power distribution safety design standards XX security design standards Selection standards for XX safety Standard detection platform Scenario-based detection platform – 0 barrier to market access – 0 security risk Standard platform – increase influence in the industry Technology research platform – improve product competitiveness ITU/SG5 Telcordia IEC TC108 Power distribution Power distribution Equipment Interface safety of equipment rooms safety of products electricity safety design safety ETSI/EE IEEE/PSES IEC TC64 POE POE IEC60364 IEC60950 IEC60950 Power supply and distribution safety technology Equipment electricity safety technology 62 Laser Safety Applying Ergonomics in Product Design We strictly conform to the IEC 60825 security standards when designing, testing, and verifying all laser products. Huawei has a Huawei FusionModule2000 is a next-generation modular dedicated laser safety lab to strictly test the safety of all laser data center solution. Its ergonomic design enables fast, products, from optical modules to laser transmission systems. on-demand deployment and easy O&M. Installation takes This enables us to ensure that users can use our products only one week, which is 50% faster than competitor without concern for laser radiation. products. Laser safety testing Huawei's smart modular data center All our laser products are certified by major international certification organizations such as UL and TÜV, which means Noise Reduction the radiation levels of our laser products pose no harm to users. We have adopted multiple methodologies to greatly reduce the Ergonomics noise of multiple products. For example, we introduced Huawei has a specialist ergonomic design team, which industry-leading noise simulation technology into our Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable Services promotes safe product design based on real user scenarios. company. A whitebox approach was used to study the factors Ergonomic design is built into every phase of product planning, that determine product noise. We also redesigned product design, development, and testing, so that our products are shapes and sizes to minimize noise. adapted to users' engineering habits and technical needs – One example is our core router, which cancels noise by 10 dB while reducing health and safety risks at the installation and (compared with 6.5 dB of the previous model) and reduces usage stages. noise energy by 90%. In order to make this happen, we used As of the end of 2016, we had collected 115 user scenarios in noise simulation technology to redesign the router's ventilation 26 countries and regions, involving major telecom carriers pipes and noise cancelling module, without having a significant across Europe, North America, Latin America, Africa, and Asia. impact on the product's cost or size. The next generation of the core router is expected to achieve 12 dB noise reduction, thus 115 reducing noise energy by over 93%. user scenarios in 26 countries and regions User scenarios analyzed by Huawei globally 90 % of noise energy reduced 115 112 We track the latest developments in noise reduction 106 technology, and have close links with universities and research institutes working on noise control. The Huawei Environmental 2014 2015 2016 Acoustics Lab has long been ISO/IEC 17025 certified by both Number of countries in which user scenarios have been analyzed the American Association for Laboratory Accreditation (A2LA) and the China National Accreditation Service for Conformity 26 25 21 Assessment (CNAS), and is recognized by major testing and certification organizations such as UL, MET Laboratories, and National Technical Systems (NTS). The lab supports our efforts to measure, locate, and control environmental noise with some 2014 2015 2016 of the world's most advanced noise testing equipment. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 63 Sustainable World 64 04 Sustainable World Bridging the Digital Divide Supporting Network Stability Contributing to a Greener World Supporting Local Communities Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 65 Sustainable World 4.1 Bridging the Digital Divide Context Approach Connectivity possesses extraordinary power to transform Huawei has been actively involved in bridging the digital lives, promote economic growth, and drive social divide by providing basic connections, broadband development by empowering people and communities. It connections, applications that drive demand and transform does so by reducing the cost of information, which in turn lives, and ICT education and skills. Since 1987, Huawei has lowers the cost of economic and social transactions. This worked relentlessly with our customers to ensure all people promotes innovation, efficiency, and inclusion, as people get have access to connectivity and digital services around the access to more and more services and opportunities. world. By building more than 1,500 networks in over 170 countries and regions, we have brought affordable Whilst universal access can improve equality, uneven access connections, smartphones, and applications to more than – the digital divide – leads to inequality. Countries and one-third of the world's population – many of them for the communities that are ill-equipped to adjust to the new digital first time. economy risk being left further behind. According to the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) integrate multiple technologies such as cellular, Wi-Fi, and estimates, 3.5 billion people were expected to be online by the microwave to make their deployment both faster and cheaper. end of 2016, but that leaves more than half of the world's Affordability is critical if we are to overcome the digital divide. population still offline. 2 billion people do not have a mobile phone and half a billion people are outside areas with mobile To minimize network costs, Huawei provides end-to-end phone signal coverage. Many of them are disproportionately services and works closely with its customers to reduce their located in developing countries. In the 48 countries designated expenses, and consequently the costs for the end consumer. as Least Developed by the UN, only one in seven people were We continuously innovate network technologies to adapt to the expected to be online at the end of 2016. needs of emerging economies and demanding geographies. One example is our renewable energy power supply solution, Pushing basic connectivity and digital infrastructure, which is suitable for base stations in remote and sparsely especially to remote areas, continues to be very challenging. populated areas. This solution also removes the need for highly Although mobile phones have become more common, only polluting diesel generators. about 12% of people in emerging economies have a broadband data connection. Improving ICT skills and digital literacy is also In 2016, Huawei continued to deploy these technologies in a major barrier to overcome. Unconnected people could often remote regions that were connected for the first time. Every benefit the most from better access to healthcare, government day thousands of Huawei staff work in tough conditions like services, improved education, and other services that digital these throughout the world to extend network coverage, with innovations provide. the aim of bringing everyone within range of a mobile signal. Connecting the unconnected is a problem with no single solution. It requires governments, carriers, equipment vendors, Connecting Myanmar for the First Time and application developers to work together. Huawei is proud of its collaboration – often in some of the world's most Myanmar's challenging geographical landscape contains challenging and remote places – to bring the benefits of the dense forests and hard-to-reach communities. Because digital world to as many people as possible and make sure no of difficult weather conditions (e.g., a seven-month rainy one is left behind. season) and other challenges such as flooded roads and patchy energy supplies, Myanmar is perhaps one of the Communications for All last great telecom green fields in Asia. These factors present enormous challenges for network deployment According to the ITU, more than 87% of the world's population and pose exacting requirements on network quality and is now within the range of a mobile signal (55% for 3G efficiency. networks). Among the world's poorest 20% of households, nearly 7 out of 10 have a mobile phone – more households in To meet our customer's needs, Huawei's design included developing countries own a mobile phone than have access to fixed and mobile network technologies, energy generation electricity or clean water. However, there are still up to half a facilities, 7,000-plus base stations, and advanced cable billion people unconnected to any form of telecommunications engineering and network protection technology used for services and they are disproportionately located in developing over 2,000 km coverage. We utilized 20 different base countries. Huawei understands this challenge. Our station tower designs, seven different wireless solutions, technologies can enable the widest possible coverage through 18 different types of power generation units, and 26 higher power and more targeted transmission. We also 66 different microwave solutions. Huawei completed the Information Accessibility Project based on insights into network project after 26 months of extraordinary work. the intense desire of the visually impaired to use a mobile For the first time, 13 million people (one fifth of the phone normally. country's population) now have access to an advanced telecommunications system. Since the Emotion User Interface 5.1 (EMUI5.1) system, Huawei has partnered with the influential industry 13 organization Information Accessibility Research Association. Throughout the development of the Information Accessibility Project, Huawei leveraged its million expertise in technology to enable accessibility people have access to an advanced telecommunications functionality to better meet the needs of target users. system Huawei's text-to-speech (TTS) functionality comes by default in new devices, enabling visually impaired users to Our commitment doesn't stop there. Huawei continues to configure a new phone independently after turning it on. invest resources in Myanmar to improve digital inclusion. When a new Huawei smartphone is powered on for the first For example, Huawei inaugurated its first Huawei time, the TTS functionality can be enabled simply by Authorized Information Network Academy (HAINA) in placing two fingers anywhere on the screen. With the Myanmar with Thanlyin University of Science and assistance of Chinese language TTS, the entire process of Technology in Yangon, which is our 147th academy phone setup becomes easy. The user can hear phone worldwide. The objective of HAINA is to help grow numbers by tapping the dial pad, thus avoiding unintended urgently needed technical knowledge and expertise in commands being made by double-taps during calls. This Myanmar, and ultimately to ensure the benefits of feature makes phone calls much easier. Huawei also connectivity are shared by local people. added differentiation between the Chinese words for he and she , which sound the same in spoken Chinese, helping users to more accurately express and obtain information. The Huawei EMUI 5.1 system provides more than 50 standard accessibility options, which have made more user-friendly for the visually impaired. Its accessibility enables users to live, travel, shop, and seek out entertainment independently. By making the phones accessible right out of the box , Huawei is bridging the Base station under construction digital divide for visually impaired people. 可持续的世界 Sustainable World A visual impaired person is using a mobile phone to Myanmar children enjoying access to the Internet for the first time communicate and obtain information Enabling Visually Impaired Users to Broadband for All Conveniently Use Smartphones The number of Internet users has more than tripled in a decade Data shows that there are approximately 13 million – from one billion in 2005 to an estimated 3.5 billion at the end visually impaired people in China. Using a mobile phone to of 2016. However, that still leaves around four billion people communicate and obtain information is a major hurdle offline. Access to affordable and effective broadband is a vital that they face in everyday life. Huawei initiated its enabler of economic growth and sustainable development. Many of these people live in the developing world. The largest Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 67 Sustainable World challenges are in Africa – where about one in five people are connected. contribution to the ITU's target to connect 50% of households (430 million households) in the developing The ITU estimates that 148 nations have national broadband world to the Internet by 2020. WTTx is already used in over plans in place to promote broadband quality and penetration, 30 countries serving more than 30 million households (the which shows just how critical this infrastructure has become. It equivalent of 56 million people) in Asia Pacific and Africa. is no surprise therefore that the global market for broadband We have also used this solution to connect rural shows strong growth. However, its growth is unevenly communities in Europe and North America. distributed. Broadband access for all in developing countries has not been fully achieved. In addition, the global online In 2016, Huawei bought WTTx to the Philippines where its gender gap is thought to be widening slightly. Greater effort is 7,000 islands make fixed broadband very costly. Not needed to connect remaining offline communities, who are now surprisingly, until now broadband penetration has been found in more rural areas, and are disproportionately poorer, low. Globe Telecom, which is the second largest carrier in less educated, and mostly female. the Philippines, selected Huawei's WTTx solution and was able to reduce its deployment costs by 80% and Huawei provides a full range of solutions including deployment time by 90% compared to fixed broadband. In international submarine networks, backhaul networks, densely populated urban areas, WTTx can connect backbone networks, fixed networks, and mobile networks, as hundreds of households per site. Nigerian carrier Swift, well as the software that enables them all. Our solutions for instance, has deployed WTTx in Lagos and Abuja and is enable carriers to cut costs, continuously invest in new serving 200 households per site. In 2016, Huawei and Sri high-speed networks, and deliver superior services to more Lankan mobile carrier Dialog started 4.5G trials to help users.Mobile phones provide the main form of Internet access accelerate the commercial adoption of the latest in developing countries. Affordable high-quality devices are generation of WTTx. also critical infrastructure and we provide a wide range of products at different costs for all types of users. In 2016, we WTTx is transformational. In the Philippines, Globe shipped over 139 million phones. We also work to extend Telecom has experienced a 39% year-on-year increase in battery life, which is essential in many places without household broadband subscribers. In Sri Lanka, WTTx has convenient access to electricity. contributed to a 200% year-on-year increase in household broadband, with one million households projected to enjoy broadband by the end of 2017, accounting for Connecting the Unconnected with WTTx one-fifth of total households. We are convinced that by Innovation working with our customers to improve affordability, Huawei's WTTx can make a significant contribution to Huawei's WTTx (Wireless To The X) is a wireless broadband ensuring broadband for all. network solution using 4G/4.5G technologies that is able to deliver cost-effective fiber-like broadband access to households and businesses. This is a particularly important technology in emerging economies because Connecting Africa and the World traditional fixed-line broadband is often too expensive to Connecting people in Africa remains a top priority. Huawei address the issue of the last mile access encountered in Marine Networks, in partnership with 20 carriers, has both densely populated urban areas and sparsely helped construct eight marine cable systems and upgrade populated rural areas. By avoiding many of the costs two existing systems in Africa to provide better associated with fixed broadband (e.g., license international data access for 15 countries. To date, applications, civil engineering, and maintenance), telecom Huawei Marine Networks has deployed 6,000 km of carriers can save time and money by providing wireless marine cable between Cameroon and Brazil that has connections for the last mile and bring access to their improved international connectivity for a huge number of customer's door. With WTTx, deployment can be 75% people. cheaper and completed in 90% less time compared to fixed-line technology. In 2016, Huawei Marine Networks announced the successful delivery of the Avassa submarine cable 75 system. The new system improves connectivity for approximately one million people on the Comoros islands, % located on the east coast of Africa. The new 260 km submarine cable will improve on the existing microwave With WTTx, deployment can be 75% cheaper and completed technology that has carried the majority of inter-island in 90% less time compared to fixed-line technology. capacity, but due to its low speed and limited capacity was no longer sufficient to support the island's growing This offers a real chance to connect previously economy. This new high-speed, large-capacity submarine inaccessible communities and is a key part of Huawei's system will help support local economic development and 68 provide local businesses and residents with an improved Connecting Partners and People to Improve user experience. Healthcare in Kenya To improve access to healthcare services in rural Kenya, Huawei worked with the Government of Kenya, Safaricom, MicroClinic Technologies, and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) to connect over 40 medical facilities to a telemedicine and digital clinic solution. This collaboration benefited over 200,000 residents in remote areas like Lamu Island. As a result, people no longer need to travel to distant facilities for diagnosis or treatment. Instead they can continue using their local clinic and communicate with medical specialists remotely. In addition, Huawei's digital solution allows the government to build up health data, predict and manage the demand and supply of medicine, and assess the productivity of staff or workload in facilities to decide on staffing, training or investment in Applications for All facilities. ICT is a powerful tool that allows people, governments, and businesses to share, engage, create value, and innovate. As This collaborated benefited such, it drives demand for connectivity infrastructure, digital services, and data. ICT applications are able to unlock new opportunities in areas such as smart metering, smart parking, logistics tracking, and smart cities in ways that drive efficiency gains in how services are provided and consumed. 200,000 residents Huawei offers a wide range of ICT solutions that help to On November 16, 2016, our eHealth project was recognized transform customers in various sectors such as healthcare, at the 2016 Smart City World Congress with the Innovative railway, manufacturing, public safety, energy/smart grid, Global South Award. finance, government, and education. These solutions lead to significant improvements to human health and well-being, water, agriculture, natural resource management, and climate change mitigation. They will also play an important role in helping to increase resource utilization and decrease natural resource consumption, which is essential for sustainable development. Healthcare Railway It takes strong medicine to stay healthy and Make the connection with on-time performance 可持续的世界 Huawei's innovative IT solutions help make it and better user services… any time, any happen destination Training for local healthcare staff Smart Grid Finance Sustainable World Smart electricity service management and From banking to insurance and beyond – reliable distribution from generating plant to intelligent, modern solutions for the financial customers industry Manufacturing Public Safety Connecting labor, application systems, and Leading New ICT, Making Cities Safer smart machines to forge factories of the future Innovative Global South Award Government Education Better services, quick and useful Communicate, educate, succeed. spread decision-making, forward-looking planning – knowledge online to make students smarter and government done right teachers better. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 69 Sustainable World Improving Financial Inclusion Together with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Today, two billion adults are excluded from the formal economy because they lack access to formal financial services. The main reason for this is that they rely almost entirely on cash and are ill-equipped to weather financial shocks, such as illness, crop failures, livestock deaths, and farming-equipment breakdowns. Digital financial services that allow for personal savings accounts, insurance, credit, or cash transfers are critical for helping people to permanently pull themselves out of poverty. To help address this problem, Huawei became one of the first major partners to join the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation's Level One Project – an initiative focused on developing and deploying digital financial services that serve customers at all levels of the financial pyramid. Scalable, low-cost, interoperable, and fraud-resistant payment solutions are being developed based on open Application Programming Interfaces (APIs). These solutions will help people improve their lives by connecting them with digital tools that enable easier purchases, transfers, saving, borrowing, and insurance. As part of the Level One Project, Huawei will collaborate with industry associations, government agencies, technology firms, banks, and others to establish the global baseline for interoperability, which will help promote economic security for all. Signing between Huawei and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Knowledge for All Connectivity itself cannot bridge the digital divide – there is a critical need to create an enabling and inclusive environment. Without ICT awareness, skills, and education, participation in digital transformations will fall short and its benefits will not be fully realized. ICT infrastructure and content need to be conceived and developed in a way that is focused on people and sustainable development. This includes women and men of all ages, cultures, places, and economic backgrounds. This is why Huawei continues to focus on improving ICT education. With the right ICT skills, people will be able to invent, create, as well as share conversations and knowledge with others, which we hope will also help create better environments to live in. 70 Huawei's ICT Academy Continues to Grow Around the World Huawei believes that ICT skills create opportunities for Starting in 2016, Huawei also launched a new annual ICT skills young people and vocational education is essential for competition. Over 12,000 students from participating HAINA sustainable industrial growth. In support of our vision, in institutions in seven countries as well as students from several 2013 we launched a global ICT skills training program known guest universities in China participated in the competition. as the Huawei Authorized Information and Network Based on their results, winners will receive Huawei mobile Academy (HAINA, or Huawei ICT Academy). This is Huawei's devices. not-for-profit education program that supports a wide range of universities and further education colleges to deliver Huawei Certificated courses to their students. 30 HAINA students from the University of Reading visiting Huawei's UK office Since the program's inception, over 20,000 students from 32 countries have participated with over 8,000 gaining formal certification. In 2016, 3,500 students were awarded certificates and have continued their training to further their careers. Huawei continues to invest in the HAINA program and in 2016 we were honored to include Edinburgh Napier University (UK), Northumberland College (UK), Open University (UK), University of Surrey (UK), University of São Paulo (Brazil), University of Johannesburg (South Africa), and Shanghai Jiao Tong University (China) as new participating institutions. We now offer six different courses covering routing and switches, security, WLAN, cloud, storage, and big Students at the National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences (Pakistan) data. competing in Huawei's new global ICT skills competition Huawei Upgraded Addis Ababa University's Huawei Connects Upwards of 1,000 Schools in Campus Network China Addis Ababa University (AAU) is Ethiopia's largest university, Education authorities from the city of Yuxi, in China's Yunnan having nearly 50,000 students, 5 museums, and 13 province, worked with Huawei to create a digital campus that campuses as well as numerous branches nationwide. would bridge the gap between its urban and rural schools and However, the capacity of its existing network was improve access to information and knowledge. Huawei 可持续的世界 increasingly insufficient and the system was becoming too provided broadband access and enabled cloud-based resource Sustainable World complex and costly to maintain. sharing between schools, giving students access to online and mobile education resources, as well as an e-school bag (a Huawei worked with the university to upgrade its campus to digital workspace). Network capacity was tailored to each provide greater bandwidth for more real-time educational school's individual needs to ensure proper cost control and applications, such as desktop cloud, VoIP, and on-demand was designed for security, stability, and easy maintenance. high-definition video. Before the upgrade, user experience had been poor. Huawei's restructuring resulted in a ten-fold Yuxi became the first city in Yunnan to deploy an ICT-based improvement in bandwidth. The previously complex network education system. Huawei's Agile Education Campus Network structure, which required high levels of expertise to Solution helped connect nearly 1,000 schools in the area to maintain, was replaced with a new integrated system that create more flexible and equitable access to education for the can be centrally managed. The new infrastructure has city's children. enabled excellent operations at AAU and is based on similar systems that Huawei has also installed in other world-class institutions, such as Peking University (China), Tsinghua University (China), and Newcastle University (UK). Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 71 Sustainable World 4.2 Supporting Network Stability Context Approach Connectivity is fundamental to modern life. When networks Huawei has a well-established business continuity are down, there are real economic and social consequences. management (BCM) system that provides a contingency plan In recent years, there have been numerous major natural for ten typical scenarios (such as for earthquakes or disasters: The tsunami in Indonesia, earthquakes in outbreaks of war) and allows us to quickly restore customer Wenchuan, China, the Fukushima nuclear leak in Japan, and networks and resume stable operations following critical the earthquake in Chile, just to name a few. Every second emergencies, thus helping safeguard life and property. Even without connectivity could be a matter of life or death. During under extreme conditions, our employees will do their utmost major events such as sports and traditional holidays, growing to support network stability. This is the responsibility demand for data and voice services results in a huge impact shouldered by each and every Huawei employee. This on networks. Network reliability and stability will have a obligation outweighs any commercial interests. direct influence on user experience and loyalty. Huawei invests heavily in network stability, striving to ensure that everyone is able to communicate, access data, and share Restoring Communication Networks information whenever and wherever needed. Specifically, we Following the 2016 Earthquake in Ecuador have established a comprehensive customer network support On April 16, 2016, a powerful 7.8 magnitude earthquake system that considers a range of factors, including occurred just outside the small town of Muisne in organizational structures, designated personnel, processes, Ecuador, with tremors spread across the five provinces and IT tools. We have also established a mature BCM system of Manabi, Guayas, Esmeraldas, Santo, and Domingo. that provides a contingency plan for emergencies (such as for This was the most devastating earthquake in the country earthquakes or outbreaks of war). This system allows us to in nearly 70 years. Duty called. Within 30 minutes after quickly restore customer networks and resume stable the earthquake, Huawei Ecuador initiated its Business operations following critical emergencies, thus helping Continuity Management (BCM) procedures for safeguard life and property. emergencies and formed an emergency assurance team. We quickly analyzed and identified network problems, We have established three global and nine regional technical and discussed solutions with the customer to deal with assistance centers. More than 3,900 Huawei technical support damaged network equipment. engineers provide services worldwide on a 24/7 basis. In 2016, we ensured smooth communication for nearly 3 billion people Huawei Ecuador's emergency repair personnel were worldwide, and supported the stable operations of over 1,500 then assigned to multiple smaller sub-teams to work networks in more than 170 countries and regions. We with customer personnel. Braving the danger of guaranteed network availability during nearly 200 major events, continuing aftershocks, power outages, and supply natural disasters, and special occasions (such as the shortages, the teams delved deep into the disaster magnitude 7.8 earthquake in Ecuador, the G20 Summit, and the zones of Portoviejo, Jama, and Pedernales to make Hajj in Saudi Arabia). emergency repairs. After five hard days of work, the fiber optics team repaired 51 fiber optic lines, re-adjusted network connections, established new mirror sites and We supported stable operations of over two redundancy links for four disaster-stricken 1,500 provinces, and added two additional sites in Portoviejo. These efforts ensured normal communication in the disaster area. networks in more than 170 countries and regions. More than 800 aftershocks were felt in the disaster area during the following week. Water and power lines were We guaranteed network availability during nearly cut, and materials were in short supply. Because the 200 power grid had been severely damaged in the earthquake zone, some base stations were facing power shortages. In addition, voice traffic following the earthquake was multiple times its normal levels. Huawei major events, natural disasters, and special occasions. Ecuador quickly procured and dispatched diesel generators and lighting systems, and worked to disperse the network congestion being faced by local carriers. Nearly 300 Huawei staff members were directly involved 72 in the network recovery work. Focused on a single aim, water to the region of Portoviejo, providing a source of the team worked urgently to repair communication drinking water to residents in this area. Huawei Ecuador equipment and maintain the normal operation of the also proactively coordinated vehicles for three Chinese telecom network. rescue teams, and provided emergency supplies to ensure the teams were able to gain quick and efficient access to Furthermore, Huawei Ecuador donated 11 tons of spring areas most in need. Emergency repair of communication equipment Donating spring water to the earthquake zone Supporting Network Stability at the Hangzhou G20 Summit The 11th G20 Summit was held from September 4 to 5, 2016 together seamlessly, and provided 24/7 uninterrupted support in Hangzhou, China. Huawei assigned high priority to for network operations. Huawei also established a special G20 supporting network availability for the event, and therefore line to ensure rapid response to any issues that might occur set up a G20 Communication Support Project Team during the summit. From August 20 to September 7, 2016, comprised of personnel from field operations, R&D, and Huawei's work involved China's three major carriers, 24 key related departments. To enable network stability during the regions, 6 key transportation routes, 11,000 private summit, the Project Team kept in close contact with the transmission lines, 13,000 international roaming users, 868,000 customer, clarified objectives, and developed a IPTV live broadcast users, as well as VoLTE, FDD/TDD, and OTT comprehensive plan. services. The network operated stably throughout this time period, and the quality of all the services remained high. Huawei Beginning in March 2016, Huawei experts and engineers successfully completed the project, with zero network invested over 8,600 person-days in enormous amounts of incidents, disruptions, and complaints. work. This included network-wide inspections, addressing any issues that were uncovered, and updating network Huawei's robust support provided strong backing to a variety of emergency response plans. In total, Huawei deployed, telecom services. We won strong customer recognition through expanded, and upgraded over 5,000 base stations to prevent our professional processes and team organization, visualized potential network risks so as to lay a solid foundation for a real-time monitoring, and rapid emergency response measures. 可持续的世界 successful summit. Our work during the G20 Summit demonstrated Huawei's ability Sustainable World to provide high-quality support to major events. We lived up to Beginning in early August 2016, Huawei assigned 431 staff our commitment to ensure stable network operation, and members to work onsite and 280 staff members to support fulfilled our social responsibility. the project remotely. The onsite and remote teams worked The Huawei Support Teams for the G20 Summit in Hangzhou Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 73 Sustainable World 4.3 Contributing to a Greener World Context Approach In its 2013 Energy Efficiency Market Report, the International Huawei is dedicated to reducing energy consumption and Energy Agency (IEA) forecasts that by 2020, the ICT industry carbon emissions in the ICT industry and to enabling other will account for more than 14% of global energy industries to do the same. We are committed to a low-carbon consumption. The ICT industry is the fifth largest in energy world: We provide smart and clean energy solutions, enable consumption: It accounts for 2%–4% of global energy smart cities and green industries, and help our customers consumption and carbon emissions, with an increase of conserve energy and cut emissions. Through these efforts, we 4%–5% per year. Research shows that if no action is taken, aim to make the world greener. by 2020 the ICT industry's CO2 emissions will be double the amount of 2007. Smart Network Energy Solutions inspections and fault handling can be reduced by 60%, which means our carrier customers can boost their O&M efficiency by Huawei's research has found that 40% of the power used by 150%. communications networks is wasted, 57% of network outages are caused by infrastructure issues, and base station maintenance requires huge labor inputs. During a ten-year ICT Energy Efficiency Forum: Making Networks period, 50% to 60% of the cost of a data center is the cost of Greener powering it. Solar power stations never achieve an efficiency of more than 80%. When a 100MW power station goes down, the The ITU and Huawei jointly hosted the ICT Energy Efficiency losses are counted in the millions of US dollars. Forum in Madrid in May 2016. The theme of the event was Building a Better Connected World, Making Networks Huawei believes in simple, efficient, and reliable power sources Greener. Executives from leading global carriers, industry for a green, better connected world. To achieve this vision, we experts, and consultants shared their insights on topics use bits to control watts, and we cut the number of watts including energy efficiency standards for green networks, needed to power our bits. Digital technology, networks, and strategies and practices for improving energy efficiency, and smart technology can revolutionize our infrastructure. By innovative ideas and technological solutions to reduce focusing on three key areas – network energy, data center energy consumption and CO2 emissions. energy, and solar energy – Huawei is steering ICT infrastructure onto a greener path. Huawei has deployed over two million network energy solutions across more than 170 countries. We have constructed over 800 data centers. According to IHS and GTM Research, Huawei's PV inverter is the most popular in the world, ranking No. 1 in shipment in the market. We have broad, ongoing relationships with the world's top 50 network energy customers. Smart, Efficient, Green Base Stations As networks evolve to 4G and 5G architecture, they face significant power challenges. Huawei solutions provide energy The ICT Energy Efficiency Forum savings at the equipment, base station, and network levels. They can help carriers increase power efficiency and cut costs. Starting with base station design and smart temperature controls, our smart base station solutions can achieve energy efficiencies of up to 95%. Comprehensive efficiency techniques raise overall network efficiency by 20%. Smart base station management means that 90% of the labor can be automated or handled remotely. Added value functions such as remote management, automated O&M, and smart big data analytics mean that dumb equipment can be made digital, and base station power consumption optimized. Onsite 74 Hybrid Power Solutions Cut Carbon Emissions In the Middle East and Africa, power is the biggest cost for mobile carriers. Energy can burn up 70% of the O&M budget for 50,000 a network. Where mains supplies are unreliable or unavailable, Huawei's green hybrid power solutions not only require much less fuel than traditional diesel generators, they also cut + maintenance costs and emit much less CO2. To date, Huawei has delivered over 50,000 hybrid base station power solutions hybrid base station power solutions delivered to more than 130 customers in 93 countries and regions. Huawei Wins Green Initiative Award 2016 At the Middle East & Africa (MEA) Tower Summit Meeting in October 2016, TowerXchange presented the Green Initiative Award to Huawei and IHS. The award recognized the contributions which Huawei has made to energy efficiency, carbon emissions reduction, O&M cost savings, and long-term sustainability in the ICT industry. 可持续的世界 Sustainable World Huawei receives the Green Initiative Award from TowerXchange Leading the Industry in Smart Energy Efficiency Huawei's Smart Data Center solutions are based on independently functional modules for quick rollout and flexibility. To meet the high uptime needs of large cloud data centers and enterprise applications, Huawei has developed a new uninterruptible power source (UPS) module that can adapt to the challenges of power supplies anywhere in the world. The solution also uses iCooling and other technologies to achieve optimum power usage effectiveness (PUE). The infrastructure is also digitized with IT technology so that O&M can be proactive rather than reactive. This enables high reliability at the same time as best-of-breed O&M efficiency. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 75 Sustainable World Huawei Receives the Global Modular UPS Company of the Year Award from Frost & Sullivan In November 2016, Frost & Sullivan officially presented the Global Modular UPS Company of the Year Award to Huawei at an award ceremony in Paris in recognition of Huawei's product innovations, industry leadership, and outstanding contributions to the sustainable development of the modular UPS industry. Frost & Sullivan award ceremony in Paris Supporting Smart Cities Smart cities combine ICT with IoT to enable the city to manage interactivity of urban services. At the same time, cost and its assets more safely and efficiently. Urban assets include waste can be reduced. cities' information networks, schools, libraries, transport systems, hospitals, power stations, water pipe networks, waste Huawei is a supporter of smart city development. We provide disposal systems, law enforcement, and other community ICT infrastructure that can be integrated into comprehensive services. With CCTV networks and sensors, infrastructure data smart city solutions by our many partners, as part of a and public information can be collected for big data analytics, healthysmart city ecosystem. Together we can deliver to ultimately improve the quality, effectiveness, and exciting new solutions to make our cities smarter. Smart Lighting IoT Solution Powers Smart Cities The Climate Group estimates that there are approximately administrations a clear picture of all street lamps in every local 304 million street lamps around the globe, and that this district. The solution's flexible lighting policy can accurately figure will reach 352 million in 2025. The prevalence of turn on or off lamps and adjust their brightness. This street lamps brings significant convenience to peoples' on-demand approach can reduce electricity usage by as much lives. However, traditional high pressure sodium lamps as 80%. A lighting network linking hundreds of millions of consume huge amounts of electricity, are costly to manage, lighting facilities is the first step towards building a better and are thus a persistent headache for city administrations. connected public facility IoT. When smart devices for lighting, road traffic management, environment monitoring, and public Huawei's Lighting IoT Solution connects all street lamps facility management are linked together, a better connected across a city into a unified IoT network, and gives city public facility IoT will take shape to power a smart city. Smart Lighting IoT Solution Powers Smart Cities 76 Building the Smart Solar Ecosystem The Huawei FusionSolar solution merges digital, Internet, and photovoltaic technologies into the industry's leading smart PV solution. By making simpler, all-digital solar stations that support automated O&M globally, Huawei has made solar power stations more efficient, smarter, safer, and more reliable. We are helping our customers maximize value over the lifetime of their installations, and our solution is already in use all over the globe. Shifting the economy of Datong from coal to solar Smart Solar Conference on Location On July 5, 2016, Huawei and the China Renewable Energy Society (CRES) organized the Smart Photovoltaic Technology Forum at Datong, in northern China. 500 of China's leading experts on solar power attended including CRES members, engineers, investors, and business leaders. The discussion covered past experience with solar power station projects, the future developments of the industry, and how the latest technologies will help the industry as it faces a tail-off in supportive subsidies. The success of the forum has helped spur technological advances in China's photovoltaic industry, and make the industry both broader and deeper. 可持续的世界 Sustainable World Smart Photovoltaic Technology Forum, organized by China Renewable Energy Society and Huawei Huawei's philosophy of openness, collaboration, and shared success has led it to work with many partners, both upstream and downstream, to build an open and supportive smart photovoltaics industry. As the price of solar power becomes more competitive, renewable energy will be able to develop in a healthier, more sustainable way. Through collaborative effort, the industry can build a supplier ecosystem for the energy Internet. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 77 Sustainable World 4.4 Supporting Local Communities Context Approach Every company, large or small, can contribute to the local Huawei is committed to supporting local communities in community over the long term by providing employment, addition to pursuing our own business growth. Leveraging our reducing poverty, and fostering an entrepreneurial ICT expertise and experience, we initiate social contribution environment. projects with governments, customers, and non-profit organizations. These efforts include supporting ICT innovation Companies enrich local culture, support local healthcare, and start-ups; facilitating local communities' green generate income, and build infrastructure. Today, as initiatives, and cultural, sports, and traditional events; communications technology evolves at a lightning pace, the enabling ICT talent education; offering support to local charity ability to access and use information as well as ICT literacy organizations; and supporting underprivileged groups. and skills are the keys to narrowing the gaps between different countries and regions. All companies, particularly In 2016, our Seeds for the Future program was active in 96 ICT companies, should embrace the opportunities they have countries and regions. Huawei organized community support to deliver training and education to local communities, and to programs in over 70 developing countries and regions. In support the spread of new technologies and talent China,we began sponsoring academic competitions. In total, development. They should expand access to information and we organized several hundred social contribution programs in other factors that drive economic and social progress, as part more than 100 countries and regions worldwide. of their responsibility to the community. Focus areas of global social contribution activities Huawei's Global Social Contribution Activities Flagship CSR program: Academic competitions 70 developing nations: Social contribution Seeds for the Future at Chinese universities Community support initiatives around the programs world ◆1,000+ participants ◆Huawei supports ◆Raising living standards ◆We focus on projects from 90+ countries and intramural quizzes and of living important to us, like regions contests to support education learning ◆Supporting local culture ◆400 universities, 1,200+ ◆Supporting education competitions ◆Caring for underprivileged groups Giving Back to Local Communities for Shared Growth A company receives the support and respect of the local community when it considers the impact of its operations on the community. Companies should take real action to solve local problems by supporting local traditions, caring for underprivileged groups, and developing local education. As a responsible corporate citizen, Huawei undertakes a range of social contribution projects, and works hand-in-hand with community organizations to deliver health services, support in times of natural disaster, and many other community benefits. Together with our partners, we are committed to delivering universal ICT technology and ICT literacy. We help to train future ICT professionals, offer more opportunities for education, and bring more people into the connected world. By establishing training centers and educational partnerships around the world, we encourage the development of local ICT professionals, enable knowledge transfer, and increase people's engagement in the digital society. We are committed to helping build ICT industries in countries where we work, to spur sustainable development for the economy, the environment, and society. 78 Seeds for the Future Seeds for the Future in Uganda Since 2008, our flagship CSR program, Seeds for the Future, On April 12, 2016, President Museveni of Uganda hosted a has taken root, blossomed, and yielded fruit in 96 countries ceremony at the State House to congratulate the Ugandan and regions. In 2016 alone, more than 1,000 top university Seeds for the Future participants on their upcoming trip to students from over 90 countries and regions took part in a China. He thanked Huawei for its efforts to train Uganda's ICT study trip to China as part of the program. They studied professionals, signed special T-shirts, and urged Huawei to Mandarin, immersed themselves in China's unique culture, continue with the annual Seeds for the Future program. learned about Huawei's corporate culture, and discussed the company's path to growth. They also studied ICT technology under the guidance of senior Huawei experts, and applied what they learned in our world-class ICT labs. As an ICT industry leader, Huawei leverages its technical expertise to nurture ICT professionals around the world, thus helping up-and-coming talent to contribute to ICT development in their own countries. We do not require program participants to join Huawei, and we do not impose any other conditions for participation. The program is simply an opportunity to share knowledge and bridge the digital President Museveni waves the flag to see off the Ugandan Seeds for the Future divide. Seeds for the Future in Saudi Arabia This internship was great experience for my career. It was amazing. On August 25, 2016, Dr. Abdulaziz Al-Ruwais, Governor of Saudi Arabia's Communications and Information Technology The program gave us a precious opportunity to explore Commission (CITC), visited Shenzhen to attend the graduation different cultures and the most advanced communications ceremony of Saudi Arabia's second group of Seeds for the technology. Future students. On August 13, he and the Chinese ambassador to Saudi Arabia had seen the same group of students off at an I will recommend this program to others. Thank you, event held in the CITC offices in Riyadh. Huawei, for offering me this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity! Dr. Abdulaziz Al-Ruwais thanked Huawei for the important contribution that the Seeds for the Future program makes in ---Comments from program participants Saudi Arabia. He praised the company for its social responsibility, and said that he sees Huawei as a strategic partner for CITC in the Saudi ICT sector. This year, CITC searched more than 20 universities across the country, and selected one outstanding ICT student from each to participate in the program. The universities also expressed their appreciation and active support for the program. 可持续的世界 Sustainable World UK Minister of State for Energy and Intellectual Property Baroness Neville-Rolfe Saudi Arabian participants with Dr. Abdulaziz Al-Ruwais, Governor of CITC (third row, sixth from the right) attended the closing ceremony of the Seeds for (standing center left), and Mr. Li Huaxin, Chinese ambassador to Saudi Arabia the Future Program and handed out certificates to UK and Irish university (standing center right) students. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 79 Sustainable World Community Support Programs Worldwide Huawei aims to support the ICT sectors of all the countries In 2016, we ran more than 200 community support programs in where we operate, but we are also aware of important 70 developing countries and regions. The projects addressed cultural differences, which we address through ongoing the needs of local people in various ways: improving living engagement with local communities and residents. We do standards; supporting cultural, sports, and traditional events; everything in our power to support and give back to local offering assistance to underprivileged groups; and enabling communities, bringing direct benefits to local people. This education. These initiatives reinforced cultural exchange and enables us to better serve and integrate into local society. social integration, and gave a strong boost to local community development. Huawei Nigeria donates rice and beef to local communities at Eid Huawei Uganda donates cooking oil, noodles, sugar, and other essentials Community Support Programs in Tanzania In Tanzania, the rainy season begins in early April. In 2016, The Minister of the President Office of Zanzibar thanked constant rain for half a month led to serious flooding in some Huawei for the prompt aid, and gave strong recognition and villages on Zanzibar Island. Food and water became a praise to Huawei for having lived up to its image as a problem for villagers as a result of the flooding. The responsible corporate citizen. He said: We thank Huawei for government of Zanzibar issued a public statement the enormous assistance given to the Zanzibar government proclaiming its resolve to rescue the affected residents. and people when it mattered most. Huawei is a responsible Upon getting word of the difficulties being faced, Huawei's corporate citizen. The relationship between China and Tanzania Zanzibar Office quickly initiated preparations for rescue continues to strengthen. work. With the President Office of Zanzibar, we arranged for delivery of rice and water to residents affected by the disaster. Minister of the President Office of Zanzibar in front of a Minister of the President Office of Zanzibar and children affected by the temporary shelter, shaking hands with Huawei's Zanzibar Office Supervisor flooding thank Huawei for the enormous support we provided 80 Instant Network Schools Provide Online Education for Refugees In 2010, Huawei and Vodafone together initiated an instant network project in response to their call for joint innovation to develop network solutions aimed at providing emergency communication services around the world. The Vodafone Foundation's Instant Network Schools program, as part of the project, aims to promote tablet-based online education by giving young people in refugee camps or remote regions around the world access to large volumes of new information resources. To achieve this, the program provides hardware, software, digital content, program design, and onsite implementation support to humanitarian partners such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Online education solutions have been made available to 120 million clients and 3 million refugees in 7 countries in Africa. The Instant Network Schools program is a flagship initiative of the Vodafone Foundation. Huawei has actively supported the program since it was started. We have donated communication equipment, consumer devices, and technology training, including donating over 2,300 tablet computers to support the online educational services of multiple Instant Network Schools. Our cooperation with the Vodafone Foundation demonstrates Huawei's vision of bridging the digital divide in underdeveloped regions and building a Better Connected World. In 2016, the Instant Network Schools program recorded some impressive achievements: ◆Each month, the program provided high-quality online education services to over 600 teachers and over 40,000 students at 27 refugee camp schools in 4 countries. ◆A free online education platform was established in Ghana. In 2017, this platform will be deployed to another 6 countries in Africa, and by 2020 is expected to make online education services available to 3 million refugees (especially women). ◆Connected 84,000 devices and offered the equivalent of 15 million minutes or 1.7 billion WhatsApp messages to refugees in Greece. ◆Arranged for 17 instant network volunteers to serve in 10 refugee camps and 7 disaster zones. ◆Trained 20 new volunteers in 20 countries, bringing the total number of volunteers to 70. ◆Released three new innovative solutions: Instant Classroom Lite, Instant Classroom Xtra, and Instant Charge. The Instant Classroom Xtra can be used in disaster zones to install emergency cybercafes to keep families connected. ◆Provided Leadership Lessons, giving refugees the opportunity to speak with 12 well-known international figures, including Nobel Prize laureate Malala Yousafzai. The Leadership Lessons is a sub-program under the larger umbrella of the Instant Network Schools program, and is jointly operated by the Vodafone Foundation and the UNHCR. Inspirational speakers and experts from different backgrounds share their personal stories and knowledge with the young people, and answer related questions about their expertise. 可持续的世界 Sustainable World Instant Network Schools students receiving Huawei MediaPad Instant Network Schools students learning with Huawei MediaPad Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 81 Sustainable World Overview of Huawei’s Major Social Contribution Activities in 2016 Seeds for the Future: UK, France, Germany, Italy, Seeds for the Future: Japan, UAE, Kuwait, Saudi Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Arabia, Pakistan, Jordan, Bahrain, Turkey, Uzbekistan, Belgium, Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway Mongolia, Azerbaijan, Tajikistan ◆We have donated to children's educational projects in the Fukushima earthquake zone every year since 2013. ◆We have given financial support to the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund every year for the past five years. Seeds for the Future: Colombia, Brazil, Mexico, ◆For many years, we have supported the Summer Dance Panama, Venezuela, Ecuador, Trinidad & Tobago, El Festival in Higashi Shin-koiwa, Tokyo. Salvador, Costa Rica, Canada, the US ◆Donated reconstruction funds to Kumamoto Prefecture in Japan. ◆Huawei is a founding partner in a charity in the US named K to College. For the past six years, we have donated tablet computers and other school supplies to teachers and students. ◆Donated computers to impoverished children who were Seeds for the Future: Hungary, Romania, Serbia, disabled in traffic accidents in Costa Rica. Poland, Greece, Austria, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Iceland, ◆Built three distance education showcase centers in Macedonia, Cyprus, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Panama. Slovakia, Czech Republic, Finland, Belarus, Ukraine, Russia ◆Supported the Argentinian medical charity Hospice Buen Samaritano. ◆With the Evrika Foundation, Huawei provided scholarships ◆Donated to the relief efforts in earthquake-struck Ecuador. for 10 outstanding students in Bulgaria. ◆Donated an ICT lab to Cochabamba Department, Bolivia. ◆Donated funds to the Center for Major Disease Control, a public health institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to support disease prevention ◆Sponsored an elementary school competition in Umraniye, Turkey. 82 Seeds for the Future: Benin, Congo, Algeria, Egypt, Seeds for the Future: Thailand, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Tunisia, Ethiopia, Morocco, Cameroon, Senegal, the Laos, Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Malaysia, African Union, Kenya, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Indonesia, Brunei, the Philippines, Australia, New Mozambique, Botswana, Angola, Tanzania, Uganda, Zealand Ghana, Nigeria, South Africa, Malawi ◆Worked with Akshay Patra and SOS Children's Village to ◆Donated funds to improve ICT research and training for ICT support education and children's health in India. students at the University of Zululand in South Africa. ◆Donated computers to organizations for the disabled in Lao ◆Donated phones to the Joyful Women Organization Cai and Yen Bai provinces, Vietnam. (JOYWO), a Kenyan NGO, to help women get better connected. ◆Set up a scholarship for King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang University, one of Thailand's top ◆Built a multimedia classroom at a school for orphans in institutions. Equatorial Guinea, with computers, projectors, and other equipment. ◆Donated to the Prince's Well project in Cambodia, funding the construction of 50 wells in regions without easy access ◆Gave tablet computers to a women and children's shelter to clean water. in Benin, to give local children a better childhood. ◆With Brunei's largest telecom carrier DST, donated funds to ◆Donated security equipment to Madagascar to help make support better housing for single-parent families. the country a safer place to live. ◆With Ooredoo, a telecom carrier in the Maldives, donated ◆Gave funds to the Malawian president's Peter Mutharika Huawei data scratch cards to 1,000 local teachers. Foundation to support better infrastructure for schools in remote areas. ◆With Sri Lankan carrier Dialog, provided broadband connections to schools and free replacement CPEs to users ◆For 5 years running, we have sponsored the MTN affected by natural disaster. Marathon; funds will be used for charitable purposes in Uganda. ◆Donated funds to the Red Cross in Cambodia's Prey Veng Province. ◆Donated to Foundation Congo Assistance to support education campaigns. ◆Donated rice, drinking water, and other basic supplies to people hit by flooding in Sri Lanka. ◆Donated 60 Huawei tablets in Botswana to be given as 可持续的世界 prizes for top-performing students, teachers, and schools ◆Donated to Shelter, an NGO in Nepal, to cover the tuition Sustainable World in graduation exams. costs of 30 orphans. ◆Gave money to the Sulu Foundation to support local ◆Donated phones to villages and schools to help restore communities. communications in hurricane-struck regions of Fiji. ◆Donated computers, desks, and chairs to schools in Mumbwa district in Zambia. ◆Worked with ZiDi, a social enterprise in Kenya, to deliver telemedicine solutions to local clinics for better healthcare. ◆Supported ITU's Girls in ICT Day in Ethiopia. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 83 Sustainable World 4.5 Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and also known as Global Goals, offer a pathway to end poverty, the associated 17 SDGs provide a framework for sustainable fight inequality, and tackle climate change, while ensuring that development (see Figure 1). However, relying solely on a no one is left behind. business-as-usual (BAU) trajectory will mean that many developed and developing countries will miss the goals by a Huawei believes that the SDGs provide an opportunity for wide margin. That current trajectory, combined with a global long-term growth. ICT infrastructure will be crucial to help the landscape increasing in geopolitical volatility and world achieve these goals. Thus, there is a positive correlation environmental vulnerability, further underlines the need to between Huawei's vision of Building a Better Connected World catalyze progress toward achieving the SDGs. and society's ability to achieve the goals. We believe that ICT is a critical enabler to achieve the SDGs at the scale and speed The Goals are achievable, but require breakthroughs in both necessary to fulfill the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable the speed and degree of progress. Meeting the SDGs calls for a Development. rate of change that a BAU approach cannot deliver. ICT will be a key accelerator, particularly to increase the scale and diffusion ICT Sustainable Development Goals Benchmark of solutions. ICT will be essential catalysts for achieving the SDGs by their target date of 2030, and possibly even sooner. Agreed by over 150 world leaders in September 2015, the Figure 1 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 84 ICT Enablers for Sustainable Development be realized by any one country. Country B, a developing economy, has the median score (54 points). ICT offers a wide range of benefits to society. There is ample research showing the economic benefits from ICT: ICT is SDG Scores vs. ICT Scores instrumental in helping organizations access information, allowing individuals to communicate with each other, and Comparing country SDG scores to ICT scores reveals a strong scaling development through discovering cheaper and faster correlation between the two (89%), with some deviations. ways of deploying and leveraging resources. Digital and ICT Overall, developed countries tend to have higher ICT scores technologies have spread quickly across much of the world, but than SDG scores, suggesting that ICT development in these their use and application in solving social and environmental countries is outpacing progress on sustainable development. problems has lagged behind, and remains far less well Meanwhile, the opposite is the case for developing countries: understood. If the global population is to reach its potential Less developed countries tend to have higher SDG scores than within an increasingly resource-constrained world, ICT scores. While it is hard to draw a conclusive explanation of governments and companies must promote digital advances why that is the case (other aspects such as culture, economic that focus on and enable sustainable development. development, and national policies also influence performance on the SDGs), this result suggests that developing nations have Our work seeks to explore the relationship between ICT and significant opportunities to boost their ICT infrastructure and sustainable development. To meet these objectives, we chose investment, and through this, achieve greater sustainable to focus on six SDGs where we anticipated a clear link between development. While some developing nations have embarked SDG performance and ICT, and analyzed a sample of 15 on ICT investment and experienced its benefits, there is still countries, which represent a range of developed and developing more benefit to be had, and a need to continue to develop ICT in economies, different geographies, and different phases of ICT order to achieve the SDGs. development. In the analysis, we evaluated SDG and ICT performance using four indicators for each SDG (using World An interesting exception among developing nations is Country Bank and UN data; further details can be found in the full report C, which has a slightly higher ICT score than SDG score. This is on Huawei.com) and the 11 ICT indicators included in the ITU's likely due to its past policies and a strong trend of globalization most recent ICT Development Index. We reviewed ICT and SDG that ushered in rapid development of its ICT infrastructure. performance separately to test correlation, and then combined Even for countries that score high on both SDG and ICT the data into one index: the 2017 ICT Sustainable Development development, greater ICT investment and ICT application to Benchmark. sustainable development will be necessary if they are to achieve the SDG targets. For countries that score lower on both Key findings SDG and ICT, a joint strategy focused on the indicators inherent in the SDGs and the ITU Development Index will be important to ◆There is a high correlation between ICT and the selected six boost those countries' overall development. SDGs (R2 = 0.89). Breakdown of SDG Scores ◆Developed countries have higher ICT scores than SDG scores, suggesting that ICT development in these countries More developed countries have more even scores across the six is outpacing progress on the six Goals, while the opposite is SDGs. A number of developing countries have a gap between the case for developing countries. ICT performance and their scores for SDG 9: Infrastructure, Industrialization and Innovation. Developed countries tend to ◆SDG 9: Infrastructure, Industrialization and Innovation, SDG have a more mature ICT infrastructure, which may enable 4: Quality Education and SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being increased opportunities and a greater diversity of sustainable are the most correlated with ICT, indicating that ICT may hold development initiatives and their associated benefits. 可持续的世界 the most potential to help achieve these goals. Sustainable World ◆While GDP is a factor in results, there exist several outliers in our sample making correlation less straightforward. There is a much higher correlation with the UNDP's Human Development Index (HDI) (R2 = 0.96), suggesting that although the amount of economic resources available matters, how those resources are used is more important. The ICT Sustainable Development Goals Benchmark indicates a country's performance on ICT development and its progress towards sustainable development within the selected Goals. The 2017 results show that Country A, a developed economy, is currently leading the Benchmark, indicating its strong performance on both ICT and the SDGs . However, Country A has not yet achieved the highest possible score, indicating that the sustainable development inherent in the SDGs has yet to Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 85 Sustainable World Correlations between selected SDGs and ICT Scores In terms of prioritizing SDGs for ICT investment, SDG 9: The SDGs are unique in that they were developed with Industrialization and Innovation, SDG 4: Quality Education and participation from the private sector, as well as civil society, SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being are the most correlated governments and multilateral institutions. Companies have a with ICT, indicating that ICT may have the most potential to help renewed role to play in helping countries develop not only achieve these goals (see Table 1). More details on how ICT may economically, but sustainably. Initiatives like Huawei's Safe benefit these specific SDGs can be explored in the full report. City solution, for example, which uses LTE technologies to Performance on SDGs 11 and 13 are relatively even across all provide police and emergency services with real-time video and countries. We also find that these goals do not have as strong a data to fight crime and make cities safer, not only helps correlation between SDG and ICT performance. For SDGs 11 and improve communities, but also champions the use of ICT to 13, this may be because both ICT solutions and national policy improve SDG scores (in this case SDG 11: Sustainable Cities initiatives around these goals – Sustainable Cities and Climate and Communities). Action, respectively – are relatively nascent and will need more time to empirically show the relationship between ICT and the indicators used to measure these goals. The lack of correlation between ICT and SDG 13 also highlights the issues with available data to reflect progress on this SDG. Table 1 Correlations Between Country Scores on Individual SDGs and ITU scores SDG Correlation 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and 80% foster innovation 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning 77% 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 72% 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 66% 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 36% 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts by regulating emissions 0.13% and promoting developments in renewable energy 86 Correlation between ICT Sustainable Benchmark Scores and GDP While GDP per capita is broadly correlated with Benchmark scores, there exist several outliers in our sample which make the correlation less straightforward. For example, Country D has a much higher GDP per capita than Country E (approx. $40,000 vs. $6,000) but is only about 10 points higher than Country E on the ICT Sustainable Development Benchmark. Country F has the highest GDP per capita, but is ranked only fourth on the Benchmark, and Country G has the second highest GDP but is ranked fifth. Meanwhile, Country A has the third highest GDP per capita but leads on the ICT Sustainable Development Benchmark. Country H has a lower GDP per capita than several others in the developing country income bracket, but has the highest score among the developing countries. In fact, we found a much higher degree of correlation with the UNDP's influential Human Development Index (R2 = 0.96), suggesting that although a country's economic wealth matters, sustainable development is more dependent on how its resources are being used. The HDI assesses country development in a broad range of areas (economic development, health, life expectancy, education, etc.) providing a broader and more holistic assessment of a country's level of development. Conclusion The benchmark shows that ICT investment can support more rapid progress towards achieving the SDGs. By leveraging ICT investments that catalyze progress toward the SDGs, nations and their inhabitants can contribute to building a more equitable, prosperous and sustainable future. 可持续的世界 Sustainable World Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 87 Appendix I Huawei's 2017 Sustainability Goals No. Strategy 2017 Goals and Initiatives 1 Release whitepaper: Huawei ICT Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Benchmark Bridging the Digital Divide 2 Gather knowledge on how to bridge the digital divide 3 Supporting Network Stability Support 100% network stability during key events and natural disasters worldwide and Security and Align security products with market demand; explore and establish end-to-end 4 Protecting Privacy security and privacy methodologies integrating both solutions and products Reduce carbon emissions per unit of sales revenue by 18% compared to the bench5 mark year 6 Conserve 43 MWh of energy 7 Conserve 80,000 tons of water 8 Reduce the landfill rate of waste to 1.85% 9 Reduce the energy consumption per unit of data traffic of major products by Promoting Environmental 10%–30% Protection 10 Step up green packaging efforts to reduce the use of wood product by 450,000 m3 Certify an additional 10 strategic suppliers as Green Partners, and review the 11 qualifications of suppliers whose Green Partner certificates are no longer valid Expand the Global Green Recycling Program with 1,000 recycling stations in 50 12 countries and regions 13 Ensure that 10 device products (e.g., smartphones, tablets, PCs, and wearables) obtain the highest level green certification 14 Release operational compliance white papers by all subsidiaries outside China Audit all new suppliers and mediumand high-priority suppliers in terms of their 15 sustainability, and follow up on their improvement efforts Implement social contribution programs worldwide and launch Seeds for the Future 16 (Huawei's flagship CSR program) in 100 countries and regions Building a Healthy Industry Ecosystem Sponsor university competitions in China (charity programs) 17 18 Strengthen communication with customers, governments, the media, and other key stakeholders 19 Ensure zero serious manufacturing incidents, and zero EHS fatalities in delivery projects 20 Further develop CSD sub-committees and consolidate the CSD organization 21 Management System Optimize sustainability standards and incorporate them into business processes 22 Complete the 2017 sustainability maturity assessment 88 Appendix II: GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines The GRI Guidelines are widely used by organizations around the world. Huawei's 2016 Sustainability Report contains standard disclosures based on this framework. This year, we have also used the SDG Compass tool (prepared by the GRI, UN Global Compact, and World Business Council for Sustainable Development) to increase transparency and map out how our reporting aligns with the UN SDGs. The UN SDGs: On 1 January 2016, the UN's 17 SDGs of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development officially came into force. For the next fifteen years, with these new Goals that apply universally to all, the world will work together to mobilize efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change, while ensuring that no one is left behind. End poverty in all its forms End hunger, achieve food security everywhere and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture Ensure healthy lives and Ensure inclusive and quality Achieve gender equality and promote well-being for all at education for all and promote empower all women and girls all ages lifelong learning Ensure availability and Ensure access to affordable, Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable management of reliable, sustainable and sustainable economic growth, full water and sanitation for all modern energy for all and productive employment and decent work for all Build resilient Reduce income inequality Make cities and human infrastructure, promote within and among countries settlements inclusive, safe, inclusive and sustainable resilient and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Ensure sustainable Take urgent action to combat Conserve and sustainably use the consumption and climate change and its oceans, seas and marine production patterns impacts by regulating resources for sustainable emissions and promoting development developments in renewable energy Protect, restore and promote Promote peaceful and Strengthen the means of sustainable use of terrestrial inclusive societies for implementation and revitalize the ecosystems, sustainably sustainable development, global partnership for sustainable manage forests, combat provide access to justice for development desertification, and halt and all and build effective, reverse land degradation and accountable and inclusive halt biodiversity loss institutions at all levels Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 89 Appendix II: GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 标准披露第一部分: 一般标准披露项 1. 战略与分析 战略与概况 描述 SDG 页码 G4-1 机构最高决策者就可持续发展与机构的相关性及机构可持续发展战略的声明 4-7 G4-2 描述主要影响、风险及机遇 4-7 2. 机构概况 概况披露 描述 SDG 页码 G4-3 机构名称 13 G4-4 主要品牌、产品和/或服务 14-15 G4-5 机构总部的位置 13 机构在多少个国家运营，在哪些国家有主要业务，或哪些国家与报告所述的可持续 G4-6 13 发展主题特别相关 G4-7 所有权的性质及法律形式 17 G4-8 机构所服务的市场（包括地区细分、所服务的行业、客户/受益者的类型） 16 G4-9 机构规模 13,16 按雇佣合同和性别划分的员工总人数，按雇佣类型和性别划分的固定员工总人数， 按正式员工、非正式员工和性别划分的员工总数，按地区和性别划分的员工总数， G4-10 机构的工作是否有一大部分由法律上认定为自雇的人员承担，或由非员工及非正式 SDG8 员工的个人（包括承包商的员工及非正式员工）承担，雇佣人数的重大变化（如旅 游或农业雇佣人数的季节变动） G4-11 集体谈判协议涵盖的员工总数百分比 SDG8 G4-12 描述机构的供应链情况 G4-13 报告期内，机构规模、架构、所有权或供应链的重要变化 无重大变化 G4-14 机构是否及如何按预警方针及原则行事 G4-15 机构参与或支持的外界发起的经济、环境、社会公约、原则或其他倡议 机构加入的协会（如行业协会）和国家或国际性倡议机构，并且：在治理机构占有 G4-16 席位，参与项目或委员会，除定期缴纳会费外，提供大额资助，视成员资格具有战 略意义 3. 确定的实质性方面与边界 概况披露 描述 SDG 页码 列出机构的合并财务报表或同等文件中包括的所有实体；说明在合并财务报表或同 G4-17 等文件包括的任何实体中，是否有未纳入可持续发展报告的实体 G4-18 说明界定报告内容和方面边界的过程；说明机构如何应用“界定报告内容的报告原则” G4-19 列出在界定报告内容的过程中确定的所有实质性方面 G4-20 对于每个实质性方面，说明机构内方面的边界 G4-21 对于每个实质性方面，说明机构范围外方面的边界 G4-22 说明重订前期报告所载信息的影响，以及重订的原因 G4-23 说明范围、方面边界与此前报告期间的重大变动 90 Appendix II: GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4. 利益相关方参与 战略与概况 描述 SDG 页码 G4-24 机构的利益相关方列表 4-7 G4-25 就所选定的利益相关方，说明识别和选择的根据 4-7 利益相关方参与的方法，包括按不同的利益相关方类型及组别的参与频率，并指明 G4-26 是否有任何参与是专为编制报告而进行 利益相关方参与的过程中提出的关键主题及顾虑，以及机构回应的方式，包括以报 G4-27 告回应。 说明提出了每个关键主题及顾虑的利益相关方组别 5. 报告概况 概况披露 描述 SDG 页码 G4-28 所提供信息的报告期（如财务年度或日历年度） 封二 G4-29 上一份报告的日期（如有） 封二 G4-30 报告周期（如每年一次、两年一次） 封二 G4-31 关于报告或报告内容的联络人 封二 说明机构选择的“符合”方案（核心或全面）；说明针对所选方案的GRI内容索引 G4-32 （见下表）；如报告经过外部鉴证，引述外部鉴证报告。GRI建议进行外部鉴证， 封二 但并非成为“符合”本指南的要求 机构为报告寻求外部鉴证的政策和目前的做法；如未在可持续发展报告附带的鉴证 报告中列出，则需说明已提供的任何外部鉴证的范围及根据；说明报告机构与鉴证 G4-33 服务方之间的关系；说明最高治理机构或高级管理人员是否参与为可持续发展报告 寻求鉴证 6.治理 概况披露 描述 SDG 页码 机构的治理架构，包括最高治理机构下的各个委员会。说明负责经济、环境、社会 G4-34 影响决策的委员会 G4-35 说明从最高治理机构授权高级管理人员和其他员工管理经济、环境和社会议题的过程 机构是否任命了行政层级的高管负责经济、环境和社会议题，他们是否直接向最高 G4-36 治理机构汇报 利益相关方和最高治理机构就经济、环境和社会议题磋商的过程。如果授权磋商， G4-37 说明授权的对象和向最高治理机构的反馈过程 SDG16 G4-38 说明最高治理机构及其委员会的组成 SDG5,16 最高治理机构的主席是否兼任行政职位（如有，说明其在机构管理层的职能及如此 G4-39 SDG15 安排的原因） 最高治理机构及其委员会的提名和甄选过程，及用于提名和甄选最高治理机构成员 G4-40 SDG5,16 的条件 G4-41 最高治理机构确保避免和控制利益冲突的程序，是否向利益相关方披露利益冲突 SDG16 在制定、批准、更新与经济、环境、社会影响有关的宗旨、价值观或使命、战略、 G4-42 政策与目标方面，最高治理机构和高级管理人员的角色 G4-43 为加强最高治理机构对于经济、环境和社会主题的集体认识而采取的措施 SDG4 评估最高治理机构管理经济、环境和社会议题绩效的流程。此等评估是否独立进 G4-44 行，频率如何。此等评估是否为自我评估；对于最高治理机构管理经济、环境和社 会议题的绩效评估的应对措施，至少应包括在成员组成和组织管理方面的改变 在识别和管理经济、环境和社会的影响、风险和机遇方面，最高治理机构的角色。 G4-45 包括最高治理机构在实施尽职调查方面的角色；是否使用利益相关方咨询，以支持 SDG4 最高治理机构对经济、环境和社会的影响、风险和机遇的识别和管理 G4-46 在评估有关经济、环境和社会议题的风险管理流程的效果方面，最高治理机构的角色 Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 91 Appendix II: GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4. 利益相关方参与 战略与概况 描述 SDG 页码 G4-47 最高治理机构评估经济、环境和社会的影响、风险和机遇的频率 正式审阅和批准机构可持续发展报告并确保已涵盖所有实质性方面的最高委员会或 G4-48 职位 G4-49 说明与最高治理机构沟通重要关切问题的流程 说明向最高治理机构沟通的重要关切问题的性质和总数，以及采取的处理和解决机 G4-50 制 说明最高治理机构和高级管理人员的薪酬政策；说明薪酬政策中的绩效标准如何与 G4-51 最高治理机构和高级管理人员的经济、环境和社会目标相关联 G4-52 说明决定薪酬的过程 说明如何征询并考虑利益相关方对于薪酬的意见，包括对薪酬政策和提案投票的结 G4-53 果，如适用 SDG16 在机构具有重要业务运营的每个国家，薪酬最高个人的年度总收入与机构在该国其 G4-54 他所有员工（不包括该薪酬最高的个人）平均年度总收入的比率 在机构具有重要业务运营的每个国家，薪酬最高个人的年度总收入增幅与机构在该 G4-55 国其他所有员工（不包括该薪酬最高的个人）平均年度总收入增幅的比率 7.商业伦理与诚信 G4-56 说明机构的价值观、原则、标准和行为规范，如行为准则和道德准则 SDG16 寻求道德与合法行为建议的内外部机制，以及与机构诚信有关的事务，如帮助热线 G4-57 或建议热线 SDG16 举报不道德或不合法行为的内外部机制，以及与机构诚信有关的事务，如通过直线 G4-58 SDG16 管理者逐级上报、举报机制或热线 标准披露第二部分: 具体标准披露项 管理方法披露 管理方针 描述 SDG 页码 说明为什么该方面具有实质性。说明使该方面成为实质性方面的影响；说明机构如 G4-DMA 何管理实质性方面或其影响；说明管理方法的评估 绩效指标 经济 绩效指标 指标方面 SDG 页码 G4-EC1 机构产生和分配的直接经济价值 SDG2,5,7,8,9 G4-EC2 气候变化对机构活动产生的财务影响及其风险、机遇 SDG13 G4-EC3 机构固定收益型养老金所需资金的覆盖程度 G4-EC4 政府给予的财务补贴 G4-EC5 不同性别的工资起薪水平与机构重要运营地点当地的最低工资水平的比率 SDG1,5,8 G4-EC6 机构在重要运营地点聘用的当地高层管理人员所占比例 G4-EC7 开展基础设施投资与支持性服务的情况及其影响 SDG11,2,5,7,9 G4-EC8 重要间接经济影响，包括影响的程度 SDG1,10,17,2,3,8 G4-EC9 在重要运营地点，向当地供应商采购支出的比例 SDG12 92 Appendix II: GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 环境 G4-EN1 所用物料的重量或体积 SDG12,8 G4-EN2 采用经循环再造物料的百分比 SDG12,8 G4-EN3 机构内部的能源消耗量 SDG12,13,7,8 G4-EN4 机构外部的能源消耗量 SDG12,13,7,8 G4-EN5 能源强度 SDG12,13,7,8 G4-EN6 减少的能源消耗量 SDG12,13,7,8 G4-EN7 产品和服务所需能源的降低 SDG12,13,7,8 G4-EN8 按源头说明的总耗水量 SDG6 G4-EN9 因取水而受重大影响的水源 SDG6 G4-EN10 循环及再利用水的百分比及总量 SDG12,6,8 机构在环境保护区或其他具有重要生物多样性价值的地区或其毗邻地区，拥有、租 G4-EN11 SDG12,6,8 赁或管理的运营点 机构的活动、产品及服务在生物多样性方面，对保护区或其他具有重要生物多样性 G4-EN12 SDG15,6 价值的地区的重大影响 G4-EN13 受保护或经修复的栖息地 SDG14,15,6 按濒危风险水平，说明栖息地受机构运营影响的列入国际自然保护联盟(IUCN)红色 G4-EN14 名录及国家保护名册的物种总数 SDG14,15,6 G4-EN15 直接温室气体排放量（范畴一） SDG12,13,14,15,3 G4-EN15 能源间接温室气体排放量（范畴二） SDG12,13,14,15,3 G4-EN17 其他间接温室气体排放量（范畴三） SDG12,13,14,15,3 G4-EN18 温室气体排放强度 SDG13,14,15 G4-EN19 减少的温室气体排放量 SDG13,14,15 G4-EN20 臭氧消耗物质(ODS)的排放 SDG12,13 G4-EN21 氮氧化物、硫氧化物和其他主要气体的排放量 SDG12,14,15,3 G4-EN22 按水质及排放目的地分类的污水排放总量 SDG12,14,3,6 G4-EN23 按类别及处理方法分类的废弃物总重量 SDG12,3,6 G4-EN24 严重泄露的总次数及总量 SDG12,14,15,3,6 按照《巴塞尔公约》附录I、II、III、VIII的条款视为有害废弃物经运输、输入、输出 G4-EN25 SDG12,3 或处理的重量，以及运往境外的废弃物中有害废弃物的百分比 G4-EN26 受机构污水及其他（地表）径流排放严重影响的水体及相关栖息地的位置、面积、 SDG14,15,6 保护状态及生物多样性价值 G4-EN27 降低产品和服务环境影响的程度 SDG12,13,14,15,6,8 G4-EN28 按类别说明，回收售出产品及其包装物料的百分比 SDG12,8 G4-EN29 违反环境法律法规被处重大罚款的金额，以及所受非经济处罚的次数 SDG16 G4-EN30 为机构运营而运输产品、其他货物及物料以及员工交通所产生的重大环境影响 SDG11,12,13 G4-EN31 按类别说明总环保支出及投资 SDG12,13,14,15,17,7,9 Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 93 Appendix II: GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4-EN32 使用环境标准筛选的新供应商的比例 SDG12,8 G4-EN33 供应链对环境的重大实际和潜在负面影响，以及采取的措施 SDG12,13,7,8 G4-EN34 经由正式申诉机制提交、处理和解决的环境影响申诉的数量 SDG16 社会 劳工实践及体面工作 绩效指标 指标方面 SDG 页码 G4-LA 1 按年龄组别、性别及地区划分的新进员工和员工流失总数及比率 SDG5,8 G4-LA 2 按重要运营地点划分，不提供给临时或兼职员工，只提供给全职员工的福利 G4-LA 3 按性别划分，产假/陪产假后回到工作和保留工作的比例 SDG5,8 G4-LA 4 有关重大运营变化的最短通知期，包括指出该通知期是否在集体协议中具体说明 SDG8 由劳资双方组建的职工健康与安全委员会中能帮助员工监督和评价健康与安全相关 G4-LA 5 SDG8 项目的员工代表在总职工人数中所占的百分比 G4-LA 6 按地区和性别划分的工伤、职业病、误工及缺勤比率，以及和工作有关的死亡人数 SDG3,8 G4-LA 7 从事职业病高发职业或高职业病风险职业的工人 SDG3,8 G4-LA8 与工会达成的正式协议中的健康与安全议题 SDG8 G4-LA 9 按性别和员工类别划分，每名员工每年接受培训的平均时数 SDG4,5,8 G4-LA 10 加强员工持续就业能力及协助员工转职的技能管理及终生学习计划 SDG8 G4-LA 11 按性别划分，接受定期绩效及职业发展考评的员工百分比 SDG5,8 按性别、年龄组别、少数族裔成员及其它多元化指标划分，治理机构成员和各类员 G4-LA 12 工的组成 SDG5,8 G4-LA 13 按员工类别和主要运营地区划分，男女基本薪金和报酬比率 SDG10,5,8 G4-LA 14 使用劳工实践标准筛选的新供应商所占比例 SDG16,5,8 G4-LA 15 供应链对劳工实践的重大实际和潜在负面影响，以及采取的措施 SDG16,5,8 页码 G4-LA 16 经由正式申诉机制提交、处理和解决的劳工问题申诉的数量 SDG12,14,15,3 人权 绩效指标 指标方面 SDG 页码 G4-HR1 含有人权条款或已进行人权审查的重要投资协议和合约的总数及百分比 G4-HR2 就经营相关的人权政策及程序，员工接受培训的总小时数，以及受培训员工的百分比 G4-HR3 歧视个案的总数，以及机构采取的纠正行动 SDG16,5,8 已发现可能违反或严重危及结社自由及集体谈判的运营点或主要供应商，以及保障 G4-HR4 这些权利的行动 SDG8 G4-HR5 已发现具有严重童工事件风险的运营点和主要供应商，以及有助于有效杜绝童工的 SDG16,8 措施 已发现具有严重强迫与强制劳动事件风险的运营点和主要供应商，以及有助消除一 G4-HR6 切形式的强迫与强制劳动的措施 SDG8 G4-HR7 安保人员在运营相关的人权政策及程序方面接受培训的百分比 SDG16 G4-HR8 涉及侵犯原住民权利的个案总数，以及机构采取的行动 SDG2 94 Appendix II: GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4-HR9 接受人权审查和/或影响评估的运营点的百分比和总数 G4-HR10 使用人权标准筛选的新供应商的比例 G4-HR11 供应链对人权的重大实际和潜在负面影响，以及采取的措施 G4-HR12 经由正式申诉机制提交、处理和解决的人权影响申诉的数量 SDG16 社会 绩效指标 指标方面 SDG 页码 G4-SO1 实施了当地社区参与、影响评估和发展计划的运营点比例 G4-SO2 对当地社区具有重大实际和潜在负面影响的运营点 SDG1,2 G4-SO3 已进行腐败风险评估的运营点的总数及百分比，以及所识别出的重大风险 SDG16 G4-SO4 反腐败政策和程序的传达及培训 SDG16 G4-SO5 确认的腐败事件和采取的行动 SDG16 G4-LA 6 按国家和接受者/受益者划分的政治性捐赠的总值 SDG16 G4-LA 7 涉及反竞争行为、反托拉斯和垄断措施的法律诉讼的总数及其结果 SDG16 G4-LA8 违反法律法规被处重大罚款的金额，以及所受非经济处罚的次数 SDG16 G4-LA 9 使用社会影响标准筛选的新供应商的比例 G4-LA 10 供应链对社会的重大实际和潜在负面影响，以及采取的措施 G4-SO11 经由正式申诉机制提交、处理和解决的社会影响申诉的数量 SDG16 产品责任 绩效指标 指标方面 SDG 页码 G4-PR1 为改进现状而接受健康与安全影响评估的重要产品和服务类别的百分比 按后果类别说明，违反有关产品及服务健康与安全影响的法规及自愿性准则的事件 G4-PR2 总数 SDG16 机构关于产品和服务信息与标识的程序要求的产品及服务信息种类，以及需要符合 G4-PR3 这种信息要求的重要产品及服务类别的百分比 SDG12 G4-PR4 按后果类别说明，违反有关产品及服务信息和标识的法规及自愿性准则的事件总数 SDG16 G4-PR5 客户满意度调查的结果 G4-PR6 禁售或有争议产品的销售 G4-PR7 按后果类别说明，违反有关市场推广（包括广告、推销及赞助）的法规及自愿性准 SDG16 则的事件总数 G4-PR8 经证实的侵犯客户隐私权及遗失客户资料的投诉总数 SDG16 G4-PR9 如有违反提供及使用产品及服务的法律法规，说明相关重大罚款的总金额 SDG16 Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 95 Appendix III: Terms and Abbreviations Abbreviation Full Name 3G The Third Generation Mobile Communication Technology 4G The Fourth Generation Mobile Communication Technology 5G The Fifth Generation Mobile Communication Technology APP Application BCG Business Conduct Guideline CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CEO Chief Executive Officer CFSI Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CSD Corporate Sustainable Development CAGR Compounded Annual Growth Rate CNAS China National Accreditation Service for Conformity Assessment EHS Environment, Health and Safety EICC Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition EMT Executive Management Team GDP Gross Domestic Product GHG Greenhouse Gas GeSI Global e-Sustainability Initiative GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSMA Global System for Mobile Communications Association ICT Information and Communications Technology IEC International Electrotechnical Commission IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries ISO International Standardization Organizations ITU International Telecommunication Union JAC Joint Audit Cooperation LCA Life Cycle Assessment LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LTE Long Term Evolution LED Light Emitting Diode 96 Appendix III: Terms and Abbreviations Abbreviation Full Name MFP Manager Feedback Program NGO Non-governmental organization NFV Network Functions Virtualization OBD On-Board Diagnostics OECD Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development PCB Printed Circuit Board PUE Power Usage Effectiveness SDN Software-Defined Networking TUP Time-based Unit Plan UNGC United Nations Global Compact UPS Uninterruptible Power Supply VoLTE Voice over LTE WLAN Wireless Local Area Network WTTx Wireless To The x Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 97 Appendix IV: Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement Introduction: TÜV Rheinland (Guangdong) Ltd., member of TÜV Rheinland Group, Germany (TÜV , We) has been entrusted by the management of Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (HUAWEI, the Company) to conduct independent assurance of HUAWEI Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 (the Report). All contractual contents for this assurance engagement rest entirely within the responsibility of HUAWEI. Our task was to give a fair and adequate judgment on the HUAWEI Report 2016. The intended users of this assurance statement are stakeholders having relevance to the HUAWEI overall Sustainability Performance and impacts of its business activities during 2016 (January 2016 ~ December 2016). TÜV Rheinland is a global service provider of CSR & Sustainability Services in over 69 countries, having qualified professionals in the field of Corporate Sustainability Assurance, Environment, Social and Stakeholder Engagement. We have maintained complete impartiality and independence during the assurance engagement and were not involved in the preparation of report contents. Assurance Standard: The Independent Assurance was carried out in accordance with AccountAbility, U.K Standard AA 1000 AS (2008) and related standards AA 1000 APS(2008), AA 1000 SES (2015), Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality & Responsiveness, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) , ‘In accordance’-Core” reporting guidelines as per G-4.0 Scope & Type of Assurance: Our Assurance engagement covers the following: ◆HUAWEI Corporate Sustainability performance as described in the report 2016 in accordance with GRI reporting guidelines and performance indicators and according disclosure on management approach (DMAs) from Economic, Environment & Social category, also defined in Reporting boundaries. ◆Evaluation of disclosed information in the report as per the Assurance Standards. ◆Type-1,Moderate as per AA 1000 AS (2008) Limitation: The assurance engagement was carried out at HUAWEI Headquarter at Bantian Longgang, Shenzhen and site visits to major manufacturing unit located at Dongguan within P. R. China(Songshan Lake Factory). The consultations with external stakeholder were not carried out. We have not observed any significant situations to limit our assurance activity. The verification is carried out based on the data and information provided by HUAWEI, assuming they are complete and true. We did not verify the reported financial data as same is verified by another third party in annual report. Assurance Methodology: TÜV has challenged the report contents and assess the process undertaken by HUAWEI from source to aggregate in disclosure of information/data related to Sustainability performance. Our judgment is based on the objective review of reported information as per criteria defined under Assurance standards. Analytical methods and the performance of interviews as well as verification of data, done as random sampling, to verify and validate the correctness of reported data and contents in light of contractual agreement and the factual HUAWEI Corporate Sustainable Development strategy (CSD) as mentioned in the report. Our work included consultation with over 50 HUAWEI representatives including senior management and relevant employees. The approach deemed to be appropriate for the purpose of assurance of the report since all data therein could be verified through original proofs, verified database entries. 98 Appendix IV: Assurance Statement The Assurance was performed by our multidisciplinary team of experienced professionals in the field of Corporate Sustainability, Environment, Social and Stakeholder Engagement. We are of the opinion that our work offers a sufficient and substantiated basis to enable us to come to a conclusion mentioned below and based on the content of our contract. Positive Observation: We would like to mention some of the positive aspects observed during HUAWEI assurance engagement as below: ◆In 2016, Huawei established CSD Sub-committees under the Corporate CSD Committee in various departments, to further solidify the CSD organization and enable the involved departments to achieve more sustainable operations. The sub-committees operate under the guidance of the corporate CSD Committee. They break down the corporate sustainability strategy into actionable tasks and define their own sustainability responsibilities, objectives, and plans, based on their areas of focus and relevance. ◆HUAWEI continuously optimize the EHS management around the world. The company established an EHS management maturity model for delivery projects, adopted IT systems for automatic measurement and efficient digital management, and used various tools and platforms to optimize EHS management. Adherence to AA 1000 principles: Inclusivity: Huawei has established the Stakeholder Engagement Management Process. Through a variety of stakeholders’ engagement activities, including organization meeting, releasing study report and participating workgroups and pilot projects, HUAWEI actively understood stakeholders’ expectations and existing issues, and responded timely. Materiality:HUAWEI identified the material issues related to sustainable development viz. economic, environment & social performance as an outcome of its stakeholder engagement and business priorities and provide balance information in the report. The Corporate Sustainable Development (CSD) strategy is aligned to address identified material issues. Responsiveness:HUAWEI responded to its stakeholders against identified material issues critical to sustainable development through disclosure made in report 2016, including Corporate Sustainable Development strategy, risks, opportunities and approaches, management system and its essential, 2016 sustainability object progress, and stakeholders’ engagement. Conclusion: In conclusion, we can mention that no instances or information came to our attention that would be to the contrary of the statement made below: ◆HUAWEI Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 meets the requirement of Type-1, Moderate Assurance according to AA1000AS(2008) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) , ‘In accordance’-Core” reporting guidelines as per G-4.0 ◆The Report includes statements and claims that reflects HUAWEI achievements and challenges supported by documentary evidences and internal records ◆The performance data we found in the report are collected, stored and analyzed in a systematic and professional manner and were plausible. ◆TÜV Rheinland shall not bear any liability or responsibility to a third party for perception and decision about HUAWEI based on this Assurance Statement. For TÜV Rheinland Group Taobo SHI Lead Verifier Guangzhou, 10 May 2017 Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2016 Sustainability Report 99 2016
