UN GLOBAL COMPACT DIETSMANN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 www.dietsmann.com LEADERS IN OIL, GAS, POWER AND MINING PLANT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE INDEX STATEMENT FROM THE PRESIDENT & CEO This is Dietsmann’s fifth annual Communication on Progress since the Company became a signatory to the UNGC at the end of 2011. Since then we have worked continuously on the further development of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy by formulating our global approach, structuring our responsibility-oriented actions and integrating the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Dietsmann complies with the legislation of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the principles and best practices of good Corporate Governance, the ethics and anti-corruption legislation and regulations, and all applicable legislation in every country in which we operate. This compliance, as well as all the measures that have been included in Dietsmann’s overall strategy in order to ensure we achieve the highest standards of Corporate Social Responsibility and integrate the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact into our day-to-day work, play an intrinsic role in Dietsmann’s long-term vision and strategy. Together this vision and strategy form the basis of Dietsmann’s single corporate culture that includes the ethics values of integrity, respect, loyalty, efficiency and transparency. Dietsmann’s Corporate Social Responsibility approach promotes these ethics values as well as mutual respect and correct behavior. Since it was established 40 years ago, Dietsmann’s unrelenting focus on its core activities and on the quality of its services has resulted in it becoming the largest independent company specializing in Operation & Maintenance for continuous-production plant in the oil & gas, power and mining industries. Dietsmann is well positioned to maintain its leading position thanks to its unmatched base of satisfied clients, its experience and expertise and its optimal employment of local resources. This combination ensures the provision of world-class plant Operation & Maintenance plus, at the same time, the creation of good employee relations and local development. Three things set Dietsmann apart from its competitors. First, Dietsmann’s reputation of being THE reference in oil & gas, power and mining plant maintenance. Secondly, and probably more important in these challenging times, Dietsmann is not carrying any debt on its balance sheet and, as a result, its stability and continuity is not challenged. Thirdly, and most important of all, Dietsmann has always and will always put its clients and their objectives first, but will never compromise the safety of people and the environment or the quality of its services. The importance of clearly formulating our CSR approach and sharing this information with our stakeholders has continued to increase. The primary channels of communication we use to keep our stakeholders up-to-date with Dietsmann’s progress with the integration of the Global Compact’s principles into its structure, culture and everyday operation are listed in Section X of this Report. Dietsmann’s employees, by the way they carry out their daily work, are themselves one of the most important channels for communicating the Company’s values and ethics to everyone with whom they come into contact. This is why, as Dietsmann’s founder, President and CEO, I feel a personal responsibility for upholding Dietsmann’s long term vision and strategy and am personally involved in communicating this strategy to all our employees in all the countries in which we operate. Peter Kütemann President & CEO 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Statement from the President & CEO 3 I Profile disclosure 5 Company profile 5 Commitments to Dietsmann’s main stakeholders 7 Scope of the report 8 II Sustainability management approach 9 Sustainable Development Management System 9 Sustainability Management structure 10 III Human Rights principles 11 Overall strategy 11 Implementation and outcomes 11 Ensuring not being complicit in human rights abuse 13 IV Labor Rights principles 14 Overall strategy 14 Implementation and outcomes 14 Ensuring not being complicit in labor rights abuse 15 Health & safety 16 Quality 19 Social dialogue and cohesion 23 Fostering talent 25 Combating discrimination 27 Valorization of diversity 28 Local employment 31 V Environment principles 35 Overall strategy 35 Implementation and outcomes 35 Waste management 36 Environment protection 36 Carbon footprint 37 VI Anti-corruption principle 39 Overall strategy 39 Implementation and outcomes 39 VII Dietsmann’s involvement in local communities 41 Dietsmann Support & Coordination Office Monaco 41 Dietsmann Russia 47 Sonadiets Angola 48 Dietsmann Congo The Republic of Congo 49 Dietsmann Gabon Gabon 50 NetcoDietsmann Nigeria 52 Dietsmann Libya Libya 54 Dietsmann Bolivia 55 Dietsmann Technologies France 55 VIII Map of Dietsmann’s involvement in local communities 61 IX Continuous progress 62 Corporate Social Responsibility overview table 65 X Informing stakeholders of Dietsmann’s implementation of the UNGC principles 68 External communication 68 Internal communication 69 4 I PROFILE DISCLOSURE COMPANY PROFILE n Name of the organization: Dietsmann N.V. n Dietsmann N.V., the Company’s holding company, is a privately held company with its registered office in Breda, the Netherlands. n Company size: Dietsmann has offices and operations in 20 countries and a total workforce of 4663 employees. n Certifications: Dietsmann’s Quality Management System has been certificated since 1999. This certification covers the entire range of products and services offered to clients by all ISO 9001 certificated Dietsmann subsidiaries and by the Support & Coordination Office in Monaco. Currently the following Dietsmann subsidiaries are ISO 9001 certificated: n Dietsmann in France (Salies-du-Salat and Toulouse) AFAQ since 1998: ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 n Dietsmann in Monaco LRQA since 1999: ISO 9001 n Dietsmann in the Republic of Congo (Pointe Noire) Bureau Veritas since 2013: ISO 9001 n Dietsmann in Gabon (Port Gentil) Bureau Veritas since 2014: ISO 9001 n Dietsmann in Nigeria (Abuja) Bureau Veritas since 2014: ISO 9001 n Dietsmann in Angola (Luanda) since 2016: ISO 9001 n Dietsmann in Russia since 2016: ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 n HSE awards received during the reporting period: n Angola: 10 years without LTI on Exxon contract (Nov. 2016) n Nigeria: 10 years without LTI at Okpai site (July 2016) n Organizational structure: n Group Holding: Breda, the Netherlands. n International Support and Coordination Office: Monaco. n Offices and operations worldwide: Angola, Bolivia, Cyprus, France, Italy, Gabon, Ghana, Kazakhstan, Libya, Iraq, Nigeria, Mozambique, Peru, Russia, South Sudan, Switzerland, the Republic of Congo and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). 5 INDEX I PROFILE DISCLOSURE Dietsmann was founded in the Netherlands by its President & CEO Peter Kütemann and is the leading independent Operation & Maintenance (O&M) specialist of continuous production plant in the oil & gas, power and mining industries with 40 years of accumulated plant and equipment expertise. Dietsmann’s core business is planning and managing the O&M of oil, gas and power plants in a way that optimizes safe operational performance, maximizes availability and minimizes costs. The planning, engineering and ongoing execution of maintenance is a complex task in which experienced professionals analyze the requirements, engineer the maintenance, plan the operations and manage continuous plant optimization. Major international and national oil and gas companies entrust Dietsmann with the O&M of their production facilities. Professional maintenance not only increases operating revenue, it also extends the productive life of the assets and, as a result, contributes towards a more sustainable use of equipment and premises. Dietsmann’s core management has always focused on delivering safe and efficient Operation & Maintenance by working closely with its clients at all levels. The Company has accumulated a wealth of experience in operating and maintaining hundreds of production installations around the world. Currently the Company maintains a database of tens of thousands of different pieces of equipment as well as spare parts for all the production facility components of multiple configurations. Dietsmann remains independent and, therefore, free of conflicts of interest with regard to construction companies or original equipment manufacturers and this important principle will not change. As well as being the largest independent provider of specialized Operation & Maintenance services, Dietsmann is also the market leader in maintenance engineering and inspection (MEI). The Company’s worldwide Operation & Maintenance activities are supported by Dietsmann Technologies a Dietsmann subsidiary that provides a wide range of electrical, instrumentation, engineering and construction services. As a substantial employer in the countries in which it operates Dietsmann takes its social responsibilities extremely seriously. The company has been active in Nigeria, Angola, the Republic of Congo and Gabon for more than 25 years and in Kazakhstan and Russia since the early 1990s. In the countries in which it operates Dietsmann strives for 100 percent local employment in its maintenance organization. In 2016 Dietsmann opened offices in the United Arab Emirates(UAE) and in Cyprus. 6 I PROFILE DISCLOSURE TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 6,000 4,500 3,000 1,500 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 COMMITMENTS TO DIETSMANN’S MAIN STAKEHOLDERS We strive to take our stakeholders’ expectations into account in our business decisions and overall strategy. We maintain close relationships with our clients and regularly assess their satisfaction and, to enable us to improve our performance, their further expectations. We commit to our clients that we will: n Always listen to and learn from them; n Tailor our services to their specific requirements; n Offer effective industrial Operation & Maintenance solutions; n Employ state-of-the-art, but field-tested, technology and cutting-edge working practices; n Continuously improve in everything we do; n Meet or exceed their expectations under optimum cost/benefit conditions; n Be truthful in all advertising and communications. We commit to our employees that we will: n Provide a safe and rewarding working environment; n Ensure equal opportunities; n Foster an atmosphere of teamwork and mutual respect; n Motivate, empower and foster creativity and innovation; n Facilitate and manage local and international career opportunities. We commit to society at large that we will: n Strictly apply the highest ethical standards; n Respect and care for the environment; n Strive to be a good corporate citizen. 7 INDEX I PROFILE DISCLOSURE SCOPE OF THE REPORT The reporting period for the information provided is from January to December 2016. This Communication On Progress (COP) describes Dietsmann’s strategy and progress in respect of the implementation of the ten UNGC principles. The information is arranged in accordance with the four main topics of the principles: Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment, and Ethics. Dietsmann’s sustainability management approach and the Company’s involvement in local communities are detailed in separate sections. To facilitate monitoring of the progress of Dietsmann’s social, ethics, local content and environmental performance an overview table has been included in Section IX. The contacts for questions regarding this Report or its contents are: n The Operations Director; n The Group Communications Officer; n The Group Director of Health, Safety, Social, Security, Environment and Quality (HSSSEQ). 8 II SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Compliance with its human rights, labor rights, environment protection and ethics commitments is monitored by Dietsmann’s Management Board and the Company’s performance is regularly assessed by the Executive Committee (EXCO). The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy has been published on Dietsmann’s website and forms the basis of the Company’s Sustainable Development approach. In line with the Company’s commitment to integrating the UNGC principles into its operations and business strategy, an overview table has been compiled to assess the development of the Sustainability Project (see Section IX). Dietsmann also works closely with its clients on the development of its approach to ensure it is in-line with the client’s objectives and expectations. For instance, during the year a strategic meeting on Quallity was held with TOTAL during which local content was discussed in respect of the progress of nationalization programs. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Dietsmann has issued a Local Content Management plan in order to support Sustainable Focal Points and Country Managers with the development and monitoring of local content plans that take the local context of each country into account. The sustainable development process is included and monitored within the HSEQ Management System. 9 INDEX II SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE The structure implemented in 2013 is monitored and coordinated in Monaco and applied throughout the Group. As the revised Code forms a basis for the development of the sustainable development approach and must, therefore, be clearly understood by all employees, the Sustainability Project focuses on the implementation of Corporate Shared Responsibility video training. The consultation with subsidiaries was repeated during 2016. Six countries have now implemented the specified follow-up of four items listed in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table: social, local content, ethics and environment. The overview table is included and explained in Section IX (see page 62). It enables Dietsmann to assess its continuous improvement. In line with the main strategic axis of “knowledge sharing”, which was identified in 2013, the overview table includes CORPORATE SPIRIT a specific indicator for the Dietsmann Initiative related to communities. ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION BUSINESS PARTNERS SHARED KNOWLEDGE SOCIAL HEALTH AT COHESION WORK CITIZENSHIP INITIATIVES 10 III HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES NGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights. UNGC Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. OVERALL STRATEGY Dietsmann actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights through updated relevant published and publically available documents. Dietsmann is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Dietsmann does not tolerate victimization, bullying or harassment. The Company also encourages its business partners to respect human rights and expects them to observe its “Business Partners Policy”. Dietsmann’s human rights practices are fully in line with UNGC expectations and include an involvement in local communities that focuses on knowledge sharing. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES EMPLOYEES’ PROTECTION Dietsmann Corporate Shared Responsibility Dietsmann has always been deeply concerned about the well-being of its employees and the mutual respect which is a constituent component of its corporate culture. The Company’s core values are encapsulated in the Dietsmann Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy. This reference document provides practical examples to explain the implications of these commitments in the day-to-day working environment. To ensure all employees understand the content of the Code, during 2013 a training module – Corporate Shared Responsibility – was issued. This video-based training module explains on the one hand Dietsmann’s corporate responsibility commitments and, on the other hand, how employees are required to comply with these commitments and be personally involved. The first training courses took place during 2014. In addition, an abridged version of the Business Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy has been produced in the seven languages commonly used within Dietsmann and has been distributed at each training session together with a short test that enables the employee’s understanding of the Code to be checked. Employees are required to sign and return a declaration slip confirming they have read and understood the document, which includes the UNGC principles and Dietsmann’s commitment to these principles. The abridged version of the Code is retained by each employee. The acceptance of the Code by each employee is monitored through the Employee Data Base in order to ensure a progressive increase of the awareness of all employees is achieved. 11 INDEX III HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Dietsmann Upline email To protect its employees Dietsmann has implemented a Grievance Mechanism, the “Upline email”, which can be used to obtain advice regarding, or report any sensitive concern related to Human Rights and any deviance from the Code. The responsibility for this mechanism rests with the Ethics Committee. To ensure the confidentiality and reliability of the Upline email a dedicated and customized IT tool has been developed by Dietsmann’s IT department. This tool also enables the Ethics Committee to identify and analyze recurring issues and implement appropriate preventive actions. The procedure to be followed when using the Upline email is explained in the Upstream Communication procedure. HELP HR or HSEQ Officer Written statement of your question/concern. Ethics Committee HELP! upline@dietsmann.com investigation 10 DAYS 60 DAYS CONFIDENTIALITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT FEEDBACK The Upline email is introduced and explained to employees as part of the Corporate Shared Responsibility training. So far no requests for information or reports of concerns have been received. No request or grievance related to Human rights has been received so far. This reflects a high level of employee protection and the positive effects of the open dialogue practice that is deeply rooted in Dietsmann’s culture: employees feel free to talk to their colleagues and managers. Staff representative Written statement HELP or Direct Supervisor upon your request. HELP HR or HSE Officer Ethics Committee 12 HELP! upline@dietsmann.com investigation CONFIDENTIALITY 10 DAYS 60 DAYS III HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ENSURING NOT BEING COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSE Business partner screening Dietsmann is committed to applying the UNGC principles at all its operating sites and to striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encourage them to implement good practices. A procedure is available and provides all subsidiaries with an evaluation form for Training session current and potential main suppliers or on site sub-contractors. Related indicator in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 66) 33 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and followed-up The assessment of the critical suppliers is steady and the global percentage of screening increased from 60% to 62% in 2016. PERCENTAGE OF SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS SCREENED 100% 2015 80% 2016 60% 40% 20% 0% Angola Rep. of Congo Gabon Nigeria Kazakhstan France 13 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES UNGC Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. UNGC Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. UNGC Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. UNGC Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OVERALL STRATEGY Dietsmann respects the labor rights stated in the International Labor Organization’s Declaration as well as all relevant legislation and regulations, including the local content of the countries in which it operates. Dietsmann expects its business partners to do the same. As stated in its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy, Dietsmann: n Respects freedom of association and supports collective bargaining. n Does not tolerate forced or child labor and discrimination. n Has always been committed to maintaining the highest level of HSEQ standards. n Values the personal development of its employees and focuses on dynamic career management, supports internal promotion, invests in training and strives to take employees’ expectations into account. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann’s Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy publically states its commitment to supporting labor rights, including safe and healthy working conditions, freedom of association, non-discrimination in human resources management and access to basic health care and education. Dietsmann is developing tools and processes to implement these commitments. HSEQ performances are strictly monitored. HR performances are also monitored in terms of individual development, equal opportunities, diversity and training. Dietsmann also works continuously to improve welfare schemes for all its employees. As a global company Dietsmann relies heavily on mutual respect and individual dignity and believes that diversity enhances shared knowledge . 14 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES COMPLIANCE WITH LABOR RIGHTS: CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT All Dietsmann’s employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly defines their terms and conditions including pay rates, working hours and overtime compensation arrangements. All contracts specify employees are free to resign after a notice period defined according to the type of contact. Dietsmann does not have any employees under 18 years old. Information about standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, and grievance and disciplinary procedures is handed to all employees when they join the Company. All expatriate employees receive a country information sheet before taking up their duties. Dietsmann promotes and develops talent and encourages long-lasting relations with employees. Dietsmann is proud that, despite the fluctuating level of activity consummate with the nature of its operations, more than 216 of its current employees have worked for the Group for more than 15 years and nearly 64 of these employees have, in fact, been with the Company for more than 25 years. Dietsmann’s fluctuating level of activity results in a fluctuating, but overall relatively high, outflow rate. In 2016 the outflow rate increased from 4.75% in 2015 to 7.02%. It should be noted that, in all the countries in which it operates, when a contract is completed Dietsmann’s policy is to offer employees work on new contracts whenever possible. Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 65) 11 New hirings of national employees 12 New hirings of expatriates 13 Outflow rate ENSURING NOT BEING COMPLICIT IN LABOR RIGHTS ABUSE BUSINESS PARTNERS SCREENING As specified in Dietsmann’s Business Partners Policy, business partners are expected to respect labor rights. Dietsmann is committed to applying UNGC principles at all its operating sites and to striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encouraging them to implement good practices. As described in Section III, a Group procedure for the selection of suppliers and subcontractors is being implemented in phases. Related indicator in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 66) 33 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and followed-up 15 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES HEALTH & SAFETY HSEQ The eight HSEQ policies are Safety & Security, Health & Industrial Hygiene, Decent Working Conditions, Vehicle Driving, Substance Abuse, HIV/AIDS, Sustainable Development and Environment Protection. The essence of these policies is contained within the HSEQ Charter included in the Dietsmann Business Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy. The full text of each policy can also be read in the Corporate section of Dietsmann’s website www.dietsmann.com. Dietsmann issues an annual risk assessment in an HRA report (Health Risks Assessment) for the main operating sites and monitors risk management progress through regular audits. Dietsmann ensures employees are aware of the Company’s rules and HSEQ procedures by giving all new employees a copy of the Safety Handbook. Every employee arriving for his/her first day of working at a site must follow a safety induction path during which the HSEQ Officer covers all the relevant HSEQ guidelines, general rules and site-specific operational rules. At the end of the induction path every employee is given a copy of the Safety Handbook, which must be signed by both the employee and the HSEQ Officer. The Safety Handbook was last revised in 2015 and will be fully reviewed in 2017. SAFETY PERFORMANCE 2012 TO 2016 DIETSMANN GROUP SAFETY INDICATORS 1.5 TRIR 1.2 LTIF 0.9 0.6 0.3 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 16 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES HSEQ Charter & Safety Handbook HEALTH SAFETY ENVIRONMENT & QUALITY CHARTER DIETSMANN’S HSEQ OBJECTIVES ARE CLEAR IN ALL ITS ACTIVITIES: ■ Ensure the safety of our employees and contractors ■ Protect the environment ■ Customer satisfaction DIETSMANN IS COMMITTED TO: ■ Ensuring that health, safety, security, social, ■ Openly communicating, both internally and externally, environment and quality requirements come before the results and monitoring of health, safety, security, all economic considerations social, environment and quality objectives ■ Adopting a proactive approach to guaranteeing ■ Verifying compliance with internal and external a safe, healthy working environment and the best requirements through audits and striving for service quality compliance with international standards such as ■ Identifying the risks stemming from its activities ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 26000 and reducing them as far as is reasonably possible ■ Ensuring that its labor and human rights policies are ■ Ensuring that every one of its employees implemented and respected understands and adheres to the corporate culture ■ Requiring that all its employees at every level in the through dedicated health, safety, environment hierarchy accept responsibility for their own behavior and quality training in respect of the application of this Health, Safety, ■ Promoting its employees’ initiatives related to Environment & Quality Charter at their workplace improving safety at work ■ Promoting sustainable development and social initiatives ■ Reducing negative impacts on the environment by using energy efficiently ■ Minimizing and eliminating emissions of substances Peter Kütemann that are hazardous for people and the environment President & CEO LEADERS IN OIL, GAS, POWER AND MINING PLANT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE 17 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Dietsmann’s Top Management has decided to cluster Health, Safety, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Environment and Quality together into a single department HSSSEQ (Health, Safety, Social, Security, Environment and Quality). This clustering will enable the Company’s management systems to be managed more effectively and bring Dietsmann’s organization more in line with those of its clients and main competitors. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) encompasses the Company’s sustainable development and its ethics policies and code of conduct. The Regional HSEQ Managers will play an essential role in optimizing the deployment of this new organization in Dietsmann’s subsidiaries and joint ventures. Dietsmann’s comprehensive Health, Safety, Social, Security, Environment and Quality (HSEQ) policies and procedures ensure a continuous process of combined prevention and protection measures. The HSEQ Management System provides a framework for all teams at operating sites. Continuous consultation with employees regarding HSEQ issues contributes towards the improvement of safety and security at all sites. Dietsmann complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and the HSEQ knowledge of every employee is improved through regular training and presentations geared to their function and activities. Dietsmann’s HSEQ management is also continuously improving its policies. Every employee is expected to comply with all Dietsmann’s HSEQ policies and to make an active contribution towards their improvement by: n Taking all necessary precautions. n Reporting any witnessed near-misses, incidents or accidents. n Contributing towards the identification and assessment of risks. n Participating in HSEQ training courses. LIFTING OPERATIONS We must be certified and authorized to perform a lifting operation. We must ensure colleagues do not stand under a suspended load, never cross a lifting area, pay attention to the lifting movements and never intervene in the lifting operation if not designated to do so. BUILDING A CULTURE I must OF PREVENTION 1 Visually check my lifting equipment and the SAFE LIFTING validity of the periodic inspection prior to use 2 Demarcate and prohibit access to the lifting area OPERATIONS 3 Follow the approved lifting plan 4 Ensure that I and my colleagues are properly trained to lifting operations www.dietsmann.com I must not THREE ESSENTIALS FOR A SAFE LIFTING OPERATION: 1 Walk under a suspended load or cross a 1 USING ONLY PROPER EQUIPMENT lifting area 2 RESPECTING THE RULES 2 Intervene during a lifting operation if I’m not 3 PERFECT VISUAL AND SPOKEN COMMUNICATION designated to do so BETWEEN ALL TEAM MEMBERS INVOLVED AT ALL TIMES WORLD DAY FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK 28 APRIL 2016 WORK SAFELY FOR EVERYONE’S SAFETY! LEADERS IN OIL, GAS, POWER AND MINING PLANT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE Safe Lifting Operations World Day for Safety campaign 2016 2016 poster 18 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Although Dietsmann always applies the client’s rules on site, to maintain the highest HSEQ standards Dietsmann wanted to have its own set of rules that are directly related to its core business. The ‘Dietsmann 12 Safe Maintenance Rules’ address the essential issues related to the key risks employees face during their day-to-day operations. The ‘Dietsmann 12 Safe Maintenance Rules’ campaign was promoted and highlighted in seven languages in 2015. In 2016 a specific campaign focused on the rule related to lifting operations. Lifting operations can be risky if not carried out properly. Like all the other procedures, instructions and rules that apply to staff assigned to the installations on which Dietsmann’s employees are working, the Dietsmann rules for safe lifting operations must be adhered to and respected. This campaign explained that a rule is an appropriate principle regulating the practice or procedure of a specific activity and emphasizes that following the rule is compulsory. QUALITY DIETSMANN’S QUALITY CULTURE Helping employees contribute towards the effectiveness of Dietsmann’s quality management system and the continuous enhancement of the quality of the Company’s services. DIETSMANN QUALITY POLICY Dietsmann’s Quality Policy focuses on the continual enhancement of the quality of the Company’s services through the implementation of the high standards applicable to all Dietsmann branches and projects. The implementation and maintenance of Quality Management Systems ensures that the quality of all Dietsmann projects is continuously improved, measured, evaluated and validated for effectiveness both internally and externally. Dietsmann is, therefore, very committed to the following quality principles: n Striving to provide only those services that meet the highest quality standards; n Striving to meet all national and international requirements and Quality Standards; n Ensuring sustainable quality performance through the implementation and certification of effective Quality Management Systems compliant with both ISO 9001:2015 and the Dietsmann Quality System Standards in the majority of Dietsmann’s branches; n Validating the effectiveness of the Company’s Quality Management System through both internal and external audit processes recognized by international standards; n Continuing to build quality capability and thus achieve higher levels of excellence through structured programs that develop technical qualifications, increase awareness and manage risks; n Setting annual quality goals to ensure continuous improvement and measure performance against the global Dietsmann system; n Being committed to communicating the Company’s quality strategies to all Dietsmann personnel who are directly involved. 19 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES WORKING TOWARDS EXCELLENCE Dietsmann strives to conduct its operations as efficiently as possible and continuously improve its high standards of performance. The company also focuses its efforts on implementing all the processes needed to guarantee this high level of efficiency and continuous improvement. This is processed through the ISO 9001 certification of Group subsidiaries and is also based on the measurement of its Corporate Social Responsibility progress, which enables areas with scope for improvement to be identified. The Dietsmann Group (Support and Coordination Office in Monaco) has successfully renewed its certificate in conformity with the new ISO 9001: 2015 standard. According to the results of the certification audit held in December 2016, the consolidated Dietsmann Group ISO 9001 Certificate includes: n ISO 9001:2008 Certificate of Dietsmann Technologies SA (France) n ISO 9001:2008 Certificate of Dietsmann (Gabon) n ISO 9001:2008 Certificate of NetcoDietsmann LTD (Nigeria) n ISO 9001:2015 Certificate of Sonadiets Ltd (Angola) Dietsmann Congo – certification renewal In December 2016 Dietsmann Congo successfully renewed its ISO 9001:2015 certification. Dietsmann Technologies SA in France is the first subsidiary to receive ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 1800 certification for its Integrated Management System (IMS) As of 2016 the DTSA certification also includes the Dietsmann Qualification College in Boussens. Sonadiets in Angola – newly certificated in 2016 Sonadiets successfully completed its ISO 9001 certification in conformity with the new ISO 9001:2015 requirements in January 2016. 20 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES MONITORING AND MEASURING QUALITY PERFORMANCE Dietsmann ensures the continuous measurement of process performance through: n Quality objectives and related indicators; n Analysis of the results of internal quality audits; n Analysis of the results of external audits (certification organizations and clients). MEASURING THE RESULTS OF YOUR PERFORMANCE PLAN IS ESSENTIAL TO IMPROVE QUALITY & CLIENT SATISFACTION! DO PDCA 10 NOVEMBER 2016 WORLD ACT QUALITY DAY CHANGE THE PERCEPTION OF QUALITY www.dietsmann.com LEADERS IN OIL, GAS, POWER AND MINING PLANT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE CHECK The results of every ISO 9001 certificated subsidiary’s quality performance are reviewed at least twice a year. The Dietsmann Group’s global QMS performance is reviewed and analyzed by the Dietsmann Quality Directorate, which then informs the subsidiaries concerned of its decisions regarding corrective / improvement actions. 21 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES MEDICAL CHECK-UPS All employees are covered by medical insurance and throughout the year information campaigns increase employees’ awareness of specific health issues. Despite the challenging economic situation, in 2016 Dietsmann maintained the level of coverage for its local employees and their families. In Angola, in view of the devaluation of the kwanza, the insurance guarantees were revised to take into account the high inflation and maintain the same level of coverage. In Libya a health insurance scheme for Dietsmann employees and their relatives has been in place since the end of 2015. Thanks to the change of local medical network operator, this scheme will be extended to the Republic of Congo, Gabon and Angola in 2017. In addition to safety and security, employees’ good health is also a major concern for Dietsmann. This is why regular medical check-ups are provided to employees. In 2016, 90% of employees benefited from a medical check-up (2015: 88%; 2014: 90%). The check-ups are carried out every one or two years depending on the local context and the individual context (the employee’s age and type of work). RATE OF MEDICAL CHECK-UPS (JAN. 2016 TO DEC. 2016) IN MAIN COUNTRIES OF OPERATION 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Italy France Gabon Iraq Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Russia Sudan Other Rep. of Congo Angola Bolivia Dubai Additional processes to prevent health incidents are implemented in subsidiaries. Senior employees can, on a voluntary basis, follow an occupational health & safety (OHS) training course during which qualified HSEQ managers provide first aid instruction (For example, an automatic defibrillator is available in the Pointe Noire office in the Republic of Congo). Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 66) 27 Percentage of employees who benefited from a medical check-up 28 Total awareness-raising campaigns on health issues 29 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) per million man-hours worked 30 Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) per million man-hours worked 22 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES SOCIAL DIALOGUE AND COHESION COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND DIALOGUE WITH EMPLOYEES The Company endorses collective bargaining: employees’ representatives are active at all operating sites and are also provided with the necessary meeting facilities and appropriate time off duty to organize work sessions with the managers concerned. At all sites Dietsmann promotes an open dialogue between employees and managers. In Monaco a specific anonymous email allows employees to send any question they may have to the employees’ representatives. To strengthen corporate cohesion and promote a good working atmosphere, events that bring employees together are organized in all Dietsmann countries. The end of year is a regular opportunity for such get-togethers. Some special events and team-building events are also organized during the year, for instance on May Day. 23 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES IDENTIFYING EMPLOYEES’ EXPECTATIONS: INTEGRATED CAREER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (ICMS) Dietsmann operates an annual review process for employees; the number of scheduled interviews is increasing each year. The process identifies the employee’s personal development needs and training requirements for his/her current job position and expected career path. In 2016 88% of the scheduled ICMS interviews were conducted. NUMBER OF ICMS INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 RATE OF ICMS INTERVIEWS CARRIED OUT IN THE MAIN OPERATING COUNTRIES IN 2016 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% Angola Bolivia Rep. of Congo France Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Russia In addition to the review process, employees’ representatives in all countries are consulted regularly and their views and expectations are taken into account. 24 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 66) 24 Percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement 25 Percentage of scheduled annual interviews (ICMS) carried out 26 Global percentage of employees interviewed (ICMS) FOSTERING TALENT INVESTING IN TRAINING One of Dietsmann’s objectives is to provide its national and expatriate employees with career opportunities and training programs. Towards this end the Human Resources department has developed several successful tools: TACT, KMP and the COMPETENCES CERTIFICATION PROGRAM. The management and coordination of training courses and course participation are supported by the Employee Data Base (EDB) Dietsmann’s in-house HR management software which includes a training module. The aim of this module is to assist training managers throughout the Company by automating many tasks, such as training plan editing, training request management and training processing and reporting. The investment in training remained at a high level with 16,335 training days in 2016 (2015: 18,430 training days). The opportunity to follow training courses appropriate to their specific job needs or projected career path is available to all employees. Training can cover technical, administration, languages or management courses and training sessions are also provided for mandatory HSEQ and IT topics. The focus is on transferring know-how and enhancing national employees’ skills. Dietsmann has also continued its BREAKDOWN OF TRAINING DAYS PER COUNTRY IN 2016 nationalization program. Since 2013 a total of 52 positions have been Angola successfully nationalized. Dietsmann will France continue its ongoing process of know-how Gabon transfer and local workforce training. Kazakhstan Lybia Monaco Nigeria Rep. of Congo Russia 25 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Technical Assessment Campaign and Training (TACT) The aim of this training program is to align the skills of national employees with the technical and safety requirements of their positions. This tool takes into account the assessment, training, mentoring and acquired knowledge measurement. TACT is applicable to four disciplines mechanics, instrumentation, electricity and HVACand differentiates three levels of skill junior technician, senior technician and foreman. The program is aimed at both national and expatriate employees. A personalized training & tutoring program is implemented based on the results of the assessment and lasts for approximately two years. Globally, Dietsmann committed to having provided job and career path training to 661 employees by 2014 and 814 employees by 2015. These targets have been exceeded as world-wide 2,556 employees had been trained by the end of 2016. Between 2013 and 2016 20 trainers were hired in the four countries in which the program is in place (Angola, the Republic of Congo, Gabon, Nigeria). At the beginning of 2016 the TACTIII campaign was started in the Republic of Congo, Gabon, Angola and Nigeria and training programs are currently on-going. Currently 20 technical corporate trainers specialized in Dietsmann’s core competencies have been assigned to some of these locations. Political issues in Libya and South Sudan have resulted in an adjustment of Dietsmann’s training schedule. As operations have yet to start in Mozambique training efforts are currently on hold, but will be resumed as soon as operations commence. In the Ivory Coast three technical trainers have been assigned to the Foxtrot contract and have been tasked with developing the competences and know-how of the local employees. Key Managers Path (KMP) The objective of this project management training program is to prepare the key managers Dietsmann needs for its future operational development. This program is spread over several years and divided into two parts: n A training program focused primarily on management, finance, communication and specific group modules provided by managers. n An individual professional path which allows each candidate to gain the necessary competencies step by step. The candidates fulfill different positions involving an increasing level of responsibility. To date 24 employees have participated in the KMP training program. 26 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 65) 21 Total training days 22 Training expenses in millions of Euros 23 Number of employees who have benefited from Human Resources career development tools (TACT, PARS, KMP) COMBATING DISCRIMINATION Dietsmann’s non-discrimination principle includes any explicit or implicit distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of color, gender, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, which has the effect of nullifying or spoiling equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation, including access to vocational training. Dietsmann’s recruitment criteria are based solely on skills and are not related to ethnic or religious origins, age, gender or any other form of discrimination. DIETSMANN CORPORATE SHARED RESPONSIBILITY The Corporate Shared Responsibility video training module that explains the Dietsmann Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy includes a section on the discrimination issue. The aim is to ensure all employees are aware of the varied and subtle forms that discrimination can take. To check the employees have clearly understood the message the test at the end of the training includes an item on the topic. The course participants must also sign and return a declaration slip confirming they have read and understood the abridged version of the Code handed to them after they have seen the video. Employees are instructed to prevent any discriminatory situation and to report any such situation that they become aware of whether it involves them or a colleague. Reporting a discriminatory situation is mandatory and must be done in accordance with the Upstream communication procedure described in Section III. UPLINE EMAIL The ongoing implementation of the Upline email grievance mechanism allows employees to request advice on labor rights matters and report any deviance from the Code including, of course, any violation of fundamental rights and non-compliant behavior. The responsibility for carrying out investigations rests with the Ethics Committee. Confidentiality is ensured and all the members of the Ethics Committee are subject to a stringent privacy commitment. Potential requests are recorded and analyzed in order to attempt to avoid the situation recurring in the future and to gain an insight into the topics concerned with a view to implementing any preventive actions deemed necessary. Since the implementation of the Upline no labor rights violations have been reported. 27 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 66) 31 Number of Upline requests for advice related to social issues in countries in which the Upline tool has been implemented VALORIZATION OF DIVERSITY Whenever possible the Company promotes national employment. As a result, the Company is continuously increasing the diversity of its employees. A total of 53 different nationalities were represented in 2016. Dietsmann is present in 20 countries and in every one of these countries it recruits employees by publishing vacancies worldwide on its website. The diversity of Dietsmann’s workforce reflects its rejection of any form of discrimination. EMPLOYEE Russian 33.54% Filipino 0.90% NATIONALITIES Algerian 0.54% Tunisian 1.03% DECEMBER Romanian 1.42% Libyan 2.98% 2016 Iraqi 0.49% Serbian 0.58% Italian 1.65% Bolivian 1.09% British 0.36% Nigerian 8.41% Gabonese 5.96% Indian 0.64% South Sudanese 0.60% Other 2.36% Kazakh 1.57% Pakistani 0.34% Other: South African 0.73% French 9.69% 37 different nationalities Angolan 7.31% Congolese 17.80% Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 65) 19 Number of nationalities represented in the Dietsmann Group 20 Percentage of national employees (vs expatriates) 28 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES GENDER EQUITY The specific nature of working on-site in extreme environments has to be taken into account as it requires a robust condition of health and quite often involves a rotating work schedule which is not convenient for everyone. Office positions obviously do not involve the same constraints as operational positions and the gender ratio is significant for these positions: women represent 50% of employees working in office positions. This percentage has increased by 1% since 2015 (49%). GENDER RATE ADMINISTRATIVE POSITION COMPARISON DEC. 2015 DEC. 2016 (by country of work in main countries of operations) 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Angola Bolivia Rep. of Congo Dubai France Gabon Iraq Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Other Russia Sudan Rates of women 2016 Rates of women 2015 The overall percentage of women (all positions) at Dietsmann remains low (8.86%), in part due to the lack of adequate candidates for operational positions. 29 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 65) 14 Gender percentage administrative positions 15 Gender percentage all positions GENDER RATE DEC. 2016 (ALL POSITIONS) (by country of work in main countries of operations) 60% 40% 20% 0% Angola Bolivia Rep. of Congo Dubai France Gabon Iraq Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Other Russia Sudan GENERATION EQUITY The breakdown of employees by age is well balanced: the average age is 41. The percentage of young (under the age of 35) employees is 30%. This high percentage highlights Dietsmann’s ambition to recruit and give opportunities to young talent. At the other end of the age spectrum, 11% of employees are over 55 years old. This is a quite significant percentage and it should be noted that 64 employees have worked for Dietsmann for more than 25 years (see details in Section III). 30 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES BREAKDOWN BY AGE GROUP (2015 2016 comparison) 20% 2016 2015 15% 10% 5% 0% -20 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 70+ Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 65) 16 Average age 17 Percentage of employees over 55 18 Percentage of employees under 25 LOCAL EMPLOYMENT The nationalization of expatriate positions is a priority in terms of career management. Typically, over 98% of administrative staff positions and 80% of management positions are filled by nationals of the countries in which Dietsmann operates. The Company remains focused on increasing the proportion of nationals employed in all categories. Dietsmann’s HR policy is reflected in the proportion of national employees across the Company overall, which is now 86%. NATIONALS VERSUS EXPATRIATES COMPARISON 2014 2015 2016 6,000 Nationals Expatriates 4,500 3,000 1,500 0 2014 2015 2016 Since 2014 the number of national employees has increased from 83% to 86% of the total employees. 31 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES THE RATE OF EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY POSITION (2015 and 2016 comparison) 100% Expatriates 2015 Nationals 2015 75% Expatriates 2016 50% Nationals 2016 25% 0% Administrative Management Operational Dietsmann undertakes to provide local employees with skill-development opportunities. In 2016 91.5% of training course participants were national employees. As a result, Dietsmann is proud to work with thousands of highly motivated and well-trained local staff, some of whom have been promoted to senior management positions including in Nigeria, Angola, the Republic of Congo and Gabon where the Company has been present for more than 25 years. BREAKDOWN OF TRAINING COURSES PER PROFESSIONAL STATUS Expatriates 8.5% Nationals 91.5% 32 IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY OF WORK DEC. 2016 1,600 Nationals Expatriates 1,200 800 400 0 Angola Bolivia Rep. of Congo Dubai France Gabon Iraq Italy Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Other Russia Sudan Dietsmann strives for maximum local employment at every level of its organization. This benefits the economy and local communities in the countries in which it operates. Nationalization is, however, one of Dietsmann’s greatest HR challenges because the success of nationalization plans depends on a whole range of parameters, such as the level of education of the local staff, the quality of the local training centers and the mix of specific Human Resources skills required to manage this kind of project. Generally the nationalization of a position involves a substantial financial investment. To support the implementation of an increasing number of nationalization plans and to make these plans more successful, in 2012 Dietsmann developed a Nationalization Tool Box (NaTB). This tool box comprises a set of training courses, tests and support material that enables the local HR department to formulate and implement a nationalization plan fitted and adapted to the specific local situation. The NaTB recommends a step-by-step nationalization process and includes support materials, such as technical, reasoning and psychological tests, general, technical and management training course support and cost evaluation software for each step as well as all the additional information that will enable the Country HR Manager to set up and implement a training plan. The NaTB has been used successfully by several subsidiaries and has resulted in efficient nationalization plans. Globally, the process of nationalization has resulted in 13 positions previously held by expatriates being nationalized in 2016. 33 INDEX IV LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES RECRUITMENT PLAN AND REINFORCEMENT OF ANGOLANIZATION 20 Reinforcement with Supervisors 16 Reinforcement with Clov Initial program 12 8 4 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In addition, Dietsmann is developing or expanding training centers in its countries of operation. The aim is to address the lack of some specific training courses. Detailed information about the training centers can be found in Section VII as these centers are also a component of Dietsmann’s contribution towards the development of local infrastructures. Local employment-related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 66) 35 Number of key positions nationalized 36 Percentage of national employees in management positions 37 Percentage of training courses dedicated to national employees in total training provided 34 V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES UNGC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. UNGC Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. UNGC Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. OVERALL STRATEGY Protection of the environment is supported by a specific HSEQ policy based on ISO 14001 standards and is included in the HSEQ charter. As Dietsmann’s main activity involves the provision of services, its impacts on the environment are more indirect than direct. Even so, to strengthen its approach to environment protection the Company is working on defining good-practices related to resource consumption, waste management and global environmentfriendly behavior. When operating on a client’s premises Dietsmann complies with that client’s environmental standards. Dietsmann also focuses on preventive maintenance to increase equipment lifetime and avoid spills. Furthermore, the Company encourages its business partners’ active protection of the environment through the Business Partners Policy. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann complies with all relevant environmental legislation and regulations and its official documents publically state the Company’s precautionary approach in terms of the environment. In order to remain fully compliant the HSEQ department maintains an up-to-date legislation and regulations database. Remaining objectives related to the environment are to draw-up a series of environmental good practices that should help reduce the environmental impact (resource consumption, waste and pollution), increase employee training in respect of environmental matters, implement a more accurate internal impactassessment system and improve Dietsmann’s ability to respond effectively to any issues that could arise. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Care of the environment is a priority for Dietsmann in all of its activities. According to its HSEQ Environment Protection Policy, Dietsmann undertakes to ensure that regulatory requirements and Group standards are respected by carrying out regular environmental reviews and by deploying environment management systems based on the ISO 14001 standard at all sites. The Dietsmann Technologies SA site in France (Salies-du-Salat) has been ISO 14001 certificated since 2007. 35 INDEX V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Related indicator in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 67) 42 Percentage of permanent facilities (offices) in which an environmental risk assessment has been carried out In line with its HSE Environment Protection Policy, Dietsmann assesses specific risks and formulates a crisis management plan for emergency pollution situations. This plan is reviewed and improved on a regular basis. WASTE MANAGEMENT WASTE SORTING Dietsmann develops and implements training and education programs on environmental protection good practices for all employees. To date these programs have focused primarily Waste sorting at on raising awareness regarding reducing waste production, Salies-du-Salat promoting and maximizing recycling and the traceability of (France) ultimate waste products. As a result, Dietsmann employs licensed waste companies to dispose of waste wherever available. Waste is sorted in accordance with specific procedures and the sorted waste is transferred to waste collection companies or, in the case of industrial waste, to the client. Where available local facilities are used for the separate disposal of obsolete electrical and electronic equipment and for batteries and the weight of waste material is monitored and measured on a regular basis. Related indicator in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 67) 40 Percentage of permanent facilities with a waste storage and sorting area In 2016 100% of the sites of operations in the six screened countries included a waste storage and sorting area. ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING & PROMOTION The HSEQ inductions of all employees include environment protection. The job description of every employee includes the requirement to respect and implement the HSEQ guidelines related to the environment in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard. 36 V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES TOWARDS CONSUMPTION REDUCTION Dietsmann has been campaigning for switching off lights and computers. “Reducing Energy Usage” messages are displayed in almost all subsidiaries. Related indicator in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 67) 41 Percentage of countries in which environment awareness raising campaigns have been provided to employees Developing and implementing training and education programs on the environmental protection good practices for all employees is part of the HSEQ Environment Protection Policy. Developing campaigns that will raise employees’ awareness of the need to use water carefully and to use renewable energy sources whenever feasible is a component of this policy. CARBON FOOTPRINT REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT NetcoDietsmann in Nigeria, for example, is pursuing its effort to plant grass, flowers and trees on the Afam VI operation site. The beautification and planting schemes continued in 2016 with the planting of trees and fruit plants, such as papaya and pineapple, in the Okpai IPP facility. When ripe the fruit is shared with local sub-contractor personnel. The gas turbines at Afam and Okpai incorporate a Continuous Emissions Monitoring System (CEMS) which ensures that emissions are in-line with the Department of Petroleum Resources’ environmental regulations. The Company is also involved in environmental initiatives, such as the monthly environmental day at Okpai IPP during which vehicles are not permitted in the plant and employees must walk to work. On World Environmental Day, held on Sunday 5 June 2016, NetcoDietsmann joined clients in educating employees during dedicated talks on reducing environmental impact and sustaining local ecosystems. Beautification Afam VI 37 INDEX V ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES CONSUMPTION MONITORING Dietsmann is committed to communicating its environmental impact assessment and reporting to its main stakeholders. The carbon footprint tool is based on the regular measurement of various types of emissions including electricity consumption. Monitoring the carbon footprint data will enable the Company to reduce its energy consumption in accordance with regularly updated targets. 38 VI ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE UNGC Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OVERALL STRATEGY Dietsmann endorses the United Nations Convention Against Corruption and is committed to combating all forms of corruption. The Company has a long-term commitment to ethics and transparency and uses the stipulations of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code as a basis for the development and implementation of good Corporate Governance for Dietsmann’s overall management. Although the Dutch Corporate Governance Code only applies to Dutch companies listed on a stock exchange recognized by the government, Dietsmann voluntarily complies with the Dutch Code’s stipulations and best practices including audits, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards and the Management Board and Supervisory Board use the Code as a management framework. Dietsmann‘s ethics principles and guidelines are encapsulated in Dietsmann’s Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy, the first version of which was published in 2004. Dietsmann also encourages its business partners to respect its Ethics commitments through the Business Partners Policy and the Business Ethics Charter. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann complies with applicable legislation and regulations related to ethics, Corporate Governance and anti-corruption. Dietsmann’s Ethics standards are explained to employees through the Corporate Shared Responsibility training. Dietsmann takes every opportunity to promote ethics commitments among its business partners. ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCESSES Corporate Shared Responsibility training and Upline email The Upline email which is being implemented enables employees to seek further advice should they have concerns regarding sensitive situations. The Ethics Committee is responsible for answering, analyzing and recording requests for advice and reports of grievances and concerns. The Upline email, the terms of use of which are explained in the Upstream procedure, enables any deviations from the Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy to be recorded and analyzed so attempts can be made to prevent similar deviations recurring in the future. Both the Upline email and the Upstream communication procedure are accurately explained to all employees in the Corporate Shared Responsibility training as described in Section III. 39 INDEX VI ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Ensuring business partners’ compliance Dietsmann is committed to applying UNGC principles at all operating sites and striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encourage them to implement good practices. As stated in Section III, a Group procedure provides all subsidiaries with an evaluation form for current and potential main suppliers or sub-contractors. The form includes ethics compliance items. Promotion of ethics commitments In 2016 Dietsmann reaffirmed its ethics commitments and intrinsic values in all press interviews and in internal Newsletter articles related to the subject. Related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 66) Anti-corruption 32 Percentage of employees trained in ethics principles (Corporate Shared Responsibility Training) Business partner screening 33 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and followed-up (Global compliance including ethics) Respect of legality principle During the reporting period Dietsmann was not the subject of any investigation, legal proceedings or incident involving Human Rights, Labor Rights or Ethics deviances. Dietsmann’s audited financial statements are published in the Company’s annual report. Compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations is monitored by internal and external auditors. Dietsmann has neither experienced any reportable environmental incidents during Dietsmann Business the past year nor has been subject to any Ethics Charter statutory notice or prosecution. 40 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES Dietsmann has built-up close relations with the communities that host its operations through long-term local initiatives and actions involving knowledge sharing. DIETSMANN SUPPORT & COORDINATION OFFICE MONACO In Monaco Dietsmann has a long-standing involvement in the activities of local and neighboring municipalities, mainly through sponsoring or contributions to local organizations. NO FINISH LINE In 2016 Dietsmann was once again proud to be one of the official third-level sponsors of the 17th No Finish Line eight-days run organized by The Children & Future Association to help disadvantaged and sick children. Dietsmann and the other companies involved sponsor this event by donating one euro per kilometer run or walked by each employee. As a third-level sponsor Dietsmann donated over € 10,000 to this significant event. During the 17th No Finish Line held at the Fontvieille circuit in Monaco in November 2016 the Dietsmann team of 142 participants completed a total of 6,329 kilometers and ended 11th out of 362 teams involved. The total of € 392,000 they raised will be used by the Association to fund major projects, such as the provision of comprehensive support to foreign sick children undergoing humanitarian surgery in the Monaco CardioThoracic Center, or the continuous support of initiatives dedicated to helping children suffering from HIV/AIDS led by the Fight Aids Association chaired by H.S.H. Princess Stéphanie. This sponsorship gives Monaco employees the opportunity to be involved collectively in a humanitarian activity in the name of Dietsmann. As usual the initiative was led by Dietsmann’s Tendering Department Manager who, every year, voluntarily takes on the recruiting, organization and coaching of the Dietsmann team. 2016: 11,886 participants and 494,400 kms run Amount raised: over € 392,000 Participants NFL 2016 41 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES LES ENFANTS DE FRANKIE In line with the Company’s concerns regarding Human Rights, Dietsmann continues to make an annual donation to ‘Les Enfants de Frankie’. Since its creation this Association, supported by 150 volunteers, has assisted more than 100,000 children in great difficulty in Monaco and the PACA region by working closely with hospitals, social services, orphanages and over 200 associations dedicated to children. ‘Les Enfants de Frankie’ organizes sports and cultural events, festivals, holidays, workshops and, thanks to these activities, finances several projects a year. THE CAP D’AIL TRIATHLON For the third year running Dietsmann was an official sponsor of the Cap d’Ail Triathlon (neighboring municipality of Monaco) which comprises a 600 meters swim, a 17 km cycle ride and a 6 km run. On 25 September 2016 the 15th edition of this triathlon attracted 250 participants. FEDERATION MONEGASQUE DE VOLLEY-BALL (FMVB) Dietsmann has extended its € 15,000 per annum financial partnership with the Federation Monegasque de Volley-ball (FMVB) for a further two years. As a component of this partnership Dietsmann teams participated in two inter-company tournaments organized at Larvotto Beach in Monaco: the 12th Albert II Beach Volley Trophy tournament from March to June 2016 and the BVT Albert II Cup in September and October 2016. The two Dietsmann teams that took up the challenge comprised nine employees drawn from various departments within the Company. This sporting initiative once again demonstrates both the solidarity and cohesion within the Company and Dietsmann’s commitment to being an active citizen of the Principality and a contributor towards the harmonious development of social and sporting life within the Principality. SPONSORING TELETHON IN MONACO In line with the company’s commitment on Human rights, Dietsmann made a donation to the Telethon held in Monaco on 2 & 3 December 2016. A Telethon is a fundraising event, the purpose of which is to raise money for a charitable, political or other worthy cause. The money raised by the Monaco Telethon will be used to finance projects to combat myopathy (neuromuscular disease) and to improve the lives of patients through better access to care and better social support. This year the Federation Monegasque De Volley-ball (FMVB) organized a 24-hour Volley-Ball game which started at 20:00 hrs Friday 2 December 2016. Dietsmann supported the Federation’s effort by making a donation. Sport contributes towards economic and social development by improving the health and personal development of people of all ages, especially the younger ones. Sport can also help build a culture of peace and tolerance by bringing people together on common ground and thus promoting mutual understanding and respect. For all its values that sport represents, Dietsmann is proud to have been able to contribute towards this great solidarity event. 42 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES SPONSORING EMPLOYEES’ WELLBEING AND TEAM SPIRIT THROUGH FITNESS TRAINING Since November 2016 Dietsmann has offered employees who wish to join a fitness center located next to the Monaco office a contribution towards the membership charge. With this initiative Dietsmann is not only encouraging its employees to keep fit, it is also giving them a new opportunity to meet with colleagues in a different setting and thus supporting the development of team spirit. Sport doesn’t only have health benefits, it is also a unifying element that reinforces cohesion. All this fits in perfectly with Dietsmann’s philosophy and culture and shows the importance the Company places on fulfilling its Corporate Social Responsibility and furthering the wellbeing of its employees and the local community. THE BARJS’ CHALLENGE FROM ROME TO MONACO In August 2016 nine oarsmen rowed 476 km across the sea from Rome to Monaco to help raise funds for Monaco charity Rocher du Coeur. The aim of Rocher du Coeur is to enable children hospitalized for long periods to take a trip outside the hospital during which they can escape the constant confrontation with their illness. Rocher du Coeur helps children from all backgrounds and Dietsmann is proud to be one of the companies, organizations and individuals that provide financial support to this initiative. As a corporate citizen of Monaco Dietsmann participates in the harmonious development of the Principality’s social life and continuously reaffirms its commitment to fulfilling its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) by setting up and sponsoring partnerships and projects in the social, health and solidarity fields. The Barjs’ Challenge gave the Company another opportunity to highlight its involvement in the local community. 24-HOUR SPORTING CHALLENGE PAUL RICARD On 28 and 29 May the Circuit Paul Ricard in the heart of Provence-Cote d’Azur in France hosted the second 24-hour Cycling Challenge. The Challenge was open to both professional and amateur cyclists either on their own or in teams. The objective was to complete as many laps of the 3.8 km track as possible in 24 hours. A Dietsmann team of six employees accepted the Challenge and completed 187 laps (710 kilometers). They finished in a very commendable 82nd position out of 187 teams. This sporting initiative once again demonstrates Dietsmann’s commitment to being an active citizen of France and of the Principality. It also gave the participants an opportunity to meet in a setting that was competitive but that put more emphasis on the value of team spirit than on individual results. From a business perspective it gave Dietsmann another opportunity to emphasize its image of involvement with the local community. 43 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES ‘LEGACY SPONSOR’ OF DELFT TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY’S MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL MUSEUM (MGM) Due to financial and space restraints, in 2013 the TU Delft Foundation was faced with the complete dismantling of the Museum’s collection of 140,000 unique specimens of crystals, minerals, ores and fossils and the irreversible closure of its doors. In the light of this alarming fact, in 2014 Dietsmann stepped in as the MGM’s ‘legacy sponsor’ with a pledge of sponsorship for the next 10 years. In April 2014 Dietsmann’s President & CEO handed the MGM Foundation’s Chairman a cheque for € 1 million the total amount of sponsorship money collected by four main sponsors for the reopening of the MGM. Dietsmann’s 10-year financial partnership has enabled the core of the collection, including 25 antique, handcrafted, showcases and mineral displays, to be relocated to the second floor of the TU Delft’s Science Centre in the city of Delft. The central area, where over 4,000 different, special and highly valuable specimens are displayed, has been named the “Dietsmann Hall”. The “new” MGM was opened officially in April 2015. This sustained initiative is very significant for Dietsmann, and holds a special place in the heart of its (Dutch) President & CEO, Peter Kütemann. SOCIAL & EDUCATIONAL PROJECTS IN NYANG’OMA, KENYA A donation from Dietsmann has enabled two volunteers to carry out social and educational projects in Nyang’oma, a village a few kilometers from the shores of Lake Victoria in the southwest of Kenya and two hours away from the city of Kisumu. Nyang’oma has a mission-station comprising a primary school, a technical school, boarding schools for girls and boys, orphans’ and widows’ houses, and religious institutions. The aim of the initiative is to promote improved education for all of the children by teaching them English, mathematics and computer science as well as playing games and sports. Particular attention is being paid to facilitating the social integration of the physically disadvantaged children attending the school for both deaf and hearing people through a sensitive approach. In broader terms, by ensuring that significant projects can be realized in Nyang’oma Dietsmann’s support will make a tangible contribution towards intercultural dialogue and understanding between people. 44 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES RALLYE AÏCHA DES GAZELLES, MOROCCO In 2016 Dietsmann sponsored a team called ‘Fée Carabosse’ that took part in the 26th Rallye Aïcha des Gazelles in 2016. The Rallye Aïcha des Gazelles is a unique event the only 100% female, off-road motorsport competition with an environmental and social initiative. The world-famous Rallye Aïcha des Gazelles is more than a competition, it is also a symbol of courage and commitment, as well as the noble values of adventure: self-improvement, sharing, loyalty and solidarity. This is also a clean and eco-responsible event that includes environmental and humanitarian commitments. In fact, since 2010 the Aïcha des Gazelles Rally has been officially ISO 14001 certificated for its environmental record, waste treatment and CO2 neutrality the Rally compensates all CO2 impact. To preserve the local environment the Rallye des Gazelles organization provides support to local communities, participates in the development of local infrastructure and initiates actions recognized by governmental authorities, such as medical, sustainable development, education and humanitarian actions. This fully CSR-oriented event allowed Dietsmann to increase awareness of its activities through the local, national and international media coverage of this sustainable rally. FUNDING OF HOSPITAL RENOVATION PROJECT IN REFTINSKYA RUSSIA In September 2015 Dietsmann was presented with two Certificates of Gratitude for its funding of the restoration of the intensive care unit in Reftinskya Hospital. Dietsmann’s top management believed supporting this initiative to renovate the Hospital was important because by securing the health of its employees and their families Dietsmann is safeguarding the delivery of the high quality its clients expect and, as a consequence, a positive development of the Company’s business. FINTA FINTA BOOK MOZAMBIQUE Dietsmann sponsored the Finta Finta book about Mozambican soccer players and coaches who have contributed towards helping Mozambique achieve international fame since the 1950s. The money from the book’s sales will go towards the “Finta-Finta Mabilibili” project promoted by Time For Africa. The aim of the project is to build a track field for children to participate in sport at the Mabibibili community school in Mozambique’s Matutuine district. 45 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES MONACO IMPACT Dietsmann, as a dynamic and responsible citizen of Monaco, has undertaken to support the Monaco Impact Association. The mission of this non-profit organization is to encourage, facilitate and federate charitable initiatives, organizations and institutes in Monaco in order to put the Principality on the map as a World Center of Philanthropy and by so doing contribute towards a positive perception of Monaco throughout the world. On a more concrete level, the Association strives to identify best practices for and promising solutions to global challenges within its action domains of health care, clean water, agriculture, education, gender equality, post-conflict development and income generation (micro-credit). Dietsmann shares Monaco Impact’s vision and mission and provides the Association with both financial support and in-kind contributions as part of a skills-based patronage operation. The in-kind contributions Dietsmann has already provided Monaco Impact are office accommodation and the creation and management of the Association’s website. TOULOUSE MARATHON Seventeen employees of Dietsmann’s Toulouse and Salies-du-Salat subsidiaries participated in the Toulouse Marathon in November 2016. They all wore Dietsmann colors and took on the challenge of running 10 to 42 km. The Marathon attracted thousands of runners all eager to experience a new course designed for marathon runners. Numerous bands and stalls along the route guaranteed a festive atmosphere and made this marathon a sporting event to go to! The event had a very positive impact on the teams from the two offices because it created links between colleagues who have few opportunities to meet by bringing them together in a relaxed setting. FUND RAISING FOR THE EARTHQUAKE DISASTER IN ITALY On 24 August 2016 towns in three regions of Central Italy Umbria, Lazio and Marche – were destroyed by a devastating earthquake measuring 6 on the Richter scale. By 4 September 2016 the death toll had risen to 296, hundreds more people were still suffering from injuries of varying severity and thousands had lost their homes and all their possessions. As many of Dietsmann’s employees are Italian and have family members and relatives living in the affected regions the Company launched a fund raising initiative to contribute towards the efforts to aid the people. Dietsmann invited all its employees who wanted to help to make a voluntary contribution to participate. Dietsmann doubled the amount given by its employees and, in addition, sent polar jackets to the local association of Norcia. This initiative enabled Dietsmann’s employees to be involved collectively in a humanitarian activity while showing once again Dietsmann’s commitment to solidarity with and concern for the wellbeing of local communities. 46 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES DIETSMANN RUSSIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) PROJECTS IN RUSSIA Within the framework of its CSR approach and its commitment to the UNGC Dietsmann Russia has funded a number of corporate social development projects. In Reftinskaya Dietsmann participated in a government program called “Accessible Environment” which is aimed at providing disabled people with easy access to buildings. Dietsmann funded the manufacture and installation of a ramp at a school. The Reftinskya Branch also purchased office equipment and a network printer for the N17 School in Reftinskya and supported young athletes in the town. On 21 September Reftinskya’s youth hockey team played a special game to thank Dietsmann for their sponsorship, which included the provision of new uniforms. In Sredneuralskya, Dietsmann Russia’s local branch, together with Enel Russia and several other companies, funded the construction of a children’s playground on a piece of land owned by the municipality. Initiatives such as these enable the Company to consolidate its commitment to upholding and promoting the universal principles of the UN Global Compact regarding human rights, workplace standards and responsible ethical and environmental practices within its sphere of influence. The aim of these initiatives is to benefit local communities in areas in which Dietsmann is operating by promoting positive social and environmental changes. They also benefit Dietsmann by demonstrating the Company’s involvement in the community and its social wellbeing. This shows the importance the Company places on fulfilling its Corporate Social Responsibility and furthering the wellbeing of its employees, their families and the local community. On the occasion of World Environment Day, Dietsmann Russia organized a drawing contest for employees’ children on the theme of “The energy of the future”. 47 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES SONADIETS ANGOLA In Angola Dietsmann, through its joint venture Sonadiets, is focusing on transferring know-how to communities through the Morro Bento Training Center. KNOW-HOW TRANSFER TO COMMUNITIES, MORRO BENTO TRAINING CENTER Sonadiets runs a training center dedicated to potential future employees. In line with clients’ requirements the training center offers several job-skills related modules (electricity, mechanics, instrumentation & HVAC) as well as general courses (mathematics, physics and English language) and HSEQ certification courses. Around 30% of the courses are theoretical and the remainder involve practical workshops in real working conditions. During 2016 the training center provided a total 3,400 days of training to 35 trainees. As often as possible training courses are offered to potential future employees from the community. It should be mentioned that the Training Center operates in accordance with ISO 9001 standards. CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS COMMUNITIES’ INFRASTRUCTURE Sonadiets focuses its involvement with local communities on developing the training center in Morro Bento, a growing suburb a few miles outside Luanda. The training center is in a 1000m² field. Its two training buildings, which can host 50 trainees, include six fully-equipped classrooms, a rest area (kitchen and Wi-Fi), a large workshop containing the same technical equipment as is used on operating sites (instrumentation, mechanics, electricity) and an e-learning room (11 computers and monitored internet access), sanitary facilities and the training center administrative offices. All classrooms and workshops are equipped with air-conditioning & video projection equipment. TRAINING CENTER A class room Practical training equipment 48 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES DIETSMANN CONGO THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO In the Republic of Congo Dietsmann’s long-term focus has been on sharing knowledge, including via its training center. In 2016, as part of its nationalization process, seven positions were successfully nationalized. SHARING KNOWLEDGE WITH COMMUNITIES TRAINING CENTER A class room Practical training equipment Optalign smart Fixtur laser SUPPORTING LOCAL ORGANIZATIONS Dietsmann Congo is a regular sponsor of the local Rotary organization, which supports several local organizations, and each year Dietsmann Congo makes donations to other associations. In 2016 Dietsmann Congo also supported the activities related to the World Day for Occupational Health & Safety activities of Unicongo, the Interprofessional Employers’ Union of Congo. This union undertakes actions and projects aimed at supporting the development of local businesses and also participates in the economic and social development of the country. 49 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES DIETSMANN GABON GABON Dietsmann is also focusing on knowledge sharing in Gabon through partnerships with several local training institutions. Dietsmann Gabon has also renovated and extended its own training center. KNOWLEDGE SHARING The Port-Gentil training center was established several years ago. It started with a single classroom with space for 20 trainees. In 2013 a second classroom for 10 trainees was added and an area in the workshop was set aside for the organization of practical sessions (mainly mechanics) and in 2014 a 60m2 workshop dedicated to instrumentation, mechanics and electricity and equipped with all the machinery and tools necessary for practical training was constructed. Training courses are conducted by Dietsmann Gabon’s own trainers instrumentation, mechanics and electricity who share their teaching time between Dietsmann Gabon and Dietsmann Congo. A dedicated space (workshop) containing the equipment for the three modules is being set up. As the three trainers are also in charge of carrying out know-how audits on the different operating sites they are aware of the actual working conditions on site. TRAINING CENTER Workshop Classroom Small turbine for training mechanics Practical training equipment 50 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES In addition, through an agreement with the local “Lycée Technique”, Dietsmann Gabon hosts at least three trainees per year and the Dietsmann Gabon HR Manager is involved in the end of year examination. Depending on the available work load Dietsmann also hosts one or two trainees from the local business school. On average 10 short-term placement trainees (less than two months) are hosted each year. When the opportunity is available some of the trainees hosted are hired. Dietsmann Gabon is also deeply involved in a partnership with the CSP (Centre de Spécialisation Professionnelle of PortGentil). Each year a dozen students are selected for this training. The diploma they receive if they successfully complete the courses ensures them a good opportunity to start a career in the local industry. To support the education sector in Port Gentil, Dietsmann Gabon sponsors “L’ECOLE MIXTE”. This multicultural school offers its students, 80% of whom are nationals, with a high-quality standard of education. Donation for the Raponda College School library In 2016 Dietsmann Gabon to continued its partnership with the Raponda Walker school for the revamping of the school’s facilities. The school’s Parents Association, with the financial support of Dietsmann Gabon and Total Gabon, was able to completely refurbish the school library. 51 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES NETCODIETSMANN NIGERIA In Nigeria relations with local communities are formalized through tools implemented by the clients. For example, at the Afam VI operating site, NetcoDietsmann – Dietsmann’s Nigerian JV – follows the Shell Production Development Company’s (SPDC) system: consultation with local communities is handled by SPDC which operates a GMOU (General Memo Of Understanding) with communities affected by operations. NetcoDietsmann refers to this analysis to focus its contributions on identified needs. At the Okpai operating sites NetcoDietsmann follows the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) system: relations with local communities are conducted by a Public Affairs Coordinator. NetcoDietsmann refers to the recommendations of the Public Affairs Coordinator to focus its contributions on identified needs. In addition, regular meetings with local authorities ensure a continuous dialogue and frequent “Social Performance Workshops” are held with SPDC in order to improve social performances. This system allows the support to be focused on relevant needs. NetcoDietsmann has continued to hire local sub-contractors in the communities in which it operates. The tasks carried out by the employees of these sub-contractors on a daily basis include landscaping, logistics for local employees and site support maintenance. During periods of intensive maintenance activities, such as gas and steam turbine shutdowns, the Company hires additional local contractors. IMPROVING LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE As part of a community payback scheme, between 2013 and 2014 NAOC and NetcoDietsmann designed, constructed and commissioned a 6KV>33KV step-up ‘community transformer’ at the OKPAI operating site. This transformer supplies the neighbouring villages, which had previously relied on diesel generators or in some cases had no power at all, with 3 megawatts of electricity. The electricity is supplied free of charge in an effort to build community relations and improve the local infrastructure considerably. Maintenance and improvement works continued on the system in 2016. SUPPORTING AGRICULTURAL TRANING IN NIGERIA In addition to its initiatives focused on knowledge sharing, Dietsmann strengthens its involvement with local communities in Nigeria by providing financial support to Dadtco (Dutch Agricultural Development & Trading Company BV), a social organization which has considerable experience with working with cassava farmers in the developing world, providing them with agricultural input and selling their optimized produce in domestic and international markets. In line with its Corporate Social Responsibility policy, since 2015 Dietsmann has assisted Dadtco with an application process for a European Union financial grant that will enable about 13,500 Nigerian cassava farmers to increase their production and the quality of their crop. 52 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES PARTNERSHIP WITH A TRAINING CENTER NetcoDietsmann is supporting a capacity-building project through material contributions, such as classroom equipment, supplies and training modules, to a local technical school called Don Bosco. This contribution is especially meaningful because NetcoDietsmann is reliant on this training center for the provision of several technical training modules (primarily electricity, mechanics, instrumentation and general knowledge). TRANSFERRING KNOW-HOW TO COMMUNITIES In addition to supporting the Don Bosco training center, NetcoDietsmann also regularly provides local young people with on-the-job training and theoretical knowledge courses. In 2016 NetcoDietsmann continued the industrial training scheme. This scheme involves cooperating with local universities by providing selected students with a work placement for a period of six months to a year depending on the university course being followed. This exposure to the on-site processes enables the students to gain real hands-on experience within the energy sector and enhances their employability when they leave university. A number of these students whose attitude and skills during their period of internship was excellent are now NetcoDietsmann employees. Every year NetcoDietsmann donates 1% of its revenue to the Nigerian Contents and Development Monitoring Board, whose mandate is to build local capacity and competencies. 53 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES DIETSMANN LIBYA LIBYA Although activities in Libya were limited during 2016 due to events that occurred during the year and the general unrest in the country, the Dietsmann joint-venture is still planning to continue the ongoing investments in know-how transfer and local workforce training. TRANSFERRING KNOW-HOW TO COMMUNITIES The training center was opened at the end of 2013. Dedicated infrastructures have been provided by Dietsmann and the classrooms have been equipped. The first intake of 20 young graduates, some of whom have since been hired, followed technical training courses related to oil & gas. The training center is open to any community member fitting the defined criteria. Due to the current security situation the Training Center is closed at present. The commitment is, however, still being kept and Libyan engineers are being sent to Toulouse for advanced training. The normal training courses have also been replaced with on-the-job training. Dietsmann aims to develop and support employment opportunities for its employees even if the business situation changes. The facilities are, however, available to Dietsmann’s clients, for example to provide specific training to their personnel. 54 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES DIETSMANN BOLIVIA Dietsmann is contributing towards innovative initiatives that reflect its commitment to improving the wellbeing of local communities in the countries in which it operates. SUPPORTING HUMANITARIAN ASSOCIATION In line with the Company’s concerns regarding environment protection and solidarity, Dietsmann is providing financial support to “Rue des Enfants ESCP Europe” an internationally-oriented humanitarian association that undertakes actions to improve economic and social development in several countries. The two-year partnership, which started in 2015, is helping with the implementation of the project which involves the establishment of the pilot factory that will produce breakfasts for the students at the “Nuevo Amanecer” technical high school in Mecapaca as well as several other schools in the area. As small, not very productive family ‘farms’ or small family businesses are still the only way most people in Mecapaca in the La Paz department in Bolivia earn a living, many children in the area suffer from malnutrition, which slows down their intellectual and physical development. The objectives of this project are to alleviate these two primary problems by: n Producing 1200 breakfasts a day and achieving self-sufficiency and total local autonomy in the n “Nuevo Amanecer” technical high school. n Developing the School’s food section so that all the necessary equipment and ingredients can be purchased. n Ensuring all the students receive the training that will increase their chances of finding a job or an n Apprenticeship. n Contributing towards the well-being and good health of children attending local schools. Training, management and technical assistance for fund raising and project implementation will also be provided so that, once it is set up and running well, local people will be able to take over running the project long-term DIETSMANN TECHNOLOGIES FRANCE In France relations with local communities are also focused on knowledge sharing. Every year Dietsmann Technologies France hosts trainees and apprentices, and also regularly trains employees from foreign offices/sites. In this context, during 2014 a training center was opened in Boussens. Dietsmann Technologies France also supports numerous local organizations and events organized by local communities including non-professional sports events and festive events 55 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES KNOWLEDGE SHARING DIETSMANN QUALIFICATION COLLEGE (DQC) – BOUSSENS In 2014 Dietsmann Technologies France opened a training center focused on the qualification process of Dietsmann employees from any of the subsidiaries. The Dietsmann Qualification College The primary aim of this center is to ensure the continuous development of employees’ competencies and thus increase the mobility of the Company’s human resources. The objectives are to: n Provide training services to its subsidiaries’ employees n Work closely with Dietsmann affiliates and trainers with platform experience n Reinforce the knowledge transfer of the TACT: “Technical Assessment Campaign and Training”commitments n Qualify Dietsmann’s technicians for specific operations, such as regular visits, controls, adjustments and tests. On-the-job DQC Training training philosophy E-learning Theoretical courses courses KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER Operational Qualifications assistance Competences 56 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES In 2016: n TACT (Technical Assessment Campaign & Training). One of Dietsmann’s objectives is to provide nationals and expatriates with career opportunities. During 2016 the DQC trained three Congolese employees working on platforms (2 electrical and 1 mechanical technician). The objective is to consolidate their technical bases in their current positions. n T he DQC provided offshore & onshore operational assistance to an Ivory Coast oil & gas company (FOXTROT). This involved supplying mentoring services to assist FOXTROT’s operational team with carrying-out day-to-day maintenance tasks. The DQC provided 10 technicians/trainers – two for each of the main field competencies: n Heating, Ventilation & Air Conditioning n Mechanical n Electrical n Instrumentation n Maintenance planners This service will continue in 2017. n T he DQC conducted a worldwide census campaign to evaluate the possibility of reinforcing the DQC training team and to benchmark the potential for developing new training courses. Around 10 technicians were selected to be added to the DQC trainer team on the basis of their availability (rotation offshore/onshore), discipline expertise, skills and home address. This action is the result of Dietsmann’s policy of transferring know-how to internal employees so they can develop and improve their knowledge. In 2016 the DQC was ISO 9001 certificated and its ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications were renewed. 57 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES Annual training results In 2016 the DQC trained technicians from Dietsmann’s subsidiaries in a number of technical competence fields including mechanical, electrical, instrumentation, oil & gas processes, technical management, electrical accreditation and some maintenance certifications. NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS IN 2016 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 ATEX ATEX Electrical Electrical Mecanical Administration Process DTSA INERIS Accreditations Trainings Trainings & Trainings Certifications 58 VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES TRAINING CENTER E-learning room Metrology / Lineage room Electrical room A volumetric compressor in the main workshop Mechanical workshop HVAC bench for FAT 59 INDEX VII DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES Local community initiatives related indicators in the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 67) 38 Number of partnerships with schools and universities 39 Total amount dedicated to the socio-economic development of local communities 60 VIII M  AP OF DIETSMANN’S INVOLVEMENT IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES RUSSIA Yamal 23 19 20 RUSSIA Konakovskaya RUSSIA Reftinskaya THE NETHERLANDS Breda RUSSIA Moscow RUSSIA Sredneuralskaya (Corporate Seat) SWITZERLAND Geneve KAZAKHSTAN Aksai 5 16 17 ITALY Rome KAZAKHSTAN Atyrau FRANCE Toulouse RUSSIA Nevinnomysskaya FRANCE Salies du Salat 21 MONACO (Support & Coordination Office) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 CYPRUS Nicosia MOROCCO LIBYA Tripoli IRAQ Basrah 14 22 UAE Dubai 9 15 9 NIGERIA Abuja NIGERIA Port Harcourt ETHIOPIA GHANA Accra SOUTH SUDAN Juba 12 13 GABON Port-Gentil 18 11 CONGO Pointe Noire ANGOLA Luanda PERU Lima BOLIVIA Santa-Cruz 10 MOZAMBIQUE Maputo 1 No Finish Line Monaco 14 Know-how transfer Training Center Libya 2 Cap d’Ail Triathlon Monaco 15 Partnership with “Don Bosco” Training Center Nigeria 3 Les Enfants de Frankie Monaco 16 Know-how transfer Dietsmann Qualification College 4 Fédération Monégasque de Volleyball Monaco of Boussens France 5 24 hours cycling, Paul Ricard Monaco, France 17 Toulouse Marathon France 6 Telethon Monaco 18 Nuevo Amanecer Technical High School – Mecapaca Bolivia 7 Barjs’ Challenge Monaco 19 Dadtco (Dutch Agricultural Development & Trading Company) 8 Sponsoring employees wellbeing and encouraging team The Netherlands spirit through fitness center membership Monaco 20 TU Delft The Mineralogical and Geological Museum (MGM) 9 Monaco Impact Association Monaco, Ethiopia, Nigeria The Netherlands 10 Know-how transfer Morro Bento Training Center Angola 21 Fundraising for earthquake disaster victims Italy 11 Know-how transfer Training Center The Republic of Congo 22 Rallye des Gazelles Morocco 12 Know-how transfer Training Center PortGentil Gabon 23 CSR projects Russia 13 Partnership with CSP (Centre de Spécialisation Professionnelle) Port-Gentil Gabon 61 INDEX IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS Corporate Social Responsibility overview table (see page 65) The aim of the Corporate Social Responsibility overview table is to enable Dietsmann’s performance to be assessed in respect of four main topics: n Its responsibility regarding employees: “Social” section n Its commitment to fighting against corruption: “Ethics” section n Its initiatives to contribute towards local businesses and local development: “Local content” section n Its involvement in protecting the environment: “Environment” section SOCIAL In this section, Dietsmann’s performance is assessed on the basis of several indicators. General indicators: n Total workforce n Workforce by job category ‘Position: world’ Specific indicators assessing Dietsmann’s ability to: n Generate loyalty through attractive employment conditions Employment n Ensure equal working conditions and career management for every employee whatever their gender, age or nationality Diversity n Propose dynamic career opportunities through skill enhancement Training and career opportunities n Facilitate social dialogue with management and take employees’ expectations into account Social dialogue and cohesion n Protect employees’ physical integrity Health and safety n Prevent any form of discrimination or psychological maltreatment Employee protection and fight against discrimination ETHICS The Ethics section includes three indicators relating to Dietsmann’s efforts to fight against corruption. The two “Anti-corruption” indicators monitor the implementation of ethics training and the number of related grievances received. The “Business partner screening” indicator enables the extent to which Dietsmann ensures it is not complicit in ethical deviation through its partners’ potential non-compliance to be assessed. 62 IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS LOCAL CONTENT The term ‘local content’ describes the positive effects a foreign company or industry can have on the areas in which it operates. Companies can provide measurable benefits by: n Buying supplies and services locally. n Employing and training local people. n Supporting development. Community development support includes social investment programs involving companies making voluntary contributions towards the positive development of the communities and societies in the region and/or country in which they are operating. Such programs typically donate to, or develop skills and resources in, local communities and local or national institutions. The assessment of Dietsmann’s level of performance in terms of local content is divided into three related sub-sections: n  Local purchases Dietsmann’s policy is to maximize purchasing from local suppliers and to help these suppliers achieve the required performance standards. As a result, in most of the countries in which it operates Dietsmann exceeds local regulations related to local purchase. In countries in which high technology equipment is not manufactured locally the required equipment is purchased through Dietsmann’s French procurement department. n Local employment This subsection assesses the level of career opportunity offered to national employees through nationalization plans and through the training courses provided to local residents. n  Local community initiatives In line with Dietsmann’s sustainability project development axis, the Company’s local community initiatives focus on knowledge sharing. The indicators include the efforts dedicated to building and equipping Dietsmann’s own training centers as these centers are long-lasting infrastructure. The partnerships with technical schools, schools and universities reflect the Company’s involvement in supporting the future of local communities. Another indicator sums up the total amount dedicated to the socio-economic development of local communities. Dietsmann believes that investing in local content could also mitigate some of the risks of doing business in foreign countries by creating healthy and sustainable relations with local communities. 63 INDEX IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS ENVIRONMENT The Environment section assesses Dietsmann level of performance in protecting the environment. As the Company’s activities are primarily the provision of services, the key factors for Dietsmann are ensuring proper waste management, the implementation of a global environmental management system and the training of employees in respect of environment-related issues. Although the Company’s CO2 emissions are very low due to the nature of its activities, the trend is to monitor emissions so as to ensure the level never exceeds the legal limit, gain an insight into areas with scope for improvement and implement measures to achieve improvement. GEOGRAPHICAL SCOPE All countries of operations. 64 IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OVERVIEW TABLE GEOGRAPHICAL ALL ASSETS SOCIAL 2016 2015 SCOPE OR CONTRACT 1 Total workforce 4,663 5,063 World 2 West Africa (Angola, Gabon, Republic of Congo) 1,739 1,963 All assets 3 North & Central Africa (Nigeria, Libya, Iraq) 867 1,000 All assets 4 East Africa (South Sudan, Mozambique) 80 122 All assets 5 East Europe & Central Asia (Russia, Kazakhstan) 1,652 1,678 All assets 6 Latin America (Bolivia, Peru) 57 7 All assets 7 West Europe (Monaco, Italy & France) 243 276 All assets Other 25 17 Workforce by job category position worldwide 8 Administrative 382 393 World All assets 9 Operational 4,081 4,449 World All assets 10 Managers 200 221 World All assets Employment 11 New hires national employees 809 559 World All assets 12 New hires expatriates 167 327 World All assets 13 Outflow rate 7.02% 4.75% World All assets Diversity 14 Gender rate administrative positions 50% 49% World All assets 15 Gender rate all positions 8.86% 8.43% World All assets 16 Average age 41 41 World All assets 17 Percentage of employees over 55 10.89% 10.86% World All assets 18 Percentage of employees under 35 30.13% 30.44% World All assets 19 Number of nationalities represented in the Group 53 59 World All assets 20 Rate of National employees (vs expatriates) 85.70% 83.09% World All assets Training & career opportunities 21 Total training days 16,335 17,956 World All assets 22 Training expenses in millions of Euros 1,353 1,996 World All assets 23 Number of employees who benefited from Human Resources 900 596 World All assets career development tools (TACT, PARS, KMP) 65 INDEX IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS GEOGRAPHICAL ALL ASSETS SOCIAL 2016 2015 SCOPE OR CONTRACT Social dialogue & cohesion 24 Percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining 100% 100% All assets agreement 25 Percentage of scheduled annual interview (ICMS) carried out 88.28% 89.76% World All assets 26 Global rate of employees interviewed (ICMS) 71.99% 50.19% World All assets (1) Manpower excluded Health & Safety 27 Percentage of employees who benefited from a medical check-up 91% 88% World All assets 28 Total awareness-raising campaigns on health and safety issues 5 7 World All assets 29 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) per million man-hours 0.17 0.08 World All assets worked 30 Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) per million man-hours 0.42 0.64 World All assets worked Employees protection & fight against discrimination 31 Percentage of Upline requests 0 0 World All assets ETHICS Anti-corruption 32 Percentage of employees trained on ethics principles (Corporate 90% 90% World All assets Shared Responsibility Training) Business partner screening 33 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and 62% 60% Screened countries followed-up (Global Compliance including Ethics ) LOCAL CONTENT Local purchases 34 Percentage of local purchases (goods & services) 89% 87% Screened countries All assets Local employment 35 Number of key position nationalized 13 26 World All assets 36 Percentage of National employees in management positions 74% 74% World All assets 37 Percentage of training courses dedicated to national employees 91.5% 90% World All assets in total training provided 66 IX CONTINUOUS PROGRESS GEOGRAPHICAL ALL ASSETS 2016 2015 SCOPE OR CONTRACT Local communities initiatives 38 Number of partnerships with schools and universities 7 7 Screened countries All assets 39 Total expenses dedicated to the socio-economic development €223,802 €242,569 Screened countries All assets of local communities + Monaco ENVIRONMENT 40 Percentage of permanent facilities with a waste storage and 100% 100% Screened countries All assets sorting area Environmental protection 41 Percentage of countries where environment awareness raising 88% 85% World All assets campaigns were provided to employees 42 Percentage of permanent facilities (offices) where an 38% 35% Screened countries All assets environmental risk assessment has been carried out (*) A “/” in a cell indicates the data is not available or not applicable. 67 INDEX X INFORMING STAKEHOLDERS OF DIETSMANN’S IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Every stakeholder is informed of Dietsmann’s actions related to the progressive integration of the Global Compact’s 10 principles into its business strategy, culture and daily operations on a regular basis via the external and internal communication channels relevant to the subject concerned and the particular stakeholders target group. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION n A ll brochures including a section dedicated to communicating Dietsmann’s commitments in respect of the UNGC were updated in 2016. n A n HSEQ brochure focused on the high quality standards Dietsmann is committed to providing its clients was created. n A brochure on International Trade focussing on spare parts optimization, components and materials procurement & management services was created. n D irect Marketing communications were sent to business partners every month along with invoices. n A specific section and the UNGC logo have been included in the updated Corporate brochure. n P ublications on Dietsmann’s Corporate website: n I n the value and sustainability sections a click-on UNGC logo links to the page on Dietsmann’s commitment to the 10 principles. n A UNGC page is online. All Dietsmann’s COP reports are available on this page and in the Media Library of the website. n A ll the Corporate Policies and Charters in which the UNGC principles are integrated are published on Dietsmann’s website. n T he full version of the Code of Conduct and Ethics policy booklet was updated in the languages used within Dietsmann and published in the Corporate section of the Company’s website. n A n anti-corruption policy document specific to Russian rules and regulations rules was issued and published on the Company’s website. n A press release dedicated to Dietsmann’s UNGC commitment is published in the News section. n A ll press interviews for magazines always include a section on Dietsmann’s UNGC commitment. n A CSR policy has been created and is available online. n A sustainability section includes HSEQ and HR sections. n I nterviews for global magazines always include a section on Dietsmann’s UNGC commitment. n O fficial documents published: n T he Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy. n T he Business Ethics Charter. n T he Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. n T he HSEQ Policies and the HSEQ Charter. n T he ICT Policy. n T he Business Partners Policy. 68 X INFORMING STAKEHOLDERS OF DIETSMANN’S IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNGC PRINCIPLES INTERNAL COMMUNICATION n T he President & CEO included Dietsmann’s UNGC commitments and CSR approach as part of the Company’s culture in all interviews with the press as well as in his official written speech sent to all employees in January 2016. n Newsletter: fourteen articles linked to CSR have been published and sent to all employees. n A n animated Corporate Shared Responsibility (CSR) training course is used for training all employees in the languages commonly used within the Company. n An  abridged Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy that the employees can refer to easily is being disseminated with the CSR training in all the languages used within the Company. All new employees in the Company receive the training and the handbook and must sign an agreement to uphold Dietsmann’s principles & policies. n A n HSEQ campaign focused on safe lifting operations was displayed and promoted at all operating sites. The campaign included posters and presentations to all teams in all the languages used within the Company in March and April 2016. n W orld Day For Safety 2016 On 28 April 2016 Dietsmann was once again an active participant in the ‘World Day for Safety and Health at Work’. The theme for 2016 was building a strong safety culture related to safe lifting operations at every job level. Posters and presentations in all the languages commonly used within the Company were issued. n W orld Quality Day 2016 – On 10 November 2016, a communication campaign was issued. The quality awareness campaign was based on the theme “Measuring the results of your performance is essential to improve quality & client satisfaction!” To confirm the Company’s determination to continuously improve quality the poster was displayed throughout the week of World Quality Day. n T he HSEQ charter and the Quality policy charter were reviewed in the languages used within the Company. 69 INDEX 70 www.dietsmann.com Support & Coordination Office Gildo Pastor Center 7, rue du Gabian MC 98000 Monaco tel: +377 93 10 10 10 e-mail: info@dietsmann.com
