1 President’s Letter .................................................................................................................... 7 CIO, Compañía de las Islas Occidentales ................................................................... 8 Mission, Vision, Values ...................................................................................................... 10 Sustainability Policies ....................................................................................................... 13 What would we like to achieve with this report.................................................... 14 Who is this report for? ........................................................................................................ 16 The report in headlines ..................................................................................................... 20 The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact ...................................................... 22 Actions 2016 .......................................................................................................................... 24 Contribution towards the community .......................................................... 26 Behaviour towards employees ........................................................................ 34 Environment and climate change .................................................................. 38 Distinctions ............................................................................................................... 44 Events .......................................................................................................................... 46 Challenges 2017 .................................................................................................................. 48 Contribution towards the community .......................................................... 50 “We dedicate our Sustainability Report 2016 to Behaviour towards employees ........................................................................ 54 Environment and climate change ...................................................................60 children. Protagonists of the future, their role Sustainability Strategy ..................................................................................................... 64 will be essential to improving the world”. Photographic Dossier ........................................................................................................ 72 We are pleased to share with you CIO’s (Compañía de las Islas Occidentales) Sustainability Report for the year 2016. At the end of each year we feel it is necessary to share, in a report such as this one, the steps we have taken in our commitment towards sustainable growth. A path we travel thanks to the great effort of all of us who make up the company; and who have two main premises: the respect for our environment and the objective of procuring a better social situation. 5 Dear Reader, Five years ago, CIO. Compañía de las Islas Occidentales, began its commitment to integrate the corporate responsibility actions that it carries out, into its business strategy. Thus began a process of change that soon inspired all of us. Today I am pleased to present the CIO Sustainability Report 2016, which shows the immeasurable participation of the teams of each of the companies that make up CIO. Their enthusiasm, determination, and effort are key to achieving our goals. As this report reflects, we are continuing for another year, as a signatory of the UN Global Compact project, subscribing to its ten principles that encourage business sustainability in the areas of human rights, labour laws, the environment and the fight against corruption. Three are the pillars that govern our sustainability actions: commitment towards our employees, respect of the environment and contribution towards society. To them, we have dedicated all our efforts in 2016, achieving most of the challenges set at the beginning of the year. We continue to put our hearts and passion to collaborate in the construction of a better world. Sincerely, Francisco Javier Zamorano CEO 7 In an era where everything has labels, the one that best defines CIO, is to have been, since its beginnings in the 19th century and until today, a “great working family”. This spirit, which survives despite the growth and the passage of years, sustains the essence and the seal of identity of this company. The industrial activity of the Zamorano family began in 1850 in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, and was in those beginnings tied to the tobacco sector. Luis Zamorano Tais was the founder and the first president of the Record factory, later named CITA (Centro Industrial de Tabaqueros Asociados), which succeeded in popularizing several of the main Spanish tobacco brands. Amongst some of the most relevant achievements of those first few decades, we find the establishment of trading ties with Europe and Latin America. We can also highlight from early on its entrepreneurial character, reflected in companies such as Montesanto, 7 mares, Frigoten, the art gallery Gánigo or the supermarket San Antonio that owe part of their success to the support of Luis Zamorano Tais. By 1975, the family opened a water bottling plant named AVISA – Aguas de Vilaflor, whose brand, Fuentealta, has become the market leader in the bottled water sector of The Canary Islands. New projects, broadening of horizons and sectors have set the course of the Company. The witness of this entrepreneurial character is infused in the descendents of the Zamorano family and was once again manifest in the last few decades of the 20th century, this time in the tourism sector. In 1993, a hotel was opened that created a turning point in The Canary Islands, with a precise combination between innovation and architectural tradition: The Hotel Bahía del Duque. About to turn 25 years old, Bahía del Duque is an international reference, however it has not settled with its success, and has included new facilities, spaces and exclusive services that yearly improve its excellent offer. In 2005, the Zamorano family sold its participation in CITA to the multinational Gallagher. Thus, it grouped its companies into Compañía de las Islas Occidentales (CIO) and focused its activities towards the tourism, real estate, financial, industrial and services sector. Today, CIO manages buildings and warehouses, it offers general and security services; bottles and distributes water and projects, develops and manages hotel properties in different areas of the world. 9 As a company, we establish our corporate philosophy in the mission, vision and values, which describe our personality, our sensibilities and our concerns; in short, they guide us and are vitally important to understand who we are and how we work in Compañía de las Islas Occidentales. Missionn We are a Canarian business group with a long family tradition and a clear international vocation, which operates in diverse sectors and has the best professionals who offer high quality innovative services and products with the objective of improving our clients’ expectations. Vision To consolidate our position in the sectors we lead and invest in international expansion whilst maintaining our seal of excellence and innovation in the products and the services we offer. Our Company has excelled in past decades for its vision, so we have set ourselves the goal of remaining pioneers in incorporating technological advances and in respecting the environment that surrounds us, and which we will continue to treat with the care it deserves. Furthermore, we want our family values to infuse our employees and have them feel proud to be a part of the Group.. 11 Values • Family Values: The family tradition is a hallmark that has been present during our entire business career and in the projects which have been developed since its founding in 1850 by the Zamorano Tais family. Therefore, this is an inherent quality of our brand. • Value of the human factor: The value given to the people that make up CIO and which make possible its existence acquires great relevance in the work philosophy. The professionals who make up this Company are those who, with their talent, dedication and effort, have made possible each of the challenges we have set. They are the people, individually and collectively, which enable sustainable and balanced growth with the environment. • Strong customer focus: Customers are the source and engine of our entire activity. The commitment to them is one of the pillars on which the CIO business career rests. Meeting customer expectations, even aspiring to surpass them if possibleis the main objective of the professionals of Compañía de las Islas Occidentales and we focus all our working ability, dedication and experience in reaching this objective. • Quality and rigor in our service: Only by committing to high standards of quality and rigour is it possible to surpass our client’s expectations. This is why we focus our strengths in developing tools that guarantee the compliance of the highest standards of quality. • Commitment: We work with the philosophy that a product or service that we offer is a promise to our clients, a promise we are committed to delivering. This premise is part of our identity. • Innovation: Our vocation of leadership has led to an unequivocal commitment to innovation in all of the management processes, products and services. We believe that innovation is the way to move forward and grow our organization, thanks to the talent provided by a qualified team. • Dynamism and versatility: Wanting to be an innovating company involves a daily questioning of whether what is being done could be achieved in another way, with the goal of finding new solutions to the challenges faced by our company. This requires dynamic and versatile management skills that adapt to the needs of the moment.. BAHÍA DEL GRUPO GRUPO TASCA EL CIO DUQUE AVISA RECORD INMOBILIARIO CALLEJÓN 13 We see our Sustainability Report as a way to examine ourselves each year. Firstly, we inform our society through these pages of our commitment to creating a more sustainable business development. From here, we expect some feedback from our readers with their impressions, to then integrate, among our objectives, their expectations and necessities. Furthermore, we create this annual document as an x-ray of what we have been able to accomplish of the challenges that we had set ourselves. In this report, we detail those challenges and objectives that we have achieved, but also identify those we have not been able to meet and we present the areas where we must and can improve. The next objective focuses on taking on new commitments for this calendar year. And amongst the new goals, we can note for its special relevance the declaration of 2017 by the United Nations as the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development. This is an opportunity to highlight and increase the contribution of this sector, particularly relevant in The Canary Islands, to the economy, social development and the respect of the environment. We will also show in the report the steps we take together with the Spanish network of the Global Compact and the commitment to assume as ours the “2030 Agenda” defined by the United Nations including the objectives of Sustainable Development that aim to improve the planet and establish equal opportunities for all people. Ultimately, with this report we seek to rely on the results of 2016 to define new social, economic and environmental goals. As well as to reformulate those objectives that we haven’t achieved, and all of this without losing sight of the road that leads us to being a more responsible company. 15 We hope to find, as readers of this 2016 report, all of those who make possible the growth of CIO as an organization and who contribute so that this company can reach its objectives and achieve its commitments. Those who know us know that we work on a daily basis to identify the needs and understand the expectations of our surroundings. These expectations are elemental in defining our strategic lines. Customers: together with our employees, they represent our two main stakeholders. Thus, as Employees: they are the first prescribers of the explained, meeting client expectations – and even values of our organization. Their opinion shapes the aspiring to surpass them – is the main objective of image that the company conveys to our immediate the professionals that make up Compañía de las surroundings. We encourage internal communications Islas Occidentales and we put all our work capacity, and human resources as the pillars for a fluid and dedication to service and experience in trying to reach efficient dialogue. these goals. 17 Media: they are our principal intermediaries with society. Local Community (society): no corporate The Environment: even though by definition the It’s important to take advantage of opportunities they responsibility action is possible if the needs of environment should not be included within our offer us. Each communicative action must be prepared the people are not taken into account as a priority. stakeholders, it is important to consider it in relation Strategic Partners: the relationship with our partners individually and be fully confident that the image Therefore, we have spent years promoting social to sustainability. Only this way will we be more aware is based on permanent dialogue and trust. In this twoprojected adequately reflects what we are. Moreover, development initiatives. It is a hallmark of our identity. of the importance of the treatment that we give it and way flow, the projection of corporate values is key in it is essential that we adapt to the current information In this aspect, we should not ignore what legacy we respect that we show it. order to develop an appropriate balance of strengths. channels and take advantage of our own communication want and should leave for future generations. We Mutual understanding is also essential to develop tools in order to more effectively make people aware of already consider these generations-to-come as a projects of common interest and benefits. our Corporate Responsibility. stakeholder and they are an inspiration in our concern to preserve the natural environment and to follow a sustainable business model. Public Administration: the recognition of leadership and self sufficiency that we achieve as an organization is also cause and effect of the strengthening of the relationship with the public administrations and institutions. Alongside them we will achieve higher levels of efficiency in the mission of adequately addressing social needs. Suppliers: the direct and constant contact with our Senior Management: by including senior management suppliers also turns them into prescribers of the values Competition: competition is part of the interrelatedness as stakeholders, we seek to ensure the impulse of the that we project from a sustainability perspective. of all companies with their environment. Setting it as a organizational change as it relates to Sustainability. Therefore, they must have a clear idea of who we are stakeholder in the strategic planning of our Corporate This is achieved by establishing a policy of ethical and and also what we are not. It is also essential that Responsibility aims to promote cooperation and responsible management from a social point of view, with we understand our suppliers’ expectations and their partnership among competing organizations. It is part a code of conduct and a social responsibility committee commitment to adapt to the requirements imposed by of our ideology to promote fair competition and conflict to ensure compliance of the commitments made. the values of this company. resolution through arbitration. 19 • We sponsor the NGO Ecoocéanos for the promotion of beach and seabed clean-ups. 1.100kgs of waste collected in 2016. • We have also collaborated for the 7th consecutive year with the WWF Initiative “Earth Hour”. • Our companies collaborate with Disney in the Project “Hospitales de Colores” decorating the paediatrics unit of the University Hospital of The Canary Islands (HUC). Hundreds of children benefit from this initiative. • We are signatories of the United Nations Global Compact and we subscribe to its 10 principles to promote business sustainability. • We collaborate with Proactive Open Arms in the campaign of maritime rescue of refugees off the coast of Greece. 15.000 people were rescued in the 4 months of the campaign. • We collaborate with over 90 NGO’s, entities or associations. • We support labour insertion and local organic products collaborating with Cáritas in the project “Buscándome • Our Hotel Bahía del Duque has been collaborating with Action Aid for the past 19 years in the project, what can las Habichuelas”, purchasing organic vegetables for our restaurants. you do with 1€? Having sponsored 40 children in 8 countries. • We have received recognition from the Tenerife Island Council by being awarded the social seal of CSR as a • We have implemented a Tourism Studies Scholarship aimed at the children of our employees. socially responsible company. • Our company Fuentealta has donated 238.000 litres of water in 201 collaborations to different NGO’s, entities or • We have a specific committee for the promotion of sustainability, made up of 14 senior managers in representation associations. of all the companies of the group. • 20% of the staff of our company Grupo Record has some type of disability. • We publish our Sustainability Responsibility report annually, evaluating our progress before our stakeholders. • Corporate Volunteering: The restaurant La Tasca El Callejón organizes the 3rd Gastronomic Workshop for the users of Down Tenerife, including courses on cooking and serving plus a donation from the funds raised. • We organize: 4th “Raquetas Solidarias” Tournament, 4 fundraisers, 4 solidarity markets. Objective: raise funds for different NGO’s, foundations and associations. • Launched the annual “Environmental Champion” award to the employee who proposes the best sustainable project for our company. • We have made 22 donations to charity and environmental cause. • We have increased the measures to reconcile work and home life, seniority acknowledgement, team building, recognition of the employee of the trimester, special amenities and distribution of bonuses… • We have invested 5.651 hours, the equivalent of 11 masters, in training initiatives for our employees. • We promote circular economy. “We also carry out composting from the prunings of the garden for its reuse as fertilizer and have built a vegetable garden using organic criteria”. 21 Since 2015, CIO (Compañía de las Islas Occidentales) has been a signatory of the Spanish Network of the UN Global Compact, supporting the 2030 Agenda defined by the organization of the United Nations, which includes the Sustainability Development Goals (SDG’s) for the world. Together with them, institutions as well as public and private entities from around the world, commit to improving the planet and its natural resources, putting these at the centre of their actions, together with “people” and the “equality of opportunities”. The SDG’s include a set of goals that tackle key issues such as the preservation of the marine and terrestrial environment, climate change, creating economic growth and decent work with the objective of putting an end to poverty and hunger, improving education or achieving gender equality. We are convinced that it is important to mark this turning point that decisively commits us to the planet and the people that will inhabit it in future generations. Furthermore, as signatories of the Spanish Network of the Global Compact, we share and we assume these principles as our own: 1. “Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights” 2. “Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses”. 3. “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining”. 4. “Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour”. 5. “Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour”. 6. “Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation” 7. “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges”. 8. “Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility”. 9. “Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies”. 10. “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery”. 23 People are at the top of the Company’s priorities. Together with the environment. During 2016, we have strived to continue to increase our doses of sustainability and responsibility. Grupo CIO maintains a large number of collaboration agreements with non-profit organizations that are working towards the improvement of the social reality of our environment. Furthermore, we support actions in favour of people at risk of social exclusion, projects that promote culture or initiatives that encourage healthy living habits, amongst others. Along these lines, it is our employees who serve as constant inspiration. We have an exceptional team who constantly demonstrates its commitment towards society and the environment. The attitude and implication of each one of them, individually or collectively, is an incentive to increase our own efforts as a Group, they show us the way and reinforce our conviction with a different way of seeing the development. 25 GRUPO CIO • We are signatories of the United Nations Global Compact, subscribing to its ten principles that favour business sustainability. • Sponsoring of a child by the employees of Grupo CIO, together with Action Aid. • Creating awareness of the project “Vacaciones en Paz” promoted by ACAPS (Asociación Canaria de Amigos del Pueblo Saharaui), for the fostering of Sahrawi children during the summer holidays. • Collection by the employees of gluten free food products for people with celiac disease, destined for families in Laayoune, with ACAPS. • Internships for people at risk of social exclusion in collaboration with ATARETACO. • Labour integration of young people at risk of social exclusion. NAHIA Association. • Periodic meetings with associations that help relocate workers at risk of social exclusion, contributing with our collaboration. • Collaborating with the project “Empleando la igualdad” from the “Sociedad de Desarrollo de Santa Cruz de Tenerife”, creating the professional profile and conducting interviews. • Creating awareness for the “Familias Solidarias” and “Tutores de Apoyo” from IASS, in the search for foster families for youths at risk of social exclusion. • Cash donation, maintaining our support towards the Association Pichón Trail Project that ensures the quality of life of patients with Multiple Sclerosis. • Contribution through the sale of material, t-shirts and race numbers at the “1st Charity Run 8M, International Woman’s Day” for the Association Pichón Trail. • Collaboration with the Proactive Open Arms maritime rescue campaign for refugees on the Greek 27 coasts. 15.000 people were rescued in the 4 months of the campaign. • Increase of the number of articles made by the associations Down Tenerife, FUNCASOR and Pichón • Collaboration with Disney in the project “Hospitales de Colores” for the renovation and decoration Trail Project, on sale at our Drugstores, where 100% of the funds raised go back to the NGO’s. of the paediatric unit of the Canarian University Hospital (HUC). • Donation of gift vouchers for Hotel stays on a bed & breakfast basis, to help raise funds for • Design, installation and donation of a decorative mural for the Hermano Pedro Adult Centre. different NGO charity events. • Sponsoring of the NGO Ecoocéanos for the realization and dissemination of beach and seabed • Organization of the Charity Tennis and Paddle Tournament “Raquetas Solidarias”raising funds clean ups in Tenerife. for the Step by Step Foundation. • Collaboration with the NGO Ecoocéanos , the Down Tenerife Association and the Sonsoles • Organization of the “4th Solidarity Market” held among employees of the Hotel that sells Soriano Foundation carrying out joint training sessions and beach clean ups. furniture replaced for refurbishments. The proceeds will go to the launch of a scholarship in • Collaboration with the Hermano Pedro Adult Centre by donating t-shirts with logos for group Tourism Studies and a subsequent internship at the Hotel for the child of an employee. outings. • Collaboration with the DISNEY company in the project Hospitales de Colores for the renovation • Sale of the Christmas Lottery among our employees, raising funds to collaborate with the Cáritas and decoration of the paediatric unit of the Canarian University Hospital (HUC). project “Help at the Base” in Adeje. • Donation for the 4th consecutive year of all the upholstery fabrics for the sewing workshop in BAHÍA DEL DUQUE the labour integration project “Tejer Porvenir” organized by the Socidedad de Desarrollo de Santa Cruz de Tenerife in collaboration with the IMAS (Instituto Municipal de Atención Social). • Launch of a scholarship program “Bahía del Duque Higher Education in Tourism” for the children of employees and subsequent internship in the Hotel. • Donations of bedroom and bathroom linens to FECAPAP (Federación Canaria de Asociaciones Protectoras de Animales y Plantas) and its shelter Valle Colino as well as for the Hermano Pedro • Recovery of metal residues for its sale, the proceeds going towards Sustainability projects. Adult Centre. • Collaboration for the 19th consecutive year in the Action Aid project, “What can you do with a euro?” Sponsoring 40 children in 8 different countries. • Monthly donation of non-perishable foods to the Hermanos de la Cruz Blanca. • 3-day training course for members of Trisómicos 21 with the aim of preparing them for • Donation of clothes and shoes from the outlet of our Drugstores to the Cáritas project “El Ropero”. housekeeping jobs. The course took place in the Hotel by the housekeeping team, with a total of • “Charity Box” collection for FUNCASOR, to assist with raising funds. 12 hours of corporate volunteering. • Creating awareness of the project “Familias Solidarias” and “Tutores de Apoyo” of the IASS • Supporting the community by the increasing the purchase of local food products. (Instituto Insular de Atención Social y Socio sanitaria de Tenerife) that searches for foster • Collaboration with the Cáritas project “Buscándome Las Habichuelas”, by assisting in the families for children at risk of social exclusion. training and labour integration of people at risk of social exclusion, by purchasing local organic • Charity collaboration with training and formative workshops, by the security department, about food products for the restaurants in the Hotel. public and private safety for institutions and security forces, administrative assistants and • The sale in our drugstores of artisanal and locally designed products. security & emergency services of The Canary Islands Government. • Sale in our drugstores of fair trade products. • Collaboration between the Security Department of the Hotel and the local radio station, in regards to the culture of information, on different radio programs dedicated to security. 29 • Participation in the 2nd charity run for the International Day of Persons with Disabilities organized FUNCASOR 1.920 L. by FUNCASOR. Step by Step Foundation 550 L. • Sale of the Christmas Lottery among our employees, raising funds to collaborate with the Cáritas RETO Association 800 L. project “La Ayuda de Base” in Adeje. The Hotel will match what the staff collects. . FUENTEALTA Total litres: 26.181 L. • Incremento del apoyo a clubes deportivos con respecto al año anterior, priorizando en el deporte • Additionally, we have collaborated with a number of activities that are aligned with our base y femenino: commitment to contribute to the community by supporting charity events such as: DISCIPLINE TEAMS LITRES DISCIPLINE TEAMS LITRES Collaboration with The Tenerife Council Games 2016. Basketball 15 43.348 Cycling 2 335 Collaboration with the race “Ponle Freno” (Adeje). Football 20 58.000 Handball 1 3.856 Support and contribution to the AECC event “Tenerife en Marcha” in Santa Cruz. Indoor Football 3 2.432 Rhythmic Gymnastics 2 3.205 Volleyball 6 10.392 Canarian Wrestling 3 1.028 Food Drive for the San Juan Parish in La Laguna. Beach Volleyball 1 730 Athletics Several Athletes 2.378 Contribution in the charity match for “Friends of Vitolo 2016”. Baseball 1 1.856 Dance 1 2.635 4th Charity Tournament “Raquetas Solidarias”. TOTAL litros: 130.195 Contribution with the charity run FUNCASOR. • Renewal of our collaboration with different non-profit organizations (in litres of water): Charity run Suroeste. Organization: Collaboration with the Local Shelter Valle Colino. Association of Haemophilia of Santa Cruz de Tenerife 1.024 L. Collaboration in a variety of activities with ADEMI. Spanish Association against Cancer (AECC) 1.446 L. Contribution towards the “Race for Women”. Association of Family Members and Patients of Parkinson’s of Tenerife 2.070 L. Charity Sporting event “Tegueste te enreda”. SOS Children’s Villages – Spain 8.325 L. Participation in the SOS Children’s Village “Open House Workshop”. Tenerife Association of TRISOMICOS 21 2.400 L. Run Parkinson. ADEMI Tenerife Sporting Association 2.640 L. Telemarathon with MIRAME TV. Official School of Dentists of Santa Cruz de Tenerife 756 L. Collaboration with the Association Corazón & Vida. Sonsoles Soriano Foundation 1.920 L. Contribution in the Charity Gala in favour of the AECC. REMAR 1.920 L. 31 Participation in the Parkinson Run / Camino Largo. • Other collaborations: Collaboration with Ecoocéanos (beach clean ups). Donation of Fuentealta backpacks to children in Senegal through the Association Mamá África. Day of the Bicycle in Garachico. “Canarias Surf Film Festival”. El Médano. GRUPO RECORD • Donation of Security and Safety service hours for the AECC. Fuentealta has been the official water of the Canarian Foundation Pedro Rodríguez Ledesma in 2016 • Extnesion of the agreements with different associations of people with disabilities and labour Charity event Friends of the World Colegio Escuela Pías. integration projects for young people at risk of social exclusion; NAHIA, ATARETACO, SINPROMI, Festival Clownbaret. Trisómicos 21, FUNCASOR, Cruz Roja and AFES. Sardine of the inclusion • Work interviews for the “graduates” of this year and selection of candidates for a 100-hour Dinner of Hunger. School La Salle internship. 4th edition of the project “Tejer Porvenir”, organized by the Sociedad de Desarrollo de Santa Cruz de Tenerife in collaboration with IMAS (Municipal Institute of Social Attention). Food Drive San Fernando Rey • Assist with the internship of 2 admin assistants within the training plan in AFES Mental Health. Charity market PROBOSCO • New hiring of dry cleaning operators with some grade of disability. Until we reach 20% of the All with Gara workforce. Cáritas La Laguna, charity meal Charity football match Sofia Association TASCA EL CALLEJÓN Dinner Hermano Pedro Adult Centre• Continuation of the project “Charity Box” with FUNCASOR. 32 collaborations in 2016 • 3rd Cooking Workshop with Trisómicos 21, raising funds for the NGO. Cooking workshop preparing Litres: 15.736 and serving lunch menus by members of the Down Tenerife Association. • We have continued with our support and contribution of multiple events directly related with • Celebration of two charity markets “Caravanas Solidarias” where the proceeds from the sales go Fuentealta’s philosophy, focused on the promotion of healthy lifestyle habits. to the NGO Pichón Trail Project, Kairos and Sofia Association. Litres: 65.816 • Collaboration with the Cáritas project “Buscándome las Habichuelas”, to assist in the training 201 Collaborations in 2016 and labour integration of people at risk of social exclusion, by purchasing local organic food products for the restaurant La Tasca. Litres in total: 237.928 • Gift Voucher for One Dinner for the Valle Colino Shelter charity event. • Culinary training of a member of the labour integration programme of Cáritas. 33 33 GRUPO CIO • Launch of the employee online portal. • 3rd Annual Grupo CIO Directors Convention. Workshop for 30 directives of CIO with a “coach” leading the day. • Special recognition to “Dinosaur Employees” those with more than 10 years in the company. • Special gift for employees with over 25 years in the Company. • Increase in the employment of personnel with disabilities. • Preventive Information: AECC, monthly newsletter “Solidarity in the Company” for all the employees. • Conciliation measures for staff during pregnancy. • Conciliation measures for staff by adding two bank holidays in the year as well as the 24th and 31st of December as days off. • Conciliation measures: reduced summer and Christmas hours. • Implementation of measures to facilitate parking for the workers of the Corporate Offices. • Reorganization of the organizational structure of CIO. • Team building activities. • Recognition of the “Employee of the Trimester” in the Corporate Offices. • Ongoing training for all CIO employees. • Delivery of Disa Petrol reward cards for the employees of Grupo CIO, entitling them to discounts in its service stations. • Creating awareness and participating in the Ecoocéanos Volunteer Programme beach cleanups. • Launch of a scholarship program “Bahía del Duque Higher Education in Tourism” for the children of employees and subsequent internship in the Hotel. • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. BAHÍA DEL DUQUE • Installation of a “Suggestion Box” in the online Employee Portal. • Development of a Welcome Orientation plan for new employees. • Team Building Initiatives programme for senior management. 35 • Conduct annual evaluations of full time regular personnel. GRUPO RECORD • Work environment appraisals: continuing to conduct surveys. • Continuing training programme for staff from all departments. • Gift on the birthday on each employee. • Discount plan for employees with partner suppliers (Mecánica rápida, fuel at DISA, medical • Continuing with incentives for the employees most valued by clients and by the company. insurance, etc.) • Special recognition to “Dinosaur Employees”, those with over 10 years in the company. • Recognition of the “Employee of the Trimester” of Grupo Record. • Continuing with the programme “Duque Let’s Talk”, a monthly lunch between management and • Launch of a scholarship program “Bahía del Duque Higher Education in Tourism” for the children employees whose birthdays fall on that month. of employees and subsequent internship in the Hotel. • Recognition of births and deaths in the families of our employees. • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest where the employee has the • Santa Clause Christmas Party for the children of our employees. opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of • Continuing with the support of the Football 7 Team, made up of different departments and who the Group. participate in a league of hotels. • Creating awareness and encouraging participation in the corporate volunteering programme of GRUPO INMOBILIARIO ISLAS OCCIDENTALES the NGO Ecoocéanos to carry out beach clean ups. • Discount plan for employees with partner suppliers (Comercial Atlántico). • Training programmes for our employees with a total of 2.980 hours invested. • Strengthening of labour conciliation measures. • Launch of a scholarship program “Bahía del Duque Higher Education in Tourism” for the children • Launch of a scholarship program “Bahía del Duque Higher Education in Tourism” for the children of employees and subsequent internship in the Hotel. of employees and subsequent internship in the Hotel. • Benefits for employees of the Company to take part in an MBA programme. • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest where the employee has the • Free registration for the employees who wish to participate in the “2nd Trail Vilaflor”. opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of • Disa Petrol reward cards for the employees of CIO, entitling them to discounts at the Disa the Group. service stations. • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest where the employee has the TASCA EL CALLEJÓN opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • Creating awareness and encouraging participation in the corporate volunteering programme of the NGO Ecoocéanos to carry out beach clean ups. FUENTEALTA • Preventative Information. AECC, monthly newsletter “Solidarity in the Workplace” for all the employees. • Launch of the employee online portal. • Launch of the employee online portal. • Development of a training plan (initial phase) • Launch of a scholarship program “Bahía del Duque Higher Education in Tourism” for the children • Team building activities. of employees and subsequent internship in the Hotel. • Strengthening of conciliation measures. • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest where the employee has the • Launch of a scholarship program “Bahía del Duque Higher Education in Tourism” for the children opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of of employees and subsequent internship in the Hotel. the Group. • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. 37 GRUPO CIO • Implementation of an Environmental Policy in the Corporate Offices of Grupo CIO. • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • Sponsorship and dissemination of the Tenerife beach and seabed clean up program of the NGO Ecoocéanos. • Design and production of beach ashtrays for Ecoocéanos as a gift for beach users. • Continuing with the improvement of energy consumption saving through the control of presence of the CIO offices. BAHÍA DEL DUQUE • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • Continuation with the maintenance of the vegetable garden and fruit orchard, as well as the aromatic and medicinal plant garden, following organic gardening criteria. 39 • Continue the production of compost from the vegetable residue for its reuse in our gardens. • Installation of containers for used batteries. • Continue with guided visits through our garden areas by the landscape supervisor of the Hotel. • Purchase of educational toys, by the animation department, where children are taught good • Collaboration with the Cáritas project “Buscándome las Habichuelas”, to assist in the environmental and recycling behaviours. training and labour integration of people at risk of social exclusion, by purchasing local • Participation for the seventh consecutive year in the project “Earth Hour” organized by WWF in organic food products. the fight against climate change. • To continue with the incorporation of organic products to our gastronomic offer. • Delivery of cone shaped plastic ashtrays to the smoking users of the El Duque beach. • Training in environmental awareness and management for the Housekeeping and • Substituting the use of solvent paints to water based paints. Currently, all the paints used are Maintenance Departments water based. • Recovery of metal residues for its sale, the proceeds going towards projects of Corporate Responsibility. • Progressive substitution of the lighting in the different areas of the Hotel. • Establishment of a guide for environmental behaviour and the study of possible • Changing from halogen to LED projectors. environmental certifications. • Activating the air conditioner through the rooms’ key card. • Analysis of our carbon footprint. • First phase in the replacement of metal pipes to elastomeric insulation pipes of several circuits, • Perform an efficient energy review in the Hotel. achieving considerable savings in electric energy and propane gas. • Renewal of the Biosphere Seal. FUENTEALTA • Completion of an audit for the renovation of the Gold Travel Award distinction. • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion”, contest where the employee has • Continuing with the use of ECOLAB cleaning products. the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies • Incorporation of the line of products Zero from Sutter Professional. Respectful with its users and of the Group. the environment. Made from raw materials of vegetable origins from renewable sources, with • Continuing with the analysis of the possibility of reducing the weight of the materials used in zero bioaccumulation and completely biodegradable. the production process: • Control of paper and toner waste by installing latest generation technology that allow us to Labels for the glass bottles (from paper to polypropylene labels) – phase 1 define print control policies. Initiation of a partial implementation of the energy efficiency plan of the water bottling plant. • Implementation of a protocol for the improvement of the residue management of ceramics and crystal. • Maintaining the separation of residues in different areas. 41 GRUPO RECORD • Sponsorship and dissemination of the Tenerife beach and seabed clean up programme with the NGO Ecoocéanos. • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion”, contest where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies • Continue to sponsor and improve the selective collection of waste such as cardboard, glass of the Group. and packaging. • Development of a plan for technical improvements that reduce the consumption of fuel, energy • Continue with the improvement of energy efficiency by the progressive replacement of and water in the dry cleaners. LED lights. • Completion of the change from Diesel fuel to LPG, more respectful of the environment, reducing the “carbon footprint”. • Purchase of corporate merchandising made from recycled materials. GRUPO INMOBILIARIO ISLAS OCCIDENTALES • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion”, contest where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • Gradual change of the windows of our properties for energy efficient ones. • Continue with the improvement of energy efficiency by the progressive replacement of LED lights. • Use of rainwater for irrigation in a part of the facilities. • Donation of wood pallets for furniture, favouring it’s recycling and reuse. • Substituting the use of oil based paints to acrylic paints respectful with the environment. TASCA EL CALLEJÓN • Launch of the first edition of the “Environmental Champion”, contest where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • Collaboration with the Cáritas project “Buscándome las Habichuelas”, to assist in the training and labour integration of people at risk of social exclusion, by purchasing local organic food products. 43 INTERMUNDIAL FOUNDATION: Finalist in the 3rd Hotel CSR Awards, in the Economic category, awarded THE COUNCIL OF TENERIFE: by the InterMundial Tourism & Law Recognition of CIO. Compañía Group, in collaboration with Ashotel de las Islas Occidentales by The and the Spanish Confederation of Council of Tenerife with the “CSR Hotels and Tourist Accommodation Social Seal” for our trajectory (CEHAT). The main objective of in social responsibility and our the InterMundial Foundation is to commitment to the improvement display the benefits that Tourism of wellbeing in the community. contributes to society and its environment. Thus, the Foundation tries to reward all initiatives that work in favour of excellence and the commitment that the tourism industries maintains with the socioeconomic and the environmental context. TRAVEL GOLD CERTIFICATION: Which is awarded for the commitment towards the protection BIOSPHERE 2016: Awarded in of culture and traditions, support the “Biosphere Hotel” category to of the local community and the Hotel Bahía del Duque. environmental preservation, to the Hotel Bahía del Duque. 45 • Participation as a speaker in the Conference “Companies as agencies of social transformation”, organized by Cáritas within its project “Empresas con Corazón”.. 47 49 GRUPO CIO • Continue to be signatories of the UN Global Compact, subscribing to its ten principles in favour of corporate sustainability. • Continue with the Sponsoring of a child by our employees within the Action Aid programme. • Collaboration with the Association SOFIA in the assistance and prevention of Eating Disorders, with a cash donation. • Collaboration with AFES Mental Health to carry out beach clean ups with the NGO Ecoocéanos and Grupo CIO. • Collaboration with SINPROMI in the project “Creación Escénica y Diversidad Funcional” through performing arts workshops, people with mental disabilities will work their skills at a therapeutic level. BAHÍA DEL DUQUE • We will continue with the scholarship program “Bahía del Duque Higher Education in Tourism” for the children of the employees with a subsequent internship in the Hotel. • Continuing with the recovery of metal residues for its sale, the proceeds going towards Corporate Responsibility projects. • Continue for the 20th consecutive year in the project “What can you do with a Euro?” in benefit of Action Aid. Sponsoring 40 children in 8 different countries. • Continue to support the community by increasing the purchase of local food products. 51 • Collaborate in the project “Buscándome las Habichuelas”, to assist in the training and labour GRUPO RECORD integration of people at risk of social exclusion, by purchasing organic food products for the • Donation of Security and Safety service hours for the AECC. restaurants in the Hotel. • Donation of materials to the Sagrada Familia Foundation, Centro Hermano Pedro. • Increase the sale of articles made by Down Tenerife, FUNCASOR and Pichón Trail Proyect, in our Drugstores, where 100% of the proceeds from the sales go to the NGO’s. • Donation of auxiliary service hours for the AECC. • Sale in our Drugstores of Free Trade articles. • Food drive for the Food Bank. • Organization of the “5th Solidarity Market” held among employees of the Hotel which sells • Toy drive for the Toy Bank. furniture replaced by refurbishments, and whose proceeds will go to a social activity. • Maintaining agreements with the associations for people with disability and projects for labour • Maintaining our Corporate Volunteering actions with different NGO’s. integration for young people at risk of social exclusion. NAHIA, ATARETACO, SINPROMI, etc. • Continuing with the donation of bed and bathroom linens to different NGO’s. • Monthly donation of non-perishable food products to Hermanos de la Cruz Blanca. GRUPO INMOBILIARIO ISLAS OCCIDENTALES • To continue with the collaboration with the Pichón Trail Proyect, becoming members and creating • Donation of clothes and shoes from the Outlet of our Drugstores to the project “El Ropero” awareness of its activities and putting people with multiple sclerosis in touch with the NGO. by Cáritas. • To carry on creating awareness for the proyects “Familias Solidarias” and “Tutores de Apoyo” from • Participation in the FOCA proyect with a corporate volunteering activity by organizing a cooking IASS (Instituto Insular de Atención Social y Socio Sanitaria de Tenerife) in the search for foster workshop in the Parish of Añaza for training in the cooking trade. families for youths at risk of social exclusion. FUENTEALTA TASCA EL CALLEJÓN • To continue with our support towards a diverse group of both male and female sporting clubs. • Increase the purchase of local products and maintain our collaboration with the project Strengthening the support of the bases (youths). “Buscandome las Habichuelas” by Cáritas. • Renewal of our support of different non-profit organizations and collaborating with charity • Organizing the IV Edition of the Cooking Workshop with Trisómicos 21 to raise funds for the NGO. events that these, and others, carry out throughout the year. Cooking Workshop preparing and serving lunch menus by members of Down Tenerife. • Renewal of the agreement with the Canarian Foundation Pedro Rodríguez Ledesma. • Renewal of the Project “Charity Box” in support of FUNCASOR. • Implementation of a system for evaluating the results of the actions carried out. • Corporate Volunteering by organizing a cooking workshop in the kitchens of the FOCA project in the Parish of Añaza. 53 GRUPO CIO • Increase of services in the Employee Online Portal • 4th Annual Grupo CIO Directors Convention for the integration of the group. Workshop for 30 directives of CIO with a “coach” leading the day. • Recognition of “Dinosaur Employees” for those who have spent over 10 years at the company. • Special gift for employees with over 25 years in the Company. • Increase in the employment of people with disabilities. • To continue with the Preventive Information programme: AECC, monthly newsletter “Solidarity in the Company” for all the employees. • Conciliation measures for workers during pregnancy. • Conciliation measures for staff by adding two bank holidays in the year as well as the 24th and 31st of December as days off. • Conciliation measures: reduced summer and Christmas hours. • Implementation of support measures to facilitate parking for employees. • To continue with the restructuring of the organizational structure of CIO. • Team building activities. • Recognition of the “Employee of the Trimester” in the Corporate Offices. 55 • Internships for young people at risk for social exclusion through ATARETACO. • To create awareness of the Attention and Protection of Minors Policy. • Labour integration of young people at risk of social exclusion NAHIA Association. • Continuing to conduct annual performance appraisals for full time staff. • Recurring meetings with associations that help relocate workers at risk of social exclusion, • To continue with work environment surveys. contributing our collaboration. • Gift on the birthday on each employee. • Collaborating with the project “Empleando la igualdad” from the “Sociedad de Desarrollo de • Continuing with the incentives for the employees most valued by clients and by the company. Santa Cruz de Tenerife”, creating professional profiles and conducting interviews. • Special recognition to “Dinosaur Employees”, those with over 10 years in the Company. • Continuing training for the employees of the Grupo CIO. • Continuing with the programme “Duque Let’s Talk”, a monthly lunch between management and • Delivery of Disa Petrol rewards cards for the employees of Grupo CIO, entitling them to discounts employees who have their birthdays that month. in its service stations. • Recognition of births and deaths in the families of our employees. • Encouraging participation in the Ecoocéanos program of Corporate Volunteering for beach cleanups. • Santa Clause Christmas Party for the children of our employees. • Implementing a recognition programme for retirees. • Continuing with the support of the Football 7 Team: made up of different departments and participating in a hotel league. • Development of a Welcome Orientation plan for new employees in the company. • To launch the programme “Rincon del Trueque”. Encouraging the donation of articles in good • Launch of a design competition for all staff to participate. conditions by Hotel staff members. • Visits of our staff to other offices of the company. • Launching an annual “Dialogue Panel” with employees who have shown great social and • Santa Clause party for the children of our employees. environmental commitment. • Implement the project “Corners of Sustainability” in each of the companies. • Encourage the participating in the Ecoocéanos program of Corporate Volunteering for beach • Improvement of Work Flexibility: to improve movement among the Group’s work centres to help clean ups. improve work and family life. • Continued training and education programs for employees. • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to • Creation of an Amber Alert procedure in the Hotel (early alert in the disappearance of minors). share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • Feasibility study of establishing a bicycle stand for employees, either through the Adeje town hall or the Hotel itself. BAHÍA DEL DUQUE • Implementation of a public address system in the internal areas of the Hotel, through which • Continuation with the Welcome Orientation plan for new employees. information will be shared (training courses, LHW weekly standard…). • Programme of Team Building Initiatives for senior management. • To create a complaints and suggestions procedure, facilitating upward communication. • Launch of the employee card, expanding the special benefits of company products. 57 • We will continue with the scholarship program “Bahía del Duque Higher Education in Tourism” GRUPO INMOBILIARIO ISLAS OCCIDENTALES for the children of employees, and with a subsequent internship in the Hotel. • Enhancement of conciliation measures. • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to • Creating awareness and encouraging the participating in the Ecoocéanos program of Corporate share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. Volunteering for beach cleanups. • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to FUENTEALTA share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • Launch of the employee card, expanding the special benefits of company products. • Training Programme: TASCA EL CALLEJÓN • Continuation with the training plan – phase II (update and renewal of all skills) • To maintain the encouragement of continuous training. • Development of a talent management program • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to • In coordination with the Human Resources Department: share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • Work environment evaluations • Implementation of a system for evaluation the results of the actions carried out. • Enhancement of conciliation measures. • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. GRUPO RECORD • Training and talent development for middle management positions and technical roles. • 3rd Convention of the Grupo Record. • Continued training and education for employees from all areas. • Discount plan for employees with associated suppliers (Fast mechanics, fuel at DISA, medical insurance, etc.). • Recognition of the “Employee of the Trimester” of Grupo Record. • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. 59 GRUPO CIO • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • To continue with the sponsoring of Tenerife beach and seabed clean up program with the NGO Ecoocéanos. • Development of a code of conduct and environmental evaluation of suppliers, generating a system to control the actions of our suppliers at our corporate offices. • Management of IT waste with the company Ewaste Canarias for the correct disposal of electric and electronic equipment. BAHÍA DEL DUQUE • Update of the Environmental Policy of Bahía del Duque. • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • To continue with the maintenance of the vegetable garden and fruit orchard, as well as the aromatic and medicinal plant garden, following organic gardening criteria. • To continue with the production of compost from the vegetable waste for its re-use in our gardens. • To continue with the guided visits for our guests, by the landscaping supervisor, through the gardens of the Hotel. • Collaborating in the project “Buscándome las Habichuelas” with Cáritas to assist in the training and labour integration of people at risk of social exclusion, by purchasing their organic food products. • To keep incorporating organic products to our gastronomic offer. 61 • Recovery of metal residues for its sale, the proceeds going towards corporate responsibility projects. • Improvement plan for energy efficiency and preheating water for washing. • Improvement in the control of paper consumption by using tablets for the registration of • Continue with the use of LPG and the water reuse system. supplier entries. • Purchase of corporate merchandising made from recycled materials. • Renewal of the Biosphere Seal. GRUPO INMOBILIARIO ISLAS OCCIDENTALES • Completion of an audit for the renovation of the Gold Travel Award distinction. • To continue with the improvement and implementation of waste management. • Implementation of the Environmental Policy of the Grupo Inmobiliario Islas Occidentales. • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to share • To include a recipe area, following organic criteria, in the lunch menu of La Brasserie, including their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. products from our garden. • To continue with the progressive substitution of the windows of our properties for energy • To continue with environmental training in the pools, housekeeping and maintenance efficient windows. departments. • To continue with the improvement in energy efficiency by the progressive substituting of LED lighting. • To continue with the progressive substitution from halogen to LED lights in different areas of • Expand the use of rainwater for the irrigation of part of the facilities. the Hotel. • Donation of wood pallets for furniture, favouring it’s recycling and reuse. • Move to a more efficient cooler, saving on propane consumption. • Substituting oil based paints for acrylic paints, more respectful of the environment. • Change of air conditioning in areas of the Hotel, substituting “R22 to 410 coolants”. • To build, from empty water bottles, a hanging organic vegetable patch. • Update of the Guide for Environmental behaviour to the Energy Audit and 2016’s Carbon Footprint. • Building of a worm farm to obtain fertilizer for the gardens of our properties. FUENTEALTA TASCA EL CALLEJÓN • Implementation of the Environmental Policy of Fuentealta. • Implementation of the Environmental Policy of Tasca El Callejón. • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • Final phase of the change of label of the glass bottles (from paper to polypropylene). • To carry on promoting and improving the selective collection of cardboard, glass and • Completion of the energy efficiency plan of the water bottling plant. packaging waste. • Continue with the improvement in energy efficiency through the progressive replacement of GRUPO RECORD LED lights. • Implementation of the Environmental Policy of Grupo Record. • 2nd edition of the “Environmental Champion” contest, where the employee has the opportunity to share their sustainable ideas about the environment for any of the companies of the Group. • Improvement plan in the quality of waste in the dry cleaners. 63 General Commitments C ompromise 1 1. Defining a corporate responsability policy. As we have mentioned in these pages, our Sustainability strategy has a very clear first step: it is none other that to inform, communicate, and expose to our environment our sustainability commitment, and at the same time, we publicly commit to a set of compromises. C ompromise 2 These commitments are the ones guiding our roadmap. With the objective of reaching them, we develop a series of precisely designed actions. From there, our stakeholders will be in charge of evaluating us periodically and 2. Creation a CR committee checking that we do not deviate from the right path. comprised of supoervisros from the different companies of CIO. We have chosen this path. And we are aware that we will only complete it if we provide the necessary resources, human, technical or economic. Below we present each of our commitments, classified according to the stakeholders to which we address them and the degree of performance achieved during this year. C ompromise 3 3. All companies will define their strategy and CR action plan in line SATISFACTORY IMPROVABLE UNSATISFACTORY with CIO. Grupo Grupo Inmobiliario Tasca SATISFACTORY IMPROVABLE UNSATISFACTORY Grupo CIO Bahía del Duque Fuentealta Record de las Islas Occidentales El Callejón 65 Commitments to our employees Commitments to our employees C ompromise 5 C ompromise 1 5. Analysing and improving 1. Talent Managemet Programme. prevention results. C ompromise 2 Commitments to our customers 2. Improving labour conciliation with C ompromise 1 specifc protocols. 1. To better understand our customers expectations, so we can C ompromise 3 more effectively satisfy their meeds. 3. Establish communication protocols between employees C ompromise 2 businesses, identifying and defining channels and managers. 2. Strengthening communication C ompromise 4 channel with customers. 4. Periodic analysis of the working environment and action taking. SATISFACTORY IMPROVABLE UNSATISFACTORY 67 Commitments towards our suppliers Commitments towards the environmet C ompromise 1 C ompromise 3 3. Each of our businesses should have 1. Code of conduct for suppliers. a plan of action and environmental internal audits. C ompromise 2 C ompromise 4 2. Environmetal assessment of 4. Initiatives to mitigate suppliers. environmental impacts. Commitment towards the environmet C ompromise 5 C ompromise 1 5. Environmental assessment of 1. Improve environmental management suppliers. and the fight against climate change through the design of an environmental policy of the Company. C ompromise 2 2. Identification and assessment of the environmental aspects most relevant to each of the companies within the Group. SATISFACTORY IMPROVABLE UNSATISFACTORY 69 Commitments to the local community C ompromise 1 1. Increase our social action projects. C ompromise 2 2. Defining policy and a social action program in the line with our CR goals. C ompromise 3 3. Define a program that monitors the results of th actions taken. 71 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 73 10 11 12 19 20 21 13 14 15 22 23 24 16 17 18 25 26 27 75 28 29 30 37 38 39 31 32 33 40 41 42 34 35 36 43 44 45 77 46 47 48 55 56 57 49 50 51 58 59 60 52 53 54 61 62 63 79 64 65 66 72 74 67 68 69 70 71 72 81 1.-2. Surf Festival, “Canarias Surf Festival”. Sponsored by Fuentealta 43.-53. 4th Charity Tournament Raquetas Solidarias by the Grupo CIO in the Bahía del Duque. This year they raised funds for the Foundation Step by Step and its new 3.-4. Charity Caravan celebrated in the Tasca El Callejón in benefit of the Association of Multiple Sclerosis Pinchón Trail and Kairós, NGO that helps those in need rehabilitation centre in Tenerife. The Theme was Swing. with food in Tenerife. 54. Collection, organized by the employees of the central offices CIO, of gluten free products for the Sahrawi people. 5.-6. Charity Caravan celebrated in the Tasca Callejón in benefit of the Sofia Association, dedicated to people with Eating Disorders. 55. Fuentealta signs a new collaboration agreement with the AECC. 7. Race for Women for the AECC. Sponsored by Fuentealta 56. Fuentealta collaborates with the Race Against Parkinson with Parkinson Tenerife. 8. Race Ponle Freno. Sponsored by Fuentealta 57. Awarding the Social Seal of CSR to CIO Compañía de las Islas Occidentales as recognition for being a socially responsible company. 9. Beach ashtrays given to beach users together with EcoOcéanos who gave an environmental talk. 58.-62. 3rd Cooking Workshop in the Tasca el Callejón where they train in serving and cooking and funds are raised by members of Down Tenerife. 10. Environmental talk in the Down Tenerife Centre, to train volunteers for the beach clean up. 63.-64. Team building led by life coach Ángel López for the staff of Central Offices of CIO. 11. Fair Trade products from El Surco, Cáritas, on sale at the Drugstore Tasca in the Hotel. 65.-66. Team building led by life coach Ángel López for the staff of Fuentealta. 12. XI Sustainability CIO Committee in Tasca El Callejón. 67. 5th Edition of the Tejer Porvenir Workshop, where Bahía del Duque collaborates with the donation of the fabrics, Fuentealta with the water for the workshop 13. IX Sustainability CIO Committee in the Fuentealta plant, Vilaflor. and Grupo Record with the interviews of the candidates for the internship. 14. III Convention of Directives of the Grupo CIO 68. Grupo CIO collaborates with Nahia for the labour integration of persons at risk of social exclusion. 15.-16 Cross María Auxiliadora in La Orotava. Sponsored by Fuentealta. 69. Environmental Champion, competition amongst all the employees of the Grupo CIO based on the best idea to improve environmental sustainability of any of 17. Handing over the donation raised through the Christmas lottery by the employees of several companies of Grupo CIO. The Hotel also made an extra donation the companies of the group. A cash prize is awarded from the Sustainability Department. in benefit of the Cáritas project “Ayuda Base en Adeje”. 70. Gift certificate for a lunch or dinner in the Tasca el Callejón for the collection of funds in the charity dinner of the Shelter Valle Colino. 18.-19. Promotion of the beach and seabed cleanups organized by Ecoocéanos and sponsored by Grupo CIO and Fuentealta. 71. Scholarship program for a degree in Tourism organized by the Sustainability Department of the Hotel Bahía del Duque for the children of the employees with 20. Employee of the Trimester. Grupo Record. les resources and a subsequent internship in the Hotel. 21. Poster of the Fair organized by the AECC where Record Security donates its hours of service to monitor the event. 72. Map of the coverage of the program, What can you do with one euro? Where guests of the Hotels pay 1€ from their final bill, covering the sponsoring of 40 22. Project of the Fair “Enseñar para Emprender”, where 13 school centres are participating as well as several NGO’s from La Laguna. children in these countries, with Action Aid. 23. Funcasor Charity box in the Drugstore Tasca of the Hotel to help raise funds. 73.-74. Letters from two of the children of the program Action Aid. 24. Products created by Funcasor for the sale in the Tasca Drugstores, the proceeds donated to the NGO. 25. Donation of Hotel bed and bath lines to the Hermano Pedro Adult Centre. 26.-29. Launch of the Disney project “Hospitales de Colores” in the paediatrics unit of the HUC. The companies of Grupo CIO collaborated with a donation for the decorating project. 30. Corazón y Vida March. Sponsored by Fuentealta. 31. Round table organized by Cáritas to focus on Empresas con Corazón. CIO was invited to share ideas and experiences at the table. 32. Staff in the reception of the Hotel celebrating Earth Hour, promoted by WWF. 33. Cleaning of the beach organized between Ecoocéanos and CIO. The objective was to clean the beach with some very special volunteers. Down Tenerife and the Foundation Sonsoles Soriano. 34. Mural designed by CIO’s design team donated for the entrance door to the Adults Centre Hermano Pedro. 35. Central offices CIO Sponsors with the letter of a child. Project managed with Action Aid. 36. Charity match Amigos de Vitolo. 37. Recognition award by Sinpromi to the Grupo CIO for its implication in the labour integration of persons at risk. 38. Prize awarded to Fuentealta for its collaboration with the Foundation Pedro Ledesma, whose mission is to help our society through sport, especially those who most need it. 39. Cash donation from Grupo CIO to Proactiva Open Arms, to collaborate with its maritime rescue campaign of refugees on the coast of Greece. 40. Visit of Braulio Simancas, Chef of Las Aguas and Tasca El Callejón, Juan Miguel Cabrera, Executive Chef of Bahía del Duque to the organic farm, a project of Cáritas for the labour insertion “Buscandome las Habichuelas”. 41. Fuentealta organizes donation of school material for the Project Mama Africa in Senegal. 42. Fuentealta collaborates with the International Festival Clowbaret, where they visit hospitals together with DeNarices. 83 Avda. Francisco la Roche, 15-17 Santa Cruz de Tenerife, 38001 Tel: +34 922 100 500 www.cio-company.com
