SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ABOUT THE REPORT At Sabancı Group, we have a business model trusted by all of our stakeholders that produces social contributions as well as financial values. While contributing to society, we also work to develop financial value we created. We continue to create value for all our stakeholders with our corporate culture committed to social, environmental, legal and ethical values. Following the publication of our first sustainability report in 2015, we share our third sustainability report covering our 2016 activities with our stakeholders in the light of systematic evaluation of feedbacks and opinions submitted by stakeholders. As in previous year’s report, we assessed our sustainability performance in light of our commitment to Declaration of UN Women's Empowerment Principles, Equality at Work Platform Policies and United Nations Global Compact Principles, and we based on GRI Guidelines. We prepared our report according to GRI G4 Reporting Framework principles and Core compatibility option. Report covers Sabancı Holding’s, Group companies’, Sabancı University’s and Sabancı Foundation’s Turkey operations and projects for the January 1December 31 2016 time period. You may find explanations other than finance made by the Holding and Group companies in this report. 1 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Stakeholders, Sustainability is one of the key identifiers of our business manner. As a Group, one of our primary goals is to expand and increase the value we create based on our operations carried out according to this approach. We are glad to share with you our performance in this field in our 2016 Sustainability report. At Sabancı Group, we adopt a responsible management mentality in regards to social, environmental, economic and ethical issues. We signed UN Global Compact based on this approach. We are not only a signatory to UN Global Compact, but we play significant roles in its national and international activities as well. We are among the founders of Global Compact Turkey Local Network, and we have been a Member of UNGC Board of Directors since 2012. Equality at work is one of the issues we attach importance to. We pay special attention to women’s participation in business life and gender-based equality. As a result of this approach, Sabancı Holding is the first Turkish company to sign UN Women’s Empowerment Principles in 2011. We are working to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations with a raised awareness. As a Group, this approach is a must for our responsible business manner. We act with an awareness on our responsibility in climate change with which the world of business shall actively struggle alongside the whole world. While we actively contribute to Turkey Operations of Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), we also participate in it as Holding and Group Companies. Sustainable development can be achieved only through employees. Our employees are the key component of the value we created and expanded. Our basic priorities include creating an equal, safe and healthy business environment that does not lead to discrimination and that makes employees happy; and realising applications that will help employees increase their knowledge, talents and abilities. We work to expand our spheres of influence by expanding social responsibility awareness so that the lands we are operating in shall develop. In this regard, we continue our operations in education, health, culture & art and sports through projects organized by Sabancı Foundation, SU Sakıp Sabancı Museum, Sabancı University and Group companies. I would like to thank primarily to employees and to all stakeholders who contribute to this value that we created as Sabancı Group. Kind regards, Güler Sabancı Chairman 2 LETTER FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Dear Stakeholders; As Sabancı Group, for more than 90 years, we work with the aim of being helpful to our society and our world with a holistic sustainability approach in every geography and every area in which we operate. We have continued our activities based on the corporate governance principles, in full compliance with the United Nations Global Compact that we are a signatory since 2007. Besides, the two agreements signed at the end of 2015 -The Paris Climate Agreement signed by the governments of 195 countries with the aim of combating climate change, and the UN Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aimed at resolving major global problems by 2030have been a milestone to support our sustainability studies in a global platform. It is also a source of pride for us that the sustainability studies we carry out through the Group comply with the international standards and are appreciated by the authorities. Sabancı Holding started to be listed in the BIST Sustainability Index as of November 2016. Our holding is aware of the responsibility of being a corporate global citizen, thus we constitute a role model for all of the Sabancı Group companies, our stakeholders and the whole business world with our sustainability oriented approach to global problems such as social injustice, climate change, limited resources and waste. Our pioneering role to spread the sustainability culture increasingly continues. We are happy to share the results of these efforts in a transparent manner once more with our stakeholders through this report. Despite the challenging conditions in the world in 2016, we had a successful year and we continued to contribute to the improvement and social development of our country. The Group’s combined net sales are 54 billion TL with an increase of 12% compared to last year. While we obtained 7.5 billion TL consolidated activity profit; our consolidated net profit has been 2.7 billion TL. We achieved a 4.1 billion TL worth of investment in 2016. This financial success lies undoubtedly in our management understanding that respects the society and the environment and that we carry out with the sustainability awareness. By integrating our sustainability understanding into our business models, while offering financial value to our stakeholders and shareholders, we share the values that we created for the society and the environment. The scope of our social responsibility activities, which are carried out by the Sabancı Volunteers throughout the Group with the aim of being helpful to the humanity and the society and creating a better world and future, is expanding day by day. In 2016, Sabancı Volunteers, which is Turkey's largest volunteer program, realized a total of 45 different projects in different cities. Through Sabancı Foundation, Sakıp Sabancı Museum, Sabancı University and Group companies, we continued to contribute to the social development with various projects in areas as education, health, art and culture and sports. We continue our studies carried out in the climate area, with significant investments, especially in our companies operating in the industrial sector. Our companies' practices that set an example for the environment and their sectors, increase day by day. However, we are also aware that we have a long way to go to reach our goals. 3 Our 2016 Sustainability report includes many studies and results of these studies conducted with the aim of supporting social development in each geography in which we operate with the responsibility of being a world citizen, and in our country with the responsibility of being the Sabancı of Turkey. We are proud to see that this responsibility is embraced by all the companies of our Group. On the path we have opened as Sabancı Holding, all of our companies continue to walk with a strong hand, share their experiences and successful practices with each other in line with our main strategy. As the holding, we will continue to facilitate the processes, to follow their works and their results, and to support the activities as we do today. In this sense, strengthening the future generations is of great importance. The platform that will meet the new generation talents' demand to work in 'meaningful jobs' and 'institutions that create a meaning', is the meaning that we create and will create with sustainability. For this reason, integration and successful implementation of the sustainable business model in the Group, is a delicate and important matter for us. Today, while our employees are integrated into our corporate culture, they find the opportunity to exercise their skills, and to create value for the society with their innovative approach. We have big goals and a long way to go to understand and create solutions to global and local sustainability problems and their long-term effects. Sustainable Development Goals aiming to obtain concrete results in 2030 have been examined and integrated by our leading institutions within the framework of sustainability strategies; we will start to get the results of these studies in the coming years. As a holding, we will continue to support these studies as we did in the past. I believe with all my heart that as a Group, we will continue to expand our sustainability understanding throughout our value chain and increase our social contribution. I would like to thank to those who have contributed to our success in 2016 with their valuable work, primarily our employees, customers, business partners and stakeholders. Kind regards, Mehmet Göçmen CEO, Sabancı Holding 4 ABOUT SABANCI HOLDING Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. (Sabancı Holding) is the main company which represents affiliates of Sabancı Group, one of Turkey’s largest groups. Holding is responsible for coordinating the functions of group companies including finance, strategy, business development and human resources; and its scope of responsibility includes identification of vision and strategies, and increasing the value offered to shareholders through an intergroup synergy. Group companies are leaders of the sectors they are operating in, and 11 Group companies are processed in Borsa Istanbul (BIST) in addition to Sabancı Holding. Sabancı Group companies are operating in financial services, energy, cement, retail, and industry areas; maintaining their operations in 16 countries and marketing their products to Europe, Middle East, Asia, North Africa, and North and South America. Thanks to its brand dignity, brand image, knowledge and experience in Turkish markets, Sabancı Group has obtained a sustainable growth in its main operating areas, and is a key power contributing to Turkish economy. Group acts in strong international partnerships in many sectors it is operating in. Group’s international business partners include world’s leading brands: Ageas, Aviva, Bridgestone, Carrefour, E.ON, Heidelberg Cement, Marubeni, and Philip Morris. VISION “Creating sustainable advantage through differentiations” MISSION “Managing “a competitive strategic portfolio” with sustainable growth potential to create value for all of our stakeholders” GOVERNANCE APPROACH RESPONSIBILITY AND TRANSPARENCY “Upholding our core values for modesty, respect and proximity to people, being socially responsible and managing according to the principles of corporate governance” INNOVATION “Creating long-lasting advantages such as brand, patent, technology, design, informatics network, and intellectual and industrial property” ACTIVE PARTICIPATION “Generating a management approach that promotes participation and collective thinking in the decision-making process” STRATEGIC APPROACH “Managing the present with excellence and shaping our future to ensure long-term advantages” 5 ECONOMIC VALUE Since its establishment, Sabancı Group has been contributing intensely to Turkish economy and been among the greatest players of Turkish economy due to its operations. As of the reporting period, Sabancı Group has obtained 54 billion TL (17.8 billion USD) of combined sales revenue and its consolidated operating profit has been 7.5 billion TL (2.5 billion USD). Consolidated Revenue (Billion USD) Consolidated Operating Profit (Billion 17,8 USD) 17,6 2,6 2,5 12,7 12,5 2,3 2 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 BANKING INSURANCE AKBANK AKSİGORTA AVİVASA Loans Combined Net Sales 179 BILLION TL (2015: 153 Billion TL) 2.2 BILLION TL (2015: 1.9 Billion TL) Capital Adequacy Ratio Combined EBITDA 14,20% 189 MILLION TL (2015: 81 Million TL) Return on Equity Consolidated Net Profit 16% 60 MILLION TL (2015: 27 Million TL) ENERGY CEMENT ENERJİSA ÇİMSA AKÇANSA Combined Net Sales Combined Net Sales 12.6 BILLION TL (2015: 11.8 Billion TL) 2.6 BILLION TL (2015: 2.6 Billion TL) Combined EBITDA Combined EBITDA 2.5 BILLION TL (2015: 1.8 Billion TL) 735 MILLION TL (2015: 776 Million TL) Consolidated Net Profit Consolidated Net Profit 147 MILLION TL (2015: 142 Million TL) 224 MILLION TL (2015: 226 Million TL) RETAIL INDUSTRY TEKNOSA CARREFOURSA BRİSA KORDSATEMSA YÜNSA Combined Net Sales Combined Net Sales 7.6 BILLION TL (2015: 7.1 Billion TL) 5.2 BILLION TL (2015: 5.1 Billion TL) Combined EBITDA Combined EBITDA -333 MILLION TL (2015: 33 Million TL) 951 MILLION TL (2015: 1 Billion TL) Sales Area Consolidated Net Profit 686.000 m2 (2015: 814.000 m2) 450 MILLION TL (2015: 520 Million TL) The Sabancı Family is Sabancı Holding’s major shareholder with 57.7% of the share capital. Sabancı Holding shares are traded on Borsa Istanbul (BIST) with a free float of 40.1%, the largest float percentage among holding companies. Holding’s depository receipts are quoted on the SEAQ 6 International and PORTA. Sabancı Holding has controlling interests in 11 companies that are also listed on the BIST. You can examine 2016 annual report using investor relations tab in our corporate website for shareholder structure and free float rates based on sectors. GOVERNANCE Sabancı Holding maintains its operations through a modern, effective and exemplary governance model as it represents Sabancı Group’s affiliates as it is a free float company operating with many international business partners in different countries. Thus, Holding and Group companies follow governance models based on modern and corporate governance principles; and take a transparent, responsible, innovative, active participatory and strategic management approach as the main principle. The core functions of the Holding are to coordinate finance, strategy, business development and human resource functions among the Group, to determine Group’s vision and strategies and to create synergy within the Group to increase the value created for the stakeholders. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE APPROACH AND STRUCTURE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Corporate Governance Principles, which are published by Capital Markets Board (CMB), form the basis of Sabancı Holding and Group companies’ corporate governance approach which relies on transparency, accountability, equality and responsibility principles. Sabancı Holding complies with all compulsory principles determined by the Corporate Governance Statement. Board of Directors is responsible for the determination of corporate objectives, ensuring compliance with corporate governance principles, the determination and management of strategic orientations, risk management, and ensuring the operability of control systems. Sabancı Holding’s Board of Directors, which consists of 9 members elected by the General Assembly for definite periods, is the top-level strategic decision-making organ of the company. 2 of 9 Board members are non-executive members pursuant to the principles set forth by the CMB while three of them are independent members. One of the 4 Executive Board Members is the CEO of Sabancı Holding. The functions of CEO and Chairman are fulfilled by different people. The female representation in the Board of Directors is around 45%. At Sabancı Holding, Portfolio Governance Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Committee for Early Detection of Risks and Auditing Committee have been formed so as to ensure that the Board of Directors fulfil its mission and responsibilities in a healthy way. Corporate Governance Committee also functions as Appointment and Remuneration Committee. You can obtain information about 2016 Annual Report and the structure and operating procedures of Board of Directors and sub-committees through official website www.sabanci.com. RISK MANAGEMENT Sabancı Group companies manage potential deflections from the strategic and financial targets in accordance with the stance of the Group on taking risks by using corporate risk management principles in order to keep the value created for its stakeholders at the highest level and ensure the sustainability of the Group. 7 Early Detection of Risks Committee is established within the Board of Directors in order to detect strategic, operational, financial, compliance and other risks, which would jeopardize company’s existence, development and continuity; to take the necessary measures in this regard; and to manage these risks. The Committee is responsible for determining corporate risk policies, controlling the efficiency of risk management systems, determining and monitoring the relevant risk levels and reporting to the Board of Directors. While there are similar organizational units in the Group companies as well, risk management systems vary in parallel with the sectoral requirements. Risk management in Akbank, the finance company of the Group, is carried out in accordance with BRSA legislation under the responsibility and supervision of the Bank's Board of Directors. The Board fulfils its supervision responsibility via committees such as Auditing Committee, Top Level Risk Committee and Credit Committee. Risk-taking levels of the Bank are determined in accordance with the risk limits approved by the Board of Directors. Top management of the bank is responsible towards the Board of Directors for carrying out daily operations in accordance with the pre-defined risk management processes and risk limits. Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control and Compliance and Risk Management Department, which are directly reporting to Board of Directors, carry out activities in coordination with the executive units. Risk models and parameters, which are widely accepted in national and international practices, are used for detecting, measuring and monitoring the risks. Studies are carried out for the continuous improvement of risk management practices and methods. Analysis are performed on various scenarios, and emergency plans are developed in line with the risks the Bank may be exposed to under extraordinary circumstances. Various risk reducing technics are employed in order to limit the risks the Bank may face and to ensure protection against risks. In Sabancı Group companies, which operate in sectors other than finance, risk management is managed by the senior executives of the Companies who are responsible for risk management processes and activities and Companies’ top management, under the supervision of the related Boards of Directors and Committees for Early Detection of Risks. Companies identify the risks they may encounter and prioritize them based on the possibility of occurrence and magnitude of the losses they may create. Prioritized risks are monitored by the company management, risk committees and Companies’ Board of Directors with periodical reports. Risk management processes, which include the measures to be taken, are compared, while their implementation and results are monitored. Management of the financial, strategic, operational and compliance risks of the Group companies are also monitored and steered at the Holding level by the relevant Group Presidents, Finance Group Presidency and Compliance Risk Management unit. In Sabancı Group, risks are grouped under the following 7 categories: compliance risks, financial risks, strategic risks, operational risks, trademark and reputation management risks, reporting risks and external risks. The main objective of Sabancı Group’s risk management systems is to manage the risk factors that may have a negative impact on sustainability of the company. In this regard, sustainability topics such as environment and biodiversity, energy, green gas emissions and climate change, occupational health and safety, human rights, business ethics and anti-corruption and supply chain are also managed as part of the risk management systems. You can reach information regarding Annual Report 2016 and Sabancı Holding’s risk management system through website: www.sabanci.com. 8 BUSINESS ETHICS Sabancı Group companies carry out their operations in accordance with the business ethics and codes of conduct outlined in Sabancı Ethics (SA-Ethics) document. While SA-Ethics are binding for all operations, Board members, executives and employees of Sabancı Holding and Group companies, all suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, business partners and similar stakeholders are expected to act in compliance with these principles. Sabancı Holding's Board of Directors assumes the primary responsibility on adoption, implementation and compliance to the SA-Ethics throughout the Group. Sabancı Holding Ethics Committee functions in order to help the Board of Directors fulfil this responsibility. Ethics Committee consists of the director of auditing department, director of the legal affairs and director of the labour relations. Sanctions that might be faced in cases of non-compliance with statutes at large, other legal regulations, ethic rules and defined rules such as company policies and regulations are managed within the scope of compliance risks. Guidance studies are carried out by Holding Compliance Management Directorate in order to support Group companies manage their compliance risks effectively. All Group executives and employees in the Group are informed about SA-Ethics in order to adopt and spread the ethical rules. Business ethics were publicized following their publication on the website. Employees are informed about these ethics through publication in internal communication portal, distributing printed booklets to all employees and through informing trainings. Moreover, in all yearends, employees update their knowledge about business ethics through an e-learning program and renew their commitment to business ethics through “Business Ethics Declaration of Compliance” they fill in. Employees’ knowledge of the issue is updated with trainings that are repeated annually. In 2016, employees in our companies that are in reporting were provided with 1.678 person*hour business ethics trainings1. ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption are the prominent, significant ethics-related problems. Sabancı Group does not tolerate any corruption and bribery and takes measures to prevent such behaviours. Group’s approach to anti-bribery and anti-corruption is clearly defined in its Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption Policy. Sabancı Holding Board of Directors and Boards of Group companies commit to support the implementation of the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy is binding for employees and executives as well as all related stakeholders including suppliers, business partners, consultants, lawyers and auditors of the Group. In the contract made with business partners, conditions regarding compliance to our ethical rules and policies are given place. Ethical trainings provided to employees include topics present in the AntiCorruption and Anti-Bribery Policy. The aforementioned document involves behaviours that might be deemed as bribery and corruption, preventive measures and rules to be followed. Prohibitions against taking parts in any bribery and corruption act, facilitating payments that might be deemed as bribery and corruption, commissions, royalty payments, cash payments, grants and social aids, preventions against working with firms and 1 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Brisa, Çimsa, and AvivaSA. 9 individuals, who are known to be committed bribery and corruption acts and limitations to gift exchanges and accommodation activities are within the scope of this policy. Blacklisted individuals and companies are followed in coordination with public authorities. Hence, suppliers, contractors and customers who are known or doubted to be involved in bribery are detected. Compliance to SA-Ethics and Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy is a duty of Group all executives and employees. They are expected to inform Ethics Committee in cases of non-compliance. Ethics Committee is responsible to addressing and resolving all reported matters in strict compliance to the confidentiality principle. In case of detected non-compliances, various sanctions, from warning to the termination of the employment contract are imposed based on the importance level of the noncompliance. Persons who encourage or guide the relevant Group member towards displaying behaviours noncompliant to the ethics, or persons who approve or overlook such behaviours are also imposed the necessary sanctions. No employees are held responsible for the losses arising as a result of compliance to the ethics, i.e. rejecting to pay bribe. A notice and help line has been established for Group managers and employees to report noncompliances of related stakeholders in an easy and confidential way. Additionally, they can also report and request information over the internet. Related communication channels are specified in SA-Ethics document and internet site. Individuals noticing the Ethics Committee are under the protection of the Ethics Committee and they cannot be subjected to pressure, constraining or penal sanctions with regards to their actions. Possible appointments and reassignments of the notice owners can only be pursued with the approval of the Ethics Committee. You can reach information regarding Business Ethics Rules and Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy document from www.sabanci.com. INTERNAL AUDITING Another essential principle of creating a sustainable business model is to establish an effective internal auditing mechanism. At Sabancı Holding and Group companies, internal auditing organizations which are designed in accordance with the international principles and standards guarantee the effectiveness and efficiency of the activities. Auditing Committee is the top-level organ that is responsible for internal auditing within the Group. Auditing Committee is responsible for controlling the effectiveness of the internal auditing systems and processes, identification of the organizations that will carry out independent auditing activities and the evaluation and reporting the audit results to the Board of Directors. Auditing units are responsible for the actual implementation of the Internal Auditing activities. Internal auditing units of the Holding and Group companies periodically audit operations, systems, processes and outcomes based on certain criteria. These units evaluate the effectiveness and integrity of internal controls designed for processes and controls if financial records and reporting processes produce accurate information. Auditing units are responsible for providing auditing committees formed within the body of Boards, other governance committees and company top management with objective and independent information. 10 At Sabancı Group, periodical and on demand audits are conducted with regards to compliance with ethical rules, anti-corruption and anti-bribery principles, environment and human policies as well as corporate policies, working principles and legal obligations. Within the scope of the audits conducted during the reporting period, no incidents of non-compliance were detected in anti-discrimination, human rights, union rights and working norms areas. There were no incidents of infringements within the scope of bribery and corruption audits. In 2015, no complaints or applications were filed to Sabancı Holding. During the reporting period, no official complaints or legal sanctions were received in connection with compliance to the legal requirements in fields such as noncompliance to competition rules, disclosure and labelling obligations related with the products and services, safe and healthy use of the products and services, customer information confidentiality and supply conditions applicable to products and services. While the Group companies carry out similar auditing studies within their bodies, they also conduct audits for their suppliers and business partners. This way, a sustainable and responsible business model is encouraged throughout the supply chain. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Sustainability is supported with strong governance practices in Sabancı Group. The key goal of a transparent, accountable and responsible governance approach is to ensure a sustainable business manner. This responsibility is managed through a governance approach that encompasses primarily Sabancı Holding Board of Directors, all administrative bodies in Group companies and even all employees. Sabancı Holding’s Board of Directors is responsible for determining the main strategic approaches for sustainability and objectives as well as the execution of the activities in accordance with these objectives. The strategic decisions taken by the Board of Directors of the Group in general are transmitted to Company groups through Group departments and Sector Group managements. Boards of Directors and senior managements of Group companies render these approaches and targets into company policies, strategies, action plans and targets in accordance with the requirements of the market and competition environment of their industry. The studies undertaken by company managers based on the time and performance objectives are followed. The internal audit function evaluates the performances with regards to objectives and the performance results are reported to company and Group top management and Boards respectively. Within the body of the Holding, general policies are formed regarding sustainability themes such as environment and climate change, human rights, business ethics, corporate management and corporate social responsibility. Group companies translate these policies to company policies according to their sectoral requirements. All Group employees are obliged to act in compliance with these policies while performing their duties. Sabancı Group adopts it as a principle to determine time-bound, specific, performance based, rational objectives in social, environmental, economic and ethical areas and to evaluate its performance within the scope of sustainability management. Strategic approaches defined by the Board of Directors of the Holding are reflected on the targets of Holding managers and strategic planning of Group Companies, and become performance targets of the company. Results are evaluated with performance evaluation systems and have impact on the remuneration of employees and managers from each level. Performance evaluation of managers and employees is conducted by Human Resources units in Group 11 companies. The performance evaluation and pricing for senior managers and members of the Board is under the responsibility of Corporate Management Committees of the Holding and Group companies. Our sustainability priorities have been determined as a result of prioritization study carried out in 2015 reporting period. While identifying these priorities, the priorities of the sectors we operate in have been taken into consideration. With the study, we have identified our sustainability priorities in a way that would also reflect upon the views of our larger stakeholder network. In this regard, these material aspects include energy and emission management, waste and water management, employee training and development, contribution to social development, occupational health and safety, diversity and equality at work and efficient use of natural resources as our material aspects. UN Global Compact Sabancı Group adopts a responsible management approach in its social, environmental, economic and ethical influence areas. It has reinforced its commitment to this approach by signing UN Global Compact in 2007. Sabancı Group companies has been making the 10 principles in human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption areas a part of their processes and business culture. Additionally, principles such as protection of human rights, prohibition of child labour and forced or compulsory labour, protection of freedom of association are followed. The referenced international agreements UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ILO Conventions are complied with. Sabancı Group plays a pioneer role in national and international activities of UN Global Compact. Among the local network founders of Global Compact Turkey, Güler Sabancı, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sabancı Holding, has been a member of UNGC Board of Directors since 2012. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Sustainable business can be achieved through a governance approach that reflects expectations and feedbacks of stakeholders to business processes and that promotes participation and common sense. In this regard, at Sabancı Group, we actively communicate with our stakeholders in different and various platforms, evaluate the expectations and feedbacks, and direct our strategies in the rightest direction. Comprised of many company subsidiaries in different sectors, Sabancı Group’s main stakeholder groups include employees, shareholders, suppliers, dealers and business partners, labour and management unions, professional associations, public institutions, national and international regulatory boards, local authorities, non-governmental organizations, universities, and press. Sabancı Group establishes a healthy, constructive communication based on mutual respect. Thanks to this healthy dialogue, the opinions, expectations and demands of stakeholders are obtained truly and evaluated in decision-making mechanisms. Tools used in periodic communication with stakeholders and the frequencies of practice diversify according to the subject matters and the stakeholder groups. Most frequently used tools include meetings and gatherings, researches, annual reports, sustainability reports and periodic publications, press bulletins, and special case statements. 12 While the type and frequency of communication studies vary with regards to the qualities of the stakeholder groups, annual report, sustainability report, periodic publications press bulletins and special case statements are among the most frequently used tools. Sabancı Group realizes joint projects and collaborations with various stakeholder groups. In choosing the stakeholder group to work with, the main elements that are taken into consideration are integrity, identical ethical principles and the existence of a common goal. Sabancı Holding and Group companies Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa and Kordsa support the activities of and take charge in the management of Business Council for Sustainable Development. Sabancı Group establishes a communication with public agencies and institutes based on mutual information exchange and transparency principle. In this regard, information exchange about company operations, and opinion sharing about strengthening international competition and development in the operating sectors are held. Sabancı Group does not lobby for the benefit of the company, is not a party to any political opinions and institutions; and does not provide any direct and indirect monetary or real support to political parties and groups, politicians, and nominees. Memberships to Associations Association Responsibility Turkish Industry & Business Association (TÜSİAD) Membership Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) Membership Turkish Exporters Assembly (TİM) Membership Turkish Quality Association (KALDER) Membership World Economic Forum (WEF) Membership United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Güler Sabancı – Member of Board of Directors Ethics & Reputation Society (TEİD) Membership Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) Membership Business Council for Sustainable Development (SKD) Membership SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT At Sabancı Group, we act fair and respectful as expected from a good customer; and pay necessary attention to fulfil our liabilities. We meticulously protect confidential information of persons and institutions we are working with. Sabancı Group manages a large value chain comprised of thousands of suppliers, and create a great value for the country’s economy with their local supply expense. During the reporting period, a total of 6.35 billion TL supply expense was made; 2.7 billion TL corresponding to 43% of the total amount was spent on local supplier.2 In the process of selecting companies and business partners to purchase and/or sell goods and services, senior management pay attention to criteria such as experience, financial performance and technical competence alongside ethical levels and the positive background in ethical issues. Group does not work with companies or business partners that have negative intelligence regarding bribery and corruption. Therefore, senior management is responsible for making the necessary research and 2 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Aksigorta, AvivaSA, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa, Temsa, Yünsa, Foundation and Sabancı University. 13 evaluations before establishing a business relationship. Auditing Department evaluates whether said aspects are complied with. The following statements are included in agreements and contracts to be signed with companies and business partners who have positive background information and who fulfil other criteria; Full compliance to principles defined in the policy and other related regulations, Complete adoption and practice of these principles by all employees, Providing related policy trainings for employees at certain intervals, Making regular reminders for employees regarding their notification obligations and Ethics Line; and promoting them to notify the management in case of any violation. Practices or agreements can be terminated for justified reasons when above mentioned rules are not fulfilled or in case of any violation of the Policy. In choosing suppliers, Group companies follow their own purchasing policies; evaluates the suppliers with regards to criteria such as technical and organizational capacity sufficiency, quality and cost effectiveness, environmental performance, competitiveness and development performance. These expectations are included in purchasing contracts. Suppliers are also subjected to audits, and are supported in developing their systems and practices in these fields. In addition, Group companies contribute to the development of supplier employees with various practices and training programs. Group companies strive for spreading the sustainability understanding throughout the supply chain. Suppliers that adopt Sabancı Group’s norms in human rights, business ethics, occupational health and safety and protection of employee rights are preferred. Within this scope, in the supply chain, child labour, forced labour and discrimination are not tolerated and suppliers are expected to support employees’ freedom of association and right to collective bargaining agreement. Suppliers are expected to comply with SA-Ethics rules. In cases of non-compliance with the rules, Group companies follow sanctions that might include the termination of business relations, in line with their purchasing policies. Example Practice: Brisa Responsible Purchasing Policy In 2015, Brisa has established “Brisa Responsible Purchasing Policy” with an aim to establish a cooperation with stakeholders in supply chain in sustainable management and to increase sustainability awareness of suppliers. Based on this policy, suppliers are expected to adopt Brisa’s approach on human rights, employee rights, occupational health and safety, business ethics and environmental impacts. 14 ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH As a Group, based on our responsible business manner, we are working to eliminate the environmental impacts occurred due to our operations. Our key goals are to realize solutions in this regard, to obtain sustainability in operations and to develop our operations according to this approach in all business processes. Our Group manages environmental performance according to nationally and internationally accepted systems. Considering the developments in the sector, we are realizing precautions that carry our environmental performance to better levels through proactive approaches. Sabancı Environmental Committee is responsible for the management of environmental performance. Reporting to Holding’s senior management, this Committee closely monitors local and global environmental issues; exchange information with public institutions, institutions representing the sectors and non-governmental organizations; and share its opinions with these groups. Within the scope of committee’s activities, sustainable environmental management, compliance with EU’s environmental regulations and climate change topics are actively studied. Environmental performance is monitored and managed separately by related departments in Group companies. Through Sabancı Environment Portal, environmental performance can be monitored at the levels of CEO, SBU and GM within the Business, Company, Sector and Group. Sabancı Environment Portal is prepared using in-Group resources in a reviewable, updatable, continuously improvable and developable manner with a technological infrastructure suitable for a transparent and systematic comparison that responds to the requirements of sustainability. Our Group actively manages the process of applying the standards we follow, fulfilling the requirements of these standards, and complying with them. Facilities belonging to our companies which conduct production operations (Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa, Kordsa Global, Temsa, Yünsa) have ISO 14001 certification. The most significant directive is our Environmental Policy that enables us carry our environmental performance alongside governance practices and standards we follow to higher levels. In line with our policy, we form and implement environmental standards beyond legal obligations. While we try to carry our performance further with a proactive approach, we target an advanced performance with knowledge and experience sharing among our facilities. While we reach our objectives, we give importance to the spreading of the common consciousness among our Group. We closely observe the environmental footprint of our operations via competitive technologies. During the reporting period, there has been no sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Our Corporate Environmental Policy We establish and implement our environmental standards at a level above and beyond the legal obligations. We aim at perfection through intercompany information and experience sharing. We adopt the proactive approach in all our operations for an uninterrupted improvement of our environmental performance. We identify and manage environmental risks. 15 We try to apply the best available production techniques. While monitoring environmental developments and converting them into business opportunities, we contribute to sustainability. We support environmental awareness and information sharing for purposes of social development Intergroup Environmental Policy Requirements We observe the environmental law and other statutory obligations. While implementing the environmental applications at a level above and beyond the legal obligations, we ensure the control of compliance. We identify our environmental impacts. We identify all our environmental impacts, develop a systematic approach of targeting, programming and monitoring, review the impacts and take improving actions. We manage the intergroup resource utilization. We determine the organizational roles, responsibilities and authorities in infrastructure, technology, finance and human resources, and ensure that our employees develop environmental awareness. We ensure a systematic approach in our applications and create intercompany synergies. We establish our operational standards with a proactive approach and ensure that they are followed by everyone including our employees, suppliers and contractors. In the course of our operations, we identify any risks endangering the environment using a proactive approach and try to take the measures to minimize them in a timely and thorough manner. We continually try to improve and review our environmental performance. We set and implement targets for energy and waste management and for natural resource consumption. While aiming at continuous improvement through clean products and clean production technologies, we also take on the environmental responsibility of our products and services. While reporting our operations unequivocally, we facilitate access to information. In today’s business world, the impacts of companies are not limited only to their operations. Thus, expanding a sustainable business approach in value chain may result in a significant increase in improvement levels. In this regard, we are practicing studies in our value chain in order to expand environmental values and performance we have and to increase environmental awareness. Thus, in the reporting period, we provided 1,335 person*hour environmental training to our suppliers and subcontractors3. Being aware of the fact that we achieved this performance thanks to our employees, we pay special attention to increasing environmental competency and awareness levels of our employees. In regards 3 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Sabancı Holding, Kordsa, Sabancı Üniversitesi, Teknosa, Temsa 16 to the operations we performed, we provided 7,923 person*hours environmental training to employees in our companies in the reporting period of 20164. In order to improve our environmental performance, our Group believes in the importance of investments. In the reporting period, the total environmental investment and management expenditure of our companies was about 35 Million TL5. ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT The impacts of climate change can be clearly seen in almost all areas of life. In this context, the business world has duties to fulfil in combatting climate change. At Sabancı Holding, we are aware of the environmental impacts our operations cause, identify risks to minimize these impacts, develop proactive solutions to these risks, and realise performance-improving practices. In this regard, the basic development subjects include efficient use of energy and elimination of greenhouse gas emissions caused by our operations. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) As Sabancı Holding, we participate in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which is run by Sabancı University Corporate Governance Forum. Among our Group companies Akbank, Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa and Yünsa participates in CDP Turkey. In this way, we transparently disclose our performance regarding climate change and protection of natural resources and use opportunities to further improve our performance. In 2016, total energy consumption of our companies within the scope of reporting was realized as 127.954 TJ6, while 1.672 TJ7 of this amount was supplied from renewable resources During the reporting period, total emissions (tons) of our companies within the scope of reporting were as following: Total Amount of Scope 1 Emissions 8 16.346.750 Total Amount of Scope 2 Emissions 9 769.827 Sabancı Center The amount of electric energy saved based on 1994 is 157,194 GJ. Since that year, this amount corresponds to the prevention of 19,562 ton CO2e emissions. Based on 1996 consumption, the saving in natural gas was 16,541 GJ. This amount corresponds to the prevention of 9,704 Ton CO2e emissions. Energy Efficiency in Group Companies In Akbank, the renewal of mechanic automation belonging to the heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) systems at branches has begun in 2010. The studies, which aim to renew the automations in such a manner that they function in accordance with the internal air quality, have 4 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Sabancı Holding, Kordsa, Sabancı University, Teknosa, Temsa 5 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Sabancı Holding, Kordsa, Sabancı University, Teknosa, Temsa 6 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akbank, Akçansa, Aksigorta, Avivasa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Sabancı Holding, Kordsa, Sabancı University, Teknosa, Temsa, and Yünsa. 7 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, and Sabancı University. 8 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akbank, Akçansa, Avivasa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Sabancı Holding and Kordsa. 9 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akbank, Akçansa, Aksigorta, Brisa, Çimsa, Sabancı Holding and Yünsa. 17 continued in 2016. In the newly established branches, the practice was directly implemented. With GreenBT program, infrastructures were put into use in 2016, which optimize energy consumption of all computers in the branches. In all data centres of Akbank, products that consumes less energy are preferred in all newly purchased systems. As of 2016, Akbank has completed designing studies of its new “data centre” project started in 2015. It is planned to use “Free cooling” technology (enables cooling through outdoor air with low energy consumption) in the new centre. This new data centre has been designed according to LEED certification. It is planned to achieve 117,892 GJ saving through energy saving studies executed by Akçansa in 2016. In the reporting period, 365,928 GJ energy has been saved as a result of practices in wastewater recovery facility. A wind turbine at 2.35 MW capacity has been activated in 2016 in Akçansa Çanakkale manufacturing facility. Almost 2% of this facility has been provided by this turbine. In Akçansa’s Microalgae Project that aims to eliminate carbon emissions, microalga that photosynthesize work as a carbon absorbents and blocks carbon dioxide released from flue gas before its release to atmosphere, and prevents any spread on environment. At Aksigorta, an energy efficiency study has been initiated with Enerjisa in 2016. In addition, Green Office project has been initiated with WWF; and awareness has been raised in regards to paper, water and electric consumption. Moreover, office heating and cooling systems and office lights are used at optimum levels; dynamic adjustments can be done throughout the day. Brisa has saved 1.7% energy compared to the previous reporting period through efficiency projects on electric and steam consumption in this reporting period. The amount of energy saved as of the end of 2016 has increased 14 times more than the amount in 2008. Çimsa has saved 186,880 TJ energy from waste heat and obtained 24.502 tons of CO2 greenhouse gas elimination in 2016. The Head Office of CarrefourSA in Maltepe, Istanbul has received LEED Gold Certificate in LEED® BD+C: Core and Shell category in energy saving; and obtained “green building” title. CarrefourSa continues its practices with an aim to receive LEED Platinum® Certificate in projects developed recently. In addition to this application, it initiated studies to realize new generation LED conversion project with high saving levels. Through improvements in Enerjisa, internal consumption due to heating & cooling, lighting is reduced; and a total of 92,540 GJ energy is saved through improvement studies conducted during the production process. Energy monitoring and management system has been established in AYEDAŞ Corporate Office and Enerjisa AYESAŞ Corporate Office buildings to save energy. Kordsa saved a total of 16.834 GJ energy through the revision of K3 twisting hall moisturizing system as texfog, exchanging of Chiller and Cooling tower circulation pumps with more efficient ones, and application of impeller coating in pumps in the reporting period. The stores of Teknosa are lighted with LED lights which resulted in 170,000 Kwh monthly average consumption from 680,000 Kwh. This application created 75% saving in these stores. Moreover, 50% saving has been achieved in electric consumption by moving the head office and by LED lighting. 18 Temsa saved 40,000 kWh energy annually by exchanging HDK armatures with LED and high ceiling armatures. WATER AND WASTE MANAGEMENT At Sabancı Group, we consider efficient use of natural resources as our sustainability priority; and constantly develop our water performance through effective water and waste management practices that will serve as a model for sectors we are operating in. We realize many projects and practices beyond legal requirements through processes we define as the focus points including elimination of wastes at source and water reuse. In Group companies, wastewater occurred due to operations are recycled and water that cannot be recycled are discharged according to legal limits. In the reporting period, the total water consumption is 7,175,287 m3 in Sabancı Group10. 685,731 m3 water corresponding to 9.7% of this amount is whether recycled or recovered11. Our withdrawal or discharge processes significantly affect no water sources during the operations. In the reporting period, the total amount of water discharged is 2,387,986 m3 in Sabancı Group companies12. During the reporting period, main water management practices applied by Group companies are as follows: With the aim of achieving water savings, depressurizing systems and aerators that mix water with air are used in the taps Akbank branches, the Akbank Head Office (HO) and the Akbank Banking Center (ABC). In addition, in the HO and ABC, photocell taps are used in WCs where water is used in great amounts, in order to achieve water savings. Brisa has been granted an award thanks to its “Project on Reducing Underground Water Withdrawn in Brisa İzmit Facility“ in Water Management Category in “Sustainable Business Awards” organized for the third time in 2016 by the Sustainability Academy. According to studies conducted for water efficiency at Akçansa, rain water has been accumulated in collecting ponds and used as cooling water; and water in cooling tower and in various units at production line are recycled and reused. At Aksigorta, with the use of water saving photocell taps and aerators as well as small volume reservoirs, water savings were achieved. In the reporting period, informative stickers on water and paper savings are prepared and hanged on offices. In the reporting period, Kordsa has activated reverse osmosis system at NY Yarn Facility and recycled 70,128 m3/year wastewater. 10 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Sabancı Holding, Akbank, Akçansa, Aksigorta, Avivasa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa, Sabancı Üniversitesi, Temsa and Yünsa 11 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Sabancı Holding, Avivasa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa, Sabancı Üniversitesi and Temsa 12 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Sabancı Holding, Akçansa, Aksigorta, Avivasa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa, Sabancı Üniversitesi, Teknosa, Temsa and Yünsa 19 Water recycled at Temsa wastewater treatment facility are used as gardening water to obtain almost 15,000 m3 water saving annually. Sabancı Group companies are constantly improving their performances on waste management and raw material and material efficiency focusing on elimination of wastes at source and their recycling process. In the reporting period, the amount of hazardous wastes is 14,14613 ton while the amount of non-hazardous wastes is 1,540,356 ton14. During the period, main waste management practices applied by Group Companies are as follows: Akbank has been applying pioneer applications to save paper which is a key consumable material. In the reporting period, practices to use paper more efficiently in branches and ATMs continued; and practices including “Credit Card e-abstract” and “Card Acceptor e-abstract” that saves significant amount of paper were extended through several campaigns. Akbank realized 29% reduction in total paper consumption through 12 different improvements. Recycling paper that is printed in the past years and paper stored in the archive each year at the end of legal storage periods, Akbank has recycled 875 tons of paper in the reporting period. Brisa supports the practice of collecting worn out tires of Tire Industrialists’ Association in compliance with the legislation, and recovering them for environment and economy. Brisa has collected and recycled 87,000 tons of tires in the reporting period. In accordance with Packaging and Packaging Waste Control Regulations, Brisa is recollecting a certain amount of packaging materials it launches to market via ÇEVKO (Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Recovery and Recycling Foundation). Again in 2016, Brisa contributed to recycling of 3 tons of packaging wastes. Akçansa provided trainings to students in fourth grade of primary school to teach them to allocate wastes at source, produce energy out of recycled materials and wastes, and methods of conscious use of resources through its project “Children That Transforms Future.” Based on this project, recycling containers are placed in school buildings to help students practice their theoretical knowledge. In the reporting period, 1,300 students from 12 schools received environmental trainings. Çimsa achieved 15% saving in facility grease consumption with a project realized in Kayseri Manufacturing Facility by Learning Organization Team in the reporting period. In the same period, a significant amount of saving has been achieved compared to the previous year thanks to optimization conducted in chemical use in cement grinding. Kordsa collects a certain number of packages it released to the market and reuse them. In the reporting period, Kordsa collected 84 tons of polystyrene, 362 tons of papers and cardboards and 48 tons of wooden packaging wastes. Again, during this period, Kordsa achieved a significant amount of saving in paper consumption through workflow practices in electronic environment and centralization of printers. Teknosa collects and recycles electric and electronic devices according to Regulations on Controlling Waste Electric and Electronic Devices (WEED). Teknosa organizes campaigns including “Bring the Old, 13 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Sabancı Holding, Akçansa, Aksigorta, Avivasa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa, Sabancı Üniversitesi, Teknosa, Temsa ve Yünsa 14 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Sabancı Holding, Akçansa, Aksigorta, Avivasa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa, Sabancı Üniversitesi, Temsa and Yünsa 20 Get the New” in order to reach its goal of collection its products on the market. Teknosa created waste areas in all stores, and sends all wastes collected as 2B or B2C to licensed operational facilities. With an application realized in the reporting period, all printers are controlled for printing with cards and employees have to swipe their cards to be able to print. With this application, unnecessary print-outs are not left in the printers and are not printed at all to save paper. BIODIVERSITY Sabancı Group companies operate with an approach taking into consideration the potential impacts of its operations on biodiversity. While making new investments, we act in accordance with Environmental Impact Assessment Directives; we ensure that possible risks are audited and evaluated by accredited organizations. In addition to these studies on biodiversity, Sabancı Group companies organizes afforestation studies to protect natural life. Group companies has planted 42,334 plants and saplings in 2016. In the reporting period, Akçansa has created an artificial pond in a 500 m2 area according to germination studies in almost 45,000 m2 area used formerly as raw material stocking field for Istanbul/Büyükçekmece manufacturing facility; and nurtured 700 Cyprinus carpio “tricolorkoi” and Cyprinus carpio “butterfly koi.” According to this study, lotus flowers are planted in aqueous environment, and amphibians (Thrace frog) are placed. Moreover, 1,000 trees were planted including ash plant, magnolia, Leyland cypress, and acacia; and this area has become an attractive place for birds in the region. In the same period, 5,000 black pine saplings were planted in almost 50,000 m2 area in regions where production has been completed in Samsun/Ladik limestone field. Akçansa aims to improve their knowledge on the biological value of mines through Quarry Life Award competition organized with Heidelberg Cement, and to contribute to their development. Based on the project that ranked 2nd in the competition, a pond has been created, many types of plants and trees (casteanea sativa, juniperus nana, lavandula officinalis and fragaria vesca) have been planted in almost 5,000 m2 area where production has been completed in Çatalca Muratbey limestone field. Based on the project that ranked 3rd in the competition, ‘medicago sativa’ which is the most suitable plant type for the land conditions and soil quality of the region has been planted as a trial study in almost 100 m2 area where production has been completed in Çanakkale/Ezine/Bozalan clay field. In the reporting period, Brisa continued “Let Cranes Fly Forever” project, which has been conducted in collaboration with WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife Foundation) since 2013 to sustain the crane population in Anatolia. Within the scope of the project carried out in the Çukurova Delta where 95% of some 10,000 cranes spending the winter in our country take shelter, 30 villages have been visited, 2,000 crane training booklets have been shared with primary school students. Awareness studies have been conducted with many places in the region including schools, hunter associations, village cafeterias; ‘Çukurova’s Ancient Friend: Cranes” signboards that give information about cranes that visit the region are placed in 3 spots. In the reporting period, significant information was obtained about the current conditions of cranes through observation studies; public awareness studies have been conducted with the regional people, and crane observation activities were held with students in Yumurtalık Lagoon in Çukurova Delta. At Çimsa, areas where materials are taken during gem production are rehabilitated as activities continue, and their suitability for reutilization is ensured. Additionally, each year, rehabilitation 21 projects are prepared for areas with forest clearance; information regarding mining activities and studies to be undertaken in rehabilitation projects are communicated to related directorates of forestry. WORK LIFE It is possible to reach business results based on our vision and achieve sustainable development through employees. Thus, at Sabancı Group, we consider our employees as the building blocks on the way to success. Our main priorities include providing a fair, non-discriminating, safe, healthy working environment where employees feel happy. In this environment, we provide opportunities to employees to strengthen their competencies; and we believe that being respectful to different beliefs and opinions and diversities enrich us while reaching our goals. We consider human resources policies, principles and systems according to private life – business life balance, employee development and internal communication issues. As Sabancı Holding, we aim to be a privileged group for trustworthy, sensitive, ethical, open to change and long-term thinking, market-oriented, innovative and collaborative individuals to work with. Our primary responsibility is to gain qualified workforce to our Group and investing in the development of our employees. Our goal is to be an employer preferred by qualified workforce, to select and hire workforce that has the most suitable qualifications and that adopts Holding’s corporate values, and to meet Holding’s future workforce requirements with a global perspective and proactive approach while selecting and hiring employees. HR policy and practices in Sabancı Group companies are defined to establish organizational and talent sets that support performance necessary for sustainable growth and that are suitable to business strategies of companies; and these practices are managed under this perspective. Human resources management approach responds proactively to special requirements of different sectors we operate with; and aims to create motivated, innovative employees and teams that create value and have high corporate commitment to Sabancı values and culture. Number of Employees at the Sabancı Group 15 Employees by Gender Employees by Category Employees by Age 1684; 3% 19404; 20454 22351 34% ; 36% ; 44% 28783 37992; ; 56% 35122 66% ; 61% Under 30 Female Male White-Collar Blue-Collar Between 30-50 Over 50 15 Consists of data obtained from Group companies within the scope of reporting. 22 BUSINESS CONDUCT AND FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES At Sabancı Group, our primary values are accuracy and honesty in all business processes and relations. Our ethic codes are the supreme advisor of our business manner. Sabancı Holding accepts Code of Business Conduct – SA-Ethics as the main reference document. Sabancı Group’s human resources practices and relations with all stakeholders are managed according to this code of ethics. Sabancı Holding aims at 100% compliance to SA-Ethics in all of its operations. Sabancı Holding’s Ethics Committee operated by the Chairman is the top authority responsible for investigating and solving the complaints and notifications of any violation of the code of ethics. Sabancı Group managers are responsible for establishing and maintaining a company culture and working environment that supports code of ethics; submitting questions, complaints and notifications related to ethics to Ethics Committee; structuring working hours to minimize ethical risks; and applying the necessary methods and approaches to comply to code of ethics. Human Resources departments of Sabancı Holding and Group companies are responsible for informing employees about code of ethics, providing trainings at certain intervals in order to make these rules more comprehensible; and enabling continuous communication with employees in regards to code of ethics. SA-Ethics is prepared in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Fundamental Employment Principles of the International Labour Organization, and United Nations Global Compact. Disciplinary actions and precautions in case of breaches of the Code of Business Conduct are defined openly within SA-Ethics. Sabancı Holding works to create and maintain a fair work environment in Sabancı Group. In this objective, there is the “Policy of Creating and Maintaining a Fair Working Environment” which embodies fundamental principles of the Holding on fair working practices. Under this policy, Sabancı Holding is in compliance with all the relevant applicable laws and regulations on employment and work life. In processes of human resources, it does not act in any way that would discriminate race, gender, language, belief, religion, political thought, age, physical disability, and similar other status. It ensures that all practices of human resources such as remuneration, reward, promotion and social rights etc. are fair. Sabancı Holding as a signatory of the UN Global Compact and a supporter of the Fundamental Employment Rights of the International Labour Organization, adopts necessary policies and actions against discrimination at work. It cannot make use of child labour and forced labour, respects the rights of their employees to become a member of any union and puts efforts to make these principles applicable to their value chain. In Sabancı Group 12,3898 employees in total are under collective labour agreement. You can find detailed information regarding Code of Business conduct and SA-Ethics in https://www.sabanci.com/tr/sabanci-toplulugu/is-etigi-kurallari/is-etigi-kurallari/i-16 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Sabancı Holding aims to create diversity and equal opportunities at work. Group companies embrace diversity and differences in processes of recruitment, selection and placement, performance evaluation and promotion. 23 A total of 1,028 physically-disabled employees are employed in Sabancı Group as of the end of the reporting period16. Since 2016, 34% of all employees and 24% of the administrative team are women in Sabancı Group. Women labour force rates in Sabancı Group are two times more than Turkey’s average. In accordance with a focus on diversity and equal opportunities, Sabancı Holding attaches special attention to women’s participation to work life and gender-based equality. In parallel to this perspective, the Holding supports domestic and international organizations, and applies pioneer practices in this field. Sabancı Holding is the first Turkish company to sign United Nations Declaration of Women’s Empowerment Principles which is one of the primary initiatives. Women’s Empowerment Principles To create senior level corporate leadership for the gender equality, To treat women and men fairly at work – respecting and supporting the human rights and nondiscrimination principle, To ensure the health, safety, and well-being of all female and male employees, To encourage the training, professional training and career development of women, To adopt such practices as initiative development, supply chain and marketing that empower women, To enhance equality through social initiatives and defence, To measure and to publicly report the developments to ensure gender equality. At the same time, Sabancı Holding is a member of “Equality Platform at Work” under the supervision of the Ministry of Family and Social Policies that is created under the umbrella of World Economic Forum (WEF) to minimize the gender gap within the economic field in Turkey. This platform aims for women to be more involved in labour force, be part of decision mechanisms, benefit from opportunities and resources, increase women within the labour force in Turkish business world in the next three years and decrease the gender gap up to 10%. With this declaration, Sabancı Group is committed to voluntarily complying with the principles which will eliminate gender-based discrimination, transparently reporting the progress made to achieve this goal, and leading Turkey to spread these principles across the country. Declaration of Equality at Work We respect human rights. We treat all our employees based on the fundamental principle of equality. We ensure the health, safety, and well-being of both our female and male employees without discriminating between genders. We especially encourage the female labour force participation. We define the equal opportunity criteria for women and men under all our human resources policies. We act under the policy of equal pay for equal work, and follow it. 16 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akbank, Akçansa, Aksigorta, Avivasa, Brisa, Carrefoursa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Teknosa, Temsa, Yünsa, Çimsa, Foundation, University and Holding. 24 We install the necessary mechanisms for making equal use of career opportunities. We create and follow up the training policies, and especially pay attention to female participation. We create such working environments and practices that maintain the balance between work lives and family lives. We disclose the developments related to our plans and achievements on equal opportunity through internal and external communication. We ensure that the declaration spreads into all our spheres of influence (our business partners, our suppliers). We deploy a leadership team at our company for the follow-up of considerations involved in the declaration. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT The primary goals of the Group are to create an environment of development and present opportunities to constantly improve employees and increase their existing potential, to regularly follow employee performance and make communications, to create a qualified, successful, global labour force and leader pool by establishing a culture where managers are responsible for employee development. Group companies organize several employee development programs. Employee Development at Sabancı Holding Young Talents of Sabancı Program, carried out since 2006, to track and steer career development of young employees with high potential. Young employees that have a potential and working in Group companies attend this program. In 2016, 39 young employees were graduated from the program with the experience to run company via simulation and networking opportunities. Mentorship Program is, as we believe, a practice that contributes not only to personal developments of experienced managers and employees but also to establishing “Coaching Culture” that we want to extend in the Group; and supports our Group in becoming “Contributing to Each Other’s Success.” We initiated this program 9 years ago; and continued in 2016 as well. Future Forums Initiative; the goal of Future Forums program whose designing process started 10 years ago is to put market and customer-oriented perspective that will support sustainable growth objective of Sabancı Holding into the focus of each operation; and to support a mental transformation that enables a thinking beyond the borders of the market. In 2016, participants of 6th period were graduated from Future Forums to which Group companies actively attend. SALT Program; Sabancı Leadership Team (SALT) training program which is a threshold training for all business leaders that are transferred to senior management is a successful program to which managers at general directorate or higher levels attend, and in which managers confront with themselves and shape their leadership talents according to Sabancı expectations. 25 SA-EXE Program is carried out at Vice President and Director Levels and improves strategic decisionmaking skills of manager. 11 managers participated to SA-EXE’s 4th program, supported by simulations, that helps managers perform with effective leadership skills at uncertainties and complex situations. SA LAB aims to increase awareness about the returns of “value oriented management” initiated for mid-level managers in 2016, to make them focus on “Business Intelligence” enabling them to see the whole picture and their contribution to it. 16 managers graduated from SA LAB program. E-Executive MBA Program supports to train managers with vision and multi-dimensional overview of company management. Corporate Governance Program is carried out towards upper level management. 146 managers from Group companies were participated to the program in 2016. Value-oriented Manager Program aims to provide accumulation of knowledge for activities such as the efficient management of main activities in the value chain, firm management, strategies, structure of organization, human resources management, research and development, and purchases. Employee Development in Sabancı Group Companies Sabancı Group aims to improve personal development and organizational success by investing in the skills of employees. The Group make a special effort for creating an environment of development and presenting opportunities to constantly improve employees and increase their existing potential, regularly following employee performance and making communications, creating a qualified, successful, global labor force and leader pool by establishing a culture where managers are responsible for employee development. In the reporting period, a total of 1,620,005 man*hours of training provided to our employees. 522,752 man*hours of those trainings were provided to blue-collar employees while 1,620,005 man*hour training provided to white collar employees. Akbank Academy has initiated studies to extend personalized and accessible training methods focusing on development areas for employees in 2016. Structured with the motto “Ready for Future,” Akbank Academy Portal is a platform that continuously supports Akbank employees and helps them manage their training plans in parallel to their career. Akbank employees continue to improve themselves independent from space and time through “Akbank Academy Portal” that provides all etrainings available. Akçansa aims the constant improvement of managers on their way to leadership with annual Leadership Meetings, Leadership Style Survey, Organizational Climate Survey and Leadership Development Programs. In 201, Akçansa aimed to expand leadership development organization to managers at different levels (engineers, executives, managers) through “Akçansa Course Academy.” Aksigorta Academy acts under a vision to be the centre of development that offers the most effective and productive training services to all employees, stakeholders and customers. Trainings organized by Aksigorta Academy that aims to bring employees and stakeholders together in various platforms and support their development focus on developing managerial, technical knowledge and talents. Aksigorta has been organizing Future Leaders and Young Talents programs with a perspective to train its leaders internally. Young Talent Campus program designed to gain qualified workforce for insurance 26 sector and to extend this sector among young people steers these young people. Aksigorta manages its development programs with an “Each person is a candidate” perspective; evaluates leadership abilities of all department managers through LiderİM (I am the Leader) program and creates opportunities to improve themselves. AvivaSA presented the following trainings in the reporting period: Strategic Management Trainings for Managers, Business-oriented Personal Development for current and potential managers within One Step to Future program, trainings to manage generation Y, and trainings on becoming a team. Employees received trainings on sales, licensing, economy, personal awareness, stress and goal management, relation management and coaching in sales in order to support their occupational and personal developments. Brisa has carried out Leadership Workshop, Leadership Development Program and Team Leader Development Program under “Development Journey” program to improve leadership competency of mid-level managers, supervisors and foremen. In 2016, 40 managers joined Leadership Workshop, 39 managers benefited from Leadership Development Program while 140 employees benefited from Team Leader Development Program. CarrefourSA Academy has been established to develop human resource in our country where organized retail is developing fast but sector trainings are limited. Those working with the Academy obtains occupational, managerial and personal development opportunities. The goal is to train future’s retail managers. At Çimsa, employee development programs have been organized under the following titles: Occupational Information Development Program and Trainings, Management Abilities Development Program and Trainings, Çimsa Mid-Level Development Program, First Level Employees Development Trainings, and Senior Level Employees Development Trainings. Enerjisa aims continuous development for leadership competencies of managers through TEAM and GROW programs designed for its leaders. With “EnAkademi Personal Development Program,” development is encouraged from everywhere any time through a platform with limitless sources that includes different learning methods such as online e-trainings, simulations, articles, book summaries, audio files, videos and action steps. With Young Energy Program, Enerjisa aims that employees use their potentials in the most efficient way. Practices such as personality inventories, 360 degree evaluations, conversations with executives and mentorship are organized in order to develop target competencies. In Enerjisa, Young Engineers program enabled engineers with high potential to be hired through innovative methods; make workforce at distant locations to be more efficient through enabling best ways of learning on-the-job learning motives. Enerjisa carries out the Sales School in order to increase customer and sales focus –which is one of the most important goals of the sales departmentand improve their knowledge on technical subjects. In this program which supports both personal and technical development of employees, there are inclass trainings, e-learning, case and group studies, games and simulation practices. Delta program carried out by distribution service unit increases technical know-how of all blue-collar employees aims to contribute to extend OHS culture and to obtain more effective network management through more informed employees. 27 Kordsa runs three programs; “Foundations of Leadership” for executive level employees, “Next Generation” for experts, “Global Mentorship” for experts and newly assigned managers. While managers enhance their organization creating skills, employees’ relation management skills are also improved, and personal and occupational development of both managers and employees are supported. Teknosa offers long-term or part-time working opportunities for new graduates and current university students who continue their education in Teknosa Master Team (TMT) Development Program, and ensures employment within Young Talent Program for candidates who complete the program successfully. At Teknosa, within the scope of Store Manager Development Program, Store Manager candidates that succeeded evaluation centre are enrolled to Store Manager Cultivation Program and participate in whether in-class trainings or various digital trainings as a result of different evaluations based on their talents defined by Teknosa. Within the scope of Beginner Level E-training Program, all employees that start working recently in a Teknosa store are enrolled to an e-training program that includes Teknosa products and services prepared to help these employees learn basic and same level information. Temsa supports personal and occupational development of employees within its training and development programs under the roof of Temsa Academy. Temsa manages its training activities with 4 groups: in-Temsa trainings, Human Resources development plan trainings, technical trainings, Sabancı Holding trainings. Yünsa offers opportunities to participate in both occupational and personal training programs in addition to leadership development trainings in order to improve talents of employees. DEVELOPING AND IMPROVING THE ORGANIZATION Sabancı Group closely monitors and evaluates developmental requirements of its employees, and offers different opportunities to improve their talents. As a Group, we attach great importance not only to investment on employees and fair evaluation of employee performances, and also to the processes of appreciating and rewarding of talents and successes. Based on the approach that organizational development can be achieved through employee development, Sabancı Human Resources aim to continuously review and improve systems and processes, to actively monitor the performance of employees and to conduct practices for sustainable success, to perform the assignment, transfer, and rotation practices in the Group for the development of employees and the organization. Mechanisms to actively collect and evaluate employee feedbacks and opinions and innovative ideas in this regard are crucial for the development and consolidation of Sabancı Group. A suggestion system collecting information about the innovative ideas of employees and supporting employee participation provides great benefit for reaching sustainability goals in Group companies and increasing the 28 competition. In 2016, 36,400 suggestions were gathered from the companies in reporting and 23,464 of them are executed.17 Akbank adopts a flexible Performance Management System that is open to development and responds to transparent and changing requirements in order to effectively manage personal experiences and expertise of its employees based on corporate goals. In this regard, employees in Head Office are subjected to performance evaluation once a year, while field employees are subjected to twice annually. “Self-evaluation” method has been used to increase the efficiency of Performance Management System since 2012. The performance of Senior Management is measured based on financial and customer perspectives, internal processes and human resources. Akçansa performance management system consists of a process where the company goals are minimized and integrated to the goals of individuals and teams, and their competencies are managed to this objective for the whole year. Akçansa performance management process starts at the beginning of the year by determining personal and corporate goals through the participation of employees and managers, and the tracking system continues until the end of the year. “A New Leader Program” developed with the cooperation of Boğaziçi University and “Career Tree” which are continuous development programs differentiated according to requirements are supported with development & evaluation centre and 360 degrees practices. Development plans and programs are created according to fields defined. At AvivaSA, performance management system related to “Living Talent” system that considers every employee as a talent is a management process in which all employees are objectively evaluated under fair and equal conditions in accordance with talents and goals defined in AvivaSa’s vision, mission and values. This system conducts personal development plans, trainings, rewarding and career plans according to performance and potential results, and analyses that form the basis for talent management. The goal of performance management is to create a positive contribution from personal performance to company performance, enable employees to steer at the same direction, increase employee commitment through effective leadership atmosphere, and obtain effective business results. At Aksigorta, goals and competencies of employees are regularly reviewed through “On the Way to Success” performance management process that will realize strategies of the company and obtain human resources with high performance levels. During this process, one-to-one feedback meetings are organized between team leaders and employees; exchange of information based on performance status of employees takes place, and an action plan is generated. In addition, feedback sessions are carried out following development centre practices and 360 degrees evaluation conducted to reveal strong and open-ended characteristics of employees. A roadmap is drawn for the open-ended characteristics of employees in these feedback sessions. Plans that encompass actions such as training activities, personal coaching and mentorship are created. Brisa establishes Development Plans according to the results of 360 ͦCompetency Evaluation applied to participants in Competency Development and Leadership Competency Development Workshop. In 2016, 360 ͦ Competency Evaluation Process was applied to a total of 45 employees – 30 employees, 15 leaders. 17 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Avivasa, Brisa, Enerjisa, Kordsa, Temsa, Yünsa, and Çimsa. 29 At CarrefourSA, the performance evaluation of employees is done via “Dynamic” system. This system aims to minimize strategic targets for employees as personal goals, and to gain a systematic perspective to be able to focus on the goals of teams, departments and functions. At Çimsa, organizational climate workshops organized since 2007 and end year open sharing meetings aim to raise leadership knowledge and talent levels of employees at all levels, to measure organizational climate regularly, and to establish organization and human resources infrastructure. At Kordsa, ability management process is related to all processes starting from hiring process. Performance results, evaluation centre that is attended, 360 evaluation or personal development plans revealed after mentorship process are related to career management process. Within “Situational Leadership” Development Program, managers learn which leadership approach to adopt at which development levels. Teknosa has competencies for work families and levels that are predetermined for each duty. Work and competency goals are followed constantly throughout the year and used for determining the necessary trainings in accordance with performance management outputs, pricing and career planning. Yünsa conducts performance evaluation for white-collar employees according to the level of achievement for business goals while for blue-collar employees according to performance criteria defined as work discipline, personal business results and team/department business results. EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING Sabancı Holding is carrying out practices to maintain a sustainable business environment where employees feel happy and productive. In this regard, opinions and feedbacks of employees about current practices are actively collected through satisfaction surveys, and innovative practices are applied based on the necessary action plans. In addition, many recognition and rewarding applications are realized in the Group to increase well-being of employees. Sabancı Golden Collar Awards Sabancı Group has been organizing Sabancı Golden Collar Awards since 2009 with an aim to reward achievements of companies and employees and to encourage sharing of good practices. During the reporting period, a total of 617 employees participated in the program; 9 companies with 18 projects in the Innovation Category, 9 companies with 14 projects in the Productivity Category, 9 companies with 17 projects in the Digitalization Category, 10 companies with 10 projects in the Synergy Category and 9 companies in the Market Focus Category Contributed. Akçansa rewards employees and teams who carry out high performance. Awards and recognition practices such as “A Night from Akçansa”, “Special Performance Prizes”, “Executive Committee Special Accolades”, “Year OHS Leaders Award”, “Team Awards”, “Year’s Suggestion Stars Awards” and “Seniority Accolades” are given. In 2016, “Piles of Projects Competition” has been organized to provide an atmosphere that will enrich experiences and help employees ideally reveal their innovative ideas. 30 AvivaSA measures commitment and satisfaction of its employees through Voice of Aviva Survey. Avivasa is over the sector’s average in regards to team commitment, democratic working environment, strong and clear leadership message, motivation, commitment and pride. Action plans are established based on the results of this survey. At Aksigorta, policy for employee commitment has been identified. Every year, Aksigorta conducts employee commitment and satisfaction survey for understanding employees’ expectations, measuring their satisfaction, and developing and improving employees’ experiences. Results detailed based on the report are shared with vice presidents and department managers; while suggestions on improvement and commitment are shared with HR and senior management team. Each year, communication and motivation meetings specific for functions and employee efficiency are organized to increase motivation. Enerjisa conducts annual organizational climate, leadership styles and employee commitment research to analyze organizational climate and employee commitment and identify areas of potential development. In 2016, 96% of employees participated in the survey. Effective analyzes of the research results are being used to develop an organizational climate and to improve employee commitment, and to respond to employees' expectations. Enerjisa, in 2016 in this context, designed “Between Us” meetings in regards to actions taken as a result of employee commitment and satisfaction survey; and first meeting with 600 participants will be organized in 2017. Kordsa achieved an 18-point increase in employee commitment survey in 2016 as a result of studies conducted and actions taken according to result and development areas following an employee commitment survey carried out in 2014. Based on the results of the survey, project teams generate action plans regarding career in particular, brand recognition, side benefits, recognition rewarding and development opportunities, and communication. At Teknosa, Commitment Delegates process was organized in 2015 as a result of studies in employee satisfaction. This program aims to monitor employees’ commitment to the company and their satisfaction more healthily, more efficiently and more effectively. Work-Life Balance One of the main requirements of today’s business life that is gaining a more competitive structure every other day is to realize practices to protect the balance between work life and private life in this competitive environment. Sabancı Group companies develop practices where employees can have more time for their private life and they organize off-hour activities. In the reporting period, the rate of employees who completed their maternity leave and came back to work in Sabancı Holding, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa and Sabancı Foundation is 100%; this rate is 95% in Akbank, Akçansa and Brisa; 80% in Avivasa and Sabancı University, and over 60% in Teknosa, Temsa and Yünsa. At Akçansa, sportive, cultural and sport activities and Family Workshops designed according to demands and expectations of all employees based on a work life private life balance approach are realized under “Happiness Workshop.” “A Sparkle Club” that strengthens volunteering and social 31 awareness continued to add value to the society with the initiative of Akçansa employees. In 2016, an employee support program “Don’t Bother, Just Make a Call” that gives service to all employees and their families for 24/7 in addition to former events. At Aksigorta, internal communication channels are actively used to balance work-life. The primary objectives of internal communication studies are to increase employee satisfaction and loyalty, to keep employees in the company, and to make a balance between work life and private life. In addition to sport clubs including scuba diving, yachting, table tennis, running, tennis and football, Aksigorta invests in private and social lives of employees through clubs that are working for social responsibility such as Theatre Club and Good Works Club. AvivaSA organizes different events such as hobby clubs, sports activities, motivation events to make a balance between private and work life of employees. Financial support is given to hobby clubs that are established and managed solely by employees. Moreover, flexible working hours have been put into practice to help employees arrange working hours according to personal needs. At Brisa, Employee Support Programs are organized with volunteer participation principle in order to ease daily lives of employees and help them easily overcome problems they face in their work and private lives. The goals of these programs are to help employees overcome problems they face in their work and private lives and provide a platform to help them develop solution methods by offering support from experts. Çimsa offers side benefits of exchange in “Çimsa Store.” Therefore, employees can form their side benefits however they want. Çimsa puts an effort to keep the work life and private life balance by organizing seminars with experts where employees can join with their families, picnics in summer, New Year dinners, communion meetings in factories and other social activities. At Kordsa, work life – private life balance is one of the primary subjects measured with employee commitment survey. Social clubs open for all employees are available in Kordsa. Employees can participate in many activities through women’s club, social responsibility club, sports events, traveling and social activities’ clubs. Teknosa employees are able to set their working hours and vocational leave balance by negotiating with their managers through working hours equalizing method. Employees that attend training programs can arrange their working hours by consulting to their managers. Flexible working hours are offered to employees that are students as well. Based on the demands of part-time employees, their working place and hours can be arranged according to where they live. Special employees (disabled, having a chronic disease, pregnant, etc.) can benefit from administrative leave in order not to get affected from negative environmental conditions. Parents can work half-day in the first day of the school. In Head Office, shuttle service with early departure is available for employees living in the European side not to get affected from traffic. All employees have a right to use one day administrative leave in a month beginning from their birthday. Within the scope of Tekno Life Club activities, all employees can benefit from events such as gifts/sweepstakes, treats, competitions/tournaments, special day applications, discounts and opportunities for economic, socio-cultural and volunteering events. 32 Temsa organizes football, basketball, tennis, table tennis and volleyball tournaments with the participation of Temsa employees every year in its sports arena in the facility. Sabancı University offers membership opportunities for psychological consultancy services and sports fields to employees as much as their students. Also, every seminar in the university is open to the participation of employees and their families. In the reporting period, “Conscious Parenthood” seminars were organized for employees. Employees can become members to student clubs as they wish. Employees can use incomplete working opportunity due to reasons such as private or unpaid leave. Yünsa offers flexible employment and home-office models to provide a balance between the work and private lives of the employees. With the gym in their social facilities and Pilates course in the company Yünsa supports a healthy and quality lifestyle for its employees. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY At Sabancı Group, one of our primary goals is to provide occupational health and safety of our employees. As a Group, we believe that every employee has a right to work in a healthy and safe environment where the conditions are honourable. Providing safety to employees and protecting them are work priorities. In this regard, we closely follow national and international standards, and comply to legal requirements in full. In our Group companies, we carry out studies to expand occupational health and safety culture in addition to occupational health and safety practices. These studies are not limited to our employees; we also carry out different programs for employee families, business partners and society. All the Group Companies aim at zero industrial accidents and occupational diseases through their Occupational Health and Safety Policies. At Sabancı Group, OHS Management is undertaken with the goal of zero occupational accident and disease and within the scope of the law no. 6331 Occupational Health and Safety Law, prepared upon the directives of World Health Organization and International Labour Organization. Furthermore, OHSAS 18001 standards are applied in the fields of risk assessment, machine safety, work permits system and subcontractor management. Turkish Standards Institution’s (TSE) standards are used in the hygiene measurements and the equipment controls as part OHS. OHS compliance is also audited as part of ISO quality controls that Group companies receive depending on their field of operation. Also, occupational health safety obligations under legal regulations and contracts are practiced fully. Besides Sabancı Group employees, there are OHS trainings to increase occupational health and safety awareness of contractors. In this objective, during the reporting period 37,165 Group employees and 12,117 supplier/subcontractor employees got 375,614 person*hour OHS training.10 In Sabancı Group, within legal regulations there are Occupational Health and Safety Rules in accordance with the number of employees. OHS rules work independently and report to Sabancı Holding regularly. Since the reporting period, 82 OHS Committees function in the Group and there are 253 employee representatives. Total members of OHS Committees are 691.10 33 Latest technologies and practices are followed and integrated to work processes with the zerooccupational accident goal. Occupational accident, disease and near-miss statistics are recorded and reported to the Holding by companies. Accident rates Sabancı Holding 1.62 Avivasa 0.03 Akçansa/cement 3.3 Brisa 0.51 Akçansa/Aggregate 7.1 CarrefourSA 0.12 Akçansa/Ready Mixed 5.01 Enerjisa* 76.6 Concrete Çimsa/Cement 1.14 Kordsa 0.24 Çimsa/ Ready Mixed 0.86 Temsa 0.5 Concrete Aksigorta 15.98 Yünsa 2.43 *Energy Amount LTISR (Loss Time Frequency Rate) Employee Health Practices at the Sabancı Group Companies Akbank informs employees on epidemics or important diseases on “Health Corner” in Aksandık website. Also, e-mail announcements are done when there is an emergency. Akçansa organizes trainings with different contents and informative meetings (ergonomics, women’s health, quitting smoking, etc.). Moreover, Akçansa offers consultancy services in all health, psychological, social and legal issues through a support line for employees and their families for 24/7 that is called “Don’t Bother, Just Make a Call.” Aksigorta provides trainings in occupational health and safety to protect employees’ health and raise awareness in occupational safety; and offers information in its special portal, “Us to Us.” Employees receive basic occupational health and safety in face-to-face and e-learning format, health consultancy services are given. First aid trainings are organized to train first-aiders. Occupational accidents are recorded to perform corrective and preventive actions. At AvivaSA, information has been given in regards to preventing employees’ health and potential risks on health during occupational health and safety trainings. Health conversations are made on several topics (musculoskeletal system health, office ergonomics, etc.). Our occupational physician and occupational safety expert evaluate ergonomic suitability of work locations of. Çimsa, organizes health awareness trainings for employees and their families. Employees go through medical examinations in every 6 months. Enerjisa provides special information to its employees in health information seminars and announcements, hygiene audits, health consultancy, smoking, healthy diets, obesity, hypertension, cardiac health, foot health, ergonomics and psychosocial risks in addition to basic occupational health, first-aid and on-the-job trainings. 34 At Kordsa, briefings and programs are organized for employees and their families in regards to health discounts, obesity studies, smoking campaigns and women health, in addition to health trainings and health conversations for employees. Teknosa employees receive information seminars, e-learning, face-to-face trainings, mailing and awareness studies. At Temsa, employees are informed about current and important diseases via an internal communication portal, and training studies are conducted. Moreover, employees’ families receive Emergency Response and First-Aid Training, Responding to Fire Trainings, Accident Prevention and Safe Living Training, Environmental Training, Employees’ Health and Safety trainings. Sabancı University employees, their relatives and students receive information for disease protection through Health Center website. Notifications and guidance are given in case of extraordinary situations such as epidemics. University offers consultancy in all issues including diagnosis, treatment and ambulance services for employees, employee relatives, students, subcontractor employees and guests. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT Sabancı Group aims to act with a social responsibility approach in all of its activities; we consider this responsibility an essential and indispensable part of our management mentality. In addition to sustainable business achievements, we pay attention to creating sustainable values for our stakeholders. We apply our projects voluntarily, and guarantee sustainability in our projects by encouraging stakeholder participation. Based on this approach, we realize social development projects and practices in education, health, culture & art and sports through Sabancı Foundation, Sakıp Sabancı Museum, Sabancı University and Group companies. You can find Sabancı Group Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and Principles here: https://www.sabanci.com/tr/sosyal-sorumluluk/sosyal-sorumluluk-ilkelerimiz/kurumsal-sosyalsorumluluk-politikasi-ve-ilkeleri/i-3336. Sabancı Volunteers Program Initiated in 2015,” Sabancı Volunteers” program is Turkey’s largest corporate volunteering movement. Based on this Sabancı Volunteers, the primary subjects in the first three years are issues on women. This program is designed in two steps including online trainings and volunteering projects offered to Group employees. In the first step of the program, the following online trainings are prepared in regards to Social Gender Equality for Group employees: “Concept and definitions,” “Education and Social Gender,” “Business World and Social Gender,” “Violence against Women,” and “Forced Marriage at an Early Age.” These trainings are disabled-friendly and bilingual. Until now, over 10,000 Sabancı employees received these trainings. In the second step of the project which is the volunteering projects, 500 Sabancı Group employees coming from 27 cities received trainings on non-governmental organizations, working with volunteer and project management processes throughout 8 trainings organized in Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir and Adana. They established their own team and started to realize their projects. Right now, 350 volunteers 35 from 12 Group companies are carrying out 45 projects in education, health, employment and personal development in 11 cities. Until now, over 1,500 disadvantaged women received support. SABANCI FOUNDATION Sabancı Foundation was established in 1974 to institutionalize charities of Sabancı Family and to regulate implementations. The vision of Sabancı Foundation that maintains its operations based on the philosophy of the Deceased Hacı Ömer Sabancı, “to share what we earnt from these lands with the people of these lands,” is “a society in which every individual benefit equally from all rights.” The mission of the Foundation is “to contribute to education, cultural and social development in Turkey.” Education, social alteration and culture & art are the primary operating areas of the Foundation. It focuses on “women,” “young people,” and “the disabled” in its operations. In this objective, the foundation organizes activities on lasting works, education, scholarships, awards, culture and art; in recent years with programs developed on “women”, “youth” and “disabled”, it contributes to the sustainable development of the operational geography. Throughout 42 years since its foundation, Sabancı Foundation established schools, dorms, health institutions, cultural centres, sports facilities, libraries, teachers’ lodge and social facilities in 78 population centres around Turkey, in addition to Sabancı University; and provided over 120 permanent works of art to society. Sabancı Foundation has provided scholarships to over 44,000 students over 42 years since its foundation, and in 2016, it provided scholarship for almost 1.500 students, about 400 of whom were new ones. It gave over 1,100 awards to persons and institutions that gained local and global achievements in education, sports, culture & art in order to promote success. Sabancı University Sabancı Foundation founded Sabancı University in 1999 and today it is a world university with an interdisciplinary educational structure, quality oriented management system and liberal institutional culture. In the authentic educational system of its academic success, “Common Foundations Development Program” is the base instead of the commonly known “academic department” system. In the first year the students take the same courses together and develop their knowledge infrastructures, capacities for thinking in a critical and interdisciplinary fashion. After that, every student is free to pick the introductory courses for the programs they wish to continue and pick their preferred diploma program from among 13 programs available. The Foundation has continued to support State Theatre – Sabancı International Adana Theatre Festival and International Ankara Music Festival in 2016 in regards to culture & art activities. Sakıp Sabancı Mardin City Museum and Dilek Sabancı Art Gallery established by the Foundation has hosted over 540,000 visitors since 2009. Metropolis Ancient City archaeological excavations initiated in 1990 and supported by Sabancı Foundation since 2003 continued in 2016 as well. Situated in Torbalı, Izmir, Metropolis was opened to visitors in 2015 as an archaeological site. A cultural area constructed for Zeus, Chief God of ancient Hellenistic mythology was revealed in excavations continued in 2016. 36 79 young people selected from 12 universities attended to Turkey Young Philharmonic Orchestra supported for 8 years by Sabancı Foundation in 2016. Following a 3-week camp in Sabancı University, this Orchestra staged 8 concerts abroad and one concert in Istanbul. Sabancı Foundation Short Film Competition has been initiated in 2016 to create awareness on social issues through art, to establish awareness through creative perspectives of cinema, and to encourage and promote young talents. The theme of this competition launched with a motto “Short Film, Long Impact” for its first year was “Refugee Women.” The holders of the first three works selected by the jury received awards in the award ceremony organized in January 2017. Sabancı Foundation Social Development Grant Program supports the creation of equal rights for women, young people and disables people, and the projects of non-governmental organizations that support active participation of these groups to society. Since 2008, Social Development Grant Program has received 1,718 applications. Among them, 60 projects were practiced in 72 cities with a total grant support of 10.5 million TL. 54 projects that are completed touched the lives of 90,000 people directly and over 400,000 people indirectly. In addition to grants given according to United Nations Joint Program and Changemakers carried out in two phases in 2006-2010 and 2012-2015, a total of 126 projects from 74 cities so far touched the lives of 700,000 people. 9 non-governmental organizations that are supported by Sabancı Foundation Grant Programs and that completed its projects in 2016 shared their experiences in a meeting organized under a theme “Sowing Season” on 13th October, 2016. “Sowing Season: Grant Program Stories” book that includes the stories of projects were distributed in the meeting that hosted non-governmental organizations, public and media representatives. Purple Certificate Program which is a component of UN Joint Program for Promoting the Human Rights of Women completed in 2015 is a social gender education program fundamentally for teachers. Following the completion of this program, Purple Certificate Program that has been continuing since 2007 and carried out in cooperation with Ministry of Education by Sabancı University reached a total of 3,000 teachers in 17 cities; and 345 teachers received their certificates. In 2016, a cooperation with Bilgi University was established to include potential teachers, primary school teachers and middle school teachers. Changemakers Program which is designed to highlight the stories and efforts of those who make significant contributions to social development in Turkey and inspire them continued in 2016 as well. Changemakers Program is an awareness project that is striving to create social awareness and encourage people to be more sensitive and active citizens in regards to social issues. 150 different Changemakers videos selected among more than 2,000 participants since 2009 are shared in Changemakers website, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. Videos of changemakers watched by more than 8 million viewers in Turkey and abroad through internet and social media. Sabancı Foundation brings together non-governmental organizations, foundations, private sector and public institution representatives with international experts and enable knowledge sharing in regards to new approaches in foundations and non-governmental societies. In this context, 9th of “Sabancı Foundation Philanthropy Seminars” titled “Love for Humanity Despite All” was held on 8th December, 2016. 37 Sabancı Foundation continued to strengthen its presence in international arena in 2016. This foundation has become the only foundation to be selected twice for membership to the Board of Directors of European Foundation Centre (EFC) in 2014 (the first was in 2011) to which it is a member of since 1991, and the only foundation from Turkey to be in EFC management. Sabancı Foundation hosted a session on social gender in EFC Annual meeting held in Amsterdam in May together with 3 foundations from Europe. In December, Sabancı Foundation participated as a speaker to a session titled “Innovative Methods Applied for Refugee Women” of Grantmakers East Forum Conference held in Hamburg. Moreover, Foundation continued to preserve its mission as an opinion leader by publishing articles on philanthropy in international and prestigious publications. Through Changemakers Program, Sabancı Foundation received Social Awareness Award from the Institute of internal Auditors (TIDE) which is Turkish representative of International Internal Auditors Institute (IIA) that has over 190,000 members in 170 countries. SABANCI UNIVERSITY SAKIP SABANCI MUSEUM (SSM) Mansion with Horse which was bought by Hacı Ömer Sabancı in 1951 and have been Sakıp Sabancı’s permanent residence, was allocated to Sabancı University for the purpose of being a museum. Opened in 2002, the museum’s exhibition areas were enlarged in 2005 to comply with the international technical standards. Hosting a rich collection, SSM embodies a multi-faceted museum approach through its international temporary exhibitions, conservation units, exemplary training programs, screenings, concerts, conferences and seminars. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PRACTICES IN GROUP COMPANIES As well as social responsibility projects and practices by the leadership of Sabancı Foundation, Sabancı Group companies design and realize projects and practices in accordance to the expectations of their stakeholders with whom they share sectoral and geographic conditions. Group companies contribute to social development with their social responsibility principles and policies as well as studies on various fields such as culture, art, education, sports and environment. Featured projects of the reporting period are listed above: Akbank conducts different programs to support entrepreneurship. In this regard, Akbank has been developing financial and non-financial projects with Endeavor for a decade. Moreover, entrepreneurs receive financial support through credit pool established for active entrepreneurs selected by Endeavor Turkey. Another entrepreneurship study is “CaseCampus.” This project aims to offer an innovative education and training opportunity for participants using real stories and dilemmas of leading exemplary entrepreneurs. In CaseCampus Case Study Program, all processes, challenges, achievements and struggles of entrepreneurs that achieved great success in Turkish entrepreneurship ecosystem are shared with young candidates. CaseCampus Programs organized in 2016 received a total of over 2,500 applications, and 247 of them graduated from the program. Another project that shows the support of Akbank to entrepreneurs is Akbank Entrepreneur Development Program. In 2016, more than 500 candidates applied to Akbank Entrepreneur Development Program which is a training program initiated to support and steer entrepreneurs that are on the bottom of the ladder by Sabancı University School of Entrepreneurship (SUGK) and Akbank. Akçansa organized 7th “Concrete Ideas Project Competition” in the reporting period to give university students an opportunity to introduce themselves to the sector and demonstrate their creativity. 880 38 students from 104 different universities participated in this competition. Akçansa provides training to future generations and parents of these generations, and realized “My Neighbourhood” Social Responsibility Project with the cooperation of Büyükçekmece District Directorate of National Education and Tüvana Foundation for Educating Children (TOÇEV) in order to create happy child, happy family and happy neighbourhood, and establish concrete foundations for future. According to this project, children learn how to communicate better at school, at home and when they are with friends. Parents receive support from experts in challenging issues and in training their children be happy and healthy individuals. As a result of My Neighbourhood trainings given by expert psychologists of TOÇEV, it is revealed that children gain emotional awareness and ability to express themselves, to comply with group rules, to wait and postpone; and their empathy abilities enhanced with art and drama. This project aims to reach 15,000 students and fathers-mothers till the end of 2016-2017 Education Period by visiting 68 schools in Büyükçekmece one by one. Based on “Children Transforming Future” project, Akçansa volunteers organize studies to teach children to learn their position in the society and to take personal responsibility for a sustainable future. Aksigorta continued social responsibility projects in the reporting period together with HAÇİKO, association for the protection of street animals, to increase animal love in society, to prevent animal rights violations and to raise awareness in public. Aksigorta participated in “September Project” organized by Aksigorta Spastic Children’s Foundation of Turkey and become one of the two teams that collected the highest donation amount among 65 corporate companies. Aksigorta employees took 15,9 million steps for this project organized to be a hope for children with Cerebral Palsy. Good Works Club develops many social responsibility and aid campaigns according to all requirements. Donations are collected for certain events or projects are applied in this club that brings together employees working at different departments of Aksigorta under social responsibility approach. AvivaSA also continued their donations to NGOs who work in accordance with corporate social responsibility. In this regard, AvivaSa donated to the Foundation for the Support of Women’s Work for employees that have a baby, to the Educational Volunteers Foundation of Turkey (TEGV) when first degree relative of an employee dies, and to TEGV for employees that undergo a serious illness or surgery. Food sale supported with volunteer employees, all revenue of plays staged by theatre group and donations and revenues obtained through participation to 38th Istanbul Marathon are donated to Life without Cancer Organization. Brisa organizes auditing and awareness-raising practices in thread depth of tires and tire pressure which are significantly important for driving safety under a campaign titled “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” (2 min. for our safety) initiated by Bridgestone in 2013. In 2016, Brisa reached many drivers thanks to studies we performed in IDO decks and stations in 7 different cities. Brisa offers free consultancy services to farmers in regards to good agricultural practices, efficient driving and safe driving through its project “Strong Agriculture – Strong Future.” In this project, Brisa directly reached almost 3,000 farmers in 156 villages of 21 cities, informed almost 20,000 farmers about sustainable agricultural practices, and mounted more than 12,000 reflectors. CarrefourSA travelled all around Turkey with “Planet C” theatre play staged with the support of Beşiktaş Culture Center (BKM) in order to emphasize the importance of fresh food, and contributed children to be informed about the importance of fresh food through joy. “Planet C” play staged in 14 different cities after the gala in Beşiktaş Culture Centre and staged for the last time in Istanbul on 23rd April, 2016. Edible consumption surplus foods all around Turkey are shared with stray animals living 39 in shelters thanks to CarrefourSa’s “Friend Movement” project in cooperation with HayKonFed. Thus, not only food destruction is prevented, but also our little friends eat food. CarrefourSA has supported “From Farm to School” project that aims to create awareness on child labour in agriculture, and cooperated with UNICEF Turkish National Committee for the requirements of children that are to migrate with their parents due to seasonal agricultural labour. In the first year of the project, we reached 5,000 children and supported improving of living conditions of children and compensating their education. Çimsa visits kindergartens in different villages in Niğde and supports maintenance & repair works of these schools in order to support education projects for children, which is one of Çimsa’s social priority. In this regard, Çimsa renews educational materials and meets all requirements of students to give them a better education. “Summer Children” project carried out since 2012 continues as a sustainable and corporate social responsibility project for educating children. In addition to these projects, many corporate social responsibility projects are conducted in regions where Çimsa’s small-scale facilities are situated. Enerjisa renewed 154 village schools up to now which started from 15 schools in 2009 in regards to school renewal project realized as a social responsibility project. In this project, all processes including identification of schools in need, follow-up of repair works, identification of suppliers, making controls, preparation of documents and etc. are conducted with the support of Enerjisa employees from different locations. In Enerjisa’s corporate social responsibility project carried out since 2010 for primary school children which has a motto “Protecting My Energy,” the importance of energy efficiency is staged with theatre plays and games. Until now, 250,000 students from 520 schools in Turkey received Energy Efficiency Trainings. Enerjisa offers children a mobile game with a special animation titled “Protecting My Energy” in its website www.enerjimikoruyorum.org and enables them to learn information on global energy resources and how to protect these limited resources through game playing. Kordsa renewed a school in İzmit with the support of leaders at Global Leadership Summit (GLS) which gathers leaders of manufacturing facilities all around the world every year. Teknosa, has been organizing free computer training courses for women in different cities of Turkey since 2007 in regards to its “Technology for Women” Project. Based on this project that aims to help women be more active in using technology in social and cultural life, over 15,000 women from 61 cities received free computer training. Teknosa sales wrapping papers and gift cards designed by students of Darüşşafaka in all TeknoSA stores all around Turkey. All revenue of sold wrapping materials and a portion of revenue of gift cards are donated to Darüşşafaka Society. Believing in the importance of sport and power of communication in social development of a society, TeknoSA continued to support National Team during Euro 2016 as the Technology Supplier of National Teams. Temsa organizes “Joint Dreams Project” with the financial support of employees to develop educational institutions in rural sites in Adana and around. This project is established to contribute to social projects. Sabancı University established a social responsibility project titled “SU Volunteers Knit” under the 40 cooperation of HR and CIP projects (Social Susceptibility Projects) in 2016. In this regard, volunteers knitted scarves and caps to children studying in the East of Turkey. Yünsa created Yünsa Afforestation Areas in Çerkezköy crossroad on Istanbul – Edirne highway and in Büyükçavuşlu on Çerkezköy – Saray state highway in order to contribute to a healthy future based on its social responsibility approach and respect for nature. All planting, watering and nurturing works of afforestation areas are conducted by Yünsa based on corporate volunteering. 41
