Annual Report 2016/17 ON THE FRONT LINE The DIMO tribe has always been inspired by our mission statement to ‘create value responsibly’. Every year we evaluate our value creation process in clear and simple terms, discussing the strategies and systems by which our complex business enterprise is managed and analysing our financial results through the pages of this, our Integrated Annual Report. Over the years and in partnership with our thousands of customers, business partners and other associates, we have built a valuable and respected business enterprise that works to the same principles of responsibility, integrity and trustworthiness as it did at origin. The year under review has not been an easy one and we anticipate more challenges to come. Yet we remain confident that we can hold our lines and battle forward, to keep delivering sustainable growth in the years that lie ahead. The powerful synergies and strengths we integrate into our business model will continue to serve us well. But it is the unswerving loyalty and fighting spirit of the DIMO tribe on the frontline that ignites our far-flung and complex business operations, to deliver the seamless value we fearlessly pledge to our stakeholders every single day. EXCELLENCE...RIGHT DOWN THE LINE Contents 1 2 Introductory Statements Context Excellence....right down the line A clear line of sight Welcome to our seventh integrated Annual Report! We begin We begin with an overview of DIMO, our Group Structure and with our corporate philosophy, highlights of the year under history. We then introduce our Board of Directors and senior review followed by a message from the Chairman/ Managing management team, followed by a discussion of the DIMO Director A. R. Pandithage and the review of the Group Chief value creation model and overall strategy. The reader also Executive Officer A. G. Pandithage of DIMO. The section ends learns how we engage with our stakeholders, together with with a brief guide to reading this Annual Report, setting the an analysis of our sustainability performance. context for the detailed disclosures that follow. Group Structure 21 DIMO History 22 Our Corporate Philosophy 04 Board of Directors 24 The Year’s Highlights 06 Group Management Committee 28 Chairman’s Message 08 Value Creation Model 30 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 12 Strategy 31 How to Read the Report 16 Basis for Resource Allocation 33 Determining the Report Content 18 Stakeholder Engagement and Material Issues 34 Sustainability Performance Objectives 39 3 Enterprise Governance Staying in line DIMO is committed to responsible and transparent governance and here we offer a detailed analysis of how we manage enterprise governance, risk management and conformance. Enterprise Governance 41 Senior Independent Director’s Statement 50 Committee Reports 51 Risk Management 56 ONLINE REFERENCES: The HTML version of the Annual Report 2016/17 can be read at http://www.dimolanka.com/investors/financial-reports Supplementary information of the Annual Report 2016/17 can be read at http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Code of Best Practices of Corporate Governance detail disclosure of the Annual Report 2016/17 can be read at http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ 2 ON THE FRONT LINE 4 Value Creation Top of the line Here we look at the capitals that provide inputs, the performance of diverse business segments. We also describe the economic, social and environmental impacts of our value creation activities. Capitals Report 63 Business Report 84 Impact Management Report 95 5 6 Financial Information Supplementary Information In line with your expectations Leading the line The DIMO Financial Statements are presented here, The final section consists of information together with accompanying reports and statements. supplementary to the main body of this report. Annual Report of the Board of Directors 114 Appendix I Share Information 167 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 118 Appendix II GRI Content Index 169 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Appendix III Independent Assurance Statement Statements 119 on Non-Financial Reporting 175 Financial Calendar 120 Appendix IV Ten Year Summary 178 Independent Auditors’ Report 121 Appendix V Glossary 179 Financial Statements Section 1 122 Corporate Information 181 Corporate Information Section 2 128 Notice of Meeting 182 Basis of Accounting Section 3 129 Form of Proxy 183 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Section 4 132 Other Disclosures Section 5 163 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 3 Annual Report 2016/17 EXCELLENCE...RIGHT DOWN THE LINE Introductory Statements Our Corporate Philosophy 04 The Year’s Highlights 06 Chairman’s Message 08 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 12 How to Read the Report 16 Determining the Report Content 18 4 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Our Aspiration To be the corporate role model that inspires and touches the life of every Sri Lankan, every day. Our Purpose To create value responsibly Our Values Responsible: To be a responsible corporate citizen. To act with responsibility towards all our stakeholders and the environment Righteous: To stand for righteousness with resolve Responsive: To be approachable and responsive to every stakeholder we serve Reliable: To be reliable and trustworthy, whatever we undertake to do Respectful: To always treat people with dignity and respect Resilient: To be resilient in adversity + This report can be viewed on Internet Explorer 9.x or higher, Mozilla Firefox® 32.x or higher, Safari 6, or higher, Chrome 23 or higher Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 5 Annual Report 2016/17 EXCELLENCE...RIGHT DOWN THE LINE The Year’s Highlights The year’s story is a MONETISED CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL complex one. While on the whole, your company REVENUE GREW CUSTOMER SATISFACTION IMPROVED delivered a reasonable 44.5 Rs. Bn. 90 % In 2015/16 37.7 performance yet again in In 2015/16 88% Customer Satisfaction Index PAT DECREASED the year under review, our 657 Rs. Bn. RETAINING THE CUSTOMERS 2014 industry sectors have been 96 4 In 2015/16 947 2015 95 5 forced to operate in a very EBIT MARGINALLY INCREASED (Rs. Mn) 2016 2017 94 93 6 7 2013 challenging environment 1,126 % of customers without repeat purchases 2014 950 % of customers with repeat purchases 2015 1,270 and the year ahead is 2016 1,850 REACHING THE CUSTOMER 2017 1,900 predicted to be equally if DIVIDEND DECREASED 65 Customer Interaction Points not more difficult. In 2015/16 60 24 Rs. OUR NEW HOME IN KURUNEGALA ON A Chairman’s Message In 2015/16 27 FIVE ACRE PROPERTY Dividend per Share KEY FINANCIAL OUTCOMES There were four new appointments to ROE 6.46% the Board during the year (9.46% 2015/16) ● Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte ● Mr. M. V. Bandara ● Mr. P. K. W. Mahendra ● Mr. S. R. W. M. Ranawana NP Margin Asset Turnover Financial Leverage 1.48% 1.95 times 2.24 times (2.52% (1.84 times (2.04 times 2015/16) 2015/16) 2015/16) As a responsible corporate, NET ASSET PER SHARE IMPROVED we too decided to take our sustainability reporting to the 1,145.16 Rs. In 2015/16 1,125.42 next level and present our report MARKET CAPITALISATION IMPROVED in accordance with the recently Winner of the Distributor of the issued GRI Standards. 4.97 Rs. Bn. Mercedes-Benz Service Excellence year 2016 Awarded by TATA Motors In 2015/16 4.88 award in South East Limited Asia in 2016 Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review 6 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information HUMAN CAPITAL ECONOMIC IMPACT SOCIAL IMPACT CASE STUDY: FORMULA STUDENT OUR TRIBE CREATING VALUE QUEST FOR TALENT 1,725 Number of employees 18,204 Rs. Mn. In 2015/16 1,573 In 2015/16 14,956 Monetised Value Added A GREAT PLACE TO WORK FOR THE FOURTH CONSECUTIVE YEAR IMPROVED TSR 11.13 % In 2015/16 -9.57% Total Shareholder Return (TSR) COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 109 Rs. Mn. In 2015/16 68 ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT Community Development Investment TOTAL CARBON FOOTPRINT KEEPING OUR PROMISE 7,923 tCO2e In our 2015/16 Annul Report, we pledged that we will engage our employees to collect at least 456 kgs of plastics for re-cycling. As In 2015/16 7,224 usual, we kept to our promise. One of the best twenty five companies in Sri Lanka to work for ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER EMPLOYEE 43.27 OUR SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY TRAIN AND GAIN GJ MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ADOPTED THE SA 8000:2014 STANDARD 36,818 Number of Knowledge In 2015/16 43.94 & Skills Development Training Hours In 2015/16 26,735 OUR BUSINESS AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS INCREASED 2013 15.37 REVENUE COMPOSITION GROUP (%) 2014 12.62 D-6 E-6 A-70 A VehiclesSales B Vehicles After Services 2015 15.86 C-10 C-4 E-6 D-10 C Marketing and Distribution 2016 17.87 D Construction and Material B-8 B-8 2015/16 2016/17 2017 21.57 Handling Equipment E Electro-Mechanical, A-72 Bio-Medical and Marine Introducing new E-class, raising the threshold EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE ENHANCED Engineering of Luxury 64.56 % RELATED DIVERSIFICATION Ventured into fertilizer business towards the end In 2015/16 62.04% of the financial year, adding another offering to Employee Satisfaction Index our agri-inputs business. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 7 Annual Report 2016/17 EXCELLENCE...RIGHT DOWN THE LINE Moving the Goal Lines A message from the Chairman/Managing Director, Mr. A.R. Pandithage MR. A.R. PANDITHAGE Chairman/Managing Director “My tribe is well equipped to face the challenges that come their way in the ensuing year. We have approached the new financial year with plans to overcome these challenges.” 8 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information “…in these tough times, we believe that the steadfast loyalty and fighting spirit of the DIMO tribe on the front line will continue to drive our continued success and deliver the seamless value we confidently pledge to our stakeholders now and into the future.” On the Front Line year as stocks imported prior to tariff revisions This year’s story is a complex one. While our were sold at previous prices until the year end. Company performed reasonably well on the whole, Widespread Consequences our industry sectors have been forced to operate in a very challenging environment. The year ahead is Small commercial vehicles are widely used in micro predicted to be equally, if not more, difficult. and small scale businesses; they are considered a vital cog for inclusive economic growth. The We realise that we have a battle ahead. This is why higher tariffs have had an adverse impact on these the theme of this year’s Annual Report is ‘On the sectors. We have made representations to the Front Line’. Despite these tough times, we believe Government highlighting the impact of the tariff the fighting spirit of the DIMO tribe will drive us from increase on micro and small scale businesses, as the frontline. What we pledge to our stakeholders well as on us and consequently, on Government will be delivered with steadfast loyalty. revenue. A Mixed Bag on the Economic Front A Word of Appreciation Too DIVIDEND PER SHARE The financial year turned out to be a challenging On the other hand, I must express appreciation to one. External economic factors were a mix of the Government authorities for streamlining the favourable and unfavourable. The AWPLR showed administration of vehicle imports, including the Rs. a significant increase during the year and was methodology adopted in the calculation of tariff. It 30 strongly felt and reflected in the results. The Sri is my view that the present tariff regime for vehicle Lankan Rupee depreciated at a manageable level, imports has enabled a more realistic method of 25 while the GDP growth rate was a moderate 4.4% administering tariff on vehicle imports, thereby 20 (4.8% 2015/16). The economic sectors in which facilitating a level playing field. we have businesses recorded very moderate 15 levels of growth in 2016, with the exception of the Top Line Growth Did Not Help 10 construction industry, which recorded a substantial The 18% increase in turnover did not flow through growth of 14.9% (2.7% 2015/16). Although the to the bottom line. Reduced margins, and increased 5 transport sector grew by 4.1% (5.0% 2015/16), administration and financial costs dragged down 0 the number of vehicle registrations, excluding two the profit before tax to Rs.1,043 million (Rs.1,380 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 and three-wheelers, reduced by 42.9%. Overall, it 2015/16). From a segmental perspective, the was a mixed bag. results of the Vehicle Sales segment remained flat, while the results of the Vehicle Aftercare, A Change of Scenario in the Third Quarter Construction and Material Handling Equipment We saw a turnaround in the Government tariff policy segment showed an increase. The Marketing & applicable to small vehicles. The comparatively Distribution and Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical low tariffs governing commercial and passenger and Marine Engineering segments decreased, small vehicles saw a significant increase in the compared to the previous year. However, EBIT 657Mn third quarter. TATA Ace (popularly known as ‘DIMO marginally increased to Rs.1,900 million from Batta’) and single and double cabs were among Rs.1,850 million in the previous year. Rs. the commercial vehicles most affected. These vehicles previously brought in a significant revenue Dividends Profit After Tax stream. Their market size has now shrunk to less The dividend for the year amounted to Rs.24 than 25% of the pre-tariff revision volumes. The (Rs.27 2015/16) per share, which was declared Rs.947 Mn (2015/16) full impact of this however, was not felt during the as an interim dividend in March 2017. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 9 Annual Report 2016/17 EXCELLENCE...RIGHT DOWN THE LINE A message from the Chairman/Managing Director, Mr. A.R. Pandithage Collaborate and Differentiate We have to proactively deal with the ‘millennial mindset’ of We pursue an approach of collaboration and differentiation to gain a competitive edge. emerging young leaders and our customers who share a similar Collaboration comes from employees and mindset. Their values and preferences make us re-think our differentiation is sought in five key areas. Engaged employees and best-in-class business partners value propositions from content to delivery. We are aware that are key for collaboration to be effective. understanding this mindset will help us to foresee the future and Employee Engagement is Key smoothly transform our business models accordingly. The need for We value the contribution of a well-engaged employee. Therefore, nurturing our tribe members transformation will be an important part of our leadership coaching. as precious resource, and securing their engagement, are key responsibilities placed upon the DIMO leadership. Employee engagement is In Line for Growth Our New Home in Kurunegala a key facet in our talent management strategy. It is our sincere desire to make our employee The performance of our largest business segment Kurunegala has always been significant in our value proposition “making work enjoyable and Vehicle Sales, depends to some extent on growth plans, particularly for the Commercial rewarding” a reality at all times. the Government tariff policy. From a historical Vehicle business. In order to reach our customers point of view, it has contributed significantly and better, we embarked on a journey to open more Best-in-class Business Partners consistently to overall profitability. We continue branches. The second branch in Kurunegala We treasure our business partners, particularly aggressively to pursue a higher market share in commenced work back in October 2016; that our foreign principals, with whom we have built the vehicle sales segment. At the same time, over journey has now brought us to 32 branches and strong relationships over the years. Our best-inthe recent years we have consciously directed our 33 customer contact points and display points. Our class business partners and our tribe members efforts to grow in other segments. Such efforts growth plans include a second wave of investments form a strong coalition to deliver a resource pool implemented during the past few years are now beyond Colombo with a view to expand the existing that drives our differentiation strategy. Therefore, yielding results, and I am happy to note that many capacity and serve our customers better. As a first nurturing and forming lasting relationships with of our growth plans in other segments are coming step, we developed the Centre of Excellence on business partners is a key area of our focus. to fruition. Our budgets indicate that the new a five-acre property in Kurunegala, housing our business segments are going make a noteworthy new vehicles showroom and a 15,447 squareNeed to Transform contribution to profits and growth in the ensuing foot workshop. This facility started operations in year. October 2016. We have to proactively deal with the ‘millennial mindset’ of emerging young leaders and our Footprint in Agriculture Sector Prepared to Overcome Challenges customers who share a similar mindset. Their values and preferences make us re-think our Our present presence in the agriculture sector Last year was a very turbulent period. The value propositions from content to delivery. We are consists mainly of the harvesters and tractors unexpected increase in the tariff on small aware that understanding this mindset will help we offer. With a view to expanding our footprint commercial vehicles, escalating interest rates, us to foresee the future and smoothly transform in agriculture, we will be launching a fertilizer slowing down of projects and a few other factors our business models accordingly. The need for business in the very near future. We recently combined, posed a serious challenge to the transformation will be an important part of our acquired a twenty-nine acre property close to profitability of the Group. Frequent changes in leadership coaching. Dambulla, which will be used for our agriculture tariffs also made our medium and long-term business. It will be developed as a Centre of strategies less effective. This situation led us to Leveraging Technology Excellence for the ‘DIMO – Agri’ brand. resort to short-term plans as opposed to taking a long-term view of the tariff policy. My tribe is well Technology is increasingly embedded in our Beyond the Shores equipped to face the challenges that come their offering and its delivery. It can no longer be way in the ensuing year. We have approached the considered a mere enabler. Our partnerships with Last year, we decided to look beyond our shores new financial year with plans to overcome these the best-in-class technology providers in the world, for growth. Our efforts are mainly to harness our challenges. places us in an advantageous position to leverage engineering expertise outside Sri Lanka. We technology to compete efficiently. Building the have now identified ventures in the Maldives DIMO as a Model of Resilience technological competency of our tribe members and Myanmar for investments. In the Maldives, thus takes priority in our training agenda. we will join hands with a reputed local partner to To build DIMO as a model of resilience that can commence a ship and marine craft repair business. withstand all challenges and pressures, is of Our Role in Sustainable Development The investment in Myanmar will initially focus on paramount importance. This calls for an internallyan automotive workshop with plans to venture into focused strengthening process that addresses Our commitment to sustainable development other areas. the basic fabric of the organisation. When aligned, emanates from our mission statement, which our values, our systems, structured processes, reads “create value responsibly”. This is put into practices and sound principles, give DIMO the practice through the principles of sustainability and ability to build a reputation as a corporate role sustainable development goals (SDGs) embraced model. 10 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information by the Group. The Impact Management Report Outlook presented in this annual report provides a detailed Our country is in a phase where aggressive account of the economic, social and environment investment plans are drawn by successive impact made by our value creation activities Governments. Therefore, we expect public and and outputs. It also provides an account of our private sector investments to increase in the short contribution to achieving SDGs. I am happy to note and medium term. The significant investments we that our carbon footprint reduced from 0.1917 have been making in capacity building will position tCO2e per Rs.1.0 million turnover to 0.1731. us well to ride this wave. Social Accountability A short-term perspective indicates mixed Our employees drive our value chain. They fortunes. The upward revision of the tariff of small are assisted by external parties such as commercial vehicles during the third quarter is subcontractors. It is our duty to ensure that bound to hurt our top line and bottom line in the everyone who participates in our value chain within ensuing year, unless we see a reversal of this our sphere of influence is treated fairly and with policy at least during the second quarter. However, respect. Our social accountability management counter strategies are in place to minimise the system is aimed at delivering on this duty. In adverse impact of the tariff increase. We would order to enhance credibility of this system, we also gladly welcome a favourable revision in the sought SA8000 accreditation from the Social loan-to-value ratio in vehicle financing. The higher Accountability International (SAI). The evaluation volumes planned in Mercedes-Benz Passenger process was recently concluded and we were and Commercial vehicles are expected to provide informed of our eligibility for this certification. I a boost to the vehicle sales segment. consider this accreditation to be a true reflection of our business ethics. Some key road construction projects are expected to take off during the year. This will provide an Integrated Reporting – The Journey Continues impetus to the Construction Machinery and Material We have now tread the Integrated Reporting <IR> Handing Segment, and also to the sales of heavy journey for seven years. Our strong belief is that commercial vehicles. We have secured a fair share integrated reporting will allow our stakeholders to of work in the private sector construction segment capture our enterprise value creation in a holistic and this should help the Building Technologies manner, without being limited only to monetised business to perform well. Additional revenue value creation and sustainability. Presently, we streams are expected from new investments in the are shepherded by the reporting guidelines Agriculture sector, including fertilizer. Overall, our issued by the International Integrated Reporting budgets indicate an improved performance in the Council (IIRC). We trust that more guidance ensuing year. will be forthcoming from the IIRC as we gather momentum in our IR journey. A Warm Welcome I extend a warm welcome to Messrs. A.D.B. Talwatte, M.V. Bandara, P.K.W. Mahendra and S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana, who joined the Board with effect from 01st June 2016. Mr. Talwatte joined the Board as a Independent Non-Executive A.R. PANDITHAGE Director and Messrs. Bandara, Mahendra and Chairman/Managing Director Ranawana who have previously served the Group as Chief Operating Officers of their respective 23rd May 2017 divisions, now function as Executive Directors. Colombo Acknowledgments Many have contributed to the success of our journey so far and towards the future of DIMO. Thank you very much to our customers who inspire us by placing their faith in us; our business partners for seeing value in us; and my amazing tribe members who work tirelessly to take DIMO to greater heights. To my colleagues on the Board, thank you for your astute guidance. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 11 Annual Report 2016/17 EXCELLENCE...RIGHT DOWN THE LINE On the Right Lines A review of operations from the Group Chief Executive Officer, Mr. A.G. Pandithage MR. A.G. PANDITHAGE Group Chief Executive Officer “Teamwork is the driving force behind our success today. This report is a tribute to the commitment and hard work of everyone working in the great partnerships that together form the DIMO Tribe.” 12 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Overview in loan to value (LTV) ratio on small commercial The primary business interests of the DIMO group vehicles, curtailed our segment revenue during the involve the supply of capital goods for use in last quarter. The registration of vehicles decreased different economic sectors. Users of this equipment by 26% in 2016 compared to 2015. Vehicle often fund their investments through borrowings registrations excluding two and three wheelers fell and therefore, the fortunes of these sectors are by 43% during the same period. closely linked to the prevalent borrowing rates. The absence of negative sentiment in the first Other economic aspects such as exchange rates three quarters helped the number of vehicles and the growth of the aligned economic sectors sold for the year to decrease by 11% (increase are also linked to the performance of the Group. A CURRENCY RATE AT YEAR END by 33% 2015/16) and the segment turnover to VS INFLATION table capturing key economic indicators and their increase by 15% (45% 2015/16). The segment Rs. % relevance to DIMO is presented in the Business turnover accounted for 71% of the Group 8 Report on page 83. 200 7 8 turnover. The segment result remained flat as a Financial Result consequence of reduced Gross Profit margins, 150 6 higher administration and finance costs. The turnover and gross profit increased by 18% and 13% respectively over last year’s. The gross Vehicles – After Services Segment 100 4 3 4 profit margin reduced to 16.71% from 17.43% The transportation sector, which has a bearing on last year. The net profit before tax reduced by this segment, grew by 4.1% compared to 5.0% 50 2 24%. However, earnings before interest and tax in 2015. The Tata spare parts business showed 1 (EBIT) improved slightly to Rs.1,900 million from 0 0 a 27% (28% 2015/16) growth surpassing its Rs.1,850 million previous year. 24% increase in 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 budgets. This helped the turnover of the vehicle administration cost and 82% in finance cost were after services segment to increase by 21% US$ Euro Inflation key factors that curtailed profits. and consequently, the segment result by 48%. Vehicle Sales Segment Improvements in productivity are sought on a continuous basis to further improve the profitability The Sri Lankan automobile industry remains of our vehicle repair workshops. Presently, we highly volatile due to constantly changing tariffs REGISTRATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES hold 186 (186 – as at 31/03/2016) work-bays and regulations. The first three quarters of the in the western province and 107 (103 – as at year did not see any significant change in tariff Nos. 31/03/2016) workbays outside it. Our short and during each quarter, the segment recorded a 120,000 and medium term aim is to expand our workshop revenue growth over the preceding quarter. The capacity outside the western province. The 100,000 changes in tariff consequent to the government amount spent during the year on technology, budget proposals in November 2016 and increase 80,000 60,000 40,000 The turnover and gross profit increased by 18% and 13% 20,000 respectively over last year’s. The gross profit margin reduced to 16.71% from 17.43% last year. The net profit before tax reduced 0 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Buses Private Cars Goods Transport Vehicles by 24%. However, earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) improved Land Vehicles Dual Purpose Total Number of Vehicle Registerd slightly to Rs.1,900 million from Rs.1,850 million previous year. Registration of Motor Vehicles vs Vehicle Sales of the Group Registration of Motor Vehicles Vehicles Sales of the Group Class of Vehicles Growth Growth 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rate % Rate % Motor Cars (a) 45,172 105,628 (57) 907 1,778 (49) Buses 2,685 4,140 (35) 366 405 (10) Dual Purpose Vehicles (b) 26,887 39,456 (32) 9,543 11,287 (15) Goods Transport Vehicles (c) 7,563 7,142 6 1,808 1,316 37 Land Vehicles (d) 13,947 12,105 15 1,241 794 56 Total 96,254 168,471 (43) 13,865 15,580 (11) Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 13 Annual Report 2016/17 EXCELLENCE...RIGHT DOWN THE LINE A review of operations from the Chief Executive Officer, Mr. A.G. Pandithage Availability of experienced, technically skilled labour in the Non-monetised Capital Our integrated reporting journey leads us to give vocations related to our business is another challenge at hand. due importance to our nonmonetised capitals, as This is perhaps due to the shortage of high quality technical our long term sustenance depends on how well we manage and nurture them. This integrated colleges and the absence of suitable long term courses report will cover our non-monetised capitals in more detail. We have opted to classify them as relating to technical and vocational education in areas such as Relationship Capital consisting of Customers and Business Partners, Human Capital and Intellectual automobile engineering. This problem is further aggravated by Capital. the migration of labour in search of greener pastures. Committed to a Common Cause In order to effectively pursue our mission statement, it is imperative that all our tribe members are aligned towards it, and that they tools and equipment for workshops amounted earned from a large scale engineering project are suitably engaged to play their role effectively. to Rs.98 million (Rs.34 million 2015/16). carried out last year contributed to the reduction Therefore, we actively seek ways to promote Technical competence, which is a critical aspect in the segment result this year. employee engagement and also carry out a survey in providing after care for vehicles, is enhanced on to measure it. The engagement score of the a continuous basis. The employees in the vehicles Challenges annual employee engagement survey increased – after service segment received 3,987 hours Demand contractions, triggered by high tariff and this year to 3.88 out of a maximum score of 5.0, (4,061 hours 2015/16) of training during the higher LTV ratio on small commercial vehicles, from a score of 3.85 in the last year. year. have significantly curtailed the revenue stream from small commercial vehicles. On the other hand, Sustainability Marketing and Distribution keen interest can be seen for larger commercial Our mission statement directs us to create value While the segment turnover increased by 13% vehicles. Plans are afoot to ramp up resources for responsibly. This is the origin of our commitment (15% 2015/16), the segment result decreased larger commercial vehicle sales. to creating value for our stakeholders and doing by 35% (13% 2015/16). The Power Tools so in a responsible manner. Our philosophy, values, and Original Equipment (OEM) businesses made Availability of experienced, technically skilled structures, systems and processes encourage positive contributions to this segment while labour in the vocations related to our business is commitment to such behaviour. We make our the Consumer and Bosch Auto Components another challenge at hand. This is perhaps due to commitment to sustainable development and businesses fell well below expectations. Focused the shortage of high quality technical colleges and inclusive growth transparent and visible through attention is now being given to turning these two the absence of suitable long term courses relating our corporate reporting process. businesses around. to technical and vocational education in areas such as automobile engineering. This problem is Global Reporting Initiative Standards Construction and Material Handling Equipment further aggravated by the migration of labour in We always follow best practices in corporate The construction sector rebounded during search of greener pastures. reporting and in reporting matters relating 2016 recording a substantial growth of 14.9%, to sustainability. In the past few years, our DIMO Auto Training School sustainability reporting has been guided by the recovering from a 2.7% contraction recorded in 2015; this trend is expected to continue, at Against the back drop of the shortage of GRI G4 guidelines. In October 2016, the Global least in the short term. In a relatively supportive experienced technical personnel, we have on Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) issued environment, the segment turnover and the our part made a significant investment in our the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI segment result increased by 66% (decreased by DIMO Automobile Training School (DATS), which Standards) taking sustainability reporting to 11% 2015/16) and 21% (decreased by 16% produces technically qualified personnel, with another level. As a responsible corporate, we too 2015/16) respectively. With road construction particular emphasis on automobile engineering. decided to take our sustainability reporting to the projects expected to recommence, this segment DATS is headed by a full time expatriate employee, next level and present our report in accordance should produce an improved result. who counts many years of experience in technical with the recently issued GRI Standards. training in different parts of the world, including Electro-Mechanical, Bio Medical and Marine Europe. The graduands are free to look for career Staying Ahead Engineering opportunities outside DIMO upon completion of Adopting best practices and employing systems Fortunes of this segment depend on many the two year course. We consider and take pride that work well for us help us to stay ahead. The best sectors and subsectors of the economy. They in this as one of our contributions to the nation practices we adopt have manifested themselves in include the industrial, power, water, health and and the industry. Although it may be a step in the the many awards and accolades received during construction sectors. While the segment turnover right direction when addressing the shortage of year for Integrated Reporting, Sustainability increased by 23% (22% 2015/16), the segment skilled labour, the immediate problem of sourcing Reporting, Human Resource Management, and result decreased by 28% (Increased by 82% experienced technical personnel continues to Service Excellence among others. A full list of the 2015/16). A below par performance in the power persist. awards and accolades received during the year is engineering business and the absence of profits presented on page 81. 14 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Growth Strategy Based on the plans for the year, we expect that We continuously pursue opportunities to grow. Our the Marketing & Distribution segment will reflect a growth strategy in the past has taken an organic better performance. Specific plans were drawn to route. It is time to pursue new paths that can help turn around two of its businesses that performed the Group to propel itself to the future. We have below par last year. considered alternative growth strategies in depth, Against the backdrop of another year of growth and have chosen the path of related diversification. forecasted for the construction sector, including This allows us to drive growth through the strength road construction, and also from our forecasts of of our intellectual capital. Our agricultural inputs growth in power and water sectors, an improved business will thus shortly see an expansion with performance is expected from the Construction the addition of the fertiliser business to its portfolio. & Material Handling segment and the ElectroOutlook Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering segment. The reversal of fortunes in the fourth quarter of the year, after experiencing revenue growth in each of The increase in the administration and finance the first three quarters, is likely to continue in the costs during the year under review suggests that first quarter of the new financial year. However, the managing these costs requires close attention. forecasted increase in demand for medium and The efforts will cover improvements in working large commercial vehicles is expected to at least capital management. partially compensate for the decline in revenue that commenced in the fourth quarter of last year. Overall, the budgets indicate an improved Higher volumes and turnovers are budgeted from performance for the financial year ending 31st Mercedes-Benz vehicles. March 2018. Better and more effective utilisation of workshops and productivity improvements are part of plans to improve profitability from the after sales business. Results are also expected to flow in from further expansion of the franchised spare parts distribution business. Consequently, an improved performance is forecasted for the Vehicles-After Services segment. A.G. PANDITHAGE Director/Group Chief Executive Officer We continuously pursue 23rd May 2017 Colombo opportunities to grow. Our growth strategy in the past has taken an organic route. It is time to pursue new paths that can help the Group to propel itself to the future. We have considered alternative growth strategies in depth, and have chosen the path of related diversification. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 15 Annual Report 2016/17 102 46 / 102 48 EXCELLENCE...RIGHT DOWN THE LINE How to Read this Report Board’s stewardship role brings upon it an obligation to be transparent and accountable. Potential investors seek information relating to the value This report is organised around DIMO’s story of value creating ability of the Group in the short, medium and long term. Laws and regulations require creation. The story presents key aspects of our value publication of Financial Statements, reports, other creation process which are the different forms of capital statements and disclosure of specified information. This Annual Report is prepared and presented to that provide the inputs, business domains and the value satisfy the aforesaid requirements and needs. creating activities that result outputs, outcomes and In here we explain basic information that provide basis of preparation of this Annual Report and that impacts. It also covers risk and the aspect of conformance. will be useful to understand this report. Therefore the report is an account of Enterprise Enterprise Governance Governance at DIMO. This report is organised around DIMO’s story of value creation. The story presents key aspects of our value creation process which are the different Laws, Regulatory Frameworks, Standards, Guidelines and Protocols forms of capital that provide the inputs, business This report was prepared in accordance with the following laws, regulatory frameworks, standards, domains and the value creating activities that guidelines and protocols; result outputs, outcomes and impacts. It also covers risks and the aspect of conformance. Therefore the report is an account of Enterprise Sri Lankan Laws, Regulatory Frameworks, International Guidelines, Standards and Governance at DIMO. Standards and Guidelines Protocols Our value creation model aims to create value, while • The Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 • International Integrated Reporting balancing the Company’s responsibilities towards Framework (International <IR> • The Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock its diverse stakeholders including shareholders Framework), of which the Company is a Exchange (CSE) and the environment. How the Company did this business network member over the past financial year through performance • Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/ • GRI Standards issued by the Global and conformance is discussed comprehensively LKASs) laid down by The Institute of Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through the different sections of this report. In Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka addition, the manner in which the Group has • The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate complied with the Code of Best Practice on Standard published by World Resource Corporate Governance jointly issued by the Institute (WRI) and World Business Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Council for Sustainable Development (CA Sri Lanka) and Securities and Exchange (WBCSD) used to measure and report on Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) is available in the the Group’s carbon footprint Company website at www.dimolanka.com. Report Boundaries This report covers the activities of Diesel & Motor A soft copy of this Annual Report is available on identified. The test of materiality embedded in Engineering PLC (DIMO) and its Subsidiaries, the Company website: www.dimolanka.com. our processes has ensured that we report on all collectively referred to as DIMO Group, spanning material issues relating to sustainability regarding a 12-month period ending 31st March 2017. Sustainability aspects internal and external to the organisation There have been no changes in reporting scope The information content of the report also covers within the sphere of influence of the Company. The and/or boundaries from the previous year. The the economic, social and environmental impacts DIMO stakeholder identification process ensures Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group resulting from the value creation activities of the stakeholder inclusiveness. The Sustainability appearing from pages 122 to 165 provides Company and its subsidiaries operating across Committee has approved all the information and information on financial reporting boundary of the the island, and includes a reasonable assessment data relating to sustainability objectives that are Group. Business Report appearing from pages 82 of potential impacts. Sustainability Reporting contained in this report. to 93 identifies the activities of the Group. principles including Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality and Information relating to sustainability is prepared This report also cover risks, opportunities “In accordance comprehensive” of the GRI Completeness have been given due consideration and outcomes that could materially affect the Standards. The GRI content index is available from in determining the report content. organisation’s ability to create value. pages 169 to 174. This report also contains the Sustainability Objectives set by the Sustainability Committee, This report also acts as a Communication on which are formulated based on material aspects Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global Compact. 16 ON THE FRONT LINE 102 46 Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Non-financial information in this report pertaining to the previous year has not been restated, unless otherwise stated. Independent Assurance The Board has obtained following independent assurances relating to information presented in this Annual Report. Assurance from the Independent Auditors on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Independent Auditors’ Report) Assurance from DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka (Pvt) Ltd on NonFinancial Information (Appendix III – independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting) according the AA1000 Assurance Standard. Determining Materiality of the Report Content The materiality assessment of the report content appears on pages 18 and 19. Board of Directors’ Statement on the Seventh Integrated Annual Report The Board of Directors; • acknowledges that reasonable care has been taken in preparation and presentation of this Integrated Annual Report to preserve its integrity • agrees that the integrated Annual Report has been presented in accordance with the International Integrated Reporting Council’s International Integrated Reporting Framework V1.0; and • believes that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the integrated annual report addresses all material issues and fairly presents the integrated performance of the Group and its impacts Signed for and on behalf of the Board, A.R. PANDITHAGE Chairman/Managing Director A. D. B. TALWATTE Chairman Audit Committee B.C.S.A.P GOONERATNE Director/Chief Financial Officer Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 17 Annual Report 2016/17 EXCELLENCE...RIGHT DOWN THE LINE Determining the Report Content As a part of its role of stewardship, the Board has 31 explains the manner in which value is created Annual Report. Material aspects highlighted in identified areas that are material for value creation. by DIMO. This materiality assessment is done with the risk management process and feedback from Diffusion of Stewardship presented on page a view to determining the aspects of the aforesaid stakeholder engagement have been given due 41 explains those areas under two dimensions dimensions that could have a material impact on consideration in determining material aspects. namely; Performance and Conformance. The value creation and to determine what needs to value creation model presented from pages 30 to be reported on and included in this Integrated Dimensions Aspects Material to Justification for Inclusion as a Material Aspect of Enterprise Value Creation Governance Performance Capital Capitals represent stores of value that can be built up, transformed or run down over time in the process management of value creation. Their availability, quality and affordability can affect the long term ability of our value creation. The capitals must therefore be carefully managed if they are to continue to help DIMO to sustain value creation over short, medium and long term. Accordingly we have identified five capitals that are material to our ability to create value. Natural capital has not been considered as a capital on materiality grounds (as explained in page 98 under paragraph 01 in Environmental Impact Report). However, the impact that the value creation activity may have on the environment has been duly covered under environmental impact report (Refer page 98 to 105). Value creation We operate in five diversified business segments. Those segments bring revenue streams to the management Group. Value creation through each business segment is enabled by eight value creation activities, using inputs received from capitals. Effective utilisation of capitals and the manner in which the value creation activities are managed, determine the achievement of desired outcomes and impacts. Impact management The stewardship role played by Directors demand that they act responsibly towards stakeholders and also act as a responsible corporate citizen. In addition, any negative impact that our value creation has on society, environment and the economy could result in irrecoverable reputational damage. Thus it is vital to identify and respond to material impacts our value creation has on our stakeholders and the environment. Risk management Our path to achieving expected outcomes through value creation is full of uncertainties and events that may negatively affect different aspects of performance and conformance. Those risks, therefore, need to be identified, assessed and managed on a timely basis to ensure that we create value as expected. Conformance Mandatory Mandatory rules and regulations affect the way we create value and they cannot be compromised conformance in any way. Any failure to comply could impact our “license to operate” as a corporate. Thus it is important to structure our value creation process in a way that ensures adherence to mandatory regulations all the way through value creation. Voluntary adherence The stewardship role played by Directors demand transparency throughout the value creation process. Voluntary adherence to best practices in conformance is seen as a way to building a strong, responsible and an ethical organisation that will be transparent and ethical. 18 ON THE FRONT LINE 102 46 Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Aspect of the Value Basis on Which the Report Content is Determined Report Content Creation Model Represented Monetised capital The capital building model of each capital shows aspects that nurtures them. Those aspects provide Capital Report from the basis for the report content. Accordingly we report on each capital, capital building model and page 62 to 81 Relationship capital aspects that nurture it. customers Relationship capital Business Partners Human capital Intellectual capital Value creation Business segments have been determined based on principles outlined in Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. Business Report activities Reporting content on value creation management is decided based on the value creation in business from page 82 to 93 segment. Resource allocation, performance and the results of each business segment is reported to provide an account of the success or failure of Group’s value creation management. Business segments In addition, an illustration to demonstrate the linkages between value creation activities, capitals and Basis for Resource business segments are presented in the business report. Allocation on page 33 Impacts We engage stakeholders on a periodic basis to identify their expectations. The methodology used Stakeholder in stakeholder identification, engagement, prioritising stakeholder issues and expectations and the Engagement Report manner in which we respond to those issues/expectations are included in the report. from page 34 to 38 Material economic, social and environmental impacts that were created through value creation Impact Report from activities are discussed in the Report. An account of such impacts and the manner in which they are page 94 to 111 managed are presented in the Impact Report. The success or failure of our efforts in managing material stakeholder concerns and material impacts Sustainability that our value creation activities create, is measured against a set of performance objectives that has Performance been developed by the Group’s Sustainability Committee. The statuses of those objectives are also Objectives on page included in the Report. 39. Enterprise Significant risks associated with different elements of the value creation model provide the basis for report Enterprise Risk governance content. Accordingly, risk identification, assessment and their management are discussed in the report. Management Report from page 56 to 61 Enterprise The manner in which the Group has complied with and adhered to conformance requirements, and Enterprise governance the structure in place to ensure its effectiveness provide the basis for reporting. This content includes Governance Report both, mandatory conformance and voluntary adherence. from page 41 to 48 Financial statements that provide transparency and accountability are presented in accordance with Financial Statements statutory and regulatory requirements. and Other Disclosures from page 122 to 165 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 19 Annual Report 2016/17 A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT Context Group Structure 21 DIMO History 22 Board of Directors 24 Group Management Committee 28 Value Creation Model 30 Strategy 31 Basis for Resource Allocation 33 Stakeholder Engagement and Material Issues 34 Sustainability Performance Objectives 39 20 ON THE FRONT LINE 102 45 Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Group Structure Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information PARENT SUBSIDIARY SUBSIDIARY SUBSIDIARY Diesel 100% 100% 100% & Motor Engineering COMPANY PLC DIMO Industries DIMO Travels DIMO (Private) (Private) Limited (Private) Limited Limited Founded 1939 Inc. 1945 Inc.1979 Inc.1975 Inc.1980 DIVISION Construction & Automobile Marketing & Distribution Industrial Solutions Material Handling SEGMENT Vehicles-Sales VehiclesConstruction & Marketing & Electro-Mechanical, After Services Material Handling Distribution Bio-Medical & Equipment Marine Engineering Board of Directors Company Name Name of the Directors Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC A.R. Pandithage (Chairman/Managing Director), A.G. Pandithage (Group CEO), A.N. Algama, S.C. Algama, M.V. Bandara, Dr. H. Cabral, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, P.K.W. Mahendra, A.M. Pandithage, S.R.W.M. C.Ranawana, R. Seevaratnam, A.D.B. Talwatte, R.C. Weerawardane DIMO (Private) Limited A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), A.G. Pandithage, S.C. Algama (Managing Director), R.H. Fernando, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, P.K.W. Mahendra, S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana, R.C. Weerawardane DIMO Travels (Private) Limited A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), S.C. Algama, M.V. Bandara, E.D.C. Kodituwakku DIMO Industries (Private) Limited A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), A.G. Pandithage, S.C. Algama, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, R.C. Weerawardane Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 21 Annual Report 2016/17 A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT DIMO History Four young men, Messrs DIMO crosses Rs.100 Stephen Peries, Pandithage Don million mark in Annual Alexander, Cyril Algama and Group Turnover. Harold Algama established a 1978/79 workshop at a rented premises off Prince of Wales Avenue, Panchikawatte along with a few mechanics. This was the In order to expand business DIMO was converted into beginning of DIMO. activities, the Company was a Public Quoted Company 1939 relocated to Jethawana Road, by obtaining a listing at from where it operates to this the Colombo Brokers’ day. Association. 1949 1964 DIMO celebrates its 50th anniversary, having In 1945, DIMO was A new showroom, stores commenced operations incorporated as a Private and workshop was opened in September 1939 as a Limited Liability Company. for business at Jethawana partnership. 1945 Road, Colombo 14. 1989 1952 DIMO commenced manufacturing of radiators, radiator cores, silencer barrels and light engineering products for motor vehicles. 1966 22 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information The year under review has not been an easy one and we anticipate more challenges to come. Yet we remain confident that we can hold our lines and battle forward, to keep delivering sustainable growth in the years that lie ahead. • Passes the 1,000 employees mark. • The state of the art Bosch Service Centre The Company relocated its which is a LEED The dawn of the 90s witnessed the after sales and service activities certified green building launch of the DIMO Automobile of commercial vehicles, was commissioned. This Training School (DATS) established in construction machinery and hi-tech workshop can collaboration with Daimler AG, Germany power systems to an eight accommodate up to 20 offering a two-year comprehensive acre property at Siyambalape, vehicles of all makes. automobile engineering course designed Biyagama. DIMO crosses the • DIMO also opened its by Daimler AG, Germany. 1996 Rs.10 billion mark in second automobile 1991 Annual Group Turnover training school in Jaffna. 2005/06 2011 DIMO crosses Rs.1.0 The first fully fledged DIMO acquires a large DIMO celebrates its 75th Anniversary billion mark in Annual DIMO branch was opened warehouse complex at and adds another outstanding jewel to Group Turnover in Matara Weliveriya, which becomes its crown of achievements when the 1994/95 2005 the DIMO logistic centre. state of the art Mercedes-Benz Sales This sixteen acre property & Aftercare Centre located at Sirimavo has 177,075 square feet Bandaranaike Mawatha, Colombo 14 is of storage space. formally opened. This is the Company’s 2007 second LEED certified green building. The showroom and service centre is designed to showcase the MercedesBenz Experience; a contemporary and sophisticated multi-purposed space reflecting the timeless elegance and classic style of the Mercedes-Benz brand. This facility has a constructed area of 216,788 square feet. 2014 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 23 Annual Report 2016/17 A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT Board of Directors Standing from left to right : S.C. Algama, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, A.D.B. Talwatte, S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana, Dr. H. Cabral, P.K.W. Mahendra, M.V. Bandara, R.C. Weerawardane Seated from left to right : R. Seevaratnam, A.N. Algama, A.R. Pandithage, A.G. Pandithage, A.M. Pandithage 24 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 25 Annual Report 2016/17 A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT Board of Directors A.R. PANDITHAGE Qualifications and Expertise R.C. WEERAWARDANE Chairman/Managing Director Counts over forty four years of experience at DIMO Executive Director Appointed: Appointed: Positions Held in Other Companies To Company June 1973 To Company February 1990 To Board June 1977 Past Chairman of The Ceylon Motor Traders’ To Board June 2002 Association and Sri Lanka Tyre Importers’ Association. % of Shares Held* 11.17% % of Shares Held* None Executive Committee member of the Ceylon Motor Appointments at DIMO Traders’ Association. Qualifications and Expertise Appointed as Joint Managing Director in Certificate holder of the Chartered Institute November 1984 and as Managing Director in of Marketing, UK. Counts over twenty seven S.C. ALGAMA 1986. Appointed as the Chief Executive Officer years of experience at DIMO in the Vehicles Executive Director in 1994. Appointed as the Chairman, Managing division, Marketing and Distribution division and Director and CEO in July 2004 and continues Construction and Material Handling division. Appointed: as the Chairman & Managing Director from April To Company November 1984 2012 to date. To Board November 1984 M.V. Bandara DIMO Committee Memberships % of Shares Held* 2.41% Executive Director NC Appointments at DIMO Appointed: Qualifications and Expertise Member of the Board in a Non-Executive capacity To Company February 1995 Holder of Dip. Ing. from Germany. Member of the from November 1984 to 1994. Appointed as an To Board June 2016 Institute of Engineers, Germany (VDI). Executive Director in 1994. Appointed as Managing % of Shares Held* 0.02% Director of DIMO (Pvt) Ltd from April 2009. Positions Held in Other Companies Qualifications and Expertise Qualifications and Expertise Postgraduate certificate holder from the University Director of Dial Textiles Ltd., Vice President of Sri Lanka Germany Business Council of the Ceylon Fellow of the Institute of Incorporated Engineers of Southern Queensland Australia. Possesses Chamber of Commerce. (SL). Council Member and Chairman-Transport & a Diploma in Business Management from the Automobiles Industries Committee of the National University of Colombo. Counts over twenty two Chamber of Commerce, Sri Lanka. Counts over years of experience in Sales and Marketing. A.G. PANDITHAGE twenty three years of experience in Industrial Group Chief Executive Officer Solutions division. A.D.B. Talwatte Appointed: Independent Non-Executive Director To Company September 1986 B.C.S.A.P. GOONERATNE To Board December 1995 Director/Chief Financial Officer Appointed: % of Shares Held* 5.92% To Board June 2016 Appointed: % of Shares Held* None Appointments at DIMO To Company January 2001 Appointed as the Deputy Chief Executive Officer To Board April 2006 DIMO Committee Memberships with effect from April 2006 and as Group Chief % of Shares Held* None NC . RC . AC . RPTRC Executive Officer from April 2012. Qualifications and Expertise Qualifications and Expertise Qualifications and Expertise Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Fellow member of the Chartered Institute of Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and holder Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and the Management Accountants, UK. of Master of Business Administration degree Chartered Institute of Management Accountants from the Postgraduate Institute of Management, (CIMA) U.K. Possesses Post-Graduate Diploma A.N. ALGAMA University of Sri Jayewardenepura. in Business and Financial Administration awarded Executive Director by ICASL and the University of Wageningen, Positions Held in Other Companies Holland and holder of MBA from the University Appointed: Non-Executive Director of Hunas Falls Hotels of Sri Jayewardenepura, Sri Lanka. Participated To Company June 1973 PLC. in a Kellogg Executive Programme at the Kellogg To Board November 1984 Graduate School of Management, Northwestern % of Shares Held* 2.41% University, Evanston, Illinois. Mr.Talwatte worked at Ernst & Young in Assurance, Business Risk and Advisory Services for thirty seven years of which ten years was as Country Managing Partner. * Does not include shareholdings of spouse AC Audit Committee . RC Remuneration Committee . RPTRC Related Party Transactions Review Committee . NC Nomination Committee 26 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Worked with Ernst & Young in Cleveland, Ohio Skills Sector Development of the Department of Positions Held in Other Companies and served on Ernst & Young’s Far-East Area National Planning. Independent Non-Executive Director of Acme Executive Committee, the Area Advisory Council Printing & Packaging PLC, Acme Packaging and served on the ASEAN Leadership Committee. Solutions (Pvt) Ltd, Tea Smallholder Factories Past President of the Institute of Chartered DR. H. CABRAL PLC, Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC, Lanka Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) for a two year Aluminium Industries PLC, Metecno Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, Independent Non-Executive Director period in 2002/03 and the Chartered Institute of Green Farms (Pvt) Ltd, Colombo Fort Land & Building Management Accountants (CIMA) in 1995/96. Co PLC, Omega Line Ltd, Sirio Ltd, Benji Ltd, Alpha Served as the Chairman of the Statutory Accounting Appointed: Apparels Ltd, Hayleys Agricultural Holdings (Pvt) Standards Committee and the Auditing Standards To Board October 2006 Ltd, Hayleys Consumers (Pvt) Ltd, Nestle Lanka Committee, the Urgent Issues Task Force and the % of Shares Held* None PLC, Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC, Lankem Examinations Committee of ICASL and closely Ceylon PLC, Colombo Fort Land Investments PLC associated with the development of Corporate DIMO Committee Memberships E.B. Creasy & Company PLC, Hayleys Advantis Ltd.. Governance in Sri Lanka. Actively involved with the NC . RC . AC . RPTRC Code of Corporate Governance of 2003 and the Code of Audit Committees in 2002, Co-chaired the Qualifications and Expertise P.K.W.Mahendra Committee which revised the Code of Corporate President’s Counsel, PhD in Corporate Law Governance of 2008 and the Listing Rules, CoExecutive Director (Australia), Commissioner Law Commission of Sri chaired a Committee on Corporate Governance Lanka, Member Advisory Commission on Company set up by ICASL jointly with the SEC to review and Law, Council Member University of Colombo, Appointed: revise the Code of Corporate Governance in 2012, UGC nominee PGIM (Post Graduate Institute of To Company July 2006 Chairs the Committee to review the applicability Medicine), Council Member the Council of Legal To Board June 2016 of Integrated Reporting in Sri Lanka and the Education, Member Academic Board of Studies % of Shares Held* None Committee reviewing the Corporate Governance The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Code. Member Corporate Governance Committee, Senior Lecturer and Examiner-University of Colombo, Qualifications and Expertise Positions Held in Other Companies Senior Lecturer IALS Sri Lanka Law College, ICLP. Mechanical Engineer and holder of a Bachelor’s Chairman of Management Systems (Pvt) Limited Senior Practitioner in the fields of Corporate Law, Degree from the University of Greenwich, UK. (MSL). Serves as a Non-Executive Director on Intellectual Property Law, International Trade Law, Counts over twenty two years of experience in boards of listed companies, public companies and Commercial Law and Commercial Arbitration. Engineering & General Management including state owned enterprises. eleven years at DIMO. Positions Held in Other Companies Chairman Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC, A.M. PANDITHAGE Tokyo Super Cement Company Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana Non-Executive Director Tokyo Cement Power (Lanka) Ltd, Tokyo Eastern Executive Director Cement Company Ltd, Tokyo Super Aggregate Appointed: Ltd, Director Hayleys PLC, Alumex PLC, Lanka Orix Finance PLC, Browns Investments PLC, Appointed: To Board September 1982 Lanka Orix Life Assurance PLC. To Company November 2002 % of Shares Held* 2.05% To Board June 2016 DIMO Committee Memberships % of Shares Held* None NC . RC . AC . RPTRC R. SEEVARATNAM Independent Non-Executive Director Qualifications and Expertise Qualifications and Expertise Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Appointed: Holder of MBA from Wanaborough University UK Transport (UK). To Board January 2007 & a Diploma in Business Management from SLBDC. % of Shares Held* None Possesses over thirty two years of experience in Positions Held in Other Companies Industrial Sales & Marketing specialising in storage, DIMO Committee Memberships material handling equipment and construction Chairman and Chief Executive of Hayleys PLC. NC . RC . AC . RPTRC machinery businesses including fifteen years of Honorary Consul of United Mexican States work experience at DIMO. (Mexico) to Sri Lanka. Committee Member of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Council Member Qualifications and Expertise of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon. Member Fellow member of The Institute of Chartered of the Maritime Advisory Council of the Ministry of Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and England & Ports & Shipping. Member of the Advisory Council Wales and holder of General Science Degree from of the Ceylon Association of Ships’ Agents. the University of London. Former Senior Partner of Member of the National Steering Committee on KPMG Ford, Rhodes, Thornton & Company. * Does not include shareholdings of spouse AC Audit Committee . RC Remuneration Committee . RPTRC Related Party Transactions Review Committee . NC Nomination Committee Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 27 Annual Report 2016/17 A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT Group Management Committee Standing from left to right : M.V Bandara R.C Weerawardane Executive Director Executive Director R.K.J. Gunasekera B.C.S.A.P Gooneratne General Manager Business Development & Director / Chief Financial Officer Innovation A.R Pandithage N. Mudannayake Chairman & Managing Director General Manager Information Technology 28 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information A.G Pandithage P.K.W Mahendra Director/Group Chief Executive Officer Executive Director S.C Algama S.R.W.M.C Ranawana Executive Director Executive Director D. N. K. Kurukulasuriya C. R. Pandithage Chief Human Resources Officer General Manager Mercedes Benz Vehicle Sales E.D.C Kodituwakku General Manager Finance & Controlling Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 29 Annual Report 2016/17 A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT Value Creation Model The delivery of stakeholder value has always been DIMO’s primary purpose and we have focused on honing our value creation process and delivery for many years. To this end, our value creation activities employ inputs or contributions from our four capitals Monetised Capital (which includes financial capital, manufactured capital and CAPITALS land), Relationship Capital which includes Customers and Business Partners, Human and Intellectual Capital. We take pride in managing our capitals and processes in an efficient and productive fashion, for These are the key capitals that provide we know that this is vital to the successful and consistent delivery of inputs for our value creation activates increasing value. Three specific activities remain core to DIMO’s value-creating MONETISED CAPITAL enterprise; securing, nurturing and preserving the capitals we own, Financial, manufactured and natural even as we manage the economic, social and environmental impacts of capital which are monetized and our value creation activities, the latter activity demanding precision and stated in the Financial Statements. efficiency to maximise the value created. 63 67 Responsible corporate citizenship is the final important element in our value chain; one that we have emphasised since inception. It reflects the standards of integrity and governance we exemplify and the trust of HUMAN CAPITAL our stakeholders depends upon it. Employees, their competencies and motivations represent our Human Our value creation cycle is ultimately a perfect one. Our capitals or value Capital. stores deliver inputs for our value creation activities, which lead to the 75 79 outputs, impacts and outcomes which affect our capitals, all of which is governed by conformance. This is how we make sure that every single transaction we undertake, 05 05 RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL – adds value. This is also how we maximise our capacity to leverage our Customers INPUTS PURPOSE ASPIRATION strengths, our industry expertise and our pool of resources to deliver Customer portfolio and their loyalty is our Customer capital. mutual benefit to DIMO and the thousands of stakeholders who place 68 71 their trust in us. RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL – Business Partners Our business partner profile and their brands we represent are our Business Partner capital. 72 74 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Our systems, processes and the knowledge base we have accumulated are our Intellectual capital. 80 81 30 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT RE DEPLOYMENT OUTCOMES AND IMPACTS BUSINESS DOMAIN 82 93 The value creation process gives rise to outcomes that alter capitals and CUSTO to economic, social and G MER S IN E NG environmental impacts H OU AG EM RE EN WA T INESS SEGMENT OUTCOMES BUS S T LU SO ALTERED CAPITALS Vehicles Sales The value creation process NG 84 85 IO N RCI gives rise to outcomes M AP that alter capitals. Altered SO U Vehicles After Services capitals then either shared 86 87 PING or re-deployed to the value creation Marketing & Distribution OUTPUTS 88 89 Construction & Material Handling Equipment 90 91 IMPACTS S UP IN G Electro Mechanical, Bio Medical and EER ECONOMIC, SOCIAL PO R Marine Engineering AND ENVIRONMENTAL V GIN ER 92 93 IMPACTS TS EN IC The value creation process ES generates positive or negative impacts 94 111 AF RY TE RC IVE AR E D EL Positive or Negative impacts on capitals depending on the level of responsible behaviour ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE – Strategy and Management of Capitals, Value Creation, Risks and Impacts 56 111 CONFORMANCE – Mandatory and Voluntary 41 55 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 31 Annual Report 2016/17 A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT Strategy The overarching corporate strategy of DIMO focuses on two key aspects Collaboration and We have sought to entrench our strategy of differentiation in Differentiation. the areas of technological excellence, innovation, aftercare, Both internal and external collaboration are customer relationship management, market presence and sought to support the Group’s differentiation strategy. Employee engagement is considered responsible behaviour, as described below. We are committed as a key aspect of collaboration, which leads to competitive advantage. Our firm belief is that to continue making significant investments in these areas. engaged employees deliver far more in qualitative and quantitative terms, thereby becoming a key force that drives the strategies of differentiation. DIMO has an inherent resolve for excellence in While we seek competitive advantages in our Similarly, partnering with the best gives us access technology which is supported by our partners existing business segments as described, we to best in class products, solutions and technology, who are among the technological leaders of the progressively pursue related diversification. which can be leveraged upon to compete more world. aggressively. Our collaboration strategies are aimed at Our customers place much value on Vehicles increasing returns to our shareholders and These collaborations, together with the -After Services and over the years, we have enhancing our value stores our capitals. The way competencies and expertise built over the years, experienced the vast opportunities that come with we do business will help us to project ourselves provide us with the platform to execute the reliable and responsible aftercare. as a responsible corporate citizen. The resulting differentiation strategy. outcomes and impacts will in turn help us to boost Our market presence helps us to enable easier our ability to create value in the short, medium and We have sought to entrench our strategy of access for our customers thereby enhancing the long term. differentiation in the areas of technological intimacy of our relationship with them. excellence, innovation, aftercare, customer relationship management, market presence and We go the extra mile to ensure that we act responsible behaviour, as described below. We responsibly in everything we do – this builds trust are committed to continue making significant with customers and all stakeholders. investments in these areas. COLLABORATION BUSINESS DOMAIN DIFFERENTIATION OUTCOMES & IMPACTS Improved ROE Vehicles Sales ALTERED Increased Stakeholder satisfaction CAPITALS Business Partners – Partner with the best Vehicles After THROUGH Employees Employee Engagement Customer Relationship Management Services VALUE Technological Excellence Enhanced Brand Responsible Behaviour CREATED Market Presence Reputation Innovation After Care Marketing & Distribution Business Partner of Choice Construction & Material Handling Equipment POSITIVE ECONOMIC, Responsible Corporate Electro Mechanical, Citizen SOCIAL AND Bio-Medical & Marine ENVIRONMENTAL Engineering IMPACTS RELATED DIVERSIFICATION 32 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Basis for Resource Allocation Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information The following illustration depicts Businesses are clustered together based on their similarities and guidance provided by the the criticality of different capitals to that business segment through value creation activities. The the criticality of each value creation Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and are called business segments. The value creation activities following illustration depicts the criticality of each value creation activity to each business segment activity to each business segment required by the supply chains are found to be and the criticality of each capital for each value and the criticality of each capital similar by the businesses within one segment while it can differ for two different businesses in creation activity, thus establishing connectivity between each business segment and each capital. for each value creation activity, two business segments. On the other hand capital inputs required by one value creation activity may Establishing this connection helps us to allocate resources or in other word inputs from capitals, thus establishing connectivity be different from the capital input requirement based on the requirement of each value creation of another. Therefore, a connection can be activity and consequently for each business between each business segment identified between the Business Segment and segment. and each capital. Supply Chain Activities’ Connectivity with Business Segments and Capitals Vehicle Sales Vehicles After Services Business Segment Marketing & Distribution Construction & Material Handling Equipment Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical & Marine Engineering Supply Customer Solution Support Chain Sourcing Warehousing Engagement Mapping Engineering Delivering Aftercare Services Activity Monetised Capital Relationship Capital Capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Legend Value Creation Activity and Description Criticality of Supply Chain Activity to Sourcing Evaluation of requirements, identification of suppliers and inward carriage Business Segment and Criticality of Capital to the Supply Chain Activity Warehousing Unloading and storing Customer Engagement Marketing, identification of customer needs, prospecting and selling Extremely Critical Solution Mapping Identification of a solution for the customer need Moderately Critical Engineering Planning, designing and execution of engineering work Delivering Physical delivery of goods, rendering services and providing solutions to Required may not be Critical the customers Moderately Required or Not Aftercare Addressing customers’ post-delivery requirements Required Support Services Provision of support services for supply chain activities Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 33 Annual Report 2016/17 102 42 A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT Stakeholder Engagement and Material Issues Overview Our stakeholder engagement process is key to The stewardship role played by the Directors demands that they many facets of our business. Feedback from act responsibly towards stakeholders so that DIMO becomes a stakeholders helps us to develop effective strategies for value creation. Their expectations responsible corporate citizen. The stakeholder engagement process and needs, which emerge from the engagement process, help us refine our products and services identifies material stakeholder issues that must be addressed in our to ensure that we deliver their expectations. journey towards being a better corporate citizen. The stewardship role played by the Directors demands that they act responsibly towards Stakeholder Engagement for Strategy Formulation stakeholders so that DIMO becomes a responsible corporate citizen. The stakeholder engagement process identifies material stakeholder issues that Stakeholder Refine Capital Building must be addressed in our journey towards being a Expectations Model better corporate citizen. Identify Material Impacts The illustration beside explains how the outcome Stakeholder Input to strategy of the stakeholder engagement process enhances Engagement formulation Improve Business our strategies and value creation approach. segment operations Stakeholder Engagement in Practice Stakeholder Feed to Risk Identification Issues Our stakeholder engagement process involves three important steps as depicted in the illustration. DIMO’s Sustainability Committee together with Those identified stakeholders are categorised into three groups based on their ability to impact our value the senior management closely monitors the creation or to be affected by our value creation. stakeholder engagement process to ensure that it is conducted independently. Three sets of stakeholders are then analysed against each group using the following criteria to identify stakeholders that are material to our business: The process is further supplemented by our ISO accredited Quality Management System (QMS) ● Those who exhibited all three of the identified characteristics are regarded as the most important for and Environmental Management System (EMS), engagement (a) and our Customer Relationship Management ● Those who exhibited two of the identified characteristics are regarded as the next most important for System. engagement (b, c and d) Stakeholder Identification ● Those who exhibited only one or none of the identified characteristics are not, as a rule, considered for periodic engagement. However, the Sustainability Committee may decide to include any party for DIMO’s stakeholders were identified by periodic engagement. (e, f, g and h) the Sustainability Committee following a comprehensive analysis of data independently The stakeholder identification process is revisited every five years, to determine whether any new obtained from various stakeholder groups. stakeholders should be included. Stakeholder Engagement Process Stakeholder Identification Persons or a body of Persons or a body of persons who are likely persons who are affected to influence DIMO’s by operations of DIMO performance e d g a Stakeholder Stakeholder Feedback Persons or a body of b Identification Engagement Analysis c persons who have legal, financial, operational responsibilities towards f h DIMO 34 ON THE FRONT LINE 102 40 / 102 43 Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Stakeholder Engagement The engagement practically takes place through a number of methods which vary from surveys to independent one-to-one interviews. The method and frequency of engagement are decided based on the nature of the relationship we maintain with the stakeholder. Methods we adopt to identify issues affecting each material stakeholder and the frequency of those engagements are detailed below; Stakeholder Engagement Method Frequency Shareholders One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) Once in 3 years Providers of financial capital and The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity to review the past year’s Once a year owners of the Company. Thus their performance and engage in discussions with the management expectations are at the heart of Annual Report Once a year what we do Quarterly Financial Statements providing the quarterly performance Every quarter Company website Online CSE website Online Customers One-to-one interviews Once in 3 years Customers are our principal Customer Relationship Management process (CRM) enables the Company to keep Continuous source of revenue and form part in touch with customers on a daily basis. It helps to respond to customer queries and of our non-monetised capital. problems speedily Their satisfaction is vital to our The Customer Satisfaction Index maintained by each business unit provides an Once a month/quarter sustainability assessment of satisfaction levels and helps to improve the Company’s problem solving capacities Loyalty customer clubs (TATA Emperor, Mercedes-Benz Club & Jeep club) create Continuous opportunities to communicate with loyal customers Business Partners & Suppliers One-to-one interview (by independent parties) Once in every 3 years Business partners are a critical link A high speed 24 x 7 online link enables constant dialogue with principals. Issues such Continuous in our supply chain and a part of our as product quality, marketing, customer satisfaction, ‘problem solving’ and employee relationship capital motivation are discussed on this platform On-site visits from principals and on-site visits to principals’ locations facilitate Continuous engagement Employees One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) Once in 3 years The key resource for competitive Focus group discussions (by independent parties) Once in 3 years advantage and sustainable growth Employee Council Meetings Once a month Employee Portal of the Company network (accessible to every employee) Continuous Annual strategic planning meeting Once a year Company’s ‘Open Door’ policy encourages direct employee – management dialogue Continuous Annual Employee Surveys voluntary and confidential Once a year Individual Performance Reviews – bi-annually Bi annual HR Clinics Continuous Employee reward and recognition Continuous Society One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) Once in 3 years Society includes our local Focus groups discussion (by independent parties) Once in 3 years immediate communities, Dialogue with Religious Dignitaries Continuous stakeholders in sustainable development and regulatory and Written and oral communications initiated by stakeholders Continuous Government agencies Company website Online One-to-one interview Once in 3 years Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 35 Annual Report 2016/17 102 47 A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT Stakeholder Engagement and Material Issues Feedback Analysis Expectations and issues identified during the stakeholder engagement were rated, assigned and prioritised to identify those most material to our stakeholders. When doing so, the likely level of stakeholder priority was assessed against the likelihood of the impact. Those concerns are shared with the Group Management Committee for due assessment. Stakeholder Issue Identification 7 1 6 4 Issues indicated in this area are of high H 5 significance and impact both the stakeholders 3 LEVEL OF STAKEHOLDER PRIORITY 8 9 2 and the organisation. All indicators shown in this area are fully discussed in the Annual Report and/or in the corporate website. 17 14 13 11 M 16 15 12 Issues indicated in this area have a relatively 10 moderate impact on our business. They too were FOR THEIR DECISION MAKING 19 addressed during the reporting period and are fully or partially reported in the Annual Report and/or in the corporate website. 18 L Issues found in this area of the grid have only a minor impact, thus may only be reported in the corporate website. L M H L Low M Medium H High LIKELIHOOD OF CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP 1. Economic performance 8. Local community development 14. Product and service labelling 2. Customer health and safety 9. Technical education for youth 15. Water consumption 3. Occupational health and safety 10. Procurement practices for local suppliers 16. Employee relations 4. Compliance 11. Mutually beneficial relationship with 17. Ethical marketing and communication 5. Emissions, effluents and waste suppliers 18. Materials consumption 6. Employee remuneration and benefits 12. Energy consumption 19. Anti-corruption 7. Customer privacy 13. Employee training and education Topic boundaries outside the organisation Topic boundaries within the organisation 36 ON THE FRONT LINE 102 44 / 102 49 Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Material Stakeholder Issues and Their Status Our responses and the input from stakeholder Material matters identified through our stakeholder engagement may alter the status of those material engagement process have been given due issues identified in the last financial year. The attention of the management and responses are following table explains the shift in the status established in the form of strategies or plans. of those material matters, where applicable, and our responses, and provides a link to detailed The effectiveness of those responses is closely discussion conducted either in the annual report monitored by the Sustainability Committee with or in our corporate website, and gives the status of respect to internal sustainability performance the sustainability performance objectives. objectives to ensure that we address them adequately and on a timely basis. Status of Material Topics 2017 vs 2016 Material Aspect Issues Raised by Status Possible Reason for the Shift Our Response in Status 1 Emissions, Society  Not applicable Our Environment Management System which was Effluents and upgraded to ISO 14001:2015 during the year, is constantly Waste working towards minimising emission levels and effluents. Continuous improvement in these areas are conducted and those are measured against the sustainability performance objective numbers 15 and 16. For more information refer pages 94 to 111 in the Environmental Impact Report. 2 Technical Society  We have increased the We have increased our investments in technical education Education for monetised capital investment in and expanded the number of opportunities provided to Youth technical education for youth by apprentices. 77% compared to last year For more information refer page 107 of the Social Impact Report. 3 Customer Health Customer  During the year Group’s Quality Our ISO accredited Quality Management System ensures and Safety Management System was our products are of high quality. We will continue to strictly upgraded to ISO 9001:2015 comply with health and safety aspects relating to our covering the operations of all five product portfolio. business segments For more information refer page 70 of the Customer Capital Report. 4 Employee Training Employee  Average training hours per Continuous training and development programmes and Education employee increased to 18 hours conducted for employees improved this aspect. The achievement of Sustainability Performance Objective number 07 bears testimony for this improvement. For more information refer page 77 of the Human Capital Report. 5 Occupational Employee  Not applicable Employee health and safety receives due importance Health and Safety and comes under the purview of the Head of Operational Compliance. Employee health and safety is covered in the Group’s Occupational Health & Safety Policy. For more information refer page 78 of the Human Capital Report. 6 Procurement Local suppliers/  Not applicable Local suppliers should abide by the Group’s Supplier Code. Practices for Local Subcontract The success in this endeavour is measured using the Suppliers workers sustainability performance objective number 10. For more information refer page 74 of the Business Partner Relationship Capital Report. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 37 Annual Report 2016/17 A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT Stakeholder Engagement and Material Issues Material Aspect Issues Raised by Status Possible Reason for the Shift Our Response in Status 7 Water Society  Not applicable Procedures are in places to increase the level of water recycled/reused. Stringent waste water management systems are in place and the success of these systems is measured by Sustainability Performance Objective number 14. For more information refer page 102 of the Environmental Impact Report. 8 Ethical Marketing Customer  Not applicable Corporate communications policy ensures strict compliance Communications with regulations and codes concerning ethical marketing communication practices. For more information refer page 70 of the Customer Capital Report. 9 Mutually Beneficial Suppliers  Due care is taken to strengthen Constant interactions and sharing of information continues. Relationships with the constituents of the business Reports to Business Partners will address expectations Business Partners partner capital building model of Business Partners. The progress of the approach is measured by sustainability objective number 09. For more information refer page 73 of the Business Partner Relationship Capital Report. 10 Energy Society  Not applicable Energy saving measures are implemented across the Consumption organisation. Two major buildings are LEED certified green buildings (Gold Category). For more information refer page 101 of the Environmental Impact Report. 11 Employee Benefits Employee  The Company follows a policy of Annual wage survey revealed that DIMO wages levels are at market competitive remuneration competitive levels compared to others in the industry.  Materiality of issues increased  Materiality of issues decreased  Materiality of issues remains same  New issue identified 38 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Sustainability Performance Objectives 2016/17 Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Aspect Term Objective Achievement Remarks 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Monetised Long/ 1 ROE to be more than Annual Not Achieved Not The AWDR+3% as at year end was 10.66%. The Capital Short AWDR+3% Achieved Achieved ROE for the period was 6.46% Customer Long 2 To ensure continuity of a customerAchieved Achieved Achieved DIMO’s Quality Management System was centric Quality Management System accredited by the latest version (ISO 9001:2015) with suitable accreditation Short 3 Number of training hours for sales Achieved Not Achieved Training hours per sales personnel increased by personnel to increase by 10% from Achieved 13% in 2016/17. Last year training hours per previous year sales personnel decreased by 14% Short 4 To achieve a Weighted Average Achieved Achieved Achieved The Weighted Average Customer satisfaction index Customer Satisfaction Index Score of score was 90% in 2016/17 (88% in 2015/16) more than 85% Short 5 Each branch to have a customer Achieved Achieved Achieved Each branch achieved the required number of interaction event each quarter customer interaction events Employee Short 6 To achieve an employee satisfaction Achieved Achieved Achieved For the year 2016/17, employee satisfaction index score of more than 60% index score was 64.56% (62.03% in 2015/16) Short 7 Average training hours per employee Achieved Achieved Achieved Average training hours per employee was 21.34 per year to be more than 10 hours hours in 2016/17 (16.99 in 2015/16) Long 8 To maintain a ratio of female to male Achieved Achieved Achieved The ratio is 20.25% in 2016/17 which was 20% employees (excluding workshops and in the previous year field sales) of more than 15% Business Short 9 To carry out a performance evaluation Achieved Achieved Partially Performance evaluation of ten business partners Partners of ten foreign business partners at Achieved was carried out during the year least once a year Short 10 To obtain declarations from at least Achieved Achieved Achieved More than 50% declarations were received from 50% of the current major local the major local suppliers suppliers, that they will abide by the DIMO supplier code Society Short 11 Invest at least 0.05% of turnover on Achieved Achieved Achieved During the year DIMO invested 0.24% of community development activities turnover on community development activities. This was 0.18% in 2015/16 Long/ 12 The number of non-employees who are Achieved Achieved Achieved The number of trainees enrolled as a percentage Short afforded training to be more than 5% to the total number of employees was 27.65% in of the number of employees 2016/17 (25.56% in 2015/16) Short 13 100% compliance with Laws and Achieved Achieved Achieved The Company’s Code of Business Ethics require Government regulations compliance with laws and regulations at all times. There were no non-compliances reported during the year Environment Long 14 To re-cycle and re-use at least 8% of Achieved Not Achieved 9.3% of water used was recycled and reused the water used Achieved during the year Short 15 Waste segregated and handed over Achieved Achieved Achieved The Company maintains waste collection agreements to selected third parties for recycling/ with 3rd party waste management companies who reuse to be more than 90% of total are approved by Central Environment Authority. Waste solid waste managed by the above third parties exceeded the required percentage during the year Short 16 Carbon Foot Print for every Rs.1.0 Achieved Achieved Achieved Carbon footprint for every Rs.1 million of turnover million of turnover to reduce by 5% in 2016/17 was 0.1713 tC02e. The corresponding figure for 2015/16 was 0.1917 tCO2e Economic Long/ 17 Monitised Value Added to increase Achieved Achieved Not The Monetised Value added increased by 17.8% Short every year at a rate more than the rate Achieved in 2016/17 (50.5% in 2015/16). This is well of inflation +5% above the rate of inflation +5% which is 10.6% Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 39 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Enterprise Governance Enterprise Governance 41 Senior Independent Director’s Statement 50 Committee Reports 51 Risk Management 56 40 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Enterprise Governance is at the heart of everything we do, because we know that the key ingredients for long term prosperity lie in its two dimensions of conformance and performance. Conformance ensures Enterprise Governance is at that DIMO is compliant with laws and regulations, transparent in its practices and ethical in its operations. Performance requires that we formulate strategy, deliver value consistently and manage our risk and the heart of everything we impacts effectively. do, because we know that Stewardship to Value Creation the key ingredients for long The role of stewardship that is bestowed upon the Board of Directors demands that the Board has in place the necessary mechanisms and processes required to deliver the value, outcomes and impacts term prosperity lie in its two expected by the stakeholders. The “Diffusion of Stewardship” shown below depicts the path mapped by dimensions of conformance the Board that will lead DIMO to the desired value creation, outcomes and impacts. and performance. Conformance Diffusion of Stewardship ensures that DIMO is compliant Stewardship with laws and regulations, transparent in its practices Enterprise Governance and ethical in its operations. Conformance Performance Performance requires that we STRATEGY formulate strategy, deliver value Mandatory Voluntary consistently and manage our Capital Value Creation Risk Impact Compliance Adherence Management Management Management Management risks and impacts effectively. demonstrated by DIMO. While these impacts affect Expected Outcomes our stakeholders, it they will also have a bearing on the reputation of DIMO. Therefore, there is an Performance Sourcing, warehousing, customer engagement, element of risk management embedded in impact Strategy solution mapping, engineering, delivery, aftercare management. An overview of the management and support services are the key value creation approach, initiatives and outcomes relating The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership by to impact management is given in the Impact activities that create value and cause the impacts. ensuring the formulation and implementation of Management Report from pages 94 to 111. The criticality of each value creation activity to requisite strategies for the effective management each business segment and the criticality of each of capitals, value creation activities, risks and Conformance capital to each value creation activity is depicted impacts to achieve the desired outcomes and in the illustration given on page 33. Mapping The Role of Conformance impacts. of this connectivity provides the basis for the The conformance dimension of enterprise effective utilisation of capitals and value creation governance advocates compliant, responsible and Capital Management management. transparent corporate behaviour. The capitals provide the key ingredients for value creation. Therefore, they need to be carefully Risk Management DIMO regards effective conformance as a platform managed. The material capitals involved in the The risk associated with the value creation to create value in a responsible manner, not as a value creation process are monetised, relationship, activities of DIMO in the short, medium and the set of rules that stifle growth. Conformance is the human and intellectual capitals. An overview and long term have to be prudently managed. Risks bed rock upon which the performance dimension the management approach towards each capital, associated with capitals, business segments and of enterprise governance is built. It provides the performance and impacts of the Company’s impacts are monitored and managed. The table foundation for a robust organisational structure, activities on material capitals is discussed in the appearing on pages 58 to 61 presents such risks, a compliant work ethic and for decision making “Capitals Report”, presented from pages 62 to 81. our mitigation actions and the change in the risk based on responsible corporate behaviour, which profile over the past five years. are prerequisites for performance. Conformance Value Creation Management requires a high level of commitment across the Value creation activities lead to creation of Impact Management organisation. value, using capitals. These activities also give Value creation activities lead to economic, societal rise to economic, societal and environmental Commitment to Conformance and environmental impacts. The management of impacts. Therefore, the effective management of such impacts is imperative as the manner and The Board has given leadership to a culture value creation activities is imperative to achieve the extent to which such impacts are managed of conformance that provides the grounding the desired outcomes and managing impacts. will determine the level of corporate responsibility for responsible value creation. An enabling Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 41 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Enterprise Governance conformance culture is created by generating enterprise governance and consequently, for adherence to enhance transparency and awareness at all levels. All employees are required conformance. accountability in value creation. to respect conformance in achieving their own objectives and those of the Company. The Board itself is subject to certain regulations Board performance is appraised by the members of conformance related to its composition and of the Board, annually. The performance of the A Framework to Translate Commitment into conduct. In addition, the Board is also responsible Chairman, who plays an executive role, is annually Practice for conformance across the organisation and appraised by the Non-Executive Directors, The Board of Directors bears overall responsibility its value creation process. Board Committees annually. for conformance, which is the basis for ensuring serve as effective oversight mechanisms that assist the Board in monitoring the effectiveness Rule No. 7.10.3 of the listing rules of the Colombo transparency and accountability to all stakeholders. of conformance and risk management, while the Stock Exchange requires that an explanation be Effective conformance also facilitates the Management Committees oversee execution and provided in the event that a Director is considered achievement of strategic outcomes. The Board performance. an Independent Director after serving the Board has created a conformance framework to execute continuously for a period of more than nine its policies and monitor effectiveness to facilitate The Directors possess diverse skills and bring years. Mr. R Seevaratnam and Dr. H Cabral the fulfilment of these responsibilities and to a wide range of expertise and competencies whose tenures as Directors have exceeded nine facilitate achievement of desired outcomes. The that facilitate the effective discharge of Board years, continue to be considered as Independent conformance framework includes all aspects of responsibilities. A brief profile of the members Directors. The required explanation is given on compliance and adherence incorporating statutes, of the Board is given on pages 26 to 27. The pages 114 to 116 in the Annual Report of the regulations, codes and management and control Board also enjoys the services of four qualified Board of Directors. systems within a structure that includes the Board accountants who provide financial acumen and and Management Committees. The framework knowledge relating to matters of finance. The Board of Directors’ statement on internal also has an assurance process that ensures controls, as required by section D.1.3 of the Code independent assurance and internal audit. The Board ensures compliance with mandatory of Best Practice on Corporate Governance jointly laws and regulations, and promotes voluntary issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants Board of Directors The Board bears overall responsibility for Conformance Framework COMPLIANCE AND ADHERENCE STRUCTURE ASSURANCE Mandatory Compliance Assurance on the Financial Statements ● Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Shareholders ● Independent Audit ● Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standard Act No. 15 of 1995 Assurance on non-monetised information ● Other legislative enhancements Board of affecting the Company ● Independent review and Directors assurance report ● Listing Rules of Colombo Stock Exchange Internal Audit ● Articles of Association ● Review of systems, controls, ● SEC regulations processes and operations Voluntary Adherence Independent Certifications ● QMS audit and certification ● Code of Best Practices jointly Remuneration Nomination Audit RPT Review issued by SEC and CA Sri Lanka Committee Committee Committee Committee ● EMS audit and certification ● UNGC ten principles ● Code of Business Ethics of DIMO ● GRI Standards ● Quality Management System ● Environmental Management Group System Sustainability Management Committee Committee ● Internal Control System 42 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information DIMO takes a two pronged approach to conformance: mandatory of the management team including Executive Directors, holds the primary responsibility to compliance and voluntary adherence. This is the path taken by oversee the Group’s activities with regard to the identification and management of economic, social the Board ensure transparency and accountability and to provide and environmental impacts and the achievement a strong platform for performance. of sustainability objectives. The composition of the Group Management Committee is available on pages 28 and 29. of Sri Lanka and Securities Exchange Commission, mechanism to review the effectiveness of the Board appears on page 118. The composition of the in view of the executive role played by the Chairman. Statements of Responsibility Board and number of the Independent Directors The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility meet the criteria relating to Board composition Chairman in an Executive Capacity for Financial Statements as required by the laid down by the Colombo Stock Exchange listing The Chairman, Mr. A.R. Pandithage, who is Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the rules. The Annual Report of the Board of Directors designated Chairman/Managing Director, plays Responsibility Statement of the Chairman, Chief is available from pages 114 to 116. an executive role in the Group and thereby holds Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer the highest executive position. The Board is of required by Circular number 09 of 2008 issued There were four new appointments to the Board of the belief that the existing arrangement has by Securities and Exchange Commission, are Directors during the year, details of which is given been economically beneficial to shareholders so available on pages 119 and 55. in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors on as to not warrant any change and that the dual page 114. role of Executive Chairman does not compromise Compliance and Adherence the principles of good corporate governance. DIMO takes a two pronged approach to Board Committees This is further ensured by the presence of the conformance: mandatory compliance and Board Committees consist of the Audit Committee, Independent Non-Executive Directors, including voluntary adherence. This is the path taken by the Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee the Senior Independent Director. Board to ensure transparency and accountability and the Related Party Transaction Review and to provide a strong platform for performance. Committee. All Board Committees, with the The presence of the Senior Independent Director exception of the Nomination Committee, are and the Independent Non-Executive Directors The Compliance and Adherence section on the left mandated by the Listing Rules of the Colombo ensure that no single individual has unfettered side of the conformance framework identifies the Stock Exchange and meet all the criteria prescribed powers of decision making, permitting independent guidelines and systems to be followed by the Board, by the said rules. All committees comprise of Nonjudgement over good governance and conducting Board Committees, Management Committees Executive Directors except for the Nomination of business in the best interest of stakeholders. and employees. As per the framework, statutes, Committee, where the Chairman of the Board The presence of Board Committees chaired by statutory documents and regulations are classified serves as a member. The first three committees the Independent Non-Executive Directors further into the “mandatory compliance” category and the mentioned above are also recommended by the strengthens good governance. codes, best practices, management systems and Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance control systems are classified into the “voluntary jointly issued by The Instituted of Chartered Management Committees adherence” category. Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Securities The Group Management Committee (GMC) is a and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. Each management committee appointed by the Board, Mandatory Compliance committee has its own terms of reference. entrusted with the execution of the performance The Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Sri and conformance aspects of Enterprise Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No. New appointments to the Board Committees and Governance. The GMC consists of Executive changes in the Chair of the Audit Committee and 15 of 1995 are two key legislative enactments Directors and members of the senior management among many others, with which the Company is Related Party Transactions Review Committee team. The Sustainability Committee, which is a occurred during the year. Details of these changes compliant. The Company is also compliant with the management committee consisting of members are given in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors on page 115. The composition of the respective Board Committees are detailed on page 51, 52, 53 and 54. The presence of the Senior Independent Director and the The reports of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Independent Non-Executive Directors ensure that no single Committee, Nomination Committee and Related individual has unfettered powers of decision making permitting Party Transaction Review Committee are available on pages 51 to 55. independent judgment over good governance and conducting of Senior Independent Director business in the best interest of stakeholders. The presence of Mr. R. Seevaratnam functions as the Senior Board Committees chaired by the Independent Non-Executive Independent Director. The presence of the Senior Independent Director provides a workable Directors further strengthens good governance. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 43 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Enterprise Governance regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange The Company is also a signatory to the UN at the year-end is supplemented by an interim Commission and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Global Compact which deals with concerns of audit carried out during the year. The internal Stock Exchange. human rights, labour, the environment and antiaudit function is headed by the Group Chief corruption. The level of participation of DIMO Internal Auditor and field work is delegated to a Voluntary Adherence in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) firm of Chartered Accountants identified for the Voluntary adherence strengthens the pronounced by UN Global Compact is presented purpose by the Audit Committee. Assurance/ conformance aspect of Enterprise Governance. It in the Impact Management Report from page 94 Certification on the quality management system, allows the Company to venture beyond mandatory to 111. the environmental management system and on compliance, which the Company considers the the non-financial information presented in this “base” for conformance. Voluntary adherence DIMO’s Code of Business Ethics promotes report is obtained from an independent licensed allows DIMO to expand conformance practices responsible corporate behaviour and is a voluntary assurance provider. to different areas of the business, promoting initiative of the Company which all employees have responsible corporate behaviour, strengthening signed and agreed to follow. More information on Point of Reference operations, addressing the expectations of various the code is available on page 107 in the section on The main purpose of all the conformance activities stakeholder groups and eventually supporting Impact Management. is to ensure that conformance as envisioned by sustained performance. the Board is practiced and the desired results The “In accordance with the GRI Standards: are achieved. The following table provides the Voluntary adherence to the Code of Best Practices Comprehensive Option” of the GRI standards links among the different aspects of the business jointly issued by the Securities and Exchange followed by DIMO for sustainability reporting, such as the capitals and impacts and the strategic Commission of Sri Lanka and The Instituted of promotes transparency with regard to the outcome expected from each aspect, linking each Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (the Code) economic, societal and environmental impacts to the key conformance aspects that facilitate enriches the practice of conformance within the made by the Company. The GRI content index the achievement of the strategic outcome. It also Company. The manner in which the Company available from pages 169 to 174 provides more shows the key conformance aspects and their has adhered to the Code is available at http://www. details on this. corresponding points of reference. The points dimolanka.com/stewardship/. Among others, matters of reference refer to the mechanism in place The Quality Management System and relating to the Board, the Directors, the Chairman to regulate or achieve the respective aspect of Environmental Management System are and the financial acumen of the Board, Board conformance. In order to ascertain the status or accredited by ISO 9001:2015 and ISO Meetings, Board balance, the supply of information effectiveness of the point of reference, please 14001:2015 respectively. to the Board, appointment and re-election of read the table titled “Level of Compliance and Directors, Appraisal of Board performance, Adherence” that follows the table given below. Assurance information relating to Directors, appraisal of the Chief Executive’s performance, remuneration Assurance obtained for the Financial Statements Level of Compliance and Adherence of Directors and disclosures, Remuneration and for non-financial information, Internal Audit All the points of reference identified in the Committee, Audit Committee, shareholder/ and Independent Certifications are key sources below table ensure better conformance through investor relations and communications, major of assurance and comfort available with regard mandatory compliance and voluntary adherence. and material transactions, financial reporting, to the integrity and the due functioning of the The following table elaborates those points of internal control, code of business conduct & conformance framework. These sources of reference and their status of compliance during ethics, disclosures and sustainability reporting assurance and comfort are depicted in the the year. are covered in the Company’s response to its conformance framework appearing on page 42. adherence. Information on adherence is available Independent assurance on the Financial in the Company’s website and forms part of this Statements is provided by an independent Enterprise Governance Report. auditor. The independent assurance obtained as Conformance Aspects and Point of Reference Capital / Activity Expected Outcome Key Conformance Aspect Point of Reference Monetised capital Improved ROCE Internal control Audit Committee Internal audit Audit Committee Uncertainty management Risk Management Framework Assurance Audit Committee Independent Auditors Customers Increased stakeholder Ethical marketing Quality Management System satisfaction Customer health and safety Quality Management System Customer privacy Quality Management System 44 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Capital / Activity Expected Outcome Key Conformance Aspect Point of Reference Employees Increased stakeholder Employee safety Quality Management System satisfaction UN Global Compact Principles Employee rights Code of Business Ethics Equal opportunities UN Global Compact Principles Reducing gender inequality Sustainability Objectives Comply with legislation and regulations relating to Code of Business Ethics employees Business Partners Increased stakeholder Compliance with principals’ requirements of ethical Quality Management System satisfaction practices Honour agreements with principals Quality Management System Intellectual capital Enhanced brand Data security and integrity Quality Management System reputation Meet the requirements of the legislative Code of Business Ethics enactments applicable to the Group Enhance and preserve the reputation of the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance Company by following best practices relating to jointly issued by SEC and ICASL good governance and sustainability CSE Listing Rules Articles of Association GRI Standards Society Responsible corporate Anti-corruption Code of Business Ethics citizen Responsible corporate behaviour UN Global Compact Principles Economy Responsible corporate Ensure that all taxes are paid correctly and on time Legislative enactments appropriate to the Group citizen Environment Responsible corporate Comply with all requirements of the Environment Environmental Management System citizen Management System Meet legal and regulatory requirements regarding Environmental Management System the environment UN Global Compact Principles Code of Business Ethics Value creation Create value Meet regulatory standards with regard to product Quality Management System activities responsibly and services Meet regulatory standards and business ethics in Code of Business Ethics performing supply chain activities Product responsibility Quality Management System Level of Compliance and Adherence Point of Reference Aspect of Regulation Status The Code of Best Practices on Corporate Best Practices of Corporate Governance All requirements of the code and the compliance Governance jointly issued by the Securities and level are available on company’s website at Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and The Institute www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (The Code) Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange Listing rules to be followed by listed companies Complied. The compliance level is given in the in Sri Lanka including on Corporate Governance tables on pages 47 to 48 relating to, among others; Non Executive Directors Independent Directors Disclosures relating to Directors Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Related Party Transaction Review Committee Legislative enactments applicable to the Group Legal requirements that the Group is subjected to The Code of Business Ethics specifically requires that all employees comply with all applicable laws. Employees sign a declaration to the effect that they will follow Code of Business Ethics Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 45 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Enterprise Governance Point of Reference Aspect of Regulation Status Articles of Association Requirements prescribed by the Articles of Complied Association Code of Business Ethics Compliance requirements applicable to all All employees sign declarations to the effect that employees all requirements in the Code will be complied with GRI Standards on Sustainability Reporting To report on sustainability related performance Complied. The GRI content index is available on in a complete generally accepted manner as pages 169 to 174. The Report on the Independent specified by GRI Standards Assurance obtained on Non-Financial Reporting is available from pages 175 to 177 Environment Management System (EMS) Meet the requirements of the Group’s Complied. The Group’s Environmental Environmental Management System accredited by Management System is certified with ISO the ISO 14001:2015 Standard 14001:2015 with certification provided by Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) Quality Management System (QMS) Meet the requirements of the Group’s Quality Complied. The Group’s QMS is certified with ISO Management System accredited by the ISO 9001: 2015, with certification provided by Det 9001:2015 Standard Norske Veritas AS (DNV) UN Global Compact Ten Principles To comply with the requirements of the declaration Communication on progress is available on made on the UN Global Compact Ten Principles company’s website at www.dimolanka.com/ covering Human Rights, Labour, Environment sustainability/sustainability performance and Anti Corruption and also to participate in pursuing sustainable development goals Audit Committee Among other responsibilities, to review Effectiveness of internal controls is reviewed effectiveness of Internal Control, Internal Audit with the Internal Auditors and Independent and Independent Assurance Auditors. The performance of Internal Auditors and Independent Auditors is also reviewed by the Audit Committee. Where necessary, members of the Group Management Committee are called upon to explain matters relating to internal controls Risk Management To manage risks that the Group is exposed to Please refer the Risk Management Report on pages 56 to 61 Disclosures The tables given below provide the required and applicable details, disclosures or cross references to details/disclosures mandated by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Disclosures Required by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Section Reference Requirement Annual Report Reference 168 (1) (a) The nature of the business of the Group and the Company together with any change thereof during the 128 accounting period 168 (1) (b) Signed Financial Statements of the Group and the Company for the accounting period completed 120 165 168 (1) (c) Auditors’ Report on Financial Statements of the Group and the Company 121 168 (1) (d) Accounting Policies and any changes therein 112 165 168 (1) (e) Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register during the accounting period 117 168 (1) (f) Remuneration and other benefits paid to Directors of the Company during the accounting period 136 168 (1) (g) Corporate donations made by the Company during the accounting period 136 168 (1) (h) Information on the Directorate of the Company and its Subsidiaries during and at the end of the 21 accounting period 168 (1) (i) Amounts paid/payable to the External Auditor as audit fees and fees for other services rendered during 136 the accounting period 168 (1) (j) Auditors’ relationship or any interest with the Company and its Subsidiaries 115 168 (1) (k) Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and Signatures on behalf of the Board (Annual Report 114 116 of the Board of Directors) 46 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Disclosures Required by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange The following table shows the level of compliance with the Section 7.10 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, pertaining to Corporate Governance. Compliance Rule No. Subject Applicable Requirement Details Status 7.10.1.(a) Non-Executive Directors At least two or one third of the Directors, Compliant Three out of nine Directors were Non-Executive whichever is higher, should be NonDirectors up to 31st May 2016. Four out of Executive Directors thirteen Directors were Non-Executive Directors from 01st June 2016 onwards 7.10.2.(a) Independent Directors Two or one-third of Non-Executive Compliant Two out of three Non-Executive Directors were Directors, whichever is higher, should be independent up to 31st May 2016.Three out of independent four Non-Executive Directors were independent from 01st June 2016 onwards 7.10.2.(b) Independence of Each Non-Executive Director should Compliant The Non-Executive Directors have submitted Directors submit a declaration of Independence/ the declarations in the prescribed format Non-Independence 7.10.3.(a) Disclosures relating to The names of Independent Directors Compliant Please refer pages 26 and 27 Directors should be disclosed in the Annual Report 7.10.3.(b) Independence of The Board shall make a determination Compliant The Board has made such determination and Directors annually as to the Independence or Nonthe basis for determination of “Independence” is Independence of each Non-Executive explained in the Annual Report of the Board of Director Directors. Please refer pages 114 and 116 7.10.3.(c) Disclosures relating to A brief resume of each Director should Compliant Please refer pages 26 and 27 Directors be included in the Annual Report including his/her area of expertise 7.10.3.(d) Appointment of new Provide a brief resume of any new Compliant Please refer pages 26 and 27 Directors Director appointed to the Board 7.10.5 Remuneration A listed company shall have a Compliant Names of the members of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Committee are available on page 52 7.10.5.(a) Composition of Shall comprise of Non-Executive Compliant The Committee consisted of three Nonthe Remuneration Directors, a majority of whom shall be Executive Directors up to 31st May 2016 of Committee Independent which two were Independent. The Committee consisted of four Non-Executive Directors from 01st June 2016 of which three were independent. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was an Independent Non-Executive Director throughout the year 7.10.5.(b) Functions of the The Remuneration Committee shall Compliant Please refer the Remuneration Committee Remuneration recommend the remuneration of the Report on page 52 Committee Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Directors 7.10.5.(c) Disclosure in the The Annual Report should set out; Compliant Please refer page 52 Annual Report relating to the Remuneration a) Names of the Directors comprising Committee the Remuneration Committee b) Statement of Remuneration policy Compliant Please refer the Remuneration Committee Report on page 52 c) Aggregate remuneration paid Compliant Please refer page 136 to Executive and Non-Executive Directors 7.10.6 Audit Committee A listed company shall have an Audit Compliant Names of the members of the Audit Committee Committee are available on page 51 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 47 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Enterprise Governance Compliance Rule No. Subject Applicable Requirement Details Status 7.10.6.(a) Composition of Audit Shall comprise of Non-Executive Compliant The Committee consisted of three NonCommittee Directors, a majority of whom are Executive Directors up to 31st May 2016 of Independent which two were independent. The Committee consisted of four Non-Executive Directors from 01st June 2016 of which three were independent. The Chairman of the Audit Committee was an Independent Non-Executive Director throughout the year Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Compliant The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Financial Officer should attend Audit Officer attend Audit Committee meetings by Committee Meetings invitation The Chairman of the Audit Committee or Compliant The Chairman of the Audit Committee is one member should be a member of a a member of The Institute of Chartered professional accounting body Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants UK 7.10.6.(b) Functions of Audit Should be as outlined in the Section 7.10 Compliant The terms of reference of the Audit Committee Committee of the Listing Rules was adopted by the Board on 20th June 2007 and last reviewed on 24th May 2016, cover the areas outlined 7.10.6.(c) Disclosure in the Annual a) Names of the Directors comprising Compliant Please refer page 51 Report relating to the the Audit Committee Audit Committee b) The Audit Committee shall make a Compliant Please refer the Audit Committee Report on determination of the independence page 51 of the Auditors and disclose the basis for such determination c) The Annual Report shall contain a Compliant Please refer the Audit Committee Report on Report of the Audit Committee in the page 51 prescribed manner Disclosures Specified by Section 7.6 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange 1. Disclosures specified by Section 7.6 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange are contained in this Annual Report. 2. There is no evidence of the book value being substantially different from the market value of land and other fixed assets of the Company or its subsidiaries. Disclosures Specified by Section 9.3.2 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange Disclosures specified by section 9.3.2 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange are contained in this Annual Report. Please refer page 53 for the Related Party Transaction Review Committee Report. 48 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Composition of the Board and Board Committees and Attendance at Meetings for 2016/17 Date of Appointment to the Board Attendance at Meetings Board Member First Re-election Position Attendance A.R. Pandithage June 1977 Not Applicable Chairman/Managing Director 6/6 R. Seevaratnam January 2007 June 2016 Senior Independent Director 5/6 Dr. H. Cabral October 2006 June 2014 Independent Director 5/6 A.M. Pandithage September 1982 June 2012 Non-Executive Director 5/6 A.D.B. Talwatte June 2016 Please refer note* Independent Director 5/5 A.N. Algama November 1984 June 2016 Executive Director 6/6 S.C. Algama November 1984 June 2014 Executive Director 6/6 A.G. Pandithage December 1995 June 2016 CEO /Director 6/6 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne April 2006 June 2011 Director/Chief Financial Officer 6/6 R.C. Weerawardane June 2002 June 2016 Executive Director 6/6 M.V. Bandara June 2016 Please refer note* Executive Director 5/5 P.K.W. Mahendra June 2016 Please refer note* Executive Director 5/5 S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana June 2016 Please refer note* Executive Director 5/5 * Note Mr. A.D.B. Talwatte, Mr. M.V. Bandara, Mr. P.K.W. Mahendra and Mr. S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana were appointed to the Board with effect from 01st June 2016 and will eligible for the re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Number of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors attended Board Meetings Held During the Year No. of Directors Attended Gap Between Board Meeting Date Meetings Independent Executive Non-Executive (days) Non-Executive Directors Directors Directors 24/05/2016 56 6/6 0/1 1/2 14/06/2016 21 9/9 1/1 2/3 29/07/2016 45 9/9 1/1 3/3 11/10/2016 74 9/9 1/1 3/3 10/11/2016 30 9/9 1/1 3/3 14/02/2017 96 9/9 1/1 3/3 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 49 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Senior Independent Director’s Statement The ‘Code of Best Practice on Corporate As the SID, I am consulted by the Chairman on Governance 2013’ (The Code) issued jointly by major strategic and governance issues. As the SID, the Securities and Exchange Commission and The I make myself available to any Director to have Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka any confidential discussion on the affairs of the recommends that a Senior Independent Director Company, should the need arise. (SID) be appointed in the event of the Chairman of the Board being an Executive Chairman. The presence of a SID provides a workable mechanism to review the role played by the Chairman. While the role of the Chairman entails providing leadership in observing best practices of corporate governance, my role as the SID calls for a review of the Board’s effectiveness. The R. Seevaratnam presence of the SID also provides emphasis to transparency in matters relating to governance. Senior Independent Director DIMO is committed to principles of good governance Colombo and always strives to live by the Best Practices of 23rd May 2017 Corporate Governance. The conformance culture of the Company is strongly embraced by the Board of Directors. The Company follows a policy of strict compliance with mandatory requirements while embracing voluntary adherence, in order to enhance stakeholder acceptance and making a positive impact on value creation. A Director is permitted to obtain independent professional advice that may be required in discharging his responsibilities, at the Company’s expense. 50 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Committee Reports Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Report of the Audit Committee in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities that Risk Management include the integrity of the Financial Statements, The Audit Committee meets the Internal Auditors risk management, business ethics, internal on a quarterly basis and reviews their findings in control, compliance with legal and regulatory order to identify risks attached to different areas requirements, review of Independent External of operation and effectiveness of internal controls. Auditors’ performance and the Internal Audit. The key risks associated with the business are Compliance given in the Risk Management Report on pages Compliance with Financial Reporting Requirements 56 to 61. The Audit Committee reviewed the quarterly and Independent Auditors A.D.B.Talwatte annual Financial Statements prior to its publication. The Audit Committee reviewed the independence Chairman Audit Committee The review included: and objectivity of the Independent External Role of the Audit Committee • Appropriateness and changes in Accounting Auditors, Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants. Policies. The Audit Committee has met with the External The role of the Audit Committee is to oversee • Significant estimates and judgement made by Auditors to review their audit plan and any the financial reporting system of the Company, the management. observations made by them. with a view to safeguarding the interests of the • Compliance with relevant Accounting Standards shareholders and all other stakeholders. and applicable regulatory requirements. The Committee has received a declaration from • Impairment of assets. the External Auditors, confirming that they do not Committee Composition • Issues arising from the Internal Audit and have any relationship or interest in the Company The Committee, as at 31st March 2017, Independent External Audit. or its subsidiaries. comprised of Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte (Chairman), • The Group’s/Company’s ability to continue as Dr. H. Cabral, Mr. A. M. Pandithage and Mr. R. a going concern. The Committee reviewed the non-audit services Seevaratnam. The Committee’s composition met and its impact on the independence of the Compliance with Laws and Regulations External Auditors. the requirements of the rule 7.10.6 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Audit Committee reviewed the reports submitted by the management and the Internal The Audit Committee has recommended to the Mr. R. Seevaratnam was the Chairman of the Auditors on compliance with applicable laws and Board that Messrs KPMG be re-appointed as Audit Committee upto 11th October 2016. Mr. regulations. The Committee is satisfied that laws the Independent External Auditor and that the A.D.B Talwatte was appointed to the Committee and regulations are duly complied with and statutory re-appointment be included in the agenda of the on 01st June 2016 and as its Chairman payments have been made on a timely basis. Annual General Meeting. with effect from 11th October 2016. Mr. R. Seevaratnam continues to be a member of the Audit and Accountability Evaluation of the Committee Performance Audit Committee. Internal Controls The annual evaluation of the Committee was The Committee is satisfied that an effective conducted by the Board during the year and the Category Number of Directors outcome of the evaluation is given on page 115 in system of internal control is in place to provide Non-Executive reasonable assurance on safeguarding the the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. Directors 01 Company’s assets and reliability of Financial Conclusion Independent NonStatements. Effectiveness of the Company’s Executive Directors 03 system of internal controls is evaluated through The Audit Committee is satisfied that the reports provided by the management, Internal effectiveness of the organisational structure of MEETING ATTENDANCE the Group and of the implementation of Group’s Auditors and Independent External Auditors. 5 0 Accounting Policies and operational controls provide A. D. B. Talwatte** Internal Auditors reasonable assurance that the affairs of the Group 6 1 are managed in accordance with Group policies and R. Seevaratnam** The Internal Audit function is headed by the 7 0 Group Chief Internal Auditor and the fieldwork that the Group assets are properly accounted for Dr. H. Cabral** and reporting is outsourced to Messrs SJMS and adequately safeguarded. The Committee is also 7 0 A. M. Pandithage* Associates, a firm of Chartered Accountants. satisfied that the Company and its subsidiaries are 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Internal Auditors submitted their findings to the able to continue as a going concern. Meetings attended Meetings not attended Audit Committee quarterly and their reports are made available to Independent External Auditors. * NonExecutive Director The Audit Committee monitors and reviews: ** Independent NonExecutive Director • The coverage of the audit plan. Terms of Reference A.D.B. TALWATTE • The follow-up action taken on the Chairman Audit Committee The Audit Committee has terms of reference, recommendation of the Internal Auditors. dealing with its authority and duties, which is • The internal audit programmes and results of Colombo established for the purpose of assisting the Board the internal audit process. 23rd May 2017 • The effectiveness of the internal audit function. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 51 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Committee Reports Report of the Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference The Committee has acted within the parameters set by its terms of reference. The decisions on matters relating to remuneration of Executive Directors and the members of the Group Management Committee were arrived at in consultation with the Chairman/Managing Director and the Chief Executive Officer. No Director is involved in determining his own remuneration. Remuneration Policy Dr. H. Cabral The remuneration policy is designed to reward, Chairman Remuneration Committee motivate and retain the Company’s executive team, with market competitive remuneration and benefits, Role and Responsibilities to support the continued success of the business The Committee was established for the purpose and creation of shareholder value. Accordingly, of recommending the remuneration of the salaries and other benefits are reviewed periodically, Chairman/Managing Director, Chief Executive taking into account the performance of the individual Officer (CEO) and the Executive Directors. The and industry standards. Committee also approves the remuneration of the members of the Group Management Committee The remuneration packages which are linked on the recommendations made by the Chairman/ to individual performances are aligned with the Managing Director and the Chief Executive Officer. Company’s short-term and long-term strategy. The Committee makes every endeavour to maintain Committee Composition remuneration levels that are sufficient to attract and retain Executive Directors and the members of the The Committee, as at 31st March 2017, senior management team. comprised of Dr. H. Cabral (Chairman), Mr. A. M. Pandithage, Mr. R. Seevaratnam and Mr. A. D. B. All Non-Executive Directors receive a fee for serving Talwatte. Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte was appointed to on the Board and serving on sub-committees. They the Committee on 01st June 2016. do not receive any performance related incentive The Committee’s composition met the payments. requirements of the rule 7.10.5 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Company does not have an employee share ownership plan for members of the Board, who are Category Number of Directors considered as Key Management Personnel (KMP). Non-Executive Directors’ Emoluments Directors 01 The Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in Note Independent Non4.5 on page 136. Executive Directors 03 Evaluation of the Committee Performance MEETING ATTENDANCE The annual evaluation of the Committee was carried 2 0 out by the Board during the year and the outcome Dr. H. Cabral** 2 0 of the evaluation is given on page 115 in the Annual A. M. Pandithage* Report of the Board of Directors. 1 1 R. Seevaratnam** 1 0 A. D. B. Talwatte** 0 1 2 Meetings attended Meetings not attended * NonExecutive Director DR. H. CABRAL ** Independent NonExecutive Director Chairman Remuneration Committee Colombo 23rd May 2017 52 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Related Party Transactions Review Committee Policies and Procedures requiring disclosure in the Annual Report. Details The members of the Board of Directors of the of other related party transactions entered into by Company have been identified as Key Management the Company during the year is disclosed in Note Personnel. In accordance with the Related Party 5.1 to the Financial Statements. Transaction Policy, the declarations are obtained Evaluation of the Committee Performance from each Key Management Personnel of the Company for the purpose of identifying parties The annual evaluation of the Committee was related to them. Based on the information conducted by the Board during the year and the furnished in these declarations, the Company outcome of the evaluation is given on page 115 in retrieves data on related party transactions from the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. the database of the Company. Declaration R.Seevaratnam Terms of Reference A declaration by the Board of Directors in the Chairman Related Party Transactions Review The Related Party Transactions Review Committee Annual Report as a negative statement to the Committee has terms of reference, dealing with its authority effect that no related party transaction falling Role of the Committee and duties. The terms of reference covers aspects within the ambit of the rule 9.3.2 of Listing Rules relating to matters prescribed in the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange was entered into The Committee assists the Board in reviewing of the Colombo Stock Exchange. by the Company during the year, is given in the all related party transactions carried out by the Annual Report of the Board of Directors on page Company. The Committee also performs the Terms of reference of the Committee include the 115. All other related party transactions that could oversight function on behalf of the Board in following: be classified as related party transactions in terms complying with the Listing Rules of the Colombo of LKAS 24-’Related Party Disclosures’, are given Stock Exchange and with the Code of Best • Review in advance all proposed Related Party in Note 5.1 to the Financial Statements. Practices on Related Party Transactions issued by Transactions of the Company except those the Securities and Exchange Commission. explicitly exempted by the Code • Determine whether Related Party Transactions Committee Composition that are to be entered into by the Company The Committee, as at 31st March 2017, require the approval of the Board or comprised of Mr. R. Seevaratnam (Chairman), Shareholders of the Company. Dr. H. Cabral, Mr. A. M. Pandithage and Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte. Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte was • Ensure that no Director of the Company shall R.SEEVARATNAM appointed to the Committee on 01st June 2016. participate in any discussion of a proposed Chairman Related Party Transactions Review The composition of the Committee met the Related Party Transaction for which he or Committee requirements of the rule 9.2.2 of Listing Rules of she is a related party, unless such a Director is requested to do so by the Committee for Colombo the Colombo Stock Exchange. the express purpose of providing information 23rd May 2017 Category Number of Directors concerning the Related Party Transaction to the Committee. Non-Executive Directors 01 • To recommend the creation of a special Independent Noncommittee to review and approve the proposed Executive Directors 03 Related Party Transaction, in the event of any potential conflict of interest. MEETING ATTENDANCE • Establishing guidelines to be followed by senior management in the event Related R. Seevaratnam** 3 1 Party Transactions are ongoing. Thereafter, the Committee, on an annual basis, shall 4 0 Dr. H. Cabral** review and assess ongoing relationships 4 0 and transactions with the related party to A. M. Pandithage* determine whether they are in compliance 4 0 with the Committee’s guidelines and that the A. D. B. Talwatte** 0 1 2 3 4 Related Party Transaction remains appropriate. Meetings attended Meetings not attended Related Party Transactions during the Year The activities and observations of the Committee are communicated to the Board. During the year * NonExecutive Director there were no nonrecurrent or recurrent related ** Independent NonExecutive Director party transactions that exceeded the respective thresholds mentioned in the Listing Rules Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 53 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Committee Reports Report of the Nomination Committee Terms of Reference and Key Activities The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee include the following: • Review the structure, size and composition of the Board. • Evaluate the independence and effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors. • Review the process for succession planning to ensure that the Board has the correct balance Dr. H. Cabral of individuals to discharge its duties effectively. Chairman Nomination Committee • During the year, the Committee was briefed Role of the Committee on succession planning issues relating to Executive Directors and Group Corporate The role of the Committee is to review the Management roles and satisfied itself that structure and composition of the Board and make action plans are in place to manage succession. recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. In order to ensure that the Board The Committee has acted within the parameters possesses the correct mix of expertise for its set by its terms of reference. effective functioning, the Committee assesses the Board composition to ascertain whether the During the year, the Committee recommended combined knowledge, skills mix and experience of that one Independent Non-Executive Director the Board matches the strategic demands facing and three Executive Directors be appointed to the Company. the Board. The details of the appointments are available in Annual Report of Board of Directors Committee Composition on page 114. The Committee, as at 31st March 2017, The Committee is satisfied that the combined comprised of Dr. H. Cabral (Chairman), Mr. A. knowledge and experience of the Board matches R. Pandithage, Mr. A. M. Pandithage, Mr. R. the demands facing the Company. Seevaratnam, and Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte. Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte was appointed to the Committee on Evaluation of the Committee Performance 01st June 2016. The annual evaluation of the Committee was Category Number of Directors conducted by the Board during the year and the outcome of the evaluation is given on page 115 in Non-Executive the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. Directors 01 Independent NonExecutive Directors 03 The Chairman/ Managing Director 01 MEETING ATTENDANCE DR. H. CABRAL 1 0 Dr. H. Cabral** Chairman Nomination Committee 1 0 R. Seevaratnam** 1 0 Colombo A. M. Pandithage* 1 0 23rd May 2017 A. R. Pandithage 0 A. D. B. Talwatte** 0 1 Meetings attended Meetings not attended * NonExecutive Director ** Independent NonExecutive Director 54 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Supplementary Information Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer The Consolidated Financial Statements are The Financial Statements were audited by Messrs prepared in accordance with the requirements of KPMG, Chartered Accountants, the Independent the following: External Auditors. • Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued by The Audit Committee of the Company meets the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri periodically with the Internal Auditors and the Lanka (SLFRs/LKASs), Independent External Auditors to review the • Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, manner in which these Auditors are performing their responsibilities and to discuss auditing, • Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, internal control and financial reporting issues. To and ensure complete independence, the Independent • Any other applicable statutes. External Auditors and the Internal Auditors have full and free access to the members of the Audit The Accounting Policies used in preparation of the Committee to discuss any matter of substance. Consolidated Financial Statements are appropriate and consistently applied, except unless otherwise stated in the Notes accompanying the Financial Statements. There are no departures from the prescribed Accounting Standards in their adoption. Comparative information has been reclassified wherever necessary to comply with the current presentation. The Significant Accounting Policies A.R. PANDITHAGE and estimates that involved a high degree of Chairman/Managing Director judgement and complexity were discussed with the Audit Committee. The Board of Directors and the Management of the Company accept responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of these Financial Statements. The estimates and judgements relating to the Financial Statements were made in a prudent and reasonable basis, in order that the Financial A.G. PANDITHAGE Statements reflect in a true and fair manner, Director/Group Chief Executive Officer the form and substance of transactions and reasonably present the Company’s state of affairs. To ensure this, the Company has taken reasonable and sufficient care in installing a system of internal control and accounting records for safeguarding assets and for preventing and detecting frauds as well as other irregularities, which is reviewed, B.C.S.A.P. GOONERATNE evaluated and updated on an ongoing basis. Director/Chief Financial Officer The Internal Auditors from Messrs SJMS have Colombo conducted periodic audits to provide reasonable 23rd May 2017 assurance that the established policies and procedures of the Company were consistently followed. However, there are inherent limitations that should be recognised in weighing the assurances provided by any system of internal controls and accounting. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 55 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Risk Management The Group Management Committee (GMC) is responsible for implementing the risk management process. The GMC examines situations, processes and possible events that could expose the Group to situations that could seriously reduce earnings, threaten its sustenance, impair its liquidity or lead to legal, regulatory or reputational risks. While the GMC identifies such risks internally, stakeholder engagement and feedback are other avenues through which we identify internal and external risks. Managing risk is a key aspect of the Board’s stewardship obligations and a component of the Risks falling outside the risk appetite are ‘performance’ dimension of Enterprise Governance. identified and relevant risk mitigation actions are implemented. These actions are monitored The risk management framework illustrates our approach to risk management, reflecting the risk through management systems where the heads of management process, the structure in place to administer the process and sources of comfort with the business units use employee inputs to provide regard to its effectiveness. useful information and feedback to the GMC. In order to supplement this process, each division is Risk Management Framework required to maintain a risk register as mandated by our ISO certified Quality Management System. PROCESS STRUCTURE COMFORT & ASSURANCE Internal control, internal audit and independent assurance provide comfort and assurance to risk management. While internal controls focus on Identify, Evaluate, Treat and Monitor Board of Directors operations, the assurance provided by the internal audit and independent parties deals with any gaps, from the identification to the management of risks. Risk Appetite Audit Committee Independent Audit Internal Audit Internal Control Oversight Review Group Management Committee Measurement Feedback Heads of Business Units Feedback Employees The Board is responsible for ensuring effective to legal, regulatory or reputational risks. While the risk management. The risk management GMC identifies such risks internally, stakeholder framework indicates how they convert their engagement and feedback are other avenues mandate into action. The Audit Committee reviews through which we identify internal and external risks. the effectiveness of the risk management process, which includes all aspects from determining risk Risk Identification appetite at Board level to measurements and feedback at operational level. Material Stakeholder The Group Management Committee (GMC) is Issues responsible for implementing the risk management Risk process. The GMC examines situations, processes Identification and possible events that could expose the Group Internal Risk to situations that could seriously reduce earnings, Identification threaten its sustenance, impair its liquidity or lead 56 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Risk Evaluation and Mapping Risk evaluation involves assessing the likelihood of occurrence and the potential impact of risks, should they occur. Likelihood of occurrence is assessed on the basis of past experience and the preventive measures in place. A ranking of ‘almost certain’, ‘likely’, ‘moderate’ or ‘rare’, as relating to the probability of occurrence is assigned to each risk. The impact of the event is assessed by determining the loss it would cause and the extent of the impact. After consideration of these two factors, the impact is then categorised as ‘minor’, ‘moderate’, ‘major’ or ‘catastrophic’. A risk map is developed based on the results of the risk assessment. The position of a particular risk on the risk map indicates whether the risk falls below or beyond DIMO’s risk appetite. The extent to which risk mitigation actions are required is then determined. Risks and their corresponding mitigating action plans are reviewed by the GMC. Risk Assessment Matrix Risk Appetite Catastrophic Major IMPACT Moderate Minor Rare Moderate Likely Almost Certain PROBABILITY Extensive Monitoring and Considerable Monitoring Moderate Monitoring and Management Required and Management Management Required Required Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 57 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Risk Management Risk Mitigation The table below shows the risks identified, with the relevant risk mitigation actions and the change in risk profile. Category/ Change in Risk Profile Segment Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Affected 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 01 Monetised Negative impact on • Ensuring a proper mix of short and long term Capital the Group’s cost borrowings of funding due to • Maintain an appropriate combination of fixed the increment in and floating rate borrowings interest rate 02 Monetised Unavailability of • The finance and treasury functions ensure Capital sufficient working that banking facilities are in place to cover its capital, negatively forecasted cash needs for a period of at least affecting the twelve months smooth functioning • The Group maintains a desired mixture of cash of day-to-day and cash equivalents operations of the • Adequate banking facilities are in place to Group support operations 03 Monetised Damages resulting • Preventive safety measures are taken to Capital from natural minimise potential injuries to people and disasters such as damage to property in case of fire or floods fire and floods • The Group’s disaster recovery plan ensures smooth functioning of operations in the event of a natural disaster • Indemnity provided by insurance policies 04 Customer Loss of customers • Availability of ISO 9001: 2015 accredited Relationship and resulting Quality Management System Capital impact on business • Dedicated unit for Customer Relationship due to dissatisfied Management customers • Continuous training for employees on customer care and aftercare • Inclusion of customer care and customer satisfaction index in employees’ and business unit objectives A detailed narrative on delivering value to customers is available under Relationship CapitalCustomer from pages 68 to 71 05 Human Capital Failure to achieve • Due importance is given to the talent growth plans as a management function of the Group result of failure to • Top management involvement in talent attract and retain management led by the Human Resources sufficient numbers (HR) Department of qualified and • Adoption of best practices in Human experienced Resources Management employees and/or inability to ensure • Conducting periodic employee satisfaction and their ongoing experience surveys engagement and • Significant level of investment in training and commitment development • Existence of a competitive remuneration policy More employee-related information is available in the Human Capital Report from pages 76 to 79 58 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Category/ Change in Risk Profile Segment Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Affected 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 06 Human Capital Losses from low • An ‘Open door policy’ is in place to discuss productivity and grievances with superiors low employee • An employee council meets every month to engagement as a address employee concerns result of industrial • HR clinics are held at business locations disputes where representatives from HR department visit locations to listen to employee grievances • Mitigation actions implemented for the risk, provide us the opportunity to identify employee expectations and refine our HR practices for better employee engagement 07 Business Disruptions to the • Existence of a business partner capital Partners relationships with building model which focuses on developing a Capital business partners mutually beneficial relationship with principals negatively affecting • Periodic evaluation of principals’ expectations the smooth and their satisfaction levels functioning of the • Independent surveys are conducted once in supply chain three years to assess whether the business partner expectations are met A detailed account of our relationships with principals is given from pages 72 to 74 08 Intellectual Loss of confidential • Extensive controls and reviews to maintain the Capital data as a result of security of IT infrastructure and data security breaches • Regular back up of data and off-site storage of to the IT system data backup system • Disaster recovery plan 09 Society Potential exposure • The tone from the top always promotes of t he Group to responsible behaviour financial losses, • The Code of Business Ethics of the Group reputational requires that all employees comply with laws damages and and regulations litigation due to • A written undertaking is obtained from every non-compliance employee that he/she will respect the Code of with laws or Business Ethics unacceptable • Internal audits and independent assurance provide corporate comfort on compliance with laws and regulations behaviour by employees A detailed account of Group’s conformance aspects is presented in the Enterprise Governance Report from pages 41 to 54 10 Society Loss of social • Engagement in various community related license to operate activities, including community development as a result and philanthropic initiatives of corporate • Investments to develop social and physical behaviour against infrastructure of the community the interests of the • Upholding the principles of the UN Global society Compact • Commitment to contribute to a number of United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) More details on interactions with the community are available from pages 106 to 109 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 59 Annual Report 2016/17 STAYING IN LINE Risk Management Category/ Change in Risk Profile Segment Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Affected 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 11 All Loss of • Existence of a Sustainability Committee to Stakeholders stakeholder identify and respond to environmental, social confidence, and economic impacts due to value creation loss of business activities opportunities and • Regular engagement with stakeholders to depletion of the identify and address their material concerns Group image due • Environmental and quality policy to guide to the Group not strategy formulation and operational decision being perceived making as a responsible corporate citizen • ISO 14001:2015 accredited Environmental Management System • The Group follows GRI Standards on sustainability reporting. GRI content index is available at www.dimolanka.com/sustainability/ sustainability-performance More information on the Group’s efforts towards managing impacts as a result of value creation activities is presented from pages 94 to 111. 12 Vehicle Sales The vulnerability • Reduce the dependency on the Vehicle Segment of the automobile Segment, by gradually strengthening other market to negative business segments which are Marketing changes in interest & Distribution, Construction and Material rates and tariff, Handling Equipment and Electro Mechanical, adversely affecting Bio Medical Engineering and Marine Solutions the Group’s performance 13 ElectroThe segment • Strengthening the service levels and product mechanical, caters to a offering Bio-medical limited customer • Enhance value addition through wider and Marine base where the participation in the supply chain Engineering bargaining power • Diversifying into different markets and product of customers is /services high. This may negatively affect More information on this business segment is our profit margins presented from pages 92 to 93. 14 Construction Intense competition • Frequent knowledge sharing sessions & Material from cheaper to enhance customer awareness on the Handling substitute products importance of product’s high quality and Equipment durability Businesses • Differentiating ourselves by providing exceptional aftercare services and offering annual maintenance contracts More information on this business segment is presented from pages 90 to 91. 60 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Category/ Change in Risk Profile Segment Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Affected 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 15 All Business Failure to secure • Existence of a clearly defined and closely Segments delivery of products monitored supply chain management system on time for each business segment • Maintaining a sound working capital management strategy • Strong relationship with business partners More information on business segments and the basis for capital allocation is available on pages 84 to 93 and 33 respectively. 16 All Business Failure to compete • Regular investments to adopt new technology, Segments in the market especially in the provision of aftercare services as a result of • Continuous training for employees on technological upcoming technologies obsolescence in • The Group is backed by world renowned the supply chain brands, some of whom are technology leaders Therefore, technology is leveraged to compete with others 17 All Segments Losses on • Strict adherence to Group Credit Policy that receivables due to includes evaluation of a customer prior to adverse economic granting credits conditions and poor • Periodic review of receivables by the Group credit management Management Committee 18 All Segments Negative changes • Hedging through forward foreign exchange in exchange rates contracts, where desirable (USD, Euro and • Hedging through foreign currency bank Japanese Yen) account balances and trade receivables causing potential losses on assets, liabilities and transactions denominated in foreign currency 19 All Segments Losses resulting • Existence of a clearly defined and monitored from slow moving supply chain management system which inventory becoming carefully construct orders obsolete • Leverage information technology to manage inventory and ordering Extensive monitoring and management required Considerable monitoring and management required Moderate monitoring and management required. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 61 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Value Creation Capitals Report 63 Business Report 84 Impact Management Report 95 62 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Monetised Capital Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Revenue Turnover (Rs. million) 44,493 37,750 28,037 20,884 27,711 Profitability Gross profit ratio (%) 16.71 17.43 18.25 20.87 15.21 Net profit ratio (%) 1.48 2.52 2.14 1.90 1.70 Working Capital Current ratio (times) at the year end 1.33 1.47 1.45 1.50 1.71 Management Quick asset ratio (times) at the year end 0.51 0.56 0.75 0.70 0.72 Asset Utilisation Fixed asset turnover (times) 5.30 4.70 3.51 3.10 4.98 Investments Capital expenditure as a percentage of total assets (%) 3.18 1.40 4.08 8.66 8.50 Capital Structure Debt/Equity (%) – at the year end 8.95 13.06 17.29 23.15 10.10 Interest cover (times) 2.22 3.93 3.00 2.42 2.24 Overview Monetised Capital represents our resources which are stated in monetary terms in the Financial GROUP TURNOVER Statements. It includes financial capital, manufactured capital and monetised natural capital. Monetised capital is the medium through which we transact with many of our stakeholders. Thus, it remains a Rs. million carefully managed capital. 50,000 Effective management of monetised capital will require sound management of monetised value 40,000 creation and careful utilisation and preserving of stores of monetised capital, supported by a sound 30,000 management approach and management actions. Therefore, this review of monetised capital has been compartmentalised accordingly. 20,000 The following model provides the basis for this discussion. It is possible to understand our “store of 10,000 monetised capital” by reviewing our financial position, “monetised value creation” by reviewing financial 0 performance and “management of monetised capital” by reviewing of our management approach and 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 management actions. Management Approach Monetised capital is a pre-requisite for our value creation process and for sustenance of the business. Therefore, its possession, use, management and accumulation are carefully scrutinised. Improved Return on Equity (ROE) is a key strategic outcome of the monetised value creation. Therefore, improving net profit margins Monetised Capital Management Model through operating efficiently, asset turnover through effective utilisation of assets and financial leverage by achieving optimum capital structure Stores of receive due attention. Monetised REVIEW OF FINANCIAL POSITION Capital The review of Financial Position and Financial Performance collectively describe how the Group achieves our key strategic outcomes during the year, as a result of the management actions. Management of Monetised MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND Capital MANAGEMENT ACTIONS Monetised REVIEW OF FINANCIAL Value Creation PERFORMANCE Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 63 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Monetised Capital Review of Financial Position Property, Plant and Equipment This section describes the strength of the Group’s monetised capital through the Statement of Financial Investment in property, plant and equipment (PPE) Position. at written down value as at the year-end was Rs.8,299 million (Rs.7,930 million 2015/16). DEBT TO EQUITY RATIO WORKING CAPITAL COMPOSITION (%) Capital expenditure for the year amounted to Rs.724 million. This include an amount of % A-60 Rs.153 million invested on the new Kurunegala 25 23.15 Branch. The 29 acre property in Dambulla acquired C-29 by the Company during the year to establish the 20 17.29 centre of excellence for the agriculture business, C-29 caused an outflow of Rs.78 million. 15 13.06 2015/16 2016/17 10 10.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (%) 8.95 B-13 A-58 5 B-11 G-1 H-5 0 F-3 E-1 A-54 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 D-6 A Inventories C-2 E-3F-1G-4 E-1 B Trade payables C-6 D-2 C Receivables CAPITAL STRUCTURE 2015/16 2016/17 Borrowings B-29 Rs. million Rs. million A-55 Borrowings consist of long-term loans, import loans, 2,000 11,000 short-term loans and overdraft. The total amount B-30 of long term loans outstanding as at the year1,600 10,000 end amounted to Rs.910 million (Rs.1,305 million 1,200 2015/16), indicating a reduction of 30%. The A Freehold Land F Motor Vehicles B Buildings and Premises G Computer Hardware 9,000 long – term loans have been obtained for five-year C Buildings on Leasehold Land and Software 800 repayment periods except for the loan obtained D Plant and Machinery H Electrical Fixtures, Fittings 8,000 to finance the acquisition of Weliweriya complex, E Tools and Implements and Office Equipment 400 which has a repayment period of ten years, and will 0 7,000 be repaid in full during the next financial year. 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Review of Financial Performance Short term borrowings, which mainly secured for Review of financial performance covers aspects financing working capital, increased to Rs.7,473 of monetised value creation including operating Capital Structure million from Rs.5,180 million previous year. efficiency and effective utilisation of assets. The debt to equity ratio, which is calculated as a Interest on overdrafts are reviewed periodically Turnover proportion of the total long term interest-bearing by the Group centralised treasury function and to equity, was 8.95% as at the yearend (13.06% The Group gross turnover for the year increased rates charged on short-term import loans are 2015/16). Increase of shareholder funds from by 18% from Rs.37,750 million to Rs.44,493 determined based on money market rates. Rs.9,990 million to Rs.10,165 million and decrease million. The quarterly distribution of the annual of long term borrowing by 30% during the year Details of borrowings appear on Note 4.22 to the turnover is given below. (18% in 2015/16) contributed to this reduction. Financial Statements. Working Capital TURNOVER QUARTER PERFORMANCE BORROWINGS The increased level of activity has placed demands Rs. ’000 on the management of working capital and this 14,000,000 % receive due attention. Higher turnover during 100 the year resulted in higher levels of inventory 89 11,200,000 and receivables, increasing current assets from 80 80 Rs.12,350 million to Rs.14,402 million. Inventory 8,400,000 increased by 18% from Rs.7,607 million to 60 5,600,000 Rs.8,942 million. Trade and other receivables also increased by 10% from Rs.3,877 million to 40 2,800,000 Rs.4,277 million. 20 20 0 11 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 0 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 Long Term Borrowings Short Term Borrowings 64 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information All business segments of the Group contributed to the overall increase in the annual turnover. Segment Above graph shows the movement of AWPR performance is available on page 133. The highest amount for the overall increase in revenue was during the year. Increase in finance cost and contributed by the vehicle sales segment. decrease in net profit resulted in a reduction in interest cover from 3.93 times to 2.22 times. Segment Revenue Return on Equity (ROE) Improved ROE is a key strategic outcome 2016/17 2015/16 % of Business domain expected through our corporate strategy. The (Rs.billion) (Rs.billion) Change Group ROE was 6.46% during the year (9.46% in Vehicles-Sales 31.4 27.3 15% previous year). Vehicles-After Services 3.5 2.9 21% Marketing and Distribution 4.3 3.8 13% ET Construction and Material Handling Equipment 2.6 1.5 73% IN N PRO O N Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering 2.7 2.2 23% FIT REDUCTI 1.48% MARGIN Group Turnover 44.5 37.7 18% 2.52 (2015/16) ANCIAL L Profitability Earnings per share (EPS) for the year under FIN E D review was Rs.73.99 compared to Rs.106.64 GE E RA The Group’s gross profit ratio for the year IMPROV previous year. The computation of EPS is given VE reduced to 16.7% from 17.4% in the previous 2.24 times in Note 4.7 to the Financial Statements. There year. All business segments recorded lower 2.04 SET TURNO were no changes in the number of shares in issue (2015/16) AS V gross profit margins compared to the previous D during the year. ER year. Gross profit for the year increased to I MP R O Rs.7,398 million from Rs.6,536 million previous Administrative Expenses VE 1.95 times RAT year. The gains in the gross profit did not flow IO The administrative expenses increased by 24% 1.84 through to the Profit Before Tax mainly due to (2015/16) the Rs.939 million increase in administrative from Rs.3,910 to Rs.4,849 million. Staff related expenses and Rs.386 million increase in costs was a key contributor to this increase. The finance costs. The Group Profit Before Tax was number of employees increased from 1,573 to Rs.1,043 million compared Rs.1,380 million 1,725 during the year. recorded in the previous year. Finance Costs Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) increased Finance costs increased by 82% during the year to Rs.1,900 million from Rs.1,850 million previous to Rs.856 million from Rs.470 in the previous year. year. Increase in borrowing rates and the increase in borrowings contributed to this increase. AWPR, which was 9.19% at the commencement of the EARNINGS year increased to 11.79% by the end of the Rs. '000 financial year. The total borrowings (long-term borrowings and short-term borrowings) increased 2,500 to Rs.8,382 million from Rs.6,484 million at the 2,000 commencement of the year. 1,500 MOVEMENT IN AWPR 1,000 % 15 500 12.12 11.79 12 11.52 0 10.7 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 9.19 9 EBITDA EBIT PROFIT BEFORE TAX 6 3 0 At the 1st 2nd 3rd 4th beginning Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter of the year Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 65 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Monetised Capital Taxation Management Actions The Group income tax expenses decreased from Management actions are directed towards management of financial, manufactured and monetised natural Rs.433 million to Rs.387 million with the reduction capitals ensuring that these resources are efficiently sourced and used in value creation. The following table of net profit before tax. The effective tax rate presents key areas in which management actions are focused on. (including effect of deferred tax expense) increased to 37% from 31% compared to the previous year. The rate of income tax applicable to the Company Key aspects Management action and subsidiaries was 28%. The reconciliation between accounting profit and taxable income is Managing risk The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for the available in Note 4.6 to the Financial Statements. associated with establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management. The tax expense includes a deferred tax expense Monetised Capital The Group’s overall risk management programme recognises the of Rs.74.5 million (Rs.62 million 2015/16). A unpredictability of financial market and potential impacts by the fiscal summarised computation of deferred tax is given in policy of the government, and seeks to minimise adverse effects on the Note 4.24 to the Financial Statements. Group’s financial performance. Risks relating to the continued availability, quality and affordability of Dividends monetised capital can be found on page 58 in the Risk Management The Board of Directors approved an interim report and Note 4.13.2 on Financial Risk Management. dividend of Rs.24 per share (final dividend of Working capital The efficient management of working capital continues be a Rs.27 per share in 2015/16) for the year ended management management priority and receives close attention of top management. 31st March 2017, which was paid on 31st March There is continuous monitoring of working capital based on pre2017. The gross dividend amounted to Rs.213 determined KPI’s. million (Rs.239.7 million final dividend2015/16). The dividend payout ratio for 2016/17 is 32.44% The Group current assets increased by 17% to Rs.14,402 million from compared to 25.3% in 2015/16. The dividend Rs.12,350 million in the previous year. The Group’s current liabilities cover applicable to the financial year was 3.08 also increased by 28% to Rs.10,795 million from Rs.8,398 million the times (3.95 times in 2015/16). previous year. Thus, the Group’s current ratio was 1.33 as against 1.47 previous year. The Company had access to necessary funds to finance the payment of the interim dividend. Treasury Management The Group has a centralised treasury function, which controls decisions in respect of cash management, the utilisation of borrowing facilities, Solvency banking relationships and foreign currency exposure management. The As per the section 56 of the Companies Act No. centralised treasury function enables effective cross utilisation of funds 07 of 2007, the Company carried out a solvency among businesses. test prior to the payment of the interim dividend Sensitivity Analysis – A sensitivity of profitability to fluctuations in the and obtained a solvency certificate from the exchange rates is available in Note 4.13.2 to the Financial Statements in Independent Auditors stating that the Company page 147. has the ability to pay its debts as they become due in the normal course of business and that the Information relating to the credit risk exposure of financial assets is Company meets the required solvency levels prior available on pages 148 and 149 . to payment of the interim dividend. Cash Flow Net cash used in operating, investing and finance activity caused Management the cash and cash equivalents to decrease by Rs.2,187 million (2015/16 decrease of Rs.1,555 million). The outflow on account of interest payments and dividend payments amounted to Rs.856 million and Rs.453 million respectively (Rs.454 million and Rs.118 million respectively for 2015/16). Cash outflow on account of capital expenditure during the year was Rs.724 million (2015/16 Rs.284 million). The Group possesses the necessary banking facilities to support its operations. Unutilised bank facilities as at 31st March 2017 amounted to Rs.5,801.3 million (2015/16 Rs.6,217.8 million). Management of The Environmental Impact Report discusses the management of monetised natural monetised natural capital appearing from page 98 to 105. capital 66 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Financial Priorities Financial Outlook The increase in working capital, administration The Group achieved its budgeted revenue for costs and finance costs compelled the Group to the financial year under review. The third quarter identify the following areas for special attention: of the year witnessed some macro-economic developments that adversely affected the vehicle Stringent management of working capital sales segment. Among the adverse factors are Identify businesses that perform below the increase in interest rates, LTV ratio and expectations and closely monitor their increase in import duties on small commercial progress vehicle segments. Further continuation of these negative factors is likely to hinder growth. We are Prudent management of costs focused on improving profitability through cost The above measures are integrated with the management, greater efficiencies and productivity identified long-term financial priorities that are improvements. The budget for the financial year strongly pursued in formulating corporate strategy. 2017/18 is prepared after taking above matters The following are the Group’s financial priorities into consideration. that drive the Group’s financial strategy: Optimising profitability through value addition and effective utilisation of resources particularly through prudent working capital management Striking a balance between growth and immediate profitability in allocating financial resources Maintaining a healthy Statement of Financial Position. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 67 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Relationship Capital Customers Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Customer service No. of CRM personnel 30 35 39 30 35 Customer convenience No. of customer interaction points 65 60 57 56 52 No. of business locations in the North and East 6 6 7 7 8 Customer satisfaction Average Customer Satisfaction Index (%) 90 88 90 88 86 Overview Our customer is one of two key components of DIMO’s Relationship Capital, the other being Business We have invested over 78 years of steadfast Partners. Customer capital influences revenues in the short, medium and long term and thus, warrants service into winning the trust of thousands of Sri careful nurturing. Lankans and will continue to work hard to maintain The quality of our interactions with customers has a significant influence on enhancing customer capital. and deserve their confidence in the years ahead. Therefore our commitment to proactive, empathetic and meaningful customer engagement is very strong. Management Approach We take pride in the diversity of our customer base (shown below) as it demonstrates the depth and We believe that the quality of our customer breadth of our revenue streams. The table indicates demand in each of our industrial sectors based on relationships depends on the strength of our the five customer segments we serve. communication and engagement. Therefore, we have carried out surveys and in-depth research to SEGMENTWISE CUSTOMER PROFILE acquire valuable customer insights and feedback. 75% 18% 6%1% We have developed a capital building model based Vehicles-Sales on these findings and our own knowledge. 65% 20% 10% 5% Vehicles-After Sales DIMO always strives to bring best in class products 10%3% 2% 85% and solutions to customers; the combination of our Marketing & Distribution customer centric approach with our offering thus 17% 75% 8% Construction & Material Handling provides them a unique value proposition. Equipment 15% 50% 35% Electro -Mechanical, Today, the synergies created by our global brands Bio Medical & Marine Engineering and partnerships, our highly skilled workforce and 0 20 40 60 80 100 our ability to distinguish ourselves in the industry Individual Customers Small & Large sectors where we operate, help ensure the Private Organisations Government Organisations strength and vibrancy of our customer capital. Channel Partners Leasing Companies Customer Capital Building Model RE-DEPLOYMENT CAPITAL BUILDING ACTIVITIES Reaching the customer Responsible Customer care CUSTOMER SATISFACTION CUSTOMER LOYALTY BRANDING EQUITY Customer Physically Audio and digital Ethical Product Product Customer Relationship Marketing Labelling Safety Relationship Capital Capital Building competencies Customer Relationship to serve customers Management 68 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Reaching Our Customers Reaching People Everywhere We communicate with our customers honestly, DIMO has invested into creating the broadest thoughtfully and frequently, because we believe possible presence Island-wide. Today, our network that this dialogue is vital in creating the level of includes 32 branches, 11 display points and 22 brand equity we seek. Customer contact takes customer contact points (see map). This network place over multiple platforms in ways that are is supported by a mobile sales team, which further convenient and relevant to each individual; increases our reach. So whoever and wherever our whether online, face to face or over the phone. existing or potential customers may be, we can be right there to serve them. Customer Interaction Points Western Province North Western Province Head Office 011-2449797 3S Kurunegala 037-4697801 3S DIMO Mart 011-4360014 S FMC operations 0773 602883 SER MB Center 011-4448989 3S Puttalam 032-4930526 3S Medical Engineering & Power 011-4607100 3S Nikaweratiya 037-4944378 S Engineering Solutions Chilaw 032-4501367 S Total Marine Solutions 011-4602000 3S Kuliyapitiya 037-4501009 S Northern Tyres, Power Tools sales & tools service 011-4645141 3S Wennappuwa 031-2254866 S Siyambalape Complex 011-2400670 SER DIMO Kurunegala Regional Centre 037-4697800 3S DIMO Logistics Centre 033-4934753 3S TATA Passenger Car Workshop 011-4645487/88 SER Northern Province DIMO Tyre Mart 011-4501035 3S Jaffna 021-4923672 3S North Central Gampaha 033-4641034 S Vavuniya 024-4925009 S Yakkala 033-4641004 S Mannar 023-4920459 S Awissawella 036-4641003 S Piliyandala 011-4376943 S Eastern Province North Western Horana 034-4947836 S Trincomalee 026-4641020 3S Eastern Kurana 031-4641026 S Batticaloa 065-4927345 S Moratuwa 011-4645735 S Ampara 063-4923406 S Central Agri Machinery sales 011-2449797 S Bosch Service Centre 077-3399933 SER Central Province Komatsu & KSB Sales 011-2449797 S Kandy Branch-Katugastota 081-4940829 S Western Uva Mathugama 034-4941129 S Kandy Branch Workshop-Balagolla 081-4950445 SER Padukka 011-4645754 S Dambulla 066-4928283 S Sabaragamuwa TATA Showroom 011-2449711 S TATA Spare Parts Showroom 011-4602100 S Sabaragamuwa Province Construction Spare Parts Sale center 011-4645384/5 S Ratnapura 045-4928620 3S Southern DIMO Lighting 011-4501270 S Embilipitiya 047-4931050 S Negombo TATA Passenger Car Show Room 077-1724997 S Kegalle 035-4641007 S Kalutara TATA Passenger Car Show Room 077-3694033 S Uva Province Head office Branches Southern Province Monaragala 055-4641012 S Display Points Customer Contact Point Matara 041-4929378-9 3S Mahiyanganaya 055-4641022 S 3S Sales, Service & Spare Parts Na Sevana Technical Institute 047-4641022 SER Welimada 057-4200100 S S Sales Ambalangoda 091-4941158 S SER Service Tissamaharama 047-4932442 3S North Central Province Ambalantota 047-4934019 S Anuradhapura 025-2223025 3S Galle 091-4501004 S Padaviya 025-4928867 S Akuressa 041-4641060 S Polonnaruwa 027-4641008 S Tambuttegama 025-4641015 S Anuradhapura TATA Workshop025-2223025 SER Accident Repair Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 69 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Relationship Capital Customers DIMO Online Aspects of Responsible Customer Care DIMO’s website is a dynamic one with continuously increasing traffic. Over 1250 product inquiries At a minimum conforms to all statutory requirements were received via our comprehensive, continuously Product updated products page. We also talk to our Labelling Adopt guidelines of Business Partners and globally accepted best customers on five active Facebook pages, which practices saw over 33,000 average monthly engagements. ‘Socialbakers’ a global social media analytics and Adherence to DIMO communication policy performance solution provider recently identified Ethical Legitimate use of customer centric database NO BREACHES three DIMO Facebook pages (DIMO Lanka, Marketing Mercedes-Benz Sri Lanka and Jeep Sri Lanka) Adopt best practises observed by our Business Partners REPORTED as the top three pages with the most number of DURING THE engagements, in the Sri Lankan automobile sector. YEAR Partner with suppliers who are reputed for high safety standards DIMO CORPORATE WEBSITE VISITS DURING THE YEAR Product ISO 9001:2015 accredited quality management system Number of visits Safety Effective final controls in workshops 1,500,000 Pre-delivery inspections 1,200,000 900,000 The DIMO mission statement and stated values human and monetised capital towards continuous 600,000 mandate responsible customer care. This places improvement in this area. an obligation on every member of the DIMO tribe 300,000 to be responsible for all that they undertake to do. All new members of the DIMO tribe, regardless Refer page 05 for more on the DIMO values. of their level of customer interaction, are trained 0 to develop a customer-centric approach in all 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Responsible customer care also helps the that they do. Such training is provided initially at Company to manage risk associated with our their orientation and later through a web based DIMO Call Centre customers, which otherwise has the potential to Learning Management System (LMS). We believe Customers can access the DIMO call centre lead to loss of credibility and reputation. this will help us to minimise the risk of customer 24/7 to make complaints or give feedback. This dissatisfaction derived from inadequate or poor personalised interaction helps us to develop real Building Customer Service Skills customer service skills. and enduring relationships with our customers. At DIMO, we pride ourselves on our holistic The illustration demonstrates the importance and approach to build appropriate customer service In the year under review, 655 DIMO sales staff success of this channel of communication in our skills within the organisation. We have integrated and 2,521 service staff trainings in communication customer relationship building efforts. strong customer service training in every skills, personal development, product knowledge department and this ensures that our customer and customer care through several training acquisition and retention strategies remain rooted programmes held in-house and externally. in our core values. The table below lists the statistics related to Daily Monthly Annually training for sales and service staff. We have identified the important communication and interaction skills needed to deliver a Incoming Incoming Incoming pleasurable customer experience and invest our 296 8,879 106,548 Training for sale and service staff Outgoing Outgoing Outgoing Year Sales Staff Service Staff 999 29,968 359,616 Number of Number of Number of Number of Persons Trained Training Hours Persons Trained Training Hours 2016/17 655 5,530 2,521 31,287 Responsible Customer Care 2015/16 703 6,284 2,592 20,451 Our focus on ethical marketing, responsible 2014/15 1,224 7,297 2,432 16,739 product labelling, and product safety bears testimony to DIMO’s philosophy of overall 2013/14 638 3,873 1,900 16,146 corporate responsibility; giving our customers the 2012/13 717 4,480 1,677 14,779 assurance of integrity across the value chain. 70 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Managing Customer Relationships One of our latest initiatives: the re-designed ‘24*7 The Customer Relationship Management (CRM) team is DIMO’s frontline interface for customer and Road Side Assistance’ has been very successful in business partner interactions. Their experience and insights enable the management to minimise the risk ensuring excellence in customer care, increasing associated with customer capital. our customers’ sense of security while generating a new stream of revenue. The perception and observation of the CRM team offer us a 360 degree view of our customers, which in turn helps us to offer our customers a consistent and seamless experience of DIMO, whichever business Outcomes of the Capital Building Process segment they engage with. The weighted average Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) is one of the key performance indicators that The illustration shows how the CRM team works to create better customer relationships. we use to measure the success of our efforts Customer Relationship Management towards building brand equity. During the year under review we achieved an average CSI score Customer Relations and Customer Insights Analysis of 90%, exceeding the sustainability performance Experience Customer Customer 1. Daily data analysis generated objective of 85% of the average CSI (Refer page 1. Co-ordination with Relations and Insights from the call centre 39 for Sustainability Performance Objectives). customer regarding Experience Analysis 2. Bulk SMS customer complaints Repeat purchase is a major outcome of customer 3. Customer data base cleansing 2. Validation of the experience. We have observed a gradual increment customer data base 4. Compiling of daily, weekly and in repeat purchases over the last five years, an monthly reports 3. Co-ordination of indication of success in our continuing efforts to customer centric build customer capital. The graph below shows events Call Centre the percentage of repeat purchases customers 4. MB Credit card program CRM 1. Customer sales inquiry handling out of the total customer base, excluding repeat purchases in the same year. The trend line 2. Follow up on all customer indicates how repeat purchases have grown over 5. Branch visits and educating the staff inquiries the years. on complaint handling 3. Conducting surveys and management REPEAT PURCHASES AND THE % GROWTH IN processes 4. CSI & SSI REPEAT PURCHASES % of total purchases % 5. Campaigns 6. Documentation of customer complaints 6. General inquiries 100 8 and feedback Call Centre 7. Road-Side-Assistance call 96 handling & follow up 6 92 Customer Complaints Doing More and Doing Better 4 88 The customer relationship management team has We want to be sure that we have done all we can the resources to deal with customer complaints to guarantee customer retention and satisfaction. 84 2 promptly and effectively, and no customer This is why we invest so much towards 80 0 complaint is left unresolved. In the year under implementing customer associations and loyalty 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 review the CRM division received 567 customer programs which add value to the friendly and productive dialogue we have with the thousands % of customers with no repeat purchases complaints of which 495 were resolved within % of customers with repeat purchases three working days, while 72 cases were resolved of customers we serve every day. Growth in repeat customers over a longer period due to their greater complexity. Weighted Average Customer Satisfaction by MONTHLY CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS FOR 2016/17 Segment Number of Complaints/Solutions Customer Association Programmes Business Weighted Average CSI (%) Segment 80 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 70 Vehicle Sales 87 88 87 60 50 Vehicles After 88 85 84 40 Services 30 Marketing and 90 86 91 20 Distribution 10 Construction and 88 90 88 0 Material Handling Apr-16 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sep-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-16 Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 Equipment Complaints Solutions within 3 days Electro Mechanical, 97 92 93 Bio-medical and Marine Engineering Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 71 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Relationship Capital Business Partners Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Relationship with Business No. of Business Partners 94 95 77 77 81 Partners No. of relationships above 50 years 7 7 7 7 6 No. of relationships between 25 to 50 years 9 9 9 8 10 No. of relationships between 01 to 25 years 70 60 52 54 58 No. of new Relationships Commenced during the year 8 19 9 8 7 Relationship with Local Suppliers Payments to local suppliers (Rs.billion) 6.4 5.3 4.3 5.3 4.7 Overview over 105 such internationally renowned brands Our current portfolio includes 94 principals, 51% DIMO’s business partnerships lie at the heart of our into our pool of relationship capital. These brands of Asian origin and 37% from Europe. Of these, value creation process and therefore, we consider complement each of our business domains, and eight appear in the Fortune 500 list of 2016 this a capital that requires careful management. deliver solutions that are technologically advanced an indication of the superiority of our business and functionally sound. The value delivered by our partner profile. At the outset, when evaluating potential partnerships local supplier network further enhances the inputs with new Business Partners we focus on portfolio of from our foreign business partners (Please see the The illustration below shows DIMO’s global best-in-class products and global brands. During our Business Report on pages 84 to 93 for our segmentrepresentation and the number of brands we 78 years of successful business, we have acquired wise brand portfolio and key business partners). represent through our worldwide business partner network. Business Partner Profile UK Sweden Belgium France Switzerland Germany Canada China USA Japan Italy North Korea India Malaysia Singapore South Korea Taiwan 72 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Management Approach At DIMO, we strongly believe that shared values such risk by continually focusing on areas that Collaborating with business partners and and a sense of trust for the foundation of any are important for maintaining healthy relationships employees is part of our corporate strategy, as seen sustainable relationship and that well-founded with our principals. in the Strategy Illustration on page 32. The strong mutually beneficial relationships result in an unbeatable competitive advantage. In playing our As a responsible company we partner with like – synergies we have created with our business part in strengthening the relationships, we strive to minded principals who are committed to corporate partners, employees and intellectual capital deliver deliver the expectations of our principals. responsibility. a very attractive value proposition to our customers. The competencies and strengths we have Any damage to our relationships with principals gathered over the years provide an impetus to the could negatively affect our business model. Our best in class products and solutions supplied by carefully constructed business partner capital our business partners. building model thus ensures that we address Business Partner Capital Building Model RE-DEPLOYMENT Business Partner Business Partner Relationship Building Business Partner capital Evaluation Capital Expectations Assessing Conflicts Delivery of of Business Strategic Fit Resolution Expectation Partners Business Partner Evaluation and Strategic Fit We also encourage continuous dialogue with We seek partnerships with companies that offer world-class products that are technologically excellent. principals to reduce the incidence of issues left unresolved. It ensures the resolution of grievances It is important to us that our business partners share our core values. While profitability is always an without much delay thereby eliminating the risk of important factor in any transaction, we believe that a congruence of business philosophies and a damage to the relationship. meeting of corporate minds makes the best business sense. In this spirit, our ‘Supplier Code’ sets out the characteristics required for a ‘strategic fit’ and our principals are required to adopt these values and An independent third party survey is also integrate them in to their own supply chain. When we commence a partnership, we conduct an initial conducted once in every three years. evaluation followed by annual evaluation to ensure that our principals are strategically aligned with us and will remain so over a long period of time. ISO 140001 (2015) Key Aspects of Strategic Fit accredited Environmental Management System Technologically Leading Ethically Committed PROVIDE COMFORT We collaborate with technologically leading Our business partners share their views on ISO 9001:2015 TO OUR principals to empower the corporate strategy responsible corporate behaviour manifested accredited Quality of differentiation. These partnerships make in commitment to environmental protection, PRINCIPALS Management System a positive impact on our brand reputation, respect for labour, promoting human rights, identifying us as a company providing state-offostering equal opportunity, rejecting corruption the-art solutions. and anti-competitive behaviour, and ensuring occupational safety at the workplace. Outcome of the Capital Building Process The longevity of our relationships with our Relationship Building principals is the best indication of the success Strong business relationships take time and energy. At DIMO, we strive to build trust by identifying our of our business partner capital building model. business partner expectations, delivering on these expectations, maintaining transparency and practicing Enduring bonds strengthen our existing conflict resolution. We set the ground rules for a good relationship at the start, by defining and agreeing partnerships and empower us when seeking new on our principals’ primary expectations. We then conduct an annual survey to measure how we have business associates. met these expectations, offering our principals the opportunity to communicate any dissatisfaction they may have. The Directors discuss and monitor the results of these surveys as a matter of priority and all grievances are addressed with urgency. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 73 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Relationship Capital Business Partners Longevity of Business Partner Relations Relationships in Number of Years 2016/17 2015/16 Relationships more than 50 years 7 7 Relationships between 25 to 50 years 9 9 Relationships of between 1 to 25 years 70 60 New relationships 8 19 Total number of business partners 94 95 Local Suppliers Outlook As with our foreign principals, we seek enduring, Successful business partnerships remain at the long-term relationships with our local business heart of our success and in line with our strategy partners, all of whom are leaders in their respective of differentiation, DIMO continues to seek value fields. We make a special effort to ensure that our creating relationships through collaboration with local suppliers maintain quality standards in line our employees and business partners. with our international brands – their adherence to the DIMO Supplier Code is therefore vital. As a responsible corporate citizen we also seek to improve our local partner profile not only Sub-contractors are subject to periodic safety for the success of our business domains but evaluations in order to ensure compliance with also to contribute to the economic growth and the required regulations and standards at their development of our local communities. worksites. The profile and longevity of our supplier As of 31st March 2017, 47 of 92 major local relationships demonstrate that we possess suppliers were committed to the DIMO supplier the strong relationships required to make our code. A total of Rs.6.4 billion was paid to local collaboration strategy work. The processes and suppliers during 2016/17 for goods and services efforts we direct at nurturing these relationships provided (This amount was Rs.5.3 billion in and establishing new relationship give us the 2015/16). confidence that this capital will provide inputs in the required quality and quantity. PAYMENTS TO LOCAL SUPPLIERS Rs. Million 8,000 6,000 LOCAL VALUE 4,000 ADDITION MAKES A POSITIVE 2,000 ECONOMIC 0 IMPACT 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 74 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Human Capital Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Employee attrition ratio Employee turnover as a percentage of average employees (%) 13.82 17.5 17.10 17.20 21.81 Gender distribution Female employees as a percentage of total employees 10 11 11 10 10 Age distribution Percentage of employees below 40 years of age 78 78 81 79 79 Employee satisfaction Employee Satisfaction Index (%) 64.56 62.04 62.38 61.10 53.46 Knowledge and skills development Average training hours per employee 18.00 17.00 15.65 13.10 16.00 DIMO has an “Employee First” The graphs below show our human capital pool classified by position within the organisational hierarchy, age, area of value creation activity and period of service. policy, we believe that an engaged HUMAN CAPITAL POOL COMPOSITION BY HUMAN CAPITAL POOL CATEGORY AND AGE and empowered employee will NUMBER OF YEARS OF SERVICE YEARS nurture our customers and other Years of Service stakeholders and take ownership 100 Contract 77 524 57 442 42 Manual 322 of our mission, ‘to create value 80 Clerical/Supervisory 120 responsibly’. Building human 60 Executive 553 1,033 111 977 124 capital is thus key to building 40 Middle Management 280 Senior Management 63 other forms of capital. 20 0 BOD 10 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Male Female Male Female Overview 2016/17 2015/16 Age DIMO has 1,725 employees who together <20 21-30 31-40 41-50 51< 0-5 Over 5 years constitute our human capital. They work in the myriad value creating activities of our five business segments or in supporting services, as shown in NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN EACH BUSINESS SEGMENT the Value Creation Model on pages 30 to 31. The input provided for value creation by Human Capital depends on employee quality, competence Supporting services 206 and level of engagement. Talent management is 144 Electro-Mechanical, Bio-medical and Marine Engineering therefore focused on enhancing these attributes. 191 934 members of our tribe are qualified in Construction and Material Handling Equipment 106 130 engineering, accounting, and marketing or in a 237 Marketing and Distribution discipline relevant to their roles, at various levels, 257 from certifications and professional qualifications Vehicle After Services 556 576 to Masters Degrees. Vehicle Sales 324 326 DIMO believes that hands-on experience is 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 as important as professional/educational Number of Employees qualification. 34% of our staff have now served at DIMO for over five years, and thereby possess a 2015/16 2016/17 high level of competence and experience. Inclusion and equality are important to us and our Management Approach nurture our customers and other stakeholders and pool of human capital reflects our nation’s diversity, Our employees are critical to the success of take ownership of our mission, ‘to create value including people from many communities and our business activities and a key part of our responsibly’. Building human capital is thus key to regions of Sri Lanka, representing both genders, collaboration strategy. The collaborative strength of building other forms of capital. multiple social backgrounds and age groups. employees and business partners combined with Our Employee Value Proposition (EVP) is ‘making We know that this diversity gives us a broader our intellectual capital creates a strong platform for work enjoyable and rewarding’. We strive to realise perspective and that every employee’s individuality competitive advantage and value creation. this by identifying and meeting our employees’ and creativity are essential for us to serve our DIMO has an “Employee First” policy, we believe expectations in an ethical and transparent manner. equally diverse customers with real understanding and care. that an engaged and empowered employee will Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 75 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Human Capital Human Capital Building Model RE-DEPLOYMENT Human Employer Talent Employee Employee Health Human Capital Capital Attraction, Satisfaction Compliant Tribe & Safety (Altered) Branding Acquisition and Retention Employee Performance Rewards and Management Recognition DIMO Talent TRIBE Employee Development Participation Employee Leadership Relationship Development Management The main purpose of human capital management Our Facebook page ‘Careers at DIMO’ now has Our presence at career fairs, university career is to create a workforce that can provide the over 227,000 ‘likes’ and this has become an guidance programmes and technical institutes necessary inputs to deliver the Company’s strategic important platform for generating interest from also helps us in our quest to find and acquire objectives. Failure to achieve this goal could result prospective employees. DIMO is also a regular future talent for the DIMO tribe. in significant risk to our value creation process. participant at career fairs and career guidance Therefore we focus on developing the qualities programme where we meet and interact with Professionals Attracted of competent and engaged workforce through a many young aspirants to the DIMO tribe. carefully constructed capital building model. Profession 2016/17 2015/16 DIMO is now listed in the ‘Top 25 Great Places to Engineer 206 95 Employer Branding Work in Sri Lanka’ and we have been awarded for this for the fourth consecutive year by the Great Accountant 83 56 Attracting and retaining the best talent is a key challenge in today’s competitive business Place to Work Institute. Marketer 81 76 environment. As a conglomerate with over 78 Talent Attraction and Acquisition years of business accomplishment, DIMO has DIMO believes in helping our staff progress upwards been successful in building local and global DIMO’s position as an employer of choice ensures – employees are encouraged to apply for vacancies recognition as a respected corporate citizen and that we will always be at the top of the list of great within the Company and those who possess the employer of choice; ‘the best of the best’. places to work. Still, we’re not taking anything for required qualifications are given preference when granted and have created several programme to selecting candidates for these positions. Our Employee Value Proposition lies at the heart ensure that we continue to attract and keep the of our reputation as an exceptional employer. best talent in the field. Talent Retention Internally, we strive to make every employee as a Our high level of engagement with our employees brand ambassador of the DIMO tribe. ‘D Flash’ is a management trainee programme is a powerful driver of talent retention but we also designed to groom and empower future young have several programmes designed to improve leaders, while the DIMO Automobile Training this area. These programmes focus on career path School (DATS) trains young people in the handling, guidance and counselling, personal development Top 25 maintenance and repair of automobiles, agricultural advice and grievance handling. Sri Lankan Companies and construction equipment. Graduates are work for 2016 offered employment at DIMO although it is not Feedback acquired from exit interviews conducted obligatory. with departing employees just before they leave also helps the Company to devise and improve its • Award for being one of the 25 Great DIMO also trains students from professional employee retention strategies. Places to Work in Sri Lanka institutes, universities and vocational training • Award for Best Public Limited Company institutes. Students are introduced to the ‘DIMO Employee turnover is the best measure of way’ and often join the Company at the end of • Special Category Award for Best success in employee retention. The diagram Practices in Talent Acquisition their training. below illustrates how we have reduced the ratio of employee turnover over the years. 76 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information The graph below illustrates the average number of development, communication skills and customer training hours per employee for four years. service. Information technology software training, EMPLOYEE TURNOVER knowledge sharing forums, product information % PER EMPLOYEE TRAINING HOURS PER YEAR modules, a video gallery and an e-book library are also made accessible to all DIMO employees. 25 25 Online assessment and certification are now 21.8 possible using the new system and these web20 based programmes and platforms are geared to 20 18.5 provide an exciting learning experience for every 16.1 user. 15 17.1 15 13.8 10 10 5 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 0 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Training Hours DIMO places strong emphasis Male Female Average Employee Relationship Management (ERM) on talent and leadership Employee Relationship Management is a key ‘Lift Off’ and ‘Centurion’s League’ development, for this is how we These are DIMO’s signature career development process that links the organisation with everyone in the DIMO tribe. This important process involves ensure our corporate longevity, programmes. two way communication between the management and members of our tribe and therefore needs to be identify our future leaders and ‘Lift Off’ is designed to offer employees career managed with understanding and care. Grievance path identification and counselling and involves handling, transparency, clear communication and plan succession. the participation of employees who already have the management of employee expectations are successful careers at DIMO. Employees learn key aspects of ERM at DIMO. to identify a specific career path, and how to set Talent and Leadership Development timelines against milestones and are advised on We enable our ERM processes through several DIMO places strong emphasis on talent and how to pursue their career goals. channels. leadership development, for this is how we ensure our corporate longevity, identify our future leaders Employees’ Council and plan succession. The council consists of representatives from all business units, heads of business units and the We have several training and development Group Management Committee. The council programmes in place. meets once a month to discuss employee concerns and ways in which we could improve our business The performance evaluation system is an on-line through employee relationships. Minutes of these programme designed to identify and fill the training meetings are hosted on the Company intranet and gaps of each employee. Career management can be accessed by all employees. and development is the responsibility of each supervisor, with support from the HR Division. ‘Centurion’s League’ focuses on young employees, HR Clinics offering specialised learning opportunities to help Employee training takes place locally and Representatives of the HR Division frequently them develop into future corporate leaders. overseas and is conducted by internal or external visit company sites with prior notice, to discuss resource persons and by our foreign principals. and resolve employee grievances. These are Learning Management System (LMS) A supervisor helps with the follow-up evaluation one-on-one meetings but the Chief Human A Learning Management System was launched in Resources Officer, who is also a member of which measures the effectiveness of the training. the year under review and DIMO staff participated the Group Management Committee, usually in this interactive learning programme offering participates at these meetings. Furthermore, the In the year under review, employees received 36,818 access to learning and information without the Group Management Committee visited all DIMO (26,735 in 2015/16) training hours, through rigour and routines of conventional classroom branches this year to meet all employees and 346 programmes, including internal, external and training. Since it is a cloud based system, this listen to their grievances, if any. While these visits foreign, all of which were funded by the Company programme can be accessed from anywhere by covered the purpose for which HR clinics are held, (248 programmes were held in 2015/16). PC, smartphone or tablet device. three more HR Clinics were also held during the Learning was further shared with other tribe year. 15 HR Clinics were held during the last year. Other online training programme at DIMO members through 18 knowledge sharing sessions. focus on related subjects such as leadership Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 77 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Human Capital DIMO Net Our quality management system also requires that in the event of any injury, immediate action must be DIMO Net is the Company intranet which gives our taken to prevent and correct similar incidents. All incidents and injuries are immediately reported to the employees access to all our corporate publications HR division. including the DIMO promotional campaigns, The table below gives more details of our track record on health and safety at work. vacancy advertising, minutes of the Employees’ Council, an e-book library, e-newspapers, the Health and Safety Statistics DIMO Code of Ethics, Company policies and procedures, and news of other corporate events. Injuries/Diseases/Fatalities/ 2016-17 2015/16 2014/15 Lost day /Absenteeism Total No. Rate (%) Total No. Rate (%) Total No. Rate (%) An Open Door Policy DIMO has an open door policy where any grievance Injuries 17 0.00052 21 0.00062 24 1.09 can be discussed directly with the Chairman or the Occupational Disease Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Chief Executive Officer, without prior appointment. Lost Working Days 68 0.0021 92 0.0027 138.5 DIMO also encourages and conducts several Work Related Fatalities Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil competitive and non-competitive events during the year, which are designed to enhance team spirit and employee relationships. These include Our employee absenteeism ratio is 0.68% during the period under review (0.12% in 2015-16). quiz competitions, a photography competition, the DIMO Annual Sports Day, the ‘Biggest Loser’ Special Rewards and Recognition competition, the Annual Children’s Party, the Vesak We acknowledge employees who go the extra mile and directly contribute towards value creation. A set lantern competition, children’s art competitions of criteria must be met and employees are then nominated by the head of their business unit. Selected and more. employees are rewarded at the monthly meetings of the Employee Council. Performance Management The greatest honour that can be bestowed upon an employee is the ‘Employee of the Year’ award. This The performance management system enables us annual award is presented on ‘Champions Night and Talent Show’. Awards are also given to recognise to track and monitor the performance of individual best performance in sales, technical and support services. One of the winners in these three categories is employees by establishing measurements to align selected as the ‘Employee of the Year’ and wins a Tata Nano vehicle. The Group Management Committee goals of the Company with individual employee’s selects the winners based on a set of pre-determined criteria. objectives. By doing so, we not only improve their operational efficiency but also enhance learning REWARDS AND RECOGNITION and development and employee engagement. A-11% Performance evaluation is a key management tool E-5% in creating a high performing workforce. DIMO’s performance management process is driven by an online performance appraisal system. Appraisals Recognising our take place mid-year and at the year end, and D-20% Sales, Service and include the measurement of the achievement Support Service of objectives, a competency review and an Heroes assessment of selfdevelopment. C-1% B-63% Company policy recommends competitive remuneration. DIMO has engaged independent parties to conduct salary reviews against industry standards. Those reviews have revealed that DIMO A Monthly rewards wage levels are at competitive levels compared to B Nights of the champians others in the industry. C Employee of the year D 25 Years of service Employee Health and Safety E Retired employees At DIMO, Health & Safety receives priority above all else. Our Occupational Health & Safety Policy sets out our responsibility to ensure a safe workplace for all our employees, external contractors and visitors. First Aid training is provided to a representative of every business unit. 78 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information A Dynamic Tribe The DIMO values are set out on page 05 together ‘Idea Man’ is a programme that encourages members of the with a short description of what each one means. DIMO tribe to come up with innovative ideas for progress and These values demand that DIMO employees shall be responsible, righteous, responsive, reliable, improvement. These concepts are communicated directly to the respectful and resilient. Chairman and all submissions are later reviewed by the Group DIMO also has a HR Policy, a Code of Business Ethics, a Human Rights Policy and a Whistle Management Committee. Employees who originate a useful and Blowing Policy. These set the standards and guide practical idea are then rewarded. us in maintaining the above values and taking the ethical approach demanded by good governance. The HR Policy and the Code of Business Ethics year under review this survey achieved a response The Human Resource Awards are held every deal with discrimination, child labour or forced rate of 88.64% (68.4% in 2015/16) and the alternate year and this event is organised by the labour, the maintenance of a safe work place, overall satisfaction index achieved was 64.56% Association of Human Resource Professionals conformance with laws and regulations, fair (62.04% in 2015/16). (HRP). treatment, non-harassment and environmental responsibility. The Company is a signatory to the Outlook EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION INDEX UN Global Compact which endorses ethical and Human capital remains at the top of DIMO’s responsible corporate practises. % management agenda and we have created and 70 launched several strategies and programme Employees and Innovation 62.04 64.56 61.1 62.38 designed to improve the quality and engagement 60 ‘Idea Man’ is a programme that encourages 53.46 of our human capital. members of the DIMO tribe to come up with 50 innovative ideas for progress and improvement. 40 DIMO continues to adopt best practices in our These concepts are communicated directly to the human capital building process and today, we 30 Chairman and all submissions are later reviewed firmly believe that our human capital is ready to by the Group Management Committee. Employees 20 achieve our short, medium and long term goals. who originate a useful and practical idea are then 10 rewarded. 0 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 ‘Intra’preneurs Club’ is a group of employees who have volunteered to help encourage our tribe members to think like entrepreneurs and “Compliance +” is a certificate awarded to DIMO participate in ‘Idea Man’. The club further assesses for surpassing human resource practices set by ideas sent to Idea Man, obtains expert advice Employers’ Federation of Ceylon. This certificate on financial evaluation of projects and helps is supported by International Organisation of employees to implement their innovative ideas. Employers (IOE) and the International Labour This is how DIMO strives to discover and set free Organisation, Geneva. The certification process the innovators in our tribe, fostering a sense of assesses an organisation’s performance along ownership and encouraging our staff members to criteria related to equal opportunity in employment, suggest improvements to the business processes employer-employee relations, work arrangement of the organisation. practices and environment. Receiving the award demonstrates that DIMO goes beyond basic Outcome of the Employee Capital Building labour regulations to maintain a high standard in Process relation to its employment practices. We know that a satisfied employee contributes more to our value creation process. Securing the DIMO has frequently been awarded for our human satisfaction of employees is therefore an area resource practices and achievements, testimony that our talent management efforts focus on. to the effectiveness of our efforts to build strong The ‘Employee Satisfaction Index’ is one of the human capital. We won the Silver Award at the measures that indicates the success of our talent Human Resource Awards 2016 and are among management efforts. the top 10 companies in Sri Lanka that are recognised for achievements in this area. An employee satisfaction survey is conducted every year. Respondents remain anonymous while execution and data tabulation of the survey is carried out by an independent party. During the Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 79 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Intellectual Capital Overview The diagram below describes how our strategy of collaboration and differentiation facilitates the growth At DIMO we build our intellectual capital through of intellectual capital through knowledge, systems and processes and brand reputation the multiple synergies of our value creation process, which are manifested in three intangible assets; COLLABORATION Organisational-knowledge based intangibles Collaboration Knowledge Base WITH EMPLOYEES or expertise, process capital or the systems and processes that are unique to us and brand reputation the name, logo and perceptions that Corporate identify our company in the public eye. Strategy Value creation and intellectual capital are interSystems and dependent and these three elements of intellectual processes capital play a significant role in the Company’s Differentiation value creation activities. Brand reputation The three intangible assets described above do not appear in the Financial Statements as they are not monetised. At DIMO we build our intellectual capital through the multiple synergies of our value creation process, which are manifested in Intellectual Capital three intangible assets; Organisational-knowledge based intangibles or expertise, process capital or the systems and processes that are unique to us and brand reputation the name, logo and perceptions Knowledge that identify our company in the public eye. Base Organisational Based Knowledge Base 18 “Know House” knowledge sharing sessions Process Intangibles DIMO has been in business for over 78 years were held in the year under review Capital and in that time we have collaborated with our At DIMO we favour a friendly working environment employees to create the immense pool of expertise over formal systems and this ambience shapes and experience we own today; a key factor in the Brand our employees’ interactions with customers, strength of our intellectual capital. Reputation colleagues and other stakeholders. Such Over 34% of our employees have worked at DIMO interactions also help to encourage the practical for over five years and today, they own a vast use and sharing of knowledge. Management Approach store of tacit, accumulated knowledge, including Systems and Processes As noted previously, corporate strategy at DIMO highly specialised expertise in business domain, capital management, risk management and impact DIMO’s differentiation strategy is implemented involves collaboration and differentiation, which are management at DIMO. through the systems and processes that we have primary facilitators in adding value to intellectual designed and used over many years and today capital. Monetised, human, relationship capital also they play a vital role in our value creation process. provide inputs in building our intellectual capital We are aware of the need to keep our systems pool and these capitals are also carefully nurtured. and processes flexible and resourceful so that we Similarly, we take care in developing the value can continue to compete in a globalised and fastchains of each business segment, in pursuit of changing business environment. our differentiation strategy. These value chains Our value creation model identifies eight activities have embedded systems and processes, which which drive value creation in each business enhance further areas of our intellectual capital segment we operate: sourcing, warehousing, and increase the delivery of value to our customers. customer engagement, solution mapping, Yet we are aware that knowledge is only as engineering, delivery, aftercare and support powerful as how it is actually used and manifested services. The systems and processes we use to in the work we do. Therefore, we strive to create value through each business segment and document and share information in multiple the basis on which we allocate capitals for such ways in order to best exploit and utilise this most activities are the same systems and processes important resource, through knowledge sharing that form part of our intellectual capital. This sessions, e-library, extensive training and human capital is redeployed to the value creation model capital management tools. as intellectual capital, to enhance the value 80 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information created (Refer pages 84, 86, 88 and 90 of the Customer capital and how we work to develop Outlook Business Report for the value chains of each such capital also have a vital role in developing A drive for innovation is an attribute that is business segment). brand reputation. How we create customer promoted in the improvement of our intellectual perceptions about DIMO, our responsibility for the capital pool. To this end, DIMO has made significant Brand Reputation products and services we offer and our customer investments to encourage creative thinking and DIMO strives to uphold our mission to ‘Create care ethic, all play a part in the development of our innovative ideas in our employees, enriching our Value Responsibly’ in all we do, constantly working brand reputation (Refer pages 68 to 71 for the value creation processes and thus, the value of our to align our brand promise with the DIMO values Customer Capital report). intellectual capital pool. (Refer page 05 for DIMO values). Another key factor in building and maintaining Intellectual capital will continue to be an important Our brand reputation has been carefully our brand reputation derives from our impact factor in our value creation process. We believe constructed and maintained partly through our management process, through which we manage that our collaboration and differentiation strategy strategy of differentiation. We have sought to material stakeholder concerns and ensure that has been successfully designed and developed differ from our competitors through technological from the perspective of our stakeholders, we to ensure the continuous improvement of excellence, aftercare, effective customer continue to be a responsible corporate citizen. our intellectual capital pool whereas the risk relationship management, market presence and a management process continue to deal with any strong sense of responsibility. possible risks associated with intellectual capital. Accolades The awards and recognition we have received bear testimony to our commitment to quality and excellence, the strength of our knowledge base and the quality of our systems and processes. July’ 16 November’ 16 Awarded by the South Asian Federation of CMA Excellence in Integrated Reporting Awards Best Corporate Citizens 2016 Accountants 2016 • Top Ten Best Corporate Citizens for 2016 • Gold Award in Overall Category • Recognition for the Commitment beyond February’ 17 • Gold Award in Most Concise Annual Report the bottom line (The Project “Team Shark”ACCA Sustainability Reporting Awards 2016 Category Formula Students) • Overall Runner-up category • Ten Best Integrated Annual Reports Awarded by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce • Winner in the Retail and Trading Category Awarded by the Institute of Certified Awarded by the Association of Chartered Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka December’ 16 Accountants Annual Report Awards 2016 July’ 16 • Silver Award for Overall Excellence in Annual March’ 17 Great Place to Work Awards 2016 Financial Reporting Sri Lanka Human Capital Management Awards • Top 25 Companies to Work for in Sri Lanka • Gold Award for Diversified Holdings (Group 2016 2016 companies upto ten subsidiaries) • Silver Award for the best Human Capital • Excellence in Talent Acquisition • Gold Award for Integrated Reporting Management • Best Public Limited Company • Gold Award for Best Business Model Awarded by the Association of HR Professionals Awarded by the Great Place to Work Institute • Silver Award in Management Commentary Category March’ 17 August’ 16 Awarded by the Institute of Chartered Accountants Annual Distributors Awards 2017 of Sri Lanka 7th Asia’s Best Employer Brand Award 2016 • Highest Sales Pickups 2016 Category A • Award for Excellence in Leadership Winner Development December’ 16 • Highest Sales 2016 Ultra Trucks Winner • Award for Innovation in Recruitment Winner of the Mercedes-Benz Service Excellence • Highest Growth in Market Share 2016 SCV Award 2016 for South East Asia Winner • Asia’s Best Employer Brand Awarded by Daimler South East Asia • Distributor of the Year 2016 Network Awarded by the World HRD Congress Development Winner January’ 17 • Special Achievement in CSR 2016 Winner SAFA Best Presented Annual Report Awards 2015 • Best New Customer Care Facility 2016 • Winner of Integrated Reporting Category in Winner South Asia Awarded by TATA Motors Limited Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 81 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE The Business Report This section brings the reader an overview of each of our business segments, describing our portfolio of products and services, business performance and value generated by each segment in the year under review. The value chain of each business segment is also presented here. 82 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Economic Environment Stakeholder Engagement Method Frequency GDP growth rate A higher GDP growth rate improves business sentiment, Gross Domestic Product (GDP). grew by 4.4% in 2016 while positively impacting the performance of the Group compared to a growth rate of 4.8% in 2015 as DIMO’s product portfolio comprises a large offering of capital equipment According to the Central Bank, of Sri Lanka the Sri Lankan economy is projected to grow at a moderate rate of around 5.0 per cent in 2017 Interest rates Interest rates impact on DIMO in two ways. Lower The Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate (AWPR), borrowings cost can act as a catalyst to fuel demand for increased from 9.19% at the commencement of the year to motor vehicles and other capital equipment that we sell. 11.79% as at 31st March 2017 Secondly it has a direct bearing on the Group’s cost of funding Inflation rate By boosting households’ “disposable income” lower The overall rate of inflation as measured by the National inflation will encourage higher spending, and raise the Consumer Price Index (NCPI) on a year on year basis was headline growth rate higher than it otherwise would have 8.6% as at the end of March 2017 (2.2% in 2016) and the been Annual Average inflation rate was 5.6% (2.4% in 2016) Low inflation may also mean it is less likely that the Central Bank will raise its policy rates Depreciation of the The depreciation of the Rupee against the USD and Euro The Rupee depreciated against the US Dollar to Rs.151.99 LKR has a material impact on Group transactions denominated as at 31st March 2017 compared to Rs.144.69 in the in these currencies previous year. However the Euro was Rs.162.36 as at 31st March 2017 compared to 163.95 in the previous year New Motor vehicle The number of new motor vehicles registered is an Vehicle registrations decreased by 22.2% to 493,328 registrations indicator of the market size for Motor vehicles vehicles from 668,907 vehicles in the previous year Transportation Growth in transportation sector has a direct impact on the In 2016 the transportation sector grew by 4.1% compared Sector Growth Vehicle business to 5.0% in 2015 Construction The growth in this sector is an indicator of the of the The growth of the construction sector rebounded during Sector Growth market potential for Construction & Material Handling and 2016 recording a substantial growth of 14.9% recovering Building Technologies businesses from 2.7% contraction recorded in 2015 Health Sector The Government and the private sector are customers of Health sector capital expenditure decreased from Rs.37.2 the Bio-Medical Engineering business. Capital expenditure billion in 2015 to Rs.30.7 billion in 2016. The number of of the Government in the health sector and the number of Private Hospitals in 2016 was 225 private sector hospitals are key indicators of growth for the Bio-Medical engineering business Industrial Sector The industrial sector is a key target segment for DIMO The industrial sector recorded a growth of 6.7% in 2016 Growth compared to 2.1% in 2015 Water and Energy Government investment in water and energy has an Capital expenditure by National Water Supply and impact on the fortunes of the Power Engineering and Fluid Drainage Board was Rs.32.7 billion in 2016 which is an Management businesses 18.9% increase from the previous year’s of Rs.27.5 billion Total Electricity Generation in 2016 increased by 8.1% to 14.149 GWh, from 13,090 GWh in 2015 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 83 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE The Business Report Vehicles Sales Segment Overview Vehicle Sales is a core business segment for DIMO, the portfolio is one of key differentiators for DIMO within requirements and the international brands we represent offering best in class vehicles to the Sri Lankan market. the country’s automobile industry. through a carefully built value chain. As depicted below, The segment comprises of an automobile portfolio that We build relationships with best in class vehicle the value chain adds value to our customers at each level. includes brand new passenger vehicles, four wheel drive manufacturers to import a range of passenger and The value created by the vehicle sales segment is further vehicles, commercial vehicles, special purpose vehicles, commercial vehicles to the Sri Lankan automobile enhanced by our focussed customer care and reliable pre-owned vehicles and agri machinery. The diversity of market. We fill the gap between Sri Lankan automobile and convenient after sales services. Value Chain Value Creation Activity Lead Capitals Supply Chain Value Delivered Sourcing Relationship & Vehicle Order Import Choice Monetised Capital Construction Solution Mapping Human & Intellectual Pre-delivery Quality Capital Inspection Segment Risk Management Warehousing Monetised Capital Vehicle Stock Convenience Management Customer Engagement Relationship & Communication & Knowledge Human Capital Value Proposition Delivery Human Capital Transfer Title of Ownership After Care Human & Intellectual Fulfilment of Assurance Capital Warranty Obligations Capitals Invested Presented below are some highlights of capitals available to the Vehicle Sales Segment for value creation, as at 31st March 2017 or during the year. Relationship Capital Human Capital Number of Employees Brand Portfolio 2016/17 – 358 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THE BUSINESS 2015/16 – 324 A-2 Monetised Capital B-200 Monetised value shared with employees E-62 2016/17 Rs.633 million (2015/16 Rs.557 million) Key Principals Daimler AG 78 Years Value incurred in interacting and building TATA Motors Ltd 56 Years D-4 relationships with foreign principals Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd 27 Years 2016/17 Rs.12 million (2015/16 Rs.10 million) Claas Agricultural Machinery Pvt Ltd 14 Years FCA International Operations LLc 13 Years Value incurred in managing relationships with customers and retaining them Customer Profile C-90 2016/17 Rs.169 million (2015/16 Rs.109 million) Individual customers represent 75% of the segment’s Direct Investment of Monetised Capital A Technical Service Staff customers, from high, middle and lower income levels. 2016/17 Rs.7,291 million B Frontend Sales Staff (For more details refer report on Relationship Capital C Supporting Administration Staff 2015/16 Rs.6,281 million – Customers and Relationship Capital – Business D Professionals in Sales and Administration Partner from page 68 to 74) E Leading Personals 84 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Segment Performance Financial results of the segment, its contribution to the Group’s results and how the value creation management of the segment has contributed to corporate strategic objectives are presented below. Segment Turnover Geographical Revenue Generation Energy Consumption Rs. million Vehicle Sales segment made the highest turnover Total units of energy consumption in GJ’ 000 during the 2016/17 – 31,410 in geographical areas outside the Western Province, year and the energy consumed in GJ’ 000 for every Rs. 2015/16 – 27,283 which indicates a higher participation in economic one million turnover the segment made. activity outside the most populated provinces, thereby % Contribution to Group Turnover Year Energy Energy Consumed contributing to community development. 2016/17 –71 Consumption (GJ’ 000) to generate 2015/16 –72 (GJ’ 000) Rs. one million turnover Segment Results 2014/15 28,470 1.51 Rs. million GEOPRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE 2015/16 24,065 0.88 GENERATION (%) 2016/17 – 1,944 2015/16 –1,946 2016/17 25,572 0.81 A-6 B-7 SEGMENT TURNOVER AND SEGMENT RESULTS C-3 Water Consumption Rs. million Rs. million Water consumption in M3 during the year and water D-9 consumed in M3 for every Rs. one million turnover the 35,000 2,000 segment made. 300000 1,600 E-9 25,000 Year Water Water Consumed 1,200 F-2 20,000 Consumption (M3) to generate G-9 (M3) Rs. one million turnover 15,000 800 10,000 H-55 2014/15 14,685 0.78 400 5,000 A Central F Sabaragamuwa 2015/16 19,543 0.72 0 0 B Eastern G Southern 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 C North H Western 2016/17 22,711 0.72 D North Central Turnover Result E North Western Carbon Footprint Carbon footprint in (tCO2e) during the year and the carbon footprint generated for every one million turnover Stakeholder Satisfaction CSI contd. the segment made During the year the segment achieved a Customer Year CSI (%) Satisfaction Index (CSI) above the sustainability 2014/15 87 Year Carbon Carbon footprint performance objective of 85%. Below presented is footprint in (tCO2e) to generate 2015/16 88 the segment CSI over a 5 year period (tCO2e) Rs. one million turnover 2016/17 87 Year CSI (%) 2014/15 2,289 0.12 Employee Satisfaction Index of the segment was 2012/13 91 72%, which exceed the sustainability performance 2015/16 2,486 0.09 2013/14 90 objective of 60% 2016/17 2,746 0.09 Segment Risk Management Segment Outlook Risks specific to the Vehicles-Sales segment are managed at the segment level. Risk register maintained at each Upward trend in interest rates, LTV ratio (Loan to business unit feeds the risk status of each business to the business unit managers. Risks that are filtered from Value ratio) for passenger and small commercial the business unit manager level are communicated to the GMC for further attention. vehicles 50% and other commercial vehicles All significant risks which were filtered from the assessment process are reported in the Enterprise Risk 90%, and prevailing high tariff on vehicles may Management Report from page 56 to 61. Out of them, risks denoted by the following numbers in the Risk impact on the demand for commercial vehicles and Management Report (page 58 to 61) are specific to the Vehicle Sales business segment. passenger cars in the short term. However this has given us an opportunity to invest more resources in heavy commercial vehicles where we see a growth in demand. 12 15 16 17 18 19 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 85 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE The Business Report Vehicles After Services Segment Overview The segment is involved in the business of providing Centre and Car Service Centre are also included in the Our workshops provide aftercare using state-of the art franchise spare parts and services for the aftercare vehicles – after services segment. technology, equipment and tools. The trained and skilled markets of passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles and We fill the gaps in the spare parts requirements of workforce, original spare parts, advanced diagnostic agri machinery. The parts business includes a range of international brands we represent through a carefully equipment, tools, and on-line connectivity to manufacturers’ spare parts for the vehicles for which we hold the franchise designed and executed value chain designed to add value guides provide an attractive value proposition to our in Sri Lanka. In addition to parts, service revenues from to our customers at each level, as depicted above. The customers who seek reliable after care services. our workshops including the state-of-the-art Mercedes spare parts are made available to our customers through Benz Centre and the LEED Gold certified BOSCH Diesel our branches and island-wide distributor network. Value Chain Parts & After Care Value Creation Activity Lead Capitals Supply Chain Value Delivered Sourcing Relationship & Parts Order Construction & Import Range Monetised Capital Warehousing Monetised Capital Parts Stock Availability Management Segment Risk Management Delivery Relationship & Parts Distribution DIMO’s Workshops Convenience Human Capital Dealers & DIMO Branches Solution Mapping Human & Diagnosis Solutions Intellectual Capital Engineering Human & Rectification Technological Intellectual Capital Excellence Fulfilment of Warranty Obligations Assurance After Care Human Capital Capitals Invested Presented below are some highlights of capitals available to the Vehicles After Service Segment for value creation, as at 31st March 2017 or during the year. Relationship Capital Human Capital Number of Employees Brand Portfolio 2016/17 – 637 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THE BUSINESS 2015/16 – 556 A-432 Monetised Capital E-38 Monetised value shared with employees D-3 2016/17 Rs.731 million (2015/16 – Rs.643 million) Key Principals Value incurred in interacting and building Daimler AG 78 Years relationships with foreign principals C-125 TATA Motors Ltd 56 Years 2016/17 Rs.2 million (2015/16 – Rs.2 million) Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd 27 Years Claas Agricultural Machinery Pvt Ltd 14 Years Value incurred in managing relationships with customers FCA International Operations LLc 13 Years and retaining them B-39 Customer Profile 2016/17 – Rs.34 million (2015/16 – Rs.23 million) 65% of the customers consist of individual customers. Direct Investment of Monetised Capital 35% represent private and government organisations. 2016/17 Rs.1,871 million A Technical Service Staff (For more details refer report on Relationship Capital B Frontend Sales Staff 2015/16 – Rs.1,654 million – Customers and Relationship Capital – Business C Supporting Administration Staff Partner from page 68 to 74) D Professionals in Sales and Administration E Leading Personals 86 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Segment Performance Financial results of the segment, its contribution to the Group’s results and how the value creation management of the segment has contributed to corporate strategic objectives are presented below. Segment Turnover Geographical Revenue Generation Energy Consumption Rs. million Aftercare service segment made the second highest Total units of energy consumption in GJ’ 000 during the 2016/17 – 3,467 turnover in geographical areas outside the Western year and the energy consumed in GJ’ 000 for every Rs. 2015/16 – 2,879 Province, which indicates a higher participation one million turnover the segment made. in economic activity outside the most populated % Contribution to Group Turnover provinces, thereby contributing to community development. Year Energy Energy Consumed 2016/17 8 Consumption (GJ’ 000) to generate 2015/16 8 (GJ’ 000) Rs. one million turnover Segment Results 2014/15 16,007 6.76 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE Rs. million GENERATION (%) 2015/16 14,745 5.12 2016/17 – 728 A-2 2016/17 18,509 5.34 2015/16 – 492 B-1 SEGMENT TURNOVER AND SEGMENT RESULTS C-1 Water Consumption D-4 Rs. million Rs. million E-2 Water consumption in M3 during the year and water F-1 consumed in M3 for every Rs. one million turnover the 3,500 800 G-4 segment made. H-84 2,800 600 Year Water Water Consumed 2,100 Consumption (M3) to generate 400 (M3) Rs. one million turnover 1,400 200 2014/15 30,220 12.76 700 A Central F Sabaragamuwa 2015/16 35,167 12.21 0 0 B Eastern G Southern 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 C North H Western 2016/17 43,909 12.66 D North Central Turnover Result E North Western Carbon Footprint Carbon footprint in (tCO2e) during the year and the carbon footprint generated for every one million turnover Stakeholder Satisfaction CSI contd. the segment made. During the year the segment achieved a Customer Year CSI (%) Year Carbon Carbon footprint Satisfaction Index (CSI) above the sustainability 2014/15 84 performance objective of 85%. Below presented is footprint in (tCO2e) to generate 2015/16 85 the segment CSI over a 5 year period (tCO2e) Rs. one million turnover 2016/17 88 Year CSI (%) 2014/15 1,501 0.63 Employee Satisfaction Index of the segment was 2015/16 1,599 0.56 2012/13 77 66%, which exceed the sustainability performance 2013/14 85 objective of 60% 2016/17 2,158 0.62 Segment Risk Management Segment Outlook Risks specific to the Vehicles-After Services segment are managed at the segment level. Risk register maintained Investment made in capacity building will continue at each business unit feeds the risk status of each business to the business unit managers. Risks that are filtered to fuel the growth of the segment. Adequate training from the business unit manager level are communicated to the GMC for further attention. to improve employee technical skills and continuous All significant risks which were filtered from the assessment process are reported in the Enterprise Risk investments in technology will keep the Aftercare Management Report from page 56 to 61 Out of them risks denoted by the following numbers in the Risk Service segment differentiated from other market Management Report (page 58 to 61) are specific to the Aftercare Service business segment. participants. 05 15 16 17 18 19 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 87 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE The Business Report Marketing and Distribution Segment Overview The segment operates in a broader industry and caters The segment employs a comprehensive dealer network to conscious value chain allows the customer to enjoy a to a wide range of products and equipment. They include reach the entire nation. The range of world class brands unique value proposition. the sale of non-franchise vehicle spare parts, accessories, represented by the segment enables it to offer products components, tyres, power tools, lamps and lighting fittings. of technological excellence. The carefully developed cost Value Chain Value Creation Activity Lead Capitals Supply Chain Value Delivered Sourcing Relationship & Products Order Construction Choice and Monetised Capital & Import Quality Segment Risk Management Warehousing Monetised Capital Products Stock Management Availability Products Distribution Delivery Relationship & Convenience Human Capital Dealers DIMO Branches After Care Human Capital Fulfilment of Warranty Obligations Assurance Capitals Invested Presented below are some highlights of capitals available to the Marketing and Distribution Segment for value creation, as at 31st March 2017 or during the year. Relationship Capital Human Capital Monetised Capital NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES DIRECTLY Monetised value shared with Brand Portfolio employees INVOLVED IN THE BUSINESS 2016/17 Rs.356 million A-15 B-80 2015/16 – Rs.308 million Value incurred in interacting and building relationships with E-53 foreign principals 2016/17 Rs.8 million 2015/16 Rs.9 million D-8 Value incurred in managing relationships with customers and Key Principals retaining them Robert Bosch GmbH 63 Years Siemens 57 Years C-66 2016/17 Rs.61 million Bosch Ltd 48 Years Michelin 24 Years 2015/16 Rs.62 million Osram GmbH 23 Years Rane Brake Lining Ltd 23 Years A Technical Service Staff MRF 16 Years Bosch Automotive B Frontend Sales Staff Direct Investment of Monetised Systems Corporation 33 Years C Supporting Administration Staff Capital Customer Profile D Professionals in Sales and Administration 2016/17 Rs.2,318 million E Leading Personals 2015/16 Rs.2,467 million 85% of the customers consist of dealers.. (For more details refer report on Relationship Capital – Customers and Number of Employees Relationship Capital – Business Partner from page 68 to 74) 2016/17 – 222 2015/16 – 237 88 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Segment Performance Financial results of the segment, its contribution to the Group’s results and how the value creation management of the segment has contributed to corporate strategic objectives are presented below. Segment Turnover Stakeholder Satisfaction Energy Consumption Rs. million During the year the segment achieved a Customer Total units of energy consumption in GJ’ 000 during the 2016/17 – 4,314 Satisfaction Index (CSI) above the sustainability year and the energy consumed in GJ’ 000 for every Rs. 2015/16 – 3,861 performance objective of 85%. Below presented is the segment CSI over a 5 year period one million turnover the segment made. % Contribution to Group Turnover Year Energy Energy Consumed Year % 2016/17 – 10 Consumption (GJ’ 000) to generate 2012/13 87 2015/16 – 10 (GJ’ 000) Rs. one million turnover 2013/14 86 2014/15 91 2014/15 5,889 1.76 Segment Results 2015/16 86 2015/16 10,374 2.69 Rs. million 2016/17 – 167 2016/17 90 2016/17 13,483 3.13 2015/16 – 259 Employee Satisfaction Index of the segment Water Consumption was 52%. Water consumption in M3 during the year and water consumed in M3 for every Rs. one million turnover the SEGMENT TURNOVER SEGMENT RESULTS segment made. Rs. million Rs. million Year Water Water Consumed Consumption (M3) to generate 5000 300 (M3) Rs. one million turnover 250 4000 2014/15 9,318 2.78 200 2015/16 4,368 1.13 3000 150 2016/17 8,572 1.99 2000 100 Carbon Footprint 1000 50 Carbon footprint in (tCO2e) during the year and the 0 0 carbon footprint generated for every one million turnover 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 the segment made. Year Carbon Carbon footprint footprint in (tCO2e) to generate (tCO2e) Rs. one million turnover 2014/15 1,310 0.39 2015/16 932 0.24 2016/17 1,370 0.32 Segment Risk Management Segment Outlook Risks specific to the Marketing and Distribution segment are managed at the segment level. Risk register Forecasted growth in the construction industry and maintained at each business unit feeds the risk status of each business to the business unit managers. Risks that the demand for smart solutions is expected to boost are filtered from the business unit manager level are communicated to the GMC for further attention. the lighting and power tools business. The budget All significant risks which were filtered from the assessment process are reported in the Enterprise Risk prepared indicate an improved segment result for Management Report from page 56 to 61. Out of them risks denoted by the following numbers in the Risk the ensuing year. Management Report (page 58 to 61) are specific to the Marketing and Distribution business segment. 15 16 17 18 19 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 89 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE The Business Report Construction and Material Handling Equipment Segment Overview The segment is involved in the business of sale and aftercare The key value driver used to differentiate our offering in this The value chain presented above illustrates how value is of earth moving machinery, road construction machinery segment is the technological excellence of best in class added by DIMO to its customers at each level filling the gap and fork-lifts; it also provides products and solutions in fluid manufacturers in the world, backed by the commitment of between international brands and Sri Lankan construction management and material handling as well as a range of DIMO’s engineering support team to provide trouble free and material handling equipment demand. after-market services including full maintenance contracts. use. The DIMO engineering and design team’s support The product inputs come from global leaders in construction allows customers to choose the most suitable solution, and mining equipment and in material handling such as thereby gaining peace of mind to focus on their core Komatsu, Bomag, Schaeffer, Schwing Stetter and Manitou. business. This is the value proposition on offer. Value Chain Value Creation Activity Lead Capitals Supply Chain Value Delivered Sourcing Monetised & Equipment and Machinery Quality Relationship Capital Order Construction & Import Warehousing Monetised & Equipment and Availability Human Capital Machinery Stock Segment Risk Management Management Customer Engagement Relationship & Communication & Knowledge Human Capital Value Proposition Delivery Human Capital Installation/Transfer Title of Ownership Engineering & Human & Intellectual Convenience and Solution Mapping Capital Maintenance DIMO workshops Technological Contracts and Parts Excellence After Care Human & Intellectual Fulfilment of Assurance Capital Warranty Obligations Capitals Invested Presented below are some highlights of capitals available to the Construction and Material Handling Equipment Segment for value creation, as at 31st March 2017 or during the year. Relationship Capital Human Capital Monetised Capital NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES DIRECTLY Monetised value shared with Brand Portfolio employees INVOLVED IN THE BUSINESS 2016/17 – Rs.217 million A-39 2015/16 – Rs.158 million Value incurred in interacting and E-16 building relationships with foreign principals 2016/17 – Rs.7 million 2015/16 – Rs.4 million D-14 Value incurred in managing Key Principals B-5 relationships with customers and Komatsu Ltd. 48 Years retaining them Bomag GmbH 38 Years C-23 2016/17 – R.s 10 million Sch’a’fer Systems International Pte.Ltd. 15 Years A Technical Service Staff 015/16 – Rs.7 million MHE-Demag (s) Pte. Ltd. 14 Years B Frontend Sales Staff Customer Profile C Supporting Administration Staff Direct Investment of Monetised D Professionals in Sales and Administration Capital 75% of the customers consist of medium and large private organisations. E Leading Personals 2016/17 – Rs.1,420 million (For more details refer report on Relationship Capital – Customers and Relationship 2015/16 – Rs.1,132 million Capital – Business Partner from page 68 to 74) Number of Employees 2016/17 – 97 / 2015/16 – 106 90 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Segment Performance Financial results of the segment, its contribution to the Group’s results and how the value creation management of the segment has contributed to corporate strategic objectives are presented below. Segment Turnover Stakeholder Satisfaction Energy Consumption Rs. million During the year the segment achieved a Customer Total units of energy consumption in GJ’ 000 during the 2016/17 – 2,581 Satisfaction Index (CSI) above the sustainability 2015/16 – 1,559 year and the energy consumed in GJ’ 000 for every Rs. performance objective of 85%. Below presented is one million turnover the segment made. the segment CSI over a 5 year period % Contribution to Group Turnover Year Energy Energy Consumed Year % 2016/17 – 06 Consumption (GJ’ 000) to generate 2012/13 86 2015/16 – 04 (GJ’ 000) Rs. one million turnover 2013/14 90 2014/15 88 2014/15 4,229 2.42 Segment Results 2015/16 90 2015/16 4,491 2.88 Rs. million 2016/17 – 206 2016/17 88 2016/17 5,858 2.27 2015/16 – 170 Employee Satisfaction Index of the segment Water Consumption was 72%, which exceed the sustainability performance objective of 60% Water consumption in M3 during the year and water consumed in M3 for every Rs. one million turnover the SEGMENT TURNOVER segment made. SEGMENT RESULTS Rs. million Rs. million Year Water Water Consumed Consumption (M3) to generate 3,500 250 (M3) Rs. one million turnover 2,800 200 2014/15 6,086 3.48 2,100 150 2015/16 9,399 6.03 2016/17 11,566 4.48 1,400 100 Carbon Footprint 700 50 Carbon footprint in (tCO2e) during the year and the 0 0 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 carbon footprint generated for every one million turnover 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 the segment made. Year Carbon Carbon footprint footprint in (tCO2e) to generate (tCO2e) Rs. one million turnover 2014/15 364 0.21 2015/16 404 0.26 2016/17 489 0.19 Segment Risk Management Segment Outlook Risks specific to the Construction and Material Handling Equipment segment are managed at the segment level. The segment is equipped with required capitals and Risk register maintained at each business unit feeds the risk status of each business to the business unit managers. resources to improve revenue contribution to the Risks that are filtered from the business unit manager level are communicated to the GMC for further attention. group. Potential for growth in this sector is also high, All significant risks which were filtered from the assessment process are reported in the Enterprise Risk Management with road construction and infrastructure projects Report from page 56 to 61. Out of them risks denoted by the following numbers in the Risk Management Report expected to commence work in the ensuing year. (page 58 to 61) are specific to the Construction and Material Handling Equipment business segment. 14 15 16 17 18 19 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 91 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE The Business Report Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering Segment Overview This business segment is delivers reliable and tailored address systems, power systems for marine propulsion leaders combined with our engineering capabilities. The technological solutions of high quality to meet the needs and rail traction, industrial refrigeration, fluid management, qualified and trained DIMO engineering team is well of individual clients. The segment offers a wide range of bio-medical equipment, and solutions in medium and high equipped to deliver world class engineering solutions in business solutions, which include building automation voltage power engineering. Sri Lanka and to provide necessary after care. The value systems, fire detection, protection and suppression chain presented above shows the manner in which the systems, CCTV and access control systems, public DIMO’s solutions are based on offerings from world segment adds value to its customers. Value Chain Value Creation Activity Lead Capitals Supply Chain Value Delivered Customer Engagement Relationship & Proposal and order securing Commitment Monetised Capital Solution Mapping Human & Intellectual Planning & Designing Quality & Capital Convenience Segment Risk Management Sourcing Relationship & Import Machinery and Equipment Technological Monetised Capital Excellence Engineering Human & Intellectual Installation Solutions Capital Delivery Human Capital Commissioning Availability Maintenance Contracts After Care & Engineering Human & Intellectual Optimal Capital Efficiency Fall Diagnosis Preventive & Rectification Maintenance After Care Human Capital Fulfilment of Warranty Obligations Assurance Capitals Invested Presented below are some highlights of capitals available to the Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering Segment for value creation, as at 31st March 2017 or during the year. Human Capital Relationship Capital Monetised Capital NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES DIRECTLY Monetised value shared with Brand Portfolio INVOLVED IN THE BUSINESS employees A-16 B-4 2016/17 – Rs.396 million 2015/16 – Rs.303 million Value incurred in interacting and C-61 E-47 building relationships with foreign principals 2016/17 – Rs.10 million 2015/16 – Rs.9 million Value incurred in managing Key Principals Customer Profile relationships with customers and DEMAG-A Terex Brand 58 Years 50% of the customers consist medium D-50 retaining them KHD HumboldtWedag AG 57 Years and large private organisations. 2016/17 – Rs.21 million Siemens 57 Years (For more details refer report on A Technical Service Staff 2015/16 – Rs.25 million KSB AG 55 Years Relationship Capital – Customers and B Frontend Sales Staff Johnson Controls (S) Pte.Ltd40 Years Relationship Capital – Business Partner C Supporting Administration Staff Direct Investment of Carl Zeiss Meditec 32 Years from page 68 to 74) D Professionals in Sales and Administration Monetised Capital Rolls Royce Power E Leading Personals 2016/17 – Rs.1,914 million System AG 30 Years Number of Employees 2015/16 – Rs.1,644 million 2016/17 – 178 / 2015/16 – 144 92 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Segment Performance Financial results of the segment, its contribution to the Group’s results and how the value creation management of the segment has contributed to corporate strategic objectives are presented below. Segment Turnover Stakeholder Satisfaction Energy Consumption Rs. million During the year the segment achieved a Customer Total units of energy consumption in GJ’ 000 during the 2016/17 – 2,721 Satisfaction Index (CSI) above the sustainability year and the energy consumed in GJ’ 000 for every Rs. 2015/16 – 2,168 performance objective of 85%. Below presented is the segment CSI over a 5 year period one million turnover the segment made. % Contribution to Group Turnover Year % Year Energy Energy Consumed 2016/17 – 06 2012/13 88 Consumption (GJ’ 000) to generate 2015/16 – 06 (GJ’ 000) Rs. one million turnover 2013/14 88 2014/15 93 2014/15 4,848 2.74 Segment Results Rs. million 2015/16 92 2015/16 4,735 2.18 2016/17 – 200 2016/17 97 2016/17 4,960 1.82 2015/16 – 278 Employee Satisfaction Index of the segment was 57%. Water Consumption Water consumption in M3 during the year and water consumed in M3 for every Rs. one million turnover the segment made. SEGMENT TURNOVER SEGMENT RESULTS Rs. million Rs. million Year Water Water Consumed Consumption (M3) to generate 3500 300 (M3) Rs. one million turnover 250 2800 2014/15 7,771 4.39 200 2015/16 9,855 4.55 2100 150 2016/17 14,477 5.32 1400 100 Carbon Footprint 700 50 Carbon footprint in (tCO2e) during the year and the 0 0 carbon footprint generated for every one million turnover 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 the segment made. Year Carbon Carbon footprint footprint in (tCO2e) to generate (tCO2e) Rs. one million turnover 2014/15 439 0.25 2015/16 449 0.21 2016/17 416 0.15 Segment Risk Management Segment Outlook Risks specific to the Electro-Mechanical, Bio Medical and Marine Engineering segment are managed at the Large scale infrastructure development projects, segment level. Risk register maintained at each business unit feeds the risk status of each business to the expected growth in the hotel and tourism sector business unit managers. Risks that are filtered from the business unit manager level are communicated to the and expansion of health care industry in both the GMC for further attention. public and private sectors will provide an impetus All significant risks which were filtered from the assessment process are reported in the Enterprise Risk for growth in the business. Further, the segment Management Report from page 56 to 61. Out of them, risks denoted by the following numbers in the Risk is equipped with skilled professionals and strong Management Report (page 58 to 61) are specific to the Electro-Mechanical, Bio Medical and Marine Engineering foreign principals to face any upcoming challenges business segment. in the industry. 13 15 16 17 18 19 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 93 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Impact Management The Board’s stewardship role necessitates that we are transparent in all we do. This requires that we report on all the material impacts made through our value creation activities and the manner in which we have managed them throughout the value creation process. 94 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Introduction to the Impact Management Supplementary Information Mission to Action DIMO is committed to being a partner in Our thinking and action towards sustainability complements the Sustainable Development Goals We have pledged to act sustainable development. This is reflected in our (SDGs) introduced by United Nations in 2015. We take the SDGs into account when we map our responsibly when carrying out mission statement “Create Value Responsibly”. Responsible behaviour to us is a part of our sustainability path. Therefore, when we participate our business activities and to be differentiation strategy and not a mere “license to operate”. in our sustainability journey, we become a contributor to the achievement of SDGs. responsive to the expectations As with many other business enterprises, our value The Sustainability Committee is the policy making of our stakeholders. We will creation activities bring about economic, societal body on matters relating to sustainability. The illustration below depicts how sustainability also participate voluntarily in and environmental impacts. For us the challenge is to minimise adverse impacts and maximise imperatives flow from our mission statement to activities beyond the boundaries positive impacts. action. of our entity, taking on our share Our value creation is interdependent on the Credibility in Reporting of collective responsibility. relationships we maintain with our stakeholders. The Board’s stewardship role necessitates that we Therefore, identifying and responding to their are transparent in all we do. This requires that we Chairman/Managing Director expectations and material concerns plays a vital report on all the material impacts made through A.R. Ranjith Pandithage role in our management agenda. our value creation activities and the manner in which we have managed them throughout the We believe that we have a collective responsibility value creation process. to participate in initiatives promoting sustainable development, outside the boundaries of our We have followed GRI Standards published by An independent assurance on non-financial business. These are initiatives and projects not Global Sustainability Standard Board (GSSB) reporting is provided by DNV-GL to further directly related to our business. Participation in for sustainability reporting. The Greenhouse Gas enhance the credibility of our non-financial these initiatives is on a voluntary basis, depending Protocol Corporate Standard published by World information. The assurance report is available from on affordability. To bring this into action, we engage Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business page 175 to 177 of this report. in projects in collaboration with our employees and Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) external institutions. has been used to measure and report on the Group’s carbon footprint. Sustainability Vision into Action Vision Mission Managing Economic Impact Managing Social Impact Managing Environmental Impact Governance Customer Relations Environment Management Financial Performance Employee Relations Environment Integration Economic Contribution Community Relations Environment Value Addition Participate in Our Delivering Stakeholder Participate in Sustainable collective responsibility Expectations Development Goals Outside the Business Boundaries Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 95 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Economic Impact Overview Management Approach DIMO makes its contribution to the economic growth and well-being of the country through value Our mission demands that we do business as we continue to generate and distribute. We create economic value for our shareholders and other a responsible corporate citizen. It directs and stakeholders who place their trust in us. Thus, our economic impact is experienced in two broad encourages us to approach business in a manner segments: our stakeholders and members of society. that will enhance our economic impact. Our sustainability policy and our continuing in-depth stakeholder engagement guide us in our approach Economic Impact to creating and distributing economic value. DIMO’s stakeholder engagement processes are aimed to identify key stakeholder expectations in relation to our economic impacts. These expectations are then analysed based on their Monetised value Direct Community Indirect Impact relative importance and matters that need to be distributed Investments addressed are identified and then managed, in order to improve the economic value we create for both our stakeholders and the country in general (Please refer pages 34 to 38 for Stakeholder Engagement and Material Stakeholder Issues). Members of Stakeholders Our participation in the Sustainability Development the Society Goals (SDGs) have been derived consequent to the stakeholder expectations identified during the DIMO’s economic impact is manifested in three main areas; the monetised value we create and stakeholder engagement. Our corporate behaviour distribute as a result of economic performance; the positive economic impact we generate through direct underlined by the responsible entrepreneurship community investments, and the indirect economic impact that is a consequence of monetised value also complements and supports the SDGs. distributed between stakeholders. Monetised Value Created and Distributed MONETISED VALUE CREATED MONETISED VALUE DISTRIBUTED AND RETAINED REVENUE GOVERNMENT COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS 44.5 TAXES AND TARIFFS DONATIONS AND ENVIRONMENT PRESERVATION Rs. In 2015/16 Bn Rs.37.7 Bn Rs. 12.4 In 2015/16 Bn (68%) Rs.10.2 Bn (68%) Rs. 122 In 2015/16 Mn (1%) Rs.78 Bn (1%) COST OF MATERIAL AND VALUE RETAINED LENDERS SERVICES BROUGHT IN PROFIT RETAINED AND DEPRECIATION INTEREST Rs. 26.5 In 2015/16 Bn. Rs.22.9 Bn Rs. 1.0 Bn (5%) Rs. 856 Mn (5%) In 2015/16 Rs.1.3 Bn (8%) In 2015/16 Rs.454 Bn (3%) EMPLOYEES OWNERS VALUE CREATED SALARIES, FEES AND SOCIAL DIVIDEND SECURITY EXPENSES Rs. 18.2 In 2015/16 Bn Rs.14.9 Bn Rs. 3.3 In 2015/16 Bn (18%) Rs.2.8 Bn (18%) Rs. 453 In 2015/16 Mn (2%) Rs.178 Bn (1%) 96 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Our mission demands that we do business as a responsible The following table identifies the number of jobs we have generated and the amount of Monetised corporate citizen. It directs and encourages us to approach Capital we have invested in fixed assets, including areas outside the Colombo and Gampaha Districts. business in a manner that will enhance our economic impact. We also increase our contribution to indirect Our sustainability policy and our continuing in-depth stakeholder employment by using locally supplied goods and engagement guide us in our approach to creating and distributing services. The standards of quality and ethics we enforce in our local procurement practices also economic value. drive improved sustainability in the businesses of our local suppliers (Please refer page 74 in the Our Direct Economic Impact A further, Rs.13.2 million was invested on account Business Partner Capital Report for our local Direct economic impact refers to the monetised of environmental preservation (More information on procurement practices). value we distribute to our stakeholders as these investments is available in the Environmental Impact Report from page 98 to 105). The value we create for our shareholders is outgoings, in the value creation process and another important element in measuring our this includes direct investments made towards Our Indirect Economic Impact indirect economic impact. While we directly community development during the year. Indirect impact on the economy is created when distribute monetised value as dividends paid, the The total monetised value created by DIMO stakeholders either invest the monetised value they effectiveness and success of our value creation during 2016/17 increased by 21.6% compared receive into their business operations, or spend it processes considered together with other share to last year. Goods and services to the value of as household expenditure. It is difficult to precisely market conditions, increases the value of our Rs.6.4 billion was purchased locally, contributing quantify the amount of direct improvement to the shareholders’ investments in DIMO, rewarding to the local economic activity. While this value was local economy through value spent or invested, them through capital gains. Total Shareholder created for the local economy, we also contributed as reliable data is not available. However the Return (TSR) computed taking into account the Rs.20.1 billion for the global economy, in terms of indicators of value distributed by the Company in movement in share price at the beginning and end the costs of imported materials and services. areas of development do illustrate our contribution of the year and the dividend declared during the to indirect economic growth. year is 11.13% (2015/16 (9.57)%) Value created was distributed between the owners, employees, the government, lenders and DIMO also reaches a broader segment of the The value of the DIMO share is a reflection of our directly, to the community, while 4.1% of the value local community through our investments in our contribution to the development of the Sri Lankan created was retained in the business for future Islandwide branch network. These branches share market. The following graph illustrates how investment. This amounted to Rs.1,001 million generate local employment and thus improve and an investment of Rs.1,000/in DIMO shares in (2015/16 Rs.1,265 million). advance local community livelihoods. By increasing 2008 has increased over the years. employment opportunities in many regions of the Extracts of monetised value created and country, DIMO continues to help in the pursuit of distributed is given on page 96. economic growth and development across the VALUE OF Rs.1000 INVESTED IN DIMO IN 2008 country. Direct Community Investments Rs. As a part of our collective responsibility towards DIMO provided direct employment to 1,725 (1,573 20,000 sustainable development, we further distribute in 2015/16) people, and indirect employment monetised value created on direct community to 620 people at the end of March 2017 (599 15,000 investments. Rs.108.8 million of community in 2015/16). This shows an increment of 8% investments during the year included investments when compared to job opportunities created 10,000 towards technical education for apprentices and last year. 13.52% (13.62% in 2015/16) of total for developing the social and physical infrastructure value distributed to employees was distributed in 5,000 of the community. These investments were chiefly areas with a higher poverty headcount index than focused on improving youth employability and the country’ poverty head count index of 5.50% 0 developing livelihoods of the local community. (6.49% in 2015/16), illustrating our commitment 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 More information on these investments is available to reducing poverty levels in the local community. in the Social Impact Report from page 106 to 109. Colombo and Northern /East Rest of the country Total Description Gampaha Districts Province 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Employment opportunities provided (new recruitments) 323 237 7 10 50 42 380 289 Employee as at 31st March 1417 1259 61 59 247 255 1725 1573 Investments in buildings, plant and equipment Rs. million 177 71 4 1 154 8 335 80 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 97 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Environmental Impact Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Climatic Change Carbon footprint tCO2e per Rs.1 mn of Group net turnover 0.1731 0.1917 0.2413 0.2773 0.2292 Energy Total energy consumption (1,000 GJ) 74,652 68,294 60,745 52,333 60,547 Energy consumption (Giga joules) per employee (on average) 43 44 40 34 42 Water Total water consumption (m3) 112,875 104,049 87,081 90,487 101,984 Water Recycle Ground water recycled and reused as a percentage of ground 17 18 31 24 21 water consumption (%) Waste Total hazardous waste sent for recycling/reusing Kg 151,483 138,090 111,781 125,153 132,364 Total hazardous waste sent for recycling/reusing Litres 100,857 106,468 106,000 107,646 105,506 Environmental NonAction taken by the central environmental authority for nonNil Nil Nil Nil Nil compliance compliance Overview The Six Pillars of DIMO’s Environmental Management System We know that all types of business enterprises have an impact on the environment and our challenge is to ensure that we minimise the adverse impacts Management of Atmospheric and maximise the positive impacts in all that we do. Emissions and Climate Change Our principal natural resources are land and water. Land has a monetary value, and therefore we have categorised it as a monetised capital. Water is not Energy and Fuel Management Material Management categorised as a capital because the materiality of ENVIRONMENTAL the water consumption in value creation is minimal MANAGEMENT when compared to other forms of capital we use in Noise Management Water Management our value creation process. Nevertheless, the manner in which we regard the environment and natural resources remains Waste Management a key part of our value creation process. We are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen and as such, we must guarantee that our operations have minimum impact on our physical environment. In light of this, regeneration, A key input to environmental impact management restoration and replenishment remain keywords is derived from our stakeholder engagement Our Environmental Management in our environmental activities and we strive to spread environmental awareness, encouraging processes, which help us to identify issues relevant to our stakeholders, viewed from their System (EMS) was upgraded our employees and other stakeholders to live by environmentally-friendly, ‘green’ principles in the perspective (Refer pages 34 to 38 for Stakeholder Engagement and Material Stakeholder Concerns). with ISO 14001 (2015) workplace and elsewhere. A second, equally important input is environmental accreditation during the year. Management Approach regulation, considered in relation to our impact on the environment and playing an important part EMS is the framework for Two principles lie at the heart of our environmental strategy; first, to minimise the impact of our in devising environmental impact management strategy. The Sustainability Committee oversees and our approach to matters of operations on the physical environment and implements the EMS, while stakeholder interaction environmental sustainability, and the compliance team facilitates implementation second, to inspire our employees and our society to internalise the values of conservation and commit through data collection, data analysis, independent focusing on six material to minimising our impact on the environment. assurance and physical inspection. areas where our value Our Environmental Management System Our environmental policy communicates our corporate thinking to employees and visitors creation activities impact the (EMS) was upgraded with ISO 14001 (2015) accreditation during the year. EMS is the and reinforces our commitment towards the environment. framework for our approach to matters of Sustainable Development Goals that we environmental sustainability, focusing on six pursue. The ‘I Pledge’ programme at DIMO also material areas where our value creation activities encourages employees to ‘live green’ and carry impact the environment. the environmental ethic beyond the workplace and into their family and social life. 98 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Climate Change and Emissions Climate Change Climate change or global warming is recognised as the world’s biggest environmental challenge of the 21st century. DIMO is well aware of the issues and we are committed to working towards a cleaner, greener planet. In this spirit, we shall: • Ensure that emissions caused by our business activities fall within the regulatory frameworks and limits. • Minimise the harmful impacts of our business activities that could contribute to climate change. • Renew our commitment to managing the Greenhouse Gases (GHG) we emit. In light of this, we have been monitoring our carbon footprint over several years, using the WBCSD/WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate Standard (revised edition). Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 99 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Environmental Impact Our Carbon Footprint % Emission Intensity Ratio (tCO2e per Rs. 1 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Emission Change mn of Group Net Turnover) tCO2 Emission from p/y 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Scope 1 4,969.88 4,423.15 12.36 4,243.10 4,371.63 0.1114 0.1172 0.1512 0.1792 Scope 2 2,595.86 2,444.27 6.20 2,080.90 1,411.60 0.0582 0.0648 0.0741 0.0742 Scope 3 (Limited) 154.09 356.14 (56) 446.70 273.11 0.0035 0.0094 0.0159 0.0258 Total 7,719.83 7,232.57 6,770.79 6,055.85 0.1731 0.1914 0.2413 0.2762 The Group’s carbon foot print increased by 6.7% in and GHG emissions caused by the use of the A4 Managing Atmospheric Emissions the year under review (7% in year 2015/16). This sheets of paper. An independent third party approved by the was mainly due to the expansion of operational Central Environmental Authority (CEA) annually activities which led to a 20% increase in Group Waste can cause GHG emissions if it is not disposed measures DIMO’s atmospheric emissions, which revenue. However, our GHG emissions decreased of in a responsible manner. We have streamlined are maintained within the limits permitted by the to 0.1731 tCO2e per one million of Group’s net our waste disposal system, which gives us savings Central Environmental Authority. turnover, compared to the value of 0.1917 tCO2e in GHG emission amounting to 52 tCO2e. recorded in the last year. The main workshops now have exhaust gas and The company will continue to integrate new dust extractors which are effective in dealing with Our scope 3 calculation is presently limited to air processes that will contribute to the reduction of emissions typically emanating from engine testing travel, fuel used for third party delivery vehicles our carbon footprint over the years ahead. and the cleaning of air filters and brake assemblies, while the workshop paint booths include filtration A Case Study Carbon Footprint Curve of DIMO systems that prevent the release of toxic fumes and particles into the atmosphere. LOG LINEAR TURNOVER VS CARBON FOOTPRINT tCO2 emission y = 3,468.67 log(x) 8,994.4 DIMO’s activities do not result in Ozone depleting emissions. CFC-free gases are used in vehicles 8,000 C and air conditioning plants which have built-in B 7,000 systems to capture and recycle gas when such A units are being serviced. 6,000 5,000 4,000 DIMO’s activities do not result in 3,000 ozone depleting emissions. CFC2,000 free gases are used in vehicles 1,000 and air conditioning plants which 20,000 25,000 30,000 35,000 40,000 45,000 50,000 55,000 60,000 have built-in systems to capture Turnover (Rs. million) and recycle gas when such units Performance relating our carbon foot print is are being serviced. relationship but a nonlinear positive relationship currently measured as a ratio between tons of between the two variables. Upon mapping of Carbon Dioxide Emissions (tCO2e) per Rs.1.0 data relating to turnover and the total carbon million of turnover. This ratio for the current foot print for the last five years we were able to year is compared with its corresponding figure construct the following curve of best fit, which for the previous year to see whether there is corresponds to the equation y = 3,468.67 log(x) an increase or a reduction in the carbon foot 8,994.4. Point A to B in the following graph print ratio. In doing so, we assumed a directly depicts the curve based on actual data for the proportionate linear relationship between last five years with point B to C depicting the turnover and the resultant carbon footprint. extension of the curve when actual turnover in the future exceed current turnover. Therefore, In order to look at our carbon footprint more our focus will be to limit our future carbon foot aggressively and critically we are now looking print to a spot below the curve. at a scenario where we do not assume a linear 100 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Use, Reuse and Recycle WORKSHOP MATERIAL CONSUMPTION The scarcity of resources used in our value creation process is an important issue and we have therefore COMPOSITION (%) aligned our business and service process to use such resources efficiently and effectively. Renewable D-0 F-0 E-7 A-14 materials are used whenever possible. C-2 D-0 F-0 The following table shows the key materials used in our workshop activities. C-1 E-5 A-14 B-76 Key Materials Used in our Workshop Activities 2015/16 2016/17 Type of Material Recycle or Quantity B-79 Measurement Used Non-recycle 2016/17 2015-16 2014/15 Kerosene Non-Recycle Lt 37,738 34,852 36,899 Lubricants Non-Recycle Lt 215,279 190,237 179,065 Floor Carpets (Paper) Recycle Nos 60,000 60,500 30,000 A Kerosene C Paint E Thinner used in workshop B Lubricants D Lacquer F Filler Cotton Waste Recycle Kg 167,514 142,012 170,748 Paints Non-Recycle Lt 3,884 6,094 5,444 A4 CONSUMPTION AS A PERCENTAGE Lacquer Non-Recycle Lt 467 514 418 OF TURNOVER Number of A4 sheets ’000 % Thinner Non-Recycle Lt 13,921 16,438 16,867 4500 14 Putty Non-Recycle Kg 2,110 2,635 1,075 12 Filler Non-Recycle Lt 1,328 697 745 3600 10 A4 Recycle Pkts 8,215 7,101 6,995 2700 8 1800 6 Methods of material/ waste disposal are discussed under Waste Management on pages 103 to 104. 4 900 A reduction in paint related material consumption in the vehicle service division was achieved by 2 efficiently managing paint-booth activities and by efficient use of paint. However lubricant and kerosene 0 0 consumption increased due to an increase in vehicle service throughput. 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 A 4 Comsumption Energy Consumption and Conservation Turnover to A 4 Comsumption Ratio Energy Consumption DIMO’s primary sources of energy are electricity, diesel, petrol and LP gas. A comparatively small amount of electricity is also generated through generators located at all business sites. The national grid is our main source of electricity except when the in-house generators are used, which is not often. A minimal amount of LP gas is used at the staff cafeteria. DIMO has a 9.3% increase in energy consumption when compared with the previous year, mainly due to an increase in activity reflected in a 17.9% increase in turnover. The rise in energy consumption has been in operational areas and this can also be attributed to construction related to building renovations at the head office. Fuel used for vehicles is constantly monitored. Energy Consumption Energy Intensity Ratio from Consumption Fulltime Employees Description Units % Change 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2016/17 2015/16 from P/Y Diesel for Vehicles GJ 29,333 29,598 (0.09) 27,543 27,210 17.00 19.05 Diesel for Generators GJ 1,042 906 15.00 622 306 0.60 0.58 Petrol for Vehicles GJ 29,875 24,288 23.00 20,983 16,516 17.32 15.63 LP Gas GJ 521 430 21.16 467 344 0.30 0.28 Electricity GJ 13,882 13,071 6.20 11,128 7,957 8.05 8.41 Total 74,653 68,293 60,743 52,333 43.27 43.94 Direct Energy Consumption Indirect Energy Consumption Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 101 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Environmental Impact Energy Audits, Energy Efficiency and Conservation WATER WITHDRAWAL AND DISCHARGE (DIRECT WATER USAGE) (%) A-0 We are accredited by Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority to conduct energy diagnosis C-15 and audits Energy saving measures. A-0 B-85 In house energy audit conducted at • Use of CFL and LED bulbs C-16 Siyamabalape • Air conditioning at 24° C Saving • Computers to revert to standby mode 2015/16 2016/17 10 within a 5 minute idling period B-84 MWh • Maximum use of natural light Green Building A Green Water (Rain water) B Blue Water (Inland surface & ground water) Our premises and service workshops meet with the standards C Grey water stipulated by local authorities and the Central Environment Authority We focus on (CEA). Our endeavour is to move beyond these minimum standards use of natural and further improve our ecological foot print. Bosch Diesel Centre light when and DIMO 800 are two Green Buildings which have been certified we plan new constructions Waste Water Treatment into gold category by Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). DIMO 800 with more than 16,000 square meters of Our waste management processes are designed built area gives an energy saving of 25% compared to a traditional to eliminate the risk of discharging untreated water building. into any public area or sewage system. Waste water from all our workshops passes through oil separators and is monitored to ascertain pH levels on a daily basis, thus ensuring compliance with legal limits. Random samples of recycled water Water Management Total Water Consumption and Re-use are also collected by a Central Environmental Water Usage and Recycling DIMO strives to use lower quantities of water or Authority approved third party, to monitor pH Value Our achievements in managing the use of water recycled water in our operations when possible, in and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). DIMO’s continue to improve. Our commitment to water order to minimise our use of this resource. Statebiochemical oxygen demand, total suspended recycling is evident from the fact that we have been of-the-art water treatment and recycling plants solids and oil/grease content were all found to be continuously achieving the sustainability objective are now in operation at all our main workshops. well below the tolerance levels demanded by the relating to re-use of water. More details regarding Water consumption increased by 19% during the Central Environmental Authority. this is available in Sustainability Performance financial year, when compared to the previous Objectives Table on page 39. financial year (16% increase in 2015/16), and this was due to an increase in vehicle throughput in the The main source of water for our operations is workshops. We were able to recycle about 9% per the National Water Supply, while ground water cent of the total water used for our activities during sources were also used by the workshops in the year under review, while 17% of the ground Siyambalape and Kurunegala and the Logistics water consumed (18% in FY 2015/16) was also Centre in Weliweriya. recycled and reused. These achievements are in line with our ultimate goal, to continuously increase the percentage of water that we recycle and reuse. Total Water Consumption and Re-use Water Usage (M3) Reused Water (M3) Reused Percentage (%) Description 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Municipal Water 71,174 70,789 61,264 3,049 1,871 N/A 4.3 2.6 N/A Ground water 41,166 33,151 25,692 7,046 5,878 7,910 17 18 31 Rain Water Harvesting 535 109 125 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Total 112,875 104,049 87,081 10,095 7,749 7,910 N/A N/A N/A * N/A Not Available 102 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Water Discharged Method WATER DISCHARGE BY METHOD Water Discharge by Method 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Recycled and reused 10,095 7,749 7,910 A 53 Recycled and discharged to municipal drainage 2,774 3,676 2,434 C 28 A 39 Treated and discharged 5,482 8,270 5,186 C 39 2015/16 2016/17 A Case Study Newly Refurbished Rain Water Harvesting Plant in Weliweriya B 84 B 19 B 14 A Recycled and reused B Recycled and discharged to municipal drainage C Treated and discharged WATER MANAGEMENT 2016/17 (%) A-88 C-61 B-12 During the year under review we upgraded the The rainwater harvesting system storage rainwater harvesting system located at DIMO capacity at Weliveriya is 323,500 litres which is D-39 Logistic Centre – Weliweriya. Our objective approximately two months’ consumption. As per was to develop a concept plan and design for the design 10% of the water is collected from rainwater harvesting and filtration systems roof gutters and 90% from storm water. Storm which will collect rainwater during rainy seasons water is filtered through sand and carbon prior A Water used and discharged and the cleaning of collected water by way of to storage. The average daily requirement of B Water used and recycled filtering through a carbon and sand process, harvested rain water is approximately 7m3 per C Recycled before being used for operational activities day. Further, fully utilised rainwater is treated D Recycled and reused including vehicle washing. This was done with through a recycled plant and used for gardening participation of the employees and cost the in the premises. Company Rs.1.0 million with 300 voluntary hours coming from our tribe members. Effluent Waste Management Use, Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. These are the keywords in our waste management strategies. DIMO's Waste Management Hierarchy Waste management and disposal is carefully managed at DIMO and our efforts are supported by every business unit. The following diagram A4 paper/Cotton waste/ shows our waste management hierarchy. Minimisation and reuse Waste oil/Food waste Non-Hazardous Solid Waste Management Cardboard, Polythene, Plastic/ Recycle We manage a system of segregation for nonOil filters/Metal scrap/Glass/Tyres hazardous solid waste. Separation is by organic Contaminated paper, Polythene, material, paper, polythene and plastic. All dining areas Incineration Cotton waste/Paint tins/Sludge have colour-coded bins for the segregation of food from wrapping material, and foodwaste is collected by a third party for use as animal feed. An accredited Composting Garden waste third party Insee Eco-cycle has been commissioned to provide a suitable waste management solution for Waste under Windscreen/Paint booth filters/Food DIMO’s hazardous and non-hazardous waste, while review contaminated polythene our partnerships with e-waste recyclers ensure safe disposal of our electronic waste. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 103 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Environmental Impact Non-hazardous Solid Waste Disposal WASTE DISPOSAL BY TREATMENT METHOD (%) Period (Year) Current Description Measurement Method of 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Disposal A-36 Organic Kg 40,521 52,217 27,966 Reuse C-47 Contaminated paper Kg 8,993 9,955 6,496 Incinerate C-39 Cardboard boxes Kg 32,177 49,821 37,401 Recycle 2015/16 A-39 2016/17 Pallet racks Kg 186,415 196,601 34,048 Reuse B-23 Another of our goals is to achieve a paperless office environment and we have been making efforts B-17 to reduce paper usage and wastage over the years. These initiatives include an e-mail rider campaign discouraging the printing of e-mails, encouraging the use of recycled paper bags at our sales outlets, A Reused maximising the use of both sides of paper and recycling printer cartridges. B Recycled C Incinerated Our activities towards streamlining and educating employees on the correct methods of disposal and minimising waste have resulted in a significant reduction in all figures relating to solid waste disposal, when compared to the previous year. WASTE GENERATED PER Hazardous Waste Management RUPEES MILLION OF REVENUE DIMO is pleased to report that there were no hazardous chemical spillages reported during the year. Kg. Material Safety Data Sheets have been made available for use in the event of such spillage. The Company 12 11.018 has also invested in equipment such as oil suckers in order to deal with any events of oil spillage, while 10.155 third parties collect the waste for recycling. 9 8.140 DIMO staff undergo regular training on safe practices and the correct handling of materials. 6 Hazardous Waste Disposal 3 Quantity Disposed Current 0 Type of Waste Units Method of 2014/13 2012/13 2012/13 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Disposal Waste oil* Litre 100,857 106,468 106,000 Reuse Sludge Metal scrap Kg Kg 120,330 22,665 105,183 27,361 93,073 Incinerate 11,930 Recycle DIMO staff undergo regular Metal dust Kg 2,649 3,590 Recycle training about safe practices and Paint cans No. 1,453 1,642 920 Incinerate the correct handling of materials. Filters No. 32,093 27,181 17,653 Batteries No. 198 140 74 Recycle Noise Management Tyres No. 471 523 129 Recycle DIMO maintains a strict control over noise Sawdust Kg 3,272 2,657 2,467 Recycle emissions from all its facilities ensuring the comfort and safety of any person in the vicinity of Polythene Kg 4.958 8,227 3,494 Recycle our worksites. Noise levels are measured by an Plastic Kg 2,077 1,520 817 Recycle independent third party who is accredited by the Cotton waste Kg 42,338 31,617 39,385 Incinerate Central Environmental Authority (CEA). We comply with all regulations relating to noise emission and * Waste oil includes engine oil from serviced vehicles the Company is also taking steps to ensure that our noise emissions remain well below the legal In other achievements, the amount of waste with regard to cardboard boxes and organic (food) waste requirement. has reduced. This was a direct result of our efforts to increase awareness about reducing material waste at DIMO. At the workshops of TATA Division, paint consumption was reduced during the year. 104 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Voluntary Initiatives for Biodiversity Protection and Resource Conservation: Project 456 Awareness campaign for employee The project concluded with the recycling of more • World Wetlands Day than half a ton of Plastics, exceeding the initial target of 456kg; the amount which was pledged • World Wildlife Day in 2015/16 DIMO Annual Report. • International Day of Forest • World Water Day Beach Clean-up Campaign Coastal land in Pamunugama area 100 Employee volunteer hours Project Earth 2.0 and 3.0 with AIESEC, University of Moratuwa Reached over 11 08 1,000 240 Schools Districts Students Employee volunteer hours To create environmental awareness among school children, a series of workshops were conducted covering 11 schools in different parts of the country. Environmental Expenditure Outlook Our investments into environmental related As stated in our Mission, DIMO is committed to matters have been categorised as follows: ‘Create Value Responsibly’. To this end, our drive to minimise the impacts we have on the environment Plus Expenditure relating to projects that deliver a is embedded at every point of our value chain. This positive impact (eg: natural resources/ biodiversity aim is further supported by our Environmental conservation efforts, carbon off-setting projects) Management System which is accredited by ISO 14001:2015 and we firmly believe that we can Minus Expenditure relating to pollution continue to achieve our sustainability objectives prevention, environment monitoring etc. with regard to our environmental impacts. The following table indicates the “Pluses and We also focus on a collective effort aimed at taking Minuses” of our environmental expenditure our environmental policies beyond the boundaries incurred during the year under review. of our business and to this end we participate in programmes and initiatives outside our business, on a voluntary basis. Rs. Rs. Environment Expenditure Environment Investment million million Waste management 3.28 Environmental awareness for 1.06 stakeholders Waste water treatment 1.76 Environmental audit training and 7.12 license Total 5.04 Total 8.18 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 105 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Social Impact Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Community Annual expenditure on community development (Rs. million) 109 68 63 43 Development Community investment as a percentage of turnover (%) 0.24 0.18 0.22 0.21 0.19 Development of Youth No. of vocational training students given training during the 27.65 24.72 24.82 16.78 10.50 year as a percentage of full-time employees (%) Tax and Tariff Payment Taxes and tariffs levies paid to government (Rs. million) 12,446 10,228 5,788 3,245 2,972 Overview monetised value created, through social initiatives, DIMO’s social impact may be observed in three DIMO’s social impact may be playing our part in sustainable development. key areas; our labour policies, where we follow best practices to ensure a better workplace, a observed in three key areas; Product responsibility is another important commitment to nurturing local communities, and our labour policies, where we consideration in our value creation process, because this affects the level of trust we command responsible operations with regard to the products, services and after-care we offer. follow best practices to ensure a from our customers. Therefore we place a strong emphasis on ethical marketing, product labelling, In the area of our labour policies, we follow best better workplace, a commitment product safety and responsible aftercare; the many practices in employee recruitment, retention, employee benefits, occupational health and safety, to nurturing local communities, factors that together constitute our approach to product responsibility. training and education and the management of and responsible operations with Management Approach employee related grievances. DIMO has won a number of awards and certifications related to our regard to the products, services DIMO’s mission statement says that our purpose human resource practices. This is an indication of our commitment to our Human Resource. and after-care we offer. is to ‘Create value responsibly’, a statement created in the backdrop of our commitment to “Compliance +” which is a certificate awarded by being a responsible corporate citizen while wholly the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, supported Our commitment to local community development dedicating ourselves to creating value to our by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), is strong, including the provision of technical and stakeholders. recognition of our compliance with required vocational training for young people, assistance standards relating to equal opportunity in in social and physical infrastructure development Our stakeholder engagement process includes employment, employer – employee relations, and participating in improvement of the quality of independent stakeholder surveys, which help us to work arrangement practices and environment, life and livelihoods of the community. understand the expectations of communities directly bears testimony to our commitment to best labour affected by our operations. Stakeholder issues practices. More details on our best practices are During the year under review DIMO distributed such as these are dealt with by the Sustainability available under Human Capital on pages 75 to 79. Rs.109 million (Rs.68 million in 2015/16) of Committee which formulates plans and policies designed to safeguard stakeholder interests. DIMO also contributes to the United Nations’ Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) and we actively participate in this international initiative Best labour practices to ensure a Employees better workplace aimed at achieving global sustainable development. Labour practices and product responsibility are two identified areas which have an impact on how we manage employees and customer relations Social Impact Direct community investments to Society respectively. These two aspects also represent two nourish local community major capitals in our value creation process and our efforts in these areas are therefore discussed in the Human Capital Report (Refer pages 75 to 79) and the Customer Capital Report (Refer pages Product responsibility and 68 to 71) respectively, offering greater clarity and Customers responsible aftercare completeness to the overall discussion. 106 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Social Impact Management Framework 1. Provision and Expectations of the Ethical Business facilitation of Conduct Community technical and vocational Compliance education to the with Statutory Requirements youth Defining the Scope 2. Developing the for Service to the Positive impact on Compliant Corporate Community social and physical the society Citizen infrastructure of the community. Compliance 3. Developing with Regulatory the quality of Requirements Economic Reality livelihood of local communities Our commitment to the local community which Technical and Vocational Education for Young Upon completion of the course, graduate includes three border areas as below, is brought People apprentices are free to seek employment or to use into context through our carefully developed social The DIMO Automobile Training School (DATS) their training to become entrepreneurs. Students impact management framework. could also find employment at DIMO in the event This is our flagship program to provide free of vacancies becoming available at the Company. Ethical Business Conduct technical education to local youth. The program is managed through two training schools, one Today, over 500 students have graduated from The requirements of the Board of Directors’ located in Weliveriya and the other in Jaffna. The both the Colombo and Jaffna training schools. role of stewardship ensure that our business two-year training program graduates fully qualified In total, the DATS programs have produced 32 conduct is ethical and transparent. This mandate students who are ready for employment. diploma holders during the year, while 57 students is transformed into action by DIMO’s Code of Business Ethics which specifies our approach to are currently undergoing training. Training programs are conducted with technical issues of corruption and competition as well as assistance from Daimler AG. Students are DIMO continues to strive to make a difference to public policy, among other matters. trained free of charge and receive an allowance, the community. We undertake to help, develop and subsidised meals, uniforms and other benefits. nurture young Sri Lankan talent and showcase it The Code of Business Ethics, among others, specifies strict guidelines for our employees, to the world, while meeting the long term goals of The training school offers students a comfortable, with regard to how they should conduct business creating job opportunities in Sri Lanka. spacious learning environment with 3 fullyoperations and the limits within which they should equipped lecture rooms, a modern electronics lab, a deal with external parties. It also ensures that large workshop for vehicle repairs, a similarly large DIMO does not make any political donation. Nor workshop for basic metalwork training, special do we attempt to influence any public bodies. tools to repair Mercedes-Benz vehicles, highquality basic hand tool sets, specific electronic Our commitment to work in partnership with diagnostic equipment for Mercedes models and regulatory and non-regulatory organisations which common electronic diagnostic equipment for other promote ethical business conduct has further brands such as TATA. strengthened our efforts towards ethical business conduct. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 107 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Social Impact DIMO provided assistance to GIZ, a not-for-profit A Case Study Formula Students Quest for Talent organisation, in offering mobile career guidance counselling about the NVQ qualification system to rural youth. A bus is used to travel island-wide to offer counselling to these young people. The program was launched to commemorate 60 years of Sri Lanka German co-operation. Developing the Social and Physical Infrastructure of the Community DIMO Nasevena Technical Education Centre Sri Lanka has a high traffic-related fatality rate. As a responsible corporate citizen, DIMO undertook a timely initiative to enhance the driving skills of both beginners and experienced drivers by establishing an institute in Sooriyawewa, aimed at promoting road safety and reducing the number of road accidents. Formula Student is Europe’s most famous Additionally, Team SHARK was given expert The DIMO Nasevena Technical Education Centre educational motorsport competition, backed advice and guidance by the Company and (DTI) is located on a 9 acre site in Sooriyawewa, by the industry and high profile engineers. had full access to DIMO’s Siyambalape site Hambantota. The DTI employs classroom and Each year, the competition challenges facilities to build the car. practical training methodologies using world– engineering students from around the world We are proud to report that Team SHARK class curriculums. to design, build and race a single-seat racing car. won three awards for ‘Best Newcomer in Other Community Infrastructure Development Class 1’, ‘Dedication to Formula Student Initiatives Team SHARK from the University of Award’ and an individual award for the ‘Top Moratuwa was the first Sri Lankan team to Individual Driver’ at the Formula Student A wide range of philanthropic activities were enter the Formula Student competition and World competition held at the Silverstone conducted during the year to further increase their entry was fully sponsored by DIMO. Circuit, UK in July 2016. DIMO’s community engagement. These are listed below. Kidney Disease Diagnostic Clinic Encouraging Youth Towards Vocational Training Given below is the list of universities and institutes DIMO’s Anuradhapura branch partnered the Public The Government appointed a special committee to where these students were enrolled. Health Inspection Department of Anuradhapura reform vocational training in Sri Lanka and DIMO to conduct a Kidney Diagnostic Clinic. This was • NAITA (National Apprentice and Industrial stepped forward to help encourage young people conducted for members of the Civil Security Training Authority) to take up vocational training. In the first phase of Department unit in Thanthirimale. this program, DIMO invited young three-wheeler • The Ceylon German Technical Training Institute drivers between 18-30 years of age, to create • The University of Moratuwa Blood Donation Campaign awareness about the employment opportunities A blood donation campaign was also organised • The University of Peradeniya that exist in Sri Lanka. Participants were educated by DIMO’s Anuradhapura branch, for patients about how and why they should choose to take up • The University of Sri Jayewardenepura suffering from kidney-related disease. This event vocational training. Once the awareness programs • The University of Kelaniya was held at Buddhangala Madya Maha Vidyalaya. are concluded, DIMO will select 20 three-wheeler • The Vocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka More than 200 people donated blood at this drivers and sponsor their automobile training worthy event for a good cause. • The Automobile Engineering Training Institute courses. • The Ministry of Vocational and Technical Training Developing the Quality of Life for Local Additional Initiatives to Further Technical • The Open University of Sri Lanka Communities Education • CETRAC (Construction Equipment Training DIMO seeks to be a part of our local communities, to Students from the following institutions were Centre) understand the social impacts of our activities and awarded apprenticeship training opportunities at contribute to economic and social development. As • The Asian Aviation Centre (Pvt) Ltd DIMO during the year. 221 are undergoing training the nature of our business is long term, we strive as at 31st March 2017. Training periods ranged to build enduring, mutually beneficial relationships DIMO also conducted career guidance workshops from three months to one year, with a longer with all our local communities. for engineers on how to meet employer training period for NAITA apprentices. expectations, in collaboration with the Universities of Moratuwa and Peradeniya. 108 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Annual Book Donation Ceremony DIMO also ensures that all required filings and Outlook The DIMO Siyambalape service team organised payments are made punctually and precisely As a responsible corporate citizen, DIMO will the annual book donation in December 2016, for and that all standards and guidelines are strictly continue to increase our community contribution the 5th consecutive year. This event also serves as followed, so that no issues are left pending. and expand our involvement beyond our stated a stakeholder engagement initiative, helping us to objectives. The Sustainable Development Goals Our business sites are located island-wide and maintain a good relationship with the neighbouring will be prioritised in doing so, with the intention of every one of them is made aware of the need to community. The event was held at the Siyambalape making ourselves a better corporate citizen. adhere to the environmental regulations, product branch premises for children of families living labelling and safety regulations applicable to each We will continue to listen to our stakeholders and near the Siyambalape workshop. School books, area. pledge to be their trusted partner in all matters stationery and DIMO branded school bags were distributed to 262 school children. material to them, thus continuing our contribution Please refer to the Enterprise Governance report to sustainable development. on pages 40 to 55 for more discussion about our A second book donation was conducted by the legal platform and how we comply with regulations. staff of the DIMO Logistics and Administration departments, who raised funds and distributed Engagement with External Associations books to 270 students at Siri Siduhath Junior School, Weliweriya in January 2016. We have built close relationships with external trade associations, to align ourselves with industry Flood Relief Programs best practice and to participate in the formulation of policy and legislation relevant to our businesses. During the floods of May 2016, DIMO stepped forward to help and support people in these areas. We understand that such policies and legislation Over 2,000 people in several flood affected areas could have a direct operational impact on our received fresh water, food, sanitary items and business, our employees, our suppliers and other necessities through this relief programme. our customers. DIMO’s membership in various associations help us to participate and lobby for Our support for people and communities affected the promotion of ethical business conduct, fair by the floods went further when DIMO undertook trade, social welfare and matters relating to social renovations of the Munidasa Kumaratunga equity, among other issues. For example, our Vidyalaya and Yabaraluwa Nandarama Temple, membership in trade organisations has driven us Malwana. to voice our views on matters relating to taxation Road Safety Education Programme to the and tariff policy. Community DIMO is a member of the following organisations: A road safety awareness programme was organised in collaboration with the Sri Lanka • The American Chamber of Commerce Police on the 10th of March 2017, in Ratmalana. • The Automobile Association of Ceylon This was launched in order to meet the vital need for such a program and to increase employee • The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce engagement with community welfare activities. • The National Chamber of Commerce • The Sri Lanka Australia and New Zealand The event targeted school van drivers, three Business Council wheeler drivers and traffic wardens of schools, to educate them about road safety and the • The Sri Lanka France Business Council importance of obeying road rules. We were • The Sri Lanka German Business Council pleased to observe the active participation of the • The Sri Lanka Italy Business Council audience during this program. • The Ceylon Motor Traders Association Compliance with Regulatory Requirements • The Chamber of Young Lankan Entrepreneurs The conformance dimension of the Board’s role in • The Chamber of Construction Industry stewardship requires that we comply with all laws Sri Lanka and regulations. This mandate is seen in context of • The European Chamber of Commerce of DIMO’s Code of Business Ethics. Sri Lanka Execution of this mandate involves the continuous • The Japan Sri Lanka Technical and Culture training of our employees, with regard to regulatory Association changes. At the time of joining the DIMO tribe, all DIMO is also a business network participant of the members are made aware of the requirements International Integrated Reporting Council. in the Code of Business Ethics, during their orientation. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 109 Annual Report 2016/17 TOP OF THE LINE Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a United Nations-sponsored We contribute to these Sustainable Development Goals in three ways. effort to create a common set of development goals for all communities in Firstly by managing impacts made by value creation activities, secondly every country, with the deadline for their attainment in 2030. The idea is by voluntarily participating in initiatives and projects that are outside our to get governments, aid organizations, foundations and NGOs on the same business boundaries and thirdly by offering products and services that page about what global problems most urgently need to be solved and how contribute to attainment of the SDGs. to measure progress and solutions. Presented below is an overview of our contribution towards Sustainable Development Goals during the year. Contribution to SDGs by Managing Impacts of Value Creation Activities What DIMO does Towards Attainment of Sustainable How can our Action Contribute to Attain Applicable Sustainable Development Development Goals Sustainable Development Goals Goal/s We provide direct and indirect employment to 1725 and 620 By following a credible Social Accountability Decent work and persons respectively. Our Social Accountability Management Management System, we ensure that we create a Economic growth System (SAMS) based on SA 8000 standard ensures that all decent work place. At the same time we provide these persons are treated in a responsible manner. Aspects employment opportunities to many, thereby covered in SAMS include equal opportunities, equal pay for equal contributing to economic growth. value, eradication of child and forced labour, and protection of labour rights. We have been monitoring our carbon footprint for several years, By managing greenhouse gas emissions due to Climate Action using the WBCSD/WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate our business activities, we contribute to climatic Standard. Our environmental policy stipulates that the emissions resilience. caused by our business activities fall within the regulatory frameworks and limits. Our Environment Management System (EMS) covers six Effective management of the six areas will enable Clean water key areas. They are management of atmospheric emissions attainment of the SDGs relating to climate action, and sanitation, and climate change, materials management, energy and fuel responsible consumption, affordable and clean Affordable and management, water management, noise management and waste energy (through management of energy efficiently), clean energy, Life management. The EMS drives actions required in these areas. clean water and sanitation and life on land. on land, Responsible As a responsible corporate, DIMO is committed to diligently consumption and managing these six areas. production Our premises and service workshops meet the standards The energy saving achieved allows attainment of Climate Action and stipulated by local authorities and the Central Environment the SDG on climate action and energy efficiency affordable and clean Authority (CEA). Two of our newly constructed buildings are measures taken contributes towards attainment of energy green buildings certified into the Gold Category by LEED. the SDG on affordable and clean energy. The estimated energy saving gained through the design and construction is 25%. Contribution to SDGs by Participating in Initiatives and Projects Outside our Boundaries What DIMO does towards attainment of sustainable How can our Action Contribute to Attain Applicable Sustainable development development goals Sustainable Development Goals Goal/s The DIMO Automobile Training School has been providing This flagship project provide youth an opportunity to Quality Education opportunities for Sri Lankan youth on technical training free receive a quality technical education. of charge for more than 25 years. The training school offers students a comfortable, spacious learning environment with three fully equipped lecture rooms, a modern electronics lab, a large workshop for vehicle repairs and basic metal work training. Today, over 500 students have graduated from these training schools. On an annual basis, we conduct book donations for the children This initiative provide us the opportunity to support Quality Education of our neighbouring communities. At these events, school books, primary and secondary educational opportunities. stationery and school bags were distributed among 262 children. We have fostered innovation by sponsoring a team of This project helped to enhance the innovation Industry Innovation undergraduates to participate in Europe’s most established capabilities of our engineering undergraduates. and Infrastructure educational motorsport competition. The competition challenges university student engineers from around the world to design, build and use a single-seat race car in one year. “Project Earth” , a project designed to improve awareness on Educating the younger generation on the importance Life on Land environmental preservation among school children, was carried of environmental sustainability is vital for sustainable out by DIMO. During the year, the programme included over development. By doing this, DIMO enlisted more 1,000 children. people to participate in SDGs. 110 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information “Project 456” is an initiative where we recycled half a ton of This project not only involved plastics being recycled, Life on Land plastic generated by our employees’ households. but it also promoted awareness of environmental sustainability at employee households. A beach clean-up project was carried out as part of our collective The project enabled us to extend our employees’ Life below water responsibility towards sustainable development. contribution towards the betterment of life below water. Contribution to SDGs through our Products and Services Offering What DIMO does Towards Attainment of Sustainable How can our Action Contribute to Attain Applicable Sustainable development Development Goals Sustainable Development Goals Goal/s We are in the business of providing lighting solutions to clients, Promoting LED based lighting solutions and Affordable and Clean using LED lamps. delivering them will help to conserve energy. As Energy and Climate we contribute to improving energy efficiency and Action reducing burning of fossil fuels, we contribute towards two SDGs. DIMO supplies sophisticated state-of-the-art medical equipment By bringing world renowned medical technology to Good Health and and maintains them. The equipment includes MRI scanners, Sri Lanka and ensuring their continuous availability Well-being CT scanners, Cath Labs, Gamma Cameras, Mammogram through our competent engineering team, we play machines, sophisticated ophthalmology equipment and surgical a vital role in making healthcare available with the microscopes, Linear accelerators and Tomotherapy units used in latest technology to Sri Lankans. oncology treatment and Critical care equipment. These products and solutions are manufactured by world leaders such as Siemens, Zeiss, Draeger and Accuray. The DIMO Batta, as it is commonly known, has become a very The DIMO Batta is a vehicle that has been a means No poverty and popular vehicle. It also produced a new class of entrepreneurs to producing many entrepreneurs and has uplifted Reduce inequalities who started small businesses using this vehicle. It is perceived the livelihoods of many people. It also provided as a low cost vehicle and is also used as a personal vehicle by many people an opportunity to earn an income and some. The versatility of this vehicle and its affordability makes to find a way out of the low income trap. Therefore, economic sense to an owner or a potential owner. this product has the potential to reduce poverty and inequalities. DIMO is a Certified Energy Auditor as certified by the By giving advise on energy efficiency, the company Affordable and Clean Sustainable Energy Authority of Sri Lanka. The company carries participates in achieving the SDG on clean and Energy out energy audits for clients, which will eventually lead to more affordable energy. efficient use of power. Recommendations may also include use of renewable energy. Fluid management is one of our businesses. A key component By providing engineering solutions to provide Clean Water and in this business is providing engineering solutions to water drinkable water, we subscribe to attaining the SDG Sanitation management. The National Water Supplies and Drainage Board clean water and sanitation. is one of our key clients. Therefore, we play our part in providing drinkable water. Some of the vehicles that we sell have Hybrid engines. This The decrease in the burning of fossil fuels will Climate Actions helps to reduce consumption and burning of fossil fuel. reduce emissions and help to combat climate change. We supply and maintain sophisticated machinery related to By providing machinery with state-of-the-art Industry Innovation the construction industry, including road construction. The role technology to the construction industry and providing and Infrastructure played by us helps to build up the resilience of infrastructure aftercare to ensure their availability , we facilitate the that will eventually lead to economic prosperity. building of sustainable and resilient infrastructural systems. Power Engineering and Building technologies, which are two Our Power Engineering and Building Technologies Sustainable Cities key businesses which , provide key inputs in building smart businesses provide many solutions that helps to and Communities cities. Building technologies could automate many functions build smart and sustainable cities. of a building, street or a city. Technologies relating to power engineering such as SCADA systems help in the efficient transmission of power and reducing waste. Similarly, building technologies can automate many aspects of a building such as power, airconditioning, lighting systems and security systems. We deliver solutions from Siemens AG, who is a world leader in building smart cities. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 111 Annual Report 2016/17 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Financial Information Annual Report of the Board of Directors 114 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 118 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements 119 Financial Calendar 120 Independent Auditors’ Report 121 Financial Statements Section 1 122 Corporate Information Section 2 128 Basis of Accounting Section 3 129 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Section 4 132 Other Disclosures Section 5 163 112 ON THE FRONT LINE Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 113 Annual Report 2016/17 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Annual Report of the Board of Directors General Disclosures The names of the Directors of subsidiary The Board of Directors take pleasure in The Annual Report of the Company fulfils companies are given on page 21. presenting the Annual Report of the Company the disclosure requirements of the Sri Lanka New Appointments and Resignation of Directors for the financial year ended 31st March 2017, Accounting Standards (SLFRs/LKASs), that includes and covers the Audited Financial Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Listing The following Directors were appointed to the Statements, Chairman’s Message, CEO’s Review, Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Board with effect from 01st June 2016. Enterprise Governance, Committee Reports, Risk Management, Capitals Report, Business Financial Statements Name of the Director Executive/NonReport, Impact Management Report, Statements The Financial Statements of the Group and the Executive status of Responsibility, Auditors’ Report, Independent Company have been prepared in accordance Mr.A.D.B. Talwatte Independent NonAssurance on NonFinancial Reporting and other with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Executive relevant information. (SLFRs/LKASs), issued by the Institute of Mr.M.V. Bandara Executive Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and comply The information table on ‘Disclosures required by with requirements of the Companies Act No. Mr. P.K.W.Mahendra Executive the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007’ appearing on 07 of 2007 and Listing Rules of the Colombo Mr.S.R.W.M.C. Executive page 46 form part of this Annual Report of the Stock Exchange. The aforementioned Financial Ranawana Board of Directors. Statements for the year ended 31st March 2017 signed on behalf of the Board by the Chairman/ There were no resignations from the Board during The Annual Report of the Company including the year. Managing Director and Director/Chief Financial the Annual Report of the Board of Directors Officer (a member of the Board), are given on was adopted by the Board of Directors on 23rd Retirement and Re-election of Directors pages 122 to 165. May 2017. The required number of copies of the Mr. S. C. Algama, Dr. H. Cabral and Mr. B. C. S. Company’s Annual Report will be submitted to the Financial Results and Appropriations A. P. Gooneratne retire by rotation in terms of the Colombo Stock Exchange and to the Sri Lanka Turnover Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Accounting and Auditing Standards Monitoring The total gross Group turnover generated by the Company, and are eligible for re-election. Board within the stipulated time. five business segments was Rs.44,493 million Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte, Mr. M. V. Bandara, Mr. P. K. W. Group Structure and Nature of Operations (2015/16 Rs.37,750 million), while the turnover Mahendra and Mr. S. R. W. M. C. Ranawana who The Group structure and names of Directors of of the Company was Rs.41,564 million (2015/16 were appointed as Directors during the financial the Company and its subsidiaries are available on Rs.35,403 million). A segment wise analysis is year 2016/17, retire in terms of the Article 71 of page 21. given in Note 4.2 appearing on pages 132 to 134. the Articles of Association of the Company, are Profit and Appropriations eligible for re-election at the forthcoming Annual A brief description of the nature of the principal General Meeting. business activities of the Group and the Company The profit after tax of the Group was Rs.657 is given in Note 2.3 to the Financial Statements million (2015/16 Rs.947 million) while it was The agenda for the Annual General Meeting on page 128. There was no significant change Rs.593 million (2015/16 Rs.740 million) for the includes an ordinary resolution to be taken up in the nature of business of the Company or its Company. to re-appoint appoint Mr. R. Seevaratnam as a subsidiaries during the year that may have a Director, who has reached the age of 73. significant impact on the state of the Company’s The Group’s total comprehensive income for affairs. the year was Rs.628 million (2015/16 Rs.929 Independence of Non-Executive Directors million) and the corresponding figure for the Sections 7.10.3.b. and 7.10.4.e. of the Listing Statements of Aspiration, Purpose and Values Company was Rs.565 million (2015/16 Rs.724 Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange taken The Company’s statements of aspiration, purpose million) together specify that a NonExecutive Director and values are available on page 05. The Directors shall not be considered independent if he/she An interim dividend of Rs.24.00 per share for the and all the employees conduct their activities has served on the Board for a period of nine years year ended 31st March 2017 was paid during with the highest level of ethical standards and from the date of the first appointment, unless the the year. The Group transferred Rs.400 million integrity in achieving the aspiration and purpose. Board taking into account all the circumstances, from retained earnings to general reserves during All employees are given a copy of the Code of is of the opinion that the Director is nevertheless the year and the corresponding figure for the Business Ethics of the Company and employees ‘independent’ and specify the criteria not met and Company was Rs.300 million. Further information are required to adhere to it. the basis of its determination in the Annual Report. on dividends and reserves are available in Note 4.8 Review of Business Performance and 4.20 to the Financial Statements respectively. Dr. H. Cabral and Mr. R. Seevaratnam completed A review of business performance and future The Board of Directors nine years in office as NonExecutive Directors on outlook of the Group is available in the Chairman’s 30th September 2015 and 31st December 2015 The Board of Directors of the Company consisted respectively. Message (pages 08 to 11), the Group Chief of thirteen members as at 31st March 2017. Executive Officer’s Review (pages 12 to 15) and Information relating to the Directors of the The Board recognises that Dr. H. Cabral and the sections titled Capitals Report (pages 63 to Company is available in the Directors’ Profile on Mr. R. Seevaratnam have acted in an independent 81), Business Report (pages 82 to 93) and Impact pages from 26 to 27. Management Report (pages 94 to 111). 114 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information manner over the years bringing their independent Directors’ Shareholdings on Related Party Transactions issued by the judgement upon matters relating to the Board Shareholdings of Directors and their spouses, as Securities and Exchange Commission. Committees and the Board. The Board is of the required by Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock opinion that there is no reason to believe that The members of the Board of Directors of the Exchange, are given on page 168 under ‘Share their status as Independent Directors have been Company have been identified as Key Management Information’. impaired in any manner due to their tenure in Personnel. The Key Management Personnel office. Having taken into account all relevant Dr. H. Cabral, Mr. B. C. S. A. P. Gooneratne, Mr. P. have disclosed transactions, if any, that could be aspects, the Board determined that Dr. H. Cabral K. W. Mahendra, Mr. S. R. W. M. C. Ranawana, Mr. classified as Related Party Transactions in terms and Mr. R. Seevaratnam continue as ‘Independent R. Seevaratnam, Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte and Mr. R.C. of LKAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’, and are Non-Executive Directors’ of the Company. Weerawardane who are Directors of the Company given in Note 5.1 to the Financial Statements. did not hold any shares of the Company as at 31st Board Committees Accounting Policies March 2017. The Board of Directors has appointed four The significant Accounting Policies adopted by the Committees to assist the Board. They are Audit Interest Register and Directors’ Interests in Group and the Company are given on pages 128 Committee, Remuneration Committee, Related Contracts/Proposed Contracts to 162. Party Transactions Review Committee and An Interest Register is maintained by the Company Nomination Committee. While the first three The Financial Statements and Notes thereto give a as per requirements of the Companies Act No. Committees are required by the Listing Rules of true and fair view of the Company’s and the Group’s 07 of 2007. All Directors have made necessary Colombo Stock Exchange, functioning of all four financial position as at 31st March 2017 and of their declarations as provided for in Section 192 (2) of Committees are recommended by the Code of performance for the year ended on that date. There the aforesaid Companies Act. Best Practice on Corporate Governance 2013 were no changes to the Accounting Policies used by issued jointly by the Securities and Exchange During the year, entries made in the Interest the Group and the Company during the year. Commission and the Institute of Chartered Register consisted of Directors’ interests in Independent Auditors Appointment and Accountants of Sri Lanka. The terms of reference contracts, remuneration paid to the Directors Remuneration of each Committee is set by the Board. and renewal of Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The Interest Register is available at the The Company’s Independent External Auditors, Mr. A.D.B. Talwatte was appointed as a member of registered office of the Company, in keeping with Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, who were the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, the requirements of the Section 119 (1) (d) of the re-appointed by a resolution passed at the last Nomination Committee and Related Party Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Annual General Meeting, have expressed their Transactions Review Committee with effect from opinion which appears on page 121 of this Annual 01st June 2016. He succeeded Mr. R. Seevaratnam The particulars of the Directors’ Interests in Report. as the Chairman of the Audit Committee on 11th Contracts are given on page 117 of the Annual October 2016. Mr. R. Seevaratnam continues to Report and form an integral part of the Annual The details of their remuneration are given in be a member of the Audit Committee. Report of the Board of Directors. The Directors Note 4.5 to the Financial Statements. As far have no direct or indirect interest in a contract or as the Directors are aware, the Auditors do not Board and Board Committee Meetings a proposed contract with the Company other than have any relationship with the Company, or any The number of Board meetings held and the those disclosed. of its subsidiaries. The Auditors do not have any number of meetings attended by the Directors interest in contracts with the Company, or any of is given on page 49. The number of Board Related Party Transactions its subsidiaries. Committee meetings held and the attendance of NonRecurrent Related Party Transactions Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, have members are given in the respective Committee There were no non-recurrent related party made themselves available for re-appointment Report appearing on pages 51, 52, 53 and 54. transactions of which aggregate value exceeded and having determined their suitability for re10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets of appointment, the Board proposes that they be Review of Performance of the Board and Board the Company as per 31st March 2016 audited appointed as the Independent Auditor until the Committees Financial Statements, which requiring specific conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting. The performance of the Board was reviewed disclosures in the 2016/17 Annual Report as during the year by circulating a questionnaire required by Listing Rule 9.3.2 of the Colombo Internal Control System and Risk Management among Directors. Stock Exchange and the Code of Best Practices The Board considers that strong internal on Related Party Transactions issued by the The review of performance of Board Committees controls are integral to sound management of Securities and Exchange Commission. were carried out during the year by way of a the Company and is committed to maintaining discussion during the Board meetings and it was financial, operational and risk management Recurrent Related Party Transactions concluded that performance of all four Committees controls over all its activities. Further details of There were no recurrent related party transactions these aspects are discussed in the Enterprise were satisfactory. which in aggregate exceeded 10% of the Governance Report, Audit Committee Report, consolidated revenue of the Group as per 31st Risk Management Report and Board of Directors’ Directors’ Remuneration March 2016 audited Financial Statements, which Statement on Internal Controls available on pages Director’s remuneration is given in Note 4.5 to the required additional disclosures in the 2016/17 41 to 50, page 51, pages 56 to 61 and page 118 Financial Statements. Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange respectively. Listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 115 Annual Report 2016/17 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Annual Report of the Board of Directors Declaration Share Information Events Occurring After the Reporting Period The Directors declare that: Information relating to shareholding, market value There were no material events that occurred of shares, public shareholding and top twenty after the reporting date that require adjustment I. to the best of their knowledge and belief, shareholders are available on pages 167 to 168 to or disclosure in the Financial Statements, other the Group/Company has not engaged in under ‘Share Information’. than those disclosed in Note 5.5 to the Financial any activity, which contravenes laws and Statements on page 165. regulations of the country. Donations The Group and the Company made donations Annual General Meeting II. all material interests in contracts involving the Company has been disclosed by them and during the year amounting to Rs.6.0 million and The Annual General Meeting will be held at refrained from voting on matters in which they Rs.5.8 million respectively (2015/16 Group: the registered office of the Company, No. 65, were materially interested. Rs.2.8 million, Company Rs.2.2 million). Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 on Friday, 30th June 2017 at 10.00 a.m. The notice of Annual General III. the Company has made all endeavours to Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Meeting is given on page 182. ensure equitable treatment of all shareholders. Assets The Group and the Company incurred Rs.724 By order of the Board of Directors, IV. the business is a going concern and that the Board of Directors has reviewed the million and Rs.701 million respectively (2015/16 Company’s business plans and is satisfied Group: Rs.284 million, Company: Rs.269 million) that the Company has adequate resources on acquisition of property, plant and equipment, to continue its operations in the foreseeable details of which are available in Note 4.9 to the future. Accordingly, the Financial Statements Financial Statements. are prepared considering the Company and its The Company invested Rs.21 million on intangible subsidiaries as a going concern. assets during the year (2015/16 Zero) as A.R. PANDITHAGE V. internal controls covering financial, disclosed in Note 4.11 to the Financial Statements. Chairman/Managing Director operational, risk management and compliance controls have been reviewed, and have Specific information on extent, locations, valuations obtained reasonable assurance from Internal and number of buildings on the Company’s land Audit of their effectiveness and successful holdings are given in Note 4.9.1 to the Financial adherence. Statements. Enterprise Governance Market Value of Freehold Land The Enterprise Governance section appearing A qualified independent valuer carried out a A.G. PANDITHAGE from pages 41 to 55 shows the manner in which revaluation of the Company’s freehold land on Director/Group Chief Executive Officer the Board plays its stewardship role. 15th September 2014 and the carrying value of freehold land has been adjusted accordingly. The Responsible Corporate Behaviour details of market value of freehold land are given The Board is committed to and considers it a key in Note 4.9 to the Financial Statements. priority to act responsibly towards its stakeholders Stated Capital and to manage economic, environmental and social impacts during value creation activities, The stated capital of the Company as at 31st March efficiently and effectively. 2017 amounted to Rs.425 million (2015/16B.C.S.A.P. GOONERATNE Rs.425 million), details of which are available in Director/Secretary/Chief Financial Officer Material Foreseeable Risk Factors Note 4.19 to the Financial Statements. There were Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk no shares issued during the financial year. Colombo factors are discussed in the Risk Management 23rd May 2017 Statutory Payments Report on pages 56 to 61. The Directors, to the best of their knowledge and Employment belief are satisfied that all statutory payments The Group practices and policies relating to to the government, other regulatory bodies and selection, training, development, promotion and relating to the employees have been made on time. employee relations are detailed in the section Environmental Protection titled ‘Human Capital’ on pages 75 to 79. Policies and endeavours made on environmental There were no material issues pertaining to preservation by the Group and the Company are employees or industrial relations during the year. detailed in Impact Management Report under Environmental Impact on pages 98 to 105. 116 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Directors’ Interests in Contracts with the Company Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Related party disclosures as per the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard -LKAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ is disclosed in Note 5.1 to the Financial Statements on pages 163 to 164. In addition, the Company carries out transactions in the ordinary course of business in an arm’s length basis with entities where the Chairman or Director of the Company is the Chairman or a Director of such entities as detailed below. Outstanding Outstanding as at as at Director/Company Relationship Nature of the transaction 31.03.2017 31.03.2016 (Rs. ‘000) (Rs. ‘000) Mr. A.M. Pandithage Alumex PLC* Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 425 55 Dipped Products PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 162 30 Fentons Ltd Director Sales of spare parts and lighting products 25 Grossart (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 50 4 Haycarb PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 89 381 Hayleys Advantis Ltd** Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 33 Sales of spare parts 3 Hayleys Fabric PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 40 45 Hayleys Global Beverages (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 20 7 Sales of spare parts 8 Hayleys Industrial Solutions (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 63 Hayleys PLC* Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 1,108 Horana Plantations PLC Director Sales of spare parts 44 37 Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 40 Lanka Orient Express Lines Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 6 47 Logistics International Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 354 Sales of spare parts 56 Logiventures (Pvt) Ltd Director Sales of spare parts 156 209 Repairing and servicing of vehicles 290 Sale of vehicle 10,525 Logiwiz Ltd Director Sales of Spare parts 530 175 Repairing and servicing of vehicles 6 Logiwiz N W (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 180 Sales of spare parts 111 Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 3 Ravi Industries (Pvt) Ltd Director Sale of vehicle 2,703 Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 412 Venigros (Pvt) Ltd Director Sales of spare parts 1,087 Mr. R. Seevaratnam Alpha Apparels Ltd Independent Non-executive Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 19 333 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC Independent Non-executive Director Sales of spare parts 216 Hayleys Agricultural Holdings (Private) Ltd Independent Non-executive Director Sales of vehicles 740 Hayleys Consumer (Pvt) Ltd Independent Non-executive Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 44 Nestle Lanka PLC Independent Non-executive Director Sales of spare parts and lighting products 1,472 Omega Line Ltd Independent Non-executive Director Sales of spare parts 112 3 Repairing and servicing of vehicles 14 Sirio Ltd Independent Non-executive Director Sales of lighting products 188 Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC*** Independent Non-executive Director Sale of vehicle 11,625 1,720 Repairing and servicing of vehicles 1,548 1,636 Sales of spare parts 603 298 Dr. Harsha Cabral Lanka Orix Finance PLC Independent Non-executive Director Sale of vehicle 50,495 Tokyo Cement Power Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Independent Non-executive Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 995 Tokyo Eastern Cement Co Ltd Independent Non-executive Director Sale of vehicle 23,250 Tokyo Super Cement Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Independent Non-executive Director Sales of spare parts 92 * Dr. Harsha Cabral is also an Independent Non-executive Director ** Mr. R. Seevaratnam is also an Independent Non-executive Director *** Mr. A.D.B. Talwatte and Dr. Harsha Cabral are also Independent Non-executive Directors Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 117 Annual Report 2016/17 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls Requirement Confirmation Statement The Section D.1.3 of the ‘Code of Best Practice on The Board of Directors of Diesel & Motor Corporate Governance 2013’ (The Code) issued Engineering PLC (‘Group’) confirm that the jointly by the Securities and Exchange Commission financial reporting system has been designed and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri to provide reasonable assurance regarding the Lanka recommends that the Board of Directors reliability of financial reporting and the preparation present a Statement on Internal Controls in the of Financial Statements for external purposes Annual Report. has been done in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) and Responsibility regulatory requirements. Maintaining a sound system of internal controls to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the By order of the Board, Company’s assets is the responsibility of the Board of Directors. However, an internal control system is designed to manage the Company’s key areas of risk within an acceptable risk profile, rather than to eliminate the risk of failure, to achieve the business objectives and policies of the Company. Accordingly, the A.R. PANDITHAGE system of internal controls can only provide a Chairman/Managing Director reasonable but not absolute assurance against successful management of risks, financial losses or fraud. The Board identifies significant risks on an ongoing basis and takes necessary steps for implementation of appropriate procedures to evaluate and manage the identified risks. B.C.S.A.P GOONERATNE Key Internal Control Processes Director/ Chief Financial Officer • The Board Committees and Management Committee are established to assist the Board in ensuring the effectiveness of the Group’s operations and that the Group’s operations are directed towards corporate objectives, strategy, annual budget, policies, taking in to consideration the business environment and internal operating conditions. A.D.B.TALWATTE Chairman-Audit Committee • The Group Internal Audit function provides comfort on the efficiency and effectiveness of Colombo the Internal Control System. More details are 23rd May 2017 available in Audit Committee Report on page 51. • The Audit Committee reviews internal control issues identified by the Group Internal Auditors, the Independent External Auditors, and regulatory authorities, and the management evaluates the adequacy of the internal control system. 118 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information The responsibilities of the Directors in relation The Directors have a responsibility to ensure that to the Financial Statements of the Company the Company maintains sufficient accounting and the Group are set out in this statement. The records to disclose, with reasonable accuracy responsibility of the Auditors, in relation to the the financial position of the Company and of the Financial Statements is set out in the Report of Group. the Auditors on page 121. The Directors also are responsible for taking The Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 requires reasonable measures to safeguard the assets of the Directors to prepare and present Financial the Group/Company and in that context to have Statements for each financial year giving a true proper regard to the establishment of appropriate and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company systems of internal control with a view to prevention and its subsidiaries as at the end of the financial and detection of fraud and irregularities. year and the profit or loss of the Company and the Group for the financial year, and place them before The Board of Directors accepts responsibility a general meeting of shareholders. The Financial for the integrity and objectivity of the Financial Statements comprise of the Statement of Financial Statements presented. Position as at 31st March 2017, the Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income, The Directors are required to provide the Auditors Changes in Equity and Cash Flows for the year with every opportunity to take whatever steps then ended and Accounting Policies and Notes necessary to enable them to form their audit thereto. opinion. Accordingly, the Board of Directors confirms that The Directors, having reviewed the financial the Financial Statements of the Group and the budget and cash flows for the year to 31st March Company give a true and fair view of the; 2017 and the bank facilities, consider that the Group/Company has adequate resources to • financial position of the Company and its continue in operation, and have continued to subsidiaries as at 31st March 2017; and adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements. • financial performance of the Company and its subsidiaries for the financial year then ended. By Order of the Board, Directors also ensure that; • appropriate Accounting Policies have been selected and used in a consistent manner, and material departures, if any, have been disclosed and explained; and • the Financial Statements of the Group and B.C.S.A.P. GOONERATNE the Company are prepared and presented in Director/Secretary/Chief Financial Officer accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs); and that Colombo reasonable and prudent judgements and 23rd May 2017 estimates have been made so that the form and substance of transactions are properly reflected; and • Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange are complied with. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC 119 Annual Report 2016/17 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Financial Calendar Interim Financial Statements Three months ended 30th June 2016 – 1st August 2016 Six months ended 30th September 2016 – 15th November 2016 Nine months ended 31st December 2016 – 14th February 2017 Twelve months ended 31st March 2017 – 26th May 2017 Dividends Interim dividends paid for 2016/2017 – 31st March 2017 Annual Report – Financial year ended 31st March 2017 – 6th June 2017 72nd Annual General Meeting – 30th June 2017 120 ON THE FRONT LINE Independent Auditors’ Report TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF DIESEL & An audit involves performing procedures to b) In our opinion: MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The • we have obtained all the information and Report on the Financial Statements procedures selected depend on the auditors’ explanations that were required for the audit We have audited the accompanying financial and, as far as appears from our examination, judgment, including the assessment of the risks of statements of Diesel & Motor Engineering proper accounting records have been kept by material misstatement of the financial statements, PLC, (“the Company”), and the consolidated the Company, whether due to fraud or error. In making those financial statements of the Company and its risk assessments, the auditor considers internal subsidiaries (“Group”), which comprise the • The financial statements of the Company give control relevant to the entity’s preparation of statement of financial position as at 31st March a true and fair view of its financial position the financial statements that give a true and 2017, and the statements of profit or loss and as at 31st March 2017, and of its financial fair view in order to design audit procedures other comprehensive income, changes in equity performance and cash flows for the year that are appropriate in the circumstances, but and cash flows for the year then ended, and a then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka not for the purpose of expressing an opinion summary of significant accounting policies and Accounting Standards. on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal other explanatory information set out on pages control. An audit also includes evaluating the 123 to 165. • The financial statements of the Company, and appropriateness of accounting policies used the Group comply with the requirements of and the reasonableness of accounting estimates Board’s Responsibility for the Financial sections 151 and 153 of the Companies Act made by Board, as well as evaluating the overall Statements No. 07 of 2007. presentation of the financial statements. The Board of Directors (“Board”) is responsible for the preparation of these financial statements We believe that the audit evidence we have that give a true and fair view in accordance with obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and for such a basis for our audit opinion. internal control as Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements Opinion that are free from material misstatement, whether In our opinion, the consolidated financial due to fraud or error. statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as at 31st March CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS Auditors’ Responsibility Colombo 2017, and of its financial performance and cash Our responsibility is to express an opinion on flows for the year then ended in accordance with these financial statements based on our audit. We Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 23rd May 2017 conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements we comply with ethical requirements and plan and As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance Act No. 07 of 2007, we state the following: about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. a) The basis of opinion and scope and limitations of the audit are as stated above. 121 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 1 Financial Statements This section provides the key Financial Statements relating to financial performance, position and cash flows of the Group and the Company, which comprises of the following: Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income: Financial performance Statement of Financial Position: Financial position Statement of Changes in Equity: Summary of comprehensive income and transactions with owners Statement of Cash Flows: Cash flows Notes to the Financial Statements: Comprising of general (Section 3) and specific (Section 4) accounting policies, estimates and other disclosures (Section 5). 122 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 Change 2017 2016 Change Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 % Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 % Revenue 4.2 44,492,990 37,749,750 18 41,563,559 35,403,232 17 Sales taxes (221,157) (245,170) (10) (174,697) (208,378) (16) Net revenue 44,271,833 37,504,580 18 41,388,862 35,194,854 18 Cost of sales (36,874,214) (30,967,983) 19 (34,802,483) (29,408,729) 18 Gross profit 7,397,619 6,536,597 13 6,586,379 5,786,125 14 Other operating income 4.3 173,403 86,141 101 269,638 103,147 161 Selling and distribution expenses (1,029,667) (1,081,710) (5) (941,391) (993,134) (5) Administrative expenses (4,848,990) (3,909,740) 24 (4,358,235) (3,530,638) 23 Operating profit 1,692,365 1,631,288 4 1,556,391 1,365,500 14 Finance income 207,210 219,079 (5) 198,389 194,578 2 Finance costs (856,183) (470,308) 82 (848,378) (468,036) 81 Net finance costs 4.4 (648,973) (251,229) 158 (649,989) (273,458) 138 Profit before tax 4.5 1,043,392 1,380,059 (24) 906,402 1,092,042 (17) Income tax expense 4.6 (386,601) (433,453) (11) (313,370) (352,319) (11) Profit for the year 656,791 946,606 (31) 593,032 739,723 (20) Other Comprehensive Income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation 4.23.1 (40,795) (24,719) 65 (39,213) (22,565) 74 Deferred tax charge on actuarial loss 4.6.2 11,423 6,921 65 10,980 6,318 74 (29,372) (17,798) 65 (28,233) (16,247) 74 Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Net fair value gains on remeasuring financial assets-available-for-sale 542 462 17 544 466 17 542 462 17 544 466 17 Total other comprehensive income, net of tax (28,830) (17,336) 66 (27,689) (15,781) 75 Total comprehensive income for the year 627,961 929,270 (32) 565,343 723,942 (22) Basic and diluted earnings per share (Rs.) 4.7 73.99 106.64 66.81 83.34 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes appearing on pages 128 to 165 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 123 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Statement of Financial Position Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Assets Property, plant and equipment 4.9 8,299,035 7,929,828 8,298,487 7,945,833 Lease rentals paid in advance 4.10 22,321 24,526 22,321 24,526 Intangible assets 4.11 24,051 19,577 24,044 19,559 Investments in subsidiaries 4.12 23,289 23,350 Financial assets-available-for-sale 4.14 7,825 7,179 7,804 7,156 Certification Deferred tax assets 4.24 4,034 1,711 These Financial Statements as set out on Total non-current assets 8,357,266 7,982,821 8,375,945 8,020,424 pages 122 to 165 have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Inventories 4.15 8,941,711 7,607,292 8,574,365 7,326,211 Trade and other receivables 4.16 4,276,799 3,877,074 3,243,893 3,092,234 Other current assets 4.17 895,450 689,317 824,446 596,502 Current tax asset 4.29 6,393 Amounts due from subsidiaries 4.30.1 79,319 53,714 Cash and cash equivalents 4.18 281,799 176,140 269,556 164,243 E.D.C. Kodituwakku Total current assets 14,402,152 12,349,823 12,991,579 11,232,904 General Manager Finance and Controlling Total assets 22,759,418 20,332,644 21,367,524 19,253,328 Member Group Management Committee Equity and Liabilities Equity The Board of Directors is responsible for Stated capital 4.19 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 the preparation and presentation of these Financial Statements. Other components of equity 4.21 2,839,898 2,839,356 2,839,885 2,839,341 Revenue reserves 4.20 6,899,747 6,725,026 5,981,889 5,869,788 Signed for and on behalf of the Board, Total equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company 10,164,942 9,989,679 9,247,071 9,134,426 Long-term borrowings 4.22.1 590,100 907,030 590,100 907,030 Employee benefits 4.23 626,158 500,505 583,912 468,525 Deferred tax liabilities 4.24 247,606 182,161 247,606 182,161 A.R. Pandithage Deferred income 4.25 335,895 354,755 108,619 158,313 Chairman/Managing Director Total non-current liabilities 1,799,759 1,944,451 1,530,237 1,716,029 Trade payables 4.27 1,681,344 1,645,819 1,563,181 1,565,629 Other current liabilities 4.28 1,302,970 1,109,719 1,091,120 885,637 Current portion of long-term borrowings 4.22.1 319,425 398,101 319,425 398,101 Current tax liability 4.29 18,286 65,010 14,990 23,004 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Short-term borrowings 4.22.2 7,472,692 5,179,865 7,406,351 5,147,647 Director/Chief Financial Officer Amounts due to subsidiaries 4.30.1 195,149 382,855 Total current liabilities 10,794,717 8,398,514 10,590,216 8,402,873 23rd May 2017 Total liabilities 12,594,476 10,342,965 12,120,453 10,118,902 Colombo Total equity and liabilities 22,759,418 20,332,644 21,367,524 19,253,328 The Notes appearing on pages 128 to 165 form an integral part of these Financial Net assets per share 1,145.16 1,125.42 1,041.75 1,029.06 Statements. 124 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Statement of Changes in Equity Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Other Components of Equity Revenue Reserves For the year ended 31st March Stated Revaluation Available-forGeneral Retained Total Capital Reserve Sale Reserve Reserve Earnings Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Group As at 01st April 2015 425,297 2,833,277 5,617 4,342,290 1,631,457 9,237,938 Profit for the year 946,606 946,606 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 462 (17,798) (17,336) Total comprehensive income 462 928,808 929,270 Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2014/15 First and final dividend (177,529) (177,529) Transfer during the year 275,000 (275,000) Total contributions and distributions 275,000 (452,529) (177,529) As at 31st March 2016 425,297 2,833,277 6,079 4,617,290 2,107,736 9,989,679 Profit for the year 656,791 656,791 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 542 (29,372) (28,830) Total comprehensive income 542 627,419 627,961 Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2015/16 First and final dividend 4.8 (239,664) (239,664) 2016/17 Interim dividend 4.8 (213,034) (213,034) Transfer during the year 400,000 (400,000) Total contributions and distributions 400,000 (852,698) (452,698) As at 31st March 2017 425,297 2,833,277 6,621 5,017,290 1,882,457 10,164,942 Company As at 01st April 2015 425,297 2,833,277 5,598 4,079,464 1,244,377 8,588,013 Profit for the year 739,723 739,723 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 466 (16,247) (15,781) Total comprehensive income 466 723,476 723,942 Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2014/15 First and final dividend (177,529) (177,529) Transfer during the year 250,000 (250,000) Total contributions and distributions 250,000 (427,529) (177,529) As at 31st March 2016 425,297 2,833,277 6,064 4,329,464 1,540,324 9,134,426 Profit for the year 593,032 593,032 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 544 (28,233) (27,689) Total comprehensive income 544 564,799 565,343 Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2015/16 First and final dividend 4.8 (239,664) (239,664) 2016/17 Interim dividend 4.8 (213,034) (213,034) Transfer during the year 300,000 (300,000) Total contributions and distributions 300,000 (752,698) (452,698) As at 31st March 2017 425,297 2,833,277 6,608 4,629,464 1,352,425 9,247,071 The General Reserve and Retained Earnings represent reserves available for distribution. Available-for-Sale Reserve consists of net unrealised gains arising from fair valuation of available-for-sale financial assets, excluding the impact arising from impairment of assets. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes appearing on pages 128 to 165 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 125 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Statement of Cash Flows Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Profit before taxation 1,043,392 1,380,059 906,402 1,092,042 Adjustments for Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 4.9 326,354 301,921 320,445 297,150 Amortisation of intangible assets and lease rentals paid in advance 4.5 17,625 16,783 17,614 16,190 Amortisation of deferred income (18,860) 181,512 (49,694) 34,729 Provision for impairment of investments in subsidiaries 4.12.1 61 Gains on sale of property, plant and equipment 4.3 (17,302) (16,225) (17,901) (17,572) Derecognition of capital work-in-progress 4.9 389 3,076 389 3,132 Interest expenses 4.4 856,183 470,308 848,378 468,036 Interest income 4.4 (13,536) (23,496) (12,397) (21,060) Dividend income 4.3 (298) (298) (88,545) (11,368) Foreign currency loan translation variance 4.22.1.1 22,542 22,542 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 4.5 77,463 217,012 50,819 195,552 Provision for slow moving inventories 4.5 143,855 6,215 140,333 16,423 Provision for employee benefits obligation excluding actuarial loss 4.5.1 97,439 78,492 88,755 71,859 2,512,704 2,637,901 2,204,659 2,167,655 Changes in working capital Increase in inventories (1,478,274) (2,834,932) (1,388,487) (2,746,534) (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (477,188) 24,640 (202,478) 164,018 (Increase)/decrease in other current assets (206,133) 114,831 (227,944) 143,212 Increase in amounts due from subsidiaries (25,605) (34,763) Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 35,525 (335,363) (2,448) (316,759) Increase in other current liabilities 192,774 333,253 205,006 211,845 Increase/(decrease) in amounts due to subsidiaries (187,706) 286,734 Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 579,408 (59,670) 374,997 (124,592) Interest paid (856,412) (453,594) (848,607) (451,322) Employee benefits paid 4.23 (12,581) (18,353) (12,581) (16,563) Income tax paid 4.29 (365,173) (305,199) (244,959) (262,395) Net cash used in operating activities (654,758) (836,816) (731,150) (854,872) 126 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 46,921 37,156 46,715 37,001 Dividends received 194 298 88,441 11,368 Interest received 13,536 23,496 12,397 21,060 Acquisition and construction of property, plant and equipment and capital work-in-progress 4.9 (724,381) (284,079) (701,114) (268,639) Acquisition of intangible assets 4.11 (21,082) (21,082) Net cash used in investing activities (684,812) (223,129) (574,643) (199,210) Cash Flows from Financing Activities Proceeds from long-term borrowings 4.22.1.1 800,000 800,000 Repayment of long-term borrowings 4.22.1.1 (394,900) (1,117,662) (394,900) (1,117,662) Dividends paid 4.20 (452,698) (177,529) (452,698) (177,529) Net cash used in financing activities (847,598) (495,191) (847,598) (495,191) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (2,187,168) (1,555,136) (2,153,391) (1,549,273) Cash and cash equivalents as at 01st April (5,003,725) (3,448,589) (4,983,404) (3,434,131) Cash and cash equivalents as at 31st March (Note-A) (7,190,893) (5,003,725) (7,136,795) (4,983,404) Note A Analysis of Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 31st March Cash and bank balances 4.18 281,799 176,140 269,556 164,243 Short-term borrowings 4.22.2 (7,472,692) (5,179,865) (7,406,351) (5,147,647) Cash and cash equivalents (7,190,893) (5,003,725) (7,136,795) (4,983,404) Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes appearing on pages 128 to 165 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 127 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 2 Corporate Information This section gives a description of the reporting entity, the principal business activities of the Company and Group entities, the identification of Financial Statements and its authorisation. 2.1 Reporting Entity Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (the ‘Company’) is a public limited liability Company All subsidiaries of the Company have been incorporated in Sri Lanka. listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange, incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. The Company and its subsidiaries have the registered office at No. 65, Jetawana Road, The Directors have made an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going Colombo 14. The ordinary shares of the Company are being listed on the Colombo concern in the foreseeable future, and they do not intend to liquidate or to cease Stock Exchange. trading activities in any of the Group entities. 2.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 2.4 Approval of Financial Statements by the Board of Directors The Consolidated Financial Statements of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC as at and for the year ended 31st March 2017 comprise of the Company and its fully-owned The Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2017, were authorised for subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’ and individually as ‘Group Entities’). issue by the Board of Directors on 23rd May 2017. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC does not have an identifiable parent of its own. The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group. 2.3 Principal Business Activities and Nature of Operations The principal business activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are as follows: Entity Principal Business Activities The Company Diesel & Motor Engineering Import, sale and repair of passenger vehicles, PLC commercial vehicles, material handling machinery, construction machinery, agri machinery, earth moving machinery, car parking systems, power tools, lamps, batteries, import and sale of vehicle spares, components, accessories, providing lighting solutions and storage systems. Fully-owned subsidiaries DIMO (Private) Ltd Sale and after sales services of bio-medical equipment, power engineering equipment and systems, building technologies, generator sets, industrial refrigeration systems, diesel engines for marine propulsion and rail traction, and fluid management systems. DIMO Travels (Private) Ltd Provision of transportation facilities. DIMO Industries (Private) Ltd Import and sale of tyres. There were no significant changes in the nature of the principal business activities of the Group and the Company during the financial year under review. The activities of the Group are described in more detail in the ‘Group Structure’ on page 21. 128 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Section 3 Basis of Accounting Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information This section provides the basis of preparation of Financial Statements including significant accounting policies and application of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and other relevant statutory requirements. All specific accounting policies and accounting estimates in relation to the reported Offsetting values have been presented in the respective Notes in Section 4. Assets and liabilities and income and expenses in the Financial Statements are not set off unless required or permitted by Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 3.1 Statement of Compliance Rounding The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group and the separate Financial The amounts in the Financial Statements have been rounded off to the nearest Statements of the Company, have been prepared and presented in accordance with Rupees thousands, except where otherwise indicated. the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) laid down by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and provide appropriate 3.6  Summary of Significant Accounting Judgements, disclosures as required by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange Estimates and Assumptions (CSE). These Financial Statements, except for information on cash flows have been In preparing these Financial Statements of the Group/Company, the Management prepared following the accrual basis of accounting. has made judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of Group’s accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, 3.2 Responsibilities for the Financial Statements expenses and disclosure of contingent liabilities. Judgements and estimates are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations that are The Board of Directors acknowledges their responsibility for Financial Statements, believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Hence, actual results may differ as set out in the ‘Annual Report of the Board of Directors’, ‘Statement of Directors’ from these judgements and estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are Responsibilities for Financial Statements’ and the certification on the Statement of reviewed on an ongoing basis and revisions to accounting estimates are recognised Financial Position on pages 114 to 116, 119 and 124 respectively, of this Annual prospectively. Report. The Management considered the following items, where significant judgements, 3.3 Basis of Measurement estimates and assumptions have been used in preparing these Financial Statements. The Financial Statements of the Group/Company have been prepared on historical Going concern cost basis, except for following; The Management has made an assessment of its ability to continue as a going concern and is satisfied that it has the resources to continue in business for the Caption Basis of measurement Note foreseeable future. Furthermore, the Management is not aware of any material Freehold land Initially measured at cost and subsequently 4.9 uncertainties that may cast significant doubt upon the Group’s/Company’s ability at revalued amounts which are the fair to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the Financial Statements of the Group values at the date of revaluation. continue to be prepared on a going concern basis. Financial assetsFair value 4.14 available-for-sale Significant areas of critical judgements, assumptions and estimation uncertainty, Defined benefit Present value based on key actuarial 4.23 in applying Accounting Policies that have most significant effects on the amounts obligation assumptions recognised in the Financial Statements of the Group are detailed in following Notes. Accounting Accounting judgements, estimations Note 3.4 Functional and Presentation Currency Policies and assumptions The Financial Statements of the Group/Company are presented in Sri Lankan Impairment of non Judgement regarding impairment indicators, 3.8 Rupees, which is the Group’s functional and presentation currency. financial assets estimate of future cash flows and discount rates. Current tax and Judgement regarding deferred tax assets (the 4.6 & 3.5 Use of Materiality, Offsetting and Rounding Deferred tax asset likely timing and level of future taxable profits) 4.24 and provision for uncertain tax positions. Materiality and aggregation Useful life time of Judgement is exercised in estimating the 4.9 Each material class of similar items is presented separately in the Financial property plant and residual value, rates and method of depreciation. Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or function are presented separately unless equipment they are immaterial. Provision for Judgement regarding amount and timing of 4.16 impairment of trade future cash flows. Notes to the Financial Statements are presented in a systematic manner which receivables ensures the understandability and comparability of Financial Statements of the Employee benefits Key actuarial assumptions about discount rates, 4.23 Group. Understandability of the Financial Statements is not compromised by expected rates of return on assets, future salary obscuring material information with immaterial information or by aggregating material increases and mortality rates. items that have different natures or functions. Provisions and Estimate of ongoing legal disputes and litigations 4.26 contingent liabilities Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 129 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 3 Basis of Accounting 3.7 Significant Accounting Policies Foreign currency The accounting policies set out in each of the individual Notes to the Financial Transactions and balances Statements of the Group/Company, have been applied consistently to all periods Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at the presented in these Financial Statements. exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency The Management considers the accounting policy relating to revenue recognition to at the exchange rate at the reporting date. be a significant accounting policy. This policy is presented in more detail in Note 4.1. Foreign currency differences are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. In addition, the accounting policies relating to the following are considered relevant for the understanding of these Financial Statements. Impairment of non-financial assets • Property, plant and equipment (Note 4.9) The carrying amount of all non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred • Fair value of assets and liabilities (Note 4.13) tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable • Inventories (Note 4.15) amount is estimated. • Trade and other receivables (Note 4.16) The ‘recoverable amount’ of an asset is the greater of its value in use and its fair 3.8 General Accounting Policies value less costs to sell. ‘Value in use’ is based on the estimated future cash flows, discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current Basis of consolidation market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The Group’s Financial Statements incorporate the Financial Statements of the The fair value less costs to sell calculation is based on available data from an active Company and its subsidiaries in terms of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard-SLFRS market, in an arm’s length transaction, of similar assets or observable market prices 10 on ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’. less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. For impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that is largely independent of the Subsidiaries cash inflows of other assets. Subsidiaries are investees that are controlled by the Company. The Company ‘Controls’ an investee if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in Profit or Loss. Impairment power over the investee. At each reporting date the Company reassesses whether it losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one indication that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss or more of the elements of control mentioned above. The Financial Statements of all is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the the subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the on which control commences until the date when control ceases. asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been A list of the Group’s subsidiaries is set out in Note 4.12 to the Financial Statements. recognised. The Financial Statements of the Group entities are prepared to a common financial year ending 31st March, using uniform accounting policies. Statement of cash flows The Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared by using the ‘Indirect Method’ of There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to preparing cash flows in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting StandardLKAS 7 on the Company (the ‘Parent’) in the form of cash dividend or repayment of loans and ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. Cash and cash equivalents as referred to in the Statement advances. of Cash Flows are comprised of those items as explained in Note 4.18 and 4.22.2. Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unrealised losses are also eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. 130 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information 3.9 New Accounting Standards Issued but not yet Effective Some of the new Standards and amendments to Standards, which have been issued but not yet effective for the financial year commencing 1st April 2016, have not been applied in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements. New or amended Standards Summary of the requirements Possible impact on Financial Statements SLFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ • SLFRS 9, issued in 2014, replaces the existing guidance in LKAS 39 The Group is assessing the potential Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. SLFRS 9 includes impact on its Consolidated Financial revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial Statements resulting from the application instruments, including a new expected credit loss model for calculating of SLFRS 9. This Standard is not expected impairment on financial assets, and the new general hedge accounting to have a significant impact on the Financial requirements. It also carries forward the guidance on recognition and deStatements of the Group. recognition of financial instruments from LKAS 39. • SLFRS 9 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 01st January 2018. SLFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts • SLFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining The Group is assessing the potential with Customers’ whether, how much and when revenue is recognised. New qualitative and impact on its Consolidated Financial quantitative disclosure requirements aim to enable Financial Statements Statements resulting from the application users to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue of SLFRS 15. and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. • SLFRS 15 introduces a five-step model to determine when to recognise revenue and at what amount. The model specified that revenue is recognised when or as an entity transfers control of goods and services to a customer at the amount to which the entity expects to be entitled. Depending on whether certain criteria are met, revenue is recognised. • It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance, including LKAS 18 on ‘Revenue’ and LKAS 11 on ‘Construction Contracts’ and IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’. • SLFRS 15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 01st January 2018. SLFRS 16 ‘Leases’ • SLFRS 16 eliminates the current dual accounting model for lessees which The Group is assessing the potential distinguishes between on-balance sheet finance leases and off – balance impact on its Consolidated Financial sheet operating leases. Instead there will be a single on balance sheet Statements resulting from the application accounting model that is similar to current finance lease accounting. of SLFRS 16. • SLFRS 16 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 01st January 2019. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 131 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes This section provides specific accounting policies and basis of accounting estimates in relation to the reported values in the Financial Statements with additional Notes and explanations there on. 4.1 Revenue Accounting Policy Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have The Group has the following five strategic business segments which are reportable been transferred to the customers, to the extent that it is probable that the economic segments, namely: benefits will flow to the Group/Company and the revenue and associated costs incurred or to be incurred can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable net of trade discounts and sales Reportable Operations taxes. The Group/Company separately identifies different components of a single segments transaction in order to reflect the substance of the transaction. The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognition of revenue. Vehicles–Sales Sale of brand new passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles, agri machinery, special purpose vehicles Sale of goods and pre-owned passenger vehicles. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards Vehicles–After Repair and service of vehicles of ownership of the goods have been passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the Services included in the vehicles-sale segment, sale of goods. franchised vehicle spare parts, accessories and components. Rendering of services Revenue from services rendered is recognised in Profit or Loss once all significant Marketing and Sale and service of power tools and accessories, performance obligations have been provided. Distribution lamps, batteries, lighting controls, switchgear, fittings and accessories, tyres, original equipment spare Constructions related contracts parts and auto components. Revenue from construction related contracts is recognised in Profit or Loss in Construction and Sales and services of earth moving machinery, road proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the reporting date. Material Handling construction machinery, material handling machinery, Equipment forklifts, storage systems, dock levellers, car parking The stage of completion is assessed based on surveys of work performed. When the systems and gondolas. outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that are likely to be Electro-Mechanical, Sale, installation, commissioning and maintenance recoverable. Bio-Medical and of medical equipment, generating sets, diesel Marine Engineering engines for marine propulsion and rail traction, Service support income building management systems, fluid management Service support income which is included in revenue represents income received systems, industrial refrigeration systems and power from foreign principals on indent sales. Such income is recognised on an accrual basis engineering equipment and systems. at the time of supply of goods and services relating to the service support provided by the Group. Inter-segment transfers are based on fair market prices (arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties). Segment results, assets and 4.2 Operating Segments liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be Accounting Policy allocated on a reasonable basis. The operating business segments are organised and managed separately according Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise mainly of assets and liabilities that cannot to the nature, risks and returns. be attributed to a particular segment. The Board of Directors regularly reviews the operating results of all operating Finance income and expenses and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and business segments for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation are not allocated to operating business segments. and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss which in certain respects, is measured differently from operating profit or Sales to any single customer does not represent more than 10% of the total sales and loss in the Consolidated Financial Statements. no segments are determined based on the geographical area as all the segments are operating in the same economic environment. 132 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Segmental Results, Assets and Liabilities Group Vehicles Vehicles Marketing Construction and Electro-Mechanical, Total Sales After Services and Distribution Material Handling Bio-Medical and Equipment Marine Engineering For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Business Segment Turnover and Results Total segment revenue 31,528,735 27,323,634 4,469,690 3,699,413 4,440,746 3,934,088 2,666,122 1,602,575 2,750,667 2,188,449 45,855,960 38,748,159 Inter-segment revenue (118,844) (40,754) (1,002,417) (819,969) (126,259) (73,286) (85,285) (43,689) (30,165) (20,711) (1,362,970) (998,409) Total external revenue 31,409,891 27,282,880 3,467,273 2,879,444 4,314,487 3,860,802 2,580,837 1,558,886 2,720,502 2,167,738 44,492,990 37,749,750 Segment results 1,944,224 1,946,405 727,806 492,275 166,970 258,682 205,934 169,523 200,196 277,605 3,245,130 3,144,490 Unallocated other income 173,403 86,141 Unallocated expenses (1,726,168) (1,599,343) Finance costsnet (648,973) (251,229) Income tax expense (386,601) (433,453) Profit for the year 656,791 946,606 Business Segment Assets and Liabilities Segment assets 7,291,220 6,280,762 1,871,498 1,654,312 2,317,840 2,466,779 1,419,580 1,132,248 1,913,840 1,644,984 14,813,978 13,179,085 Unallocated assets 7,945,440 7,153,559 Total assets 22,759,418 20,332,644 Segment liabilities 5,137,551 2,641,101 489,660 520,752 825,682 647,725 292,627 246,404 252,813 217,318 6,998,333 4,273,300 Unallocated liabilities 5,596,143 6,069,665 Equity 10,164,942 9,989,679 Total equity and liabilities 22,759,418 20,332,644 Other Information Capital expenditure 81,263 27,792 94,312 63,364 18,189 10,320 6,295 4,487 15,535 15,576 215,594 121,539 Unallocated capital expenditure 529,869 162,540 Depreciation and amortisation 29,487 25,541 112,265 97,039 10,309 12,762 5,547 5,412 9,555 8,973 167,163 149,727 Unallocated depreciation and amortisation 176,816 168,977 SEGMENT REVENUE GROUP (%) SEGMENT RESULTSGROUP (%) E-6 A-70 E-6 A-60 D-6 D-6 E-6 C-5 E-9 C-10 C-4 D-5 D-10 B-23 C-8 B-8 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 B-8 A VehiclesSales B Vehicles -After Services B-16 A-62 C Marketing and Distribution A-72 D Construction and Material Handling Equipment E Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 133 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Segmental Results, Assets and Liabilities Company Vehicles Vehicles Marketing Construction and Material Total Sales After Services and Distribution Handling Equipment For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Business Segment Turnover and Results Total segment revenue 31,528,735 27,323,634 4,469,690 3,699,412 4,217,361 3,732,425 2,666,122 1,602,575 42,881,908 36,358,046 Inter-segment revenue (118,844) (40,713) (999,380) (815,879) (114,840) (54,533) (85,285) (43,689) (1,318,349) (954,814) Total external revenue 31,409,891 27,282,921 3,470,310 2,883,533 4,102,521 3,677,892 2,580,837 1,558,886 41,563,559 35,403,232 Segment results 1,944,224 1,946,405 727,806 492,275 167,067 237,103 205,934 169,523 3,045,031 2,845,306 Unallocated other income 269,638 103,147 Unallocated expenses (1,758,278) (1,582,953) Finance costs net (649,989) (273,458) Income tax expense (313,370) (352,319) Profit for the year 593,032 739,723 Business Segment Assets and Liabilities Segment assets 7,291,220 6,280,762 1,871,498 1,654,312 2,317,840 2,466,779 1,419,580 1,132,248 12,900,138 11,534,101 Unallocated assets 8,467,386 7,719,227 Total assets 21,367,524 19,253,328 Segment liabilities 5,137,551 2,641,101 489,660 520,752 825,682 647,725 292,627 246,404 6,745,520 4,055,982 Unallocated liabilities 5,374,933 6,062,920 Equity 9,247,071 9,134,426 Total equity and liabilities 21,367,524 19,253,328 Other Information Capital expenditure 81,263 27,792 94,312 63,364 18,189 10,320 6,295 4,487 200,059 105,963 Unallocated capital expenditure 522,137 162,676 Depreciation and amortisation 29,487 25,541 112,265 97,039 10,309 12,762 5,547 5,412 157,608 140,754 Unallocated depreciation and amortisation 180,451 172,586 SEGMENT REVENUE COMPANY (%) SEGMENT RESULTS COMPANY (%) D-6 A-76 D-7 A-64 C-5 C-10 C-5 C-6 D-10 D-8 B-8 B-24 B8 A VehiclesSales 2015/16 2016/17 B-17 B Vehicles -After Services 2015/16 2016/17 C Marketing and Distribution D Construction and Material Handling Equipment A-77 A-69 134 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information 4.3 Other Operating Income/(Expenses) Accounting Policy Income earned and expenses incurred on other sources, which are not directly Dividend income related to the normal operations of the Group are recognised as other operating Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s/Company’s right to receive income/(expenses). Other operating income and expenses are recognised on an payment is established. accrual basis. The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognising income. Gains or losses on sale of property, plant and equipment The gains or losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the carrying amount of the property, plant and equipment at the time of disposal and the proceeds from disposal, net of expenses incurred on disposal. This is recognised in the year in which significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. Other Operating Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Sundry income 155,803 69,618 163,192 74,207 Dividend income 298 298 88,545 11,368 Gains on sale of property, plant and equipment 17,302 16,225 17,901 17,572 173,403 86,141 269,638 103,147 4.4 Finance Income and Costs Accounting Policies Finance income comprises of interest income. Interest income is recognised as it Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis as either finance accrues, using the effective interest method. income or finance costs depending on whether foreign currency movements are in a net gain or net loss position. Finance costs comprise of interest expense on borrowings and impairment losses recognised on financial assets (other than trade receivables). Interest expense is recognised using the effective interest method. Net Finance Costs Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Interest income 13,536 23,496 12,397 21,060 Net foreign exchange gain 193,674 195,583 185,992 173,518 Finance income 207,210 219,079 198,389 194,578 Interest on long-term borrowings (96,546) (97,957) (96,546) (97,957) Interest on short-term borrowings (759,637) (372,351) (751,832) (370,079) Finance costs (856,183) (470,308) (848,378) (468,036) Net finance costs recognised in profit or loss (648,973) (251,229) (649,989) (273,458) Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 135 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.5 Profit Before Tax Profit before tax is stated after charging/(reversing) the following: Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Directors’ emoluments Short-term employment benefits 398,816 257,560 386,694 238,649 Post-employment benefits 71,635 53,650 69,775 49,845 Auditors’ remuneration Audit and audit-related services 5,181 4,807 4,302 3,925 Non-audit services 679 629 405 375 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 326,354 301,921 320,445 297,150 Amortisation of intangible assets and lease rentals paid in advance 17,625 16,783 17,614 16,190 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 77,463 217,012 50,819 195,552 Provision for slow moving inventories 143,855 6,215 140,333 16,423 Donations 6,013 2,809 5,834 2,248 Legal fees 22,649 25,186 20,817 23,968 Staff expenses (Note 4.5.1) 2,378,629 2,072,300 2,034,805 1,837,805 4.5.1 Staff Expenses Accounting Policy Salaries and wages, contribution to EPF and ETF, training expenses and current service cost of defined benefit plans are recognised as an expense in the year in which the related services are provided. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Defined contribution plan cost 265,400 224,664 231,405 197,128 Employee benefit obligation costs (Note 4.23.1) 97,439 78,492 88,755 71,859 Training expenses 95,237 50,871 77,577 37,903 Salaries and wages 1,920,553 1,718,273 1,637,068 1,530,915 2,378,629 2,072,300 2,034,805 1,837,805 Average number of employees for the year 1,649 1,554 1,482 1,401 The average number of employees is calculated by averaging the number of employees as at the year end in the current and previous year. 136 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information STAFF EXPENSES GROUP 2017 (%) STAFF EXPENSES GROUP 2016 (%) A-81 A-83 B-11 B-11 C-4 C-4 D-2 D-4 A Salaries and wages B Defined contribution plan cost C Employee benefit obligation costs D Training expenses 4.6 Income Tax Accounting Policy Income tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising in Profit or Loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future changes to such Equity or in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) . assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax expense already recorded. Where the final tax outcome of such matters is different from the amounts that were Current tax initially recorded, such differences will impact the income and deferred tax amounts Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income in the period in which the determination is made. or loss for the year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. The amount of current tax receivable or payable is the best estimate Deferred tax of the tax amount expected to be paid or received that reflects uncertainty related to A detail disclosure of accounting policies and estimate of deferred tax are available income taxes, if any. It is measured using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted, in Note 4.24. as at the reporting date. Accounting Estimate The Group/Company recognises liabilities for anticipated tax, based on an estimate of taxable income. Given the wide range of business relationships and the longIncome Tax Expense Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Current Tax Expense Current tax on profit for the year (Note 4.6.1) 231,544 259,487 166,371 178,413 Under provision in respect of previous years * 70,707 110,756 70,574 110,287 10% withholding tax on inter-company dividend 9,805 1,231 312,056 371,474 236,945 288,700 Deferred Tax Expense Origination of temporary differences (Note 4.6.2) 74,545 61,979 76,425 63,619 Total income tax expense 386,601 433,453 313,370 352,319 Effective tax rate (%)-including deferred tax 37% 31% 35% 32% Effective tax rate (%)-excluding deferred tax 30% 27% 26% 26% * A provision of Rs. 57.6 million has been recorded this year with regard to the tax assessment raised in the year of assessment 2012/13. In respect of the tax assessment raised in the year of assessment 2011/12, a provision of Rs. 103.6 million was recorded in year 2015/16. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 137 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.6.1 Reconciliation of Accounting Profit to Income Tax Expense Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Profit before taxation 1,043,392 1,380,059 906,402 1,092,042 Disallowable expenses 786,771 628,990 733,517 587,858 Allowable expenses (815,493) (846,648) (785,210) (804,594) Income not liable for tax (102,589) (16,739) (89,815) (12,013) Qualifying payments (170,650) (226,642) (170,650) (226,103) Taxable income 741,431 919,020 594,244 637,190 Income tax Tax at 28% 231,531 259,487 166,358 178,413 Tax at 12% 13 13 Current tax on profit for the year 231,544 259,487 166,371 178,413 Current tax has been computed in accordance with the provisions of Inland Revenue The companies within the Group are liable to income tax at 28%. The tax on export Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto. profits is 12%. 4.6.2 Recognition of Deferred Tax Expenses in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Statement of Profit or Loss (Note 4.24.2) 74,545 61,979 76,425 63,619 Other Comprehensive Income (Note 4.24.2) (11,423) (6,921) (10,980) (6,318) 63,122 55,058 65,445 57,301 4.7 Earnings Per Share-Basic and Diluted Accounting Policy-Measurement basis The earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year and ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary the previous year are adjusted for events that have changed the number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. shares outstanding during the year. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (Rs.’000) 656,791 946,606 593,032 739,723 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 8,876,437 8,876,437 8,876,437 8,876,437 Earnings per ordinary share-basic and diluted (Rs.) 73.99 106.64 66.81 83.34 138 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information EARNINGS PER SHARE GROUP EARNINGS PER SHARE COMPANY Rs. Rs. 120 100 106.64 83.34 95 80 66.81 73.99 70 60 45 40 20 20 2016 2017 2016 2017 4.8 Dividends Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Interim dividend paid 213,034 Final dividend approved 239,664 213,034 239,664 Dividend per share (Rs.) 24.00 27.00 An Interim dividend of Rs. 24.00 per share was paid on 31st March 2017 to the shareholders of the Company for the Financial Year 2016/17. (No interim dividend was paid in 2015/16). A withholding tax of 10% was paid on interim dividend paid. 4.8.1 Compliance with Section 56 and 57 of Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 As required by Section 56 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company satisfied the solvency test in accordance with Section 57, prior to recommending the interim dividend. A statement of solvency completed and duly signed by the Directors on 14th March 2017 has been audited by Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants. 4.9 Property, Plant and Equipment Accounting Policy Basis of recognition site on which they are located and borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the Property, plant and equipment are recognised if it is probable that future economic asset under construction. benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group/Company and cost of the asset can be measured reliably. If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, then they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. Basis of measurement An item of property, plant and equipment that qualifies for recognition as an asset is Purchased software which is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is initially measured at its cost. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to capitalised as part of that equipment. the acquisition of the asset and subsequent costs (as explained under ‘subsequent cost’) . The cost of self-constructed assets include the cost of materials, direct labour, Cost model any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for All property, plant and equipment except freehold land, are recorded at cost, less its intended use, the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 139 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes When an asset’s carrying value is higher than it’s estimated recoverable amount, the Depreciation carrying value is written down to its recoverable amount (Please refer Note 3.8 Depreciation is calculated to write-off the cost of items of property, plant and Impairment of non-financial assets). equipment less their estimated residual values using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives and is recognised in Profit or Loss. Freehold land is not Revaluation model depreciated. The Group/Company applies the revaluation model for the entire class of freehold land for measurement after initial recognition. The Group policy is to revalue all Depreciation of an asset begins from the date it is available for use or in respect of freehold land by an independent professional valuer every three years or when there self constructed assets from the date that the asset is completed and ready for use. is a substantial difference between the fair value and the carrying amount. Depreciation ceases at the earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale and the date that the asset is derecognised. On revaluation of an asset, any increase in the carrying amount is recognised in revaluation reserve in equity through Other Comprehensive Income or used to The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows: reverse a previous loss on revaluation of the same asset, which was charged to Profit or Loss. In this circumstance, the increase is recognised as income only to Class of Asset Year the extent of the previous write down in value. Any decrease in the carrying amount Buildings 36 40 is recognised as an expense in Profit or Loss or charged to revaluation reserve in Buildings on leasehold land Over the lease period equity through Other Comprehensive Income, only to the extent of any credit balance Plant and machinery 08-13 existing in the revaluation reserve in respect of that asset. Any balance remaining Tools and implements 03-04 in the revaluation reserve in respect of an asset, is transferred directly to retained Motor vehicles 03-04 earnings upon disposal of the asset. Furniture and fittings 09-13 Office equipment and electrical fittings 06-10 Subsequent costs Computer hardware and software 03-04 Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it is probable that the future economic benefits of the expenditure will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of day to day servicing of property, plant and equipment Residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation are reviewed at each are expensed as incurred. financial year end and adjusted if appropriate. Derecognition An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is recognised in Profit or Loss in the year the asset is derecognised. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. A qualifying asset is an asset which takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale. Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use are completed. Other borrowing costs are recognised in Profit or Loss in the period in which they are incurred. Capital work-in-progress Capital work-in-progress is stated in the Statement of Financial Position at cost, including borrowing costs, less any accumulated impairment losses. Capital workin-progress would be transferred to the relevant asset when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management (i.e. available for use). 140 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Carrying Value of Property, Plant and Equipment Group Freehold Buildings Buildings on Plant and Tools and Motor Computer Electrical Total Land and Leasehold Machinery Implements Vehicles Hardware Fixtures, 2017 2016 Premises Land and Fittings Software and Office Equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or Revalued Amount At the beginning of the year 4,391,922 2,412,146 238,809 686,889 257,313 539,137 224,003 556,317 9,306,536 9,150,137 Additions 68,107 12,091 1,385 33,756 31,672 168,139 8,104 26,154 349,408 166,550 Transferred from capital work-in-progress 235,900 11,153 47,318 7,924 26,297 51,102 379,694 92,285 Disposals (4,984) (332) (7,698) (64) (67,614) (15,712) (29,469) (125,873) (102,436) Transfers (25,538) 16,869 (5,813) (888) 1,264 14,106 At the end of the year 4,460,029 2,629,615 267,884 754,452 295,957 639,662 243,956 618,210 9,909,765 9,306,536 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 242,433 83,501 248,523 204,047 338,504 186,754 221,252 1,525,014 1,304,598 Charge for the year 63,322 31,117 50,068 26,661 83,909 20,494 50,783 326,354 301,921 On disposals (2,192) (17) (7,435) (61) (44,398) (15,450) (27,888) (97,441) (81,505) Transfers (3,448) 5,323 (2,782) (237) 481 663 At the end of the year 300,115 119,924 288,374 230,410 378,015 192,279 244,810 1,753,927 1,525,014 Carrying amount before capital work-in-progress 4,460,029 2,329,500 147,960 466,078 65,547 261,647 51,677 373,400 8,155,838 7,781,522 Capital work-in-progress at cost At the beginning of the year 128,531 4,792 2,251 9,247 3,485 148,306 126,138 Additions 75 236,880 16,682 48,330 7,861 17,310 47,835 374,973 117,529 Transferred to PPE (235,900) (11,153) (47,318) (7,923) (26,297) (51,102) (379,693) (92,285) Derecognition (264) (125) (389) (3,076) At the end of the year 75 129,247 5,529 5,804 2,189 135 218 143,197 148,306 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2017 4,460,104 2,458,747 153,489 471,882 67,736 261,647 51,812 373,618 8,299,035 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2016 4,391,922 2,298,244 155,308 443,158 55,517 200,633 46,496 338,550 7,929,828 Carrying Value of Property, Plant and Equipment Company Freehold Buildings Buildings on Plant and Tools and Motor Computer Electrical Total Land and Leasehold Machinery Implements Vehicles Hardware Fixtures, 2017 2016 Premises Land and Fittings Software and Office Equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or Revalued Amount At the beginning of the year 4,391,922 2,443,252 238,809 655,815 235,063 533,688 202,925 555,581 9,257,055 9,112,021 Additions 68,107 12,109 1,385 29,689 26,126 160,079 2,806 25,840 326,141 151,110 Transferred from capital work-in-progress 235,900 11,153 47,318 7,923 26,297 51,102 379,693 92,548 Disposals (3,943) (332) (7,061) (64) (67,615) (14,598) (28,369) (121,982) (98,624) Transfers (25,538) 16,869 (5,813) (888) 1,264 14,106 At the end of the year 4,460,029 2,661,780 267,884 719,948 268,160 626,152 218,694 618,260 9,840,907 9,257,055 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 243,390 83,501 231,638 184,206 333,053 171,053 212,687 1,459,528 1,241,573 Charge for the year 64,103 31,117 47,768 24,714 83,780 17,722 51,241 320,445 297,150 On disposals (1,879) (17) (6,798) (61) (44,398) (14,337) (26,866) (94,356) (79,195) Transfers (3,448) 5,323 (2,782) (237) 481 663 At the end of the year 302,166 119,924 269,826 208,622 372,435 174,919 237,725 1,685,617 1,459,528 Carrying amount before capital work-in-progress 4,460,029 2,359,614 147,960 450,122 59,538 253,717 43,775 380,535 8,155,290 7,797,527 Capital work-in-progress at cost At the beginning of the year 128,531 4,792 2,251 9,247 3,485 148,306 126,457 Additions 75 236,880 16,682 48,330 7,861 17,310 47,835 374,973 117,529 Transferred to PPE (235,900) (11,153) (47,318) (7,923) (26,297) (51,102) (379,693) (92,548) Derecognition (264) (125) (389) (3,132) At the end of the year 75 129,247 5,529 5,804 2,189 135 218 143,197 148,306 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2017 4,460,104 2,488,861 153,489 455,926 61,727 253,717 43,910 380,753 8,298,487 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2016 4,391,922 2,328,393 155,308 428,969 53,108 200,635 41,119 346,379 7,945,833 There were no capitalised borrowing costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment during the year 2016/17 (2015/16 – Nil). Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 141 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.9.1 Revaluation of Freehold Land Freehold land was revalued as at 15th September 2014 by Mr. K. Arthur Perera, A.M.I.V. (Sri Lanka) who is a professionally qualified independent valuer. The valuation method adopted was the Market Comparable Method. The value of freehold land has been written up to correspond with the market value and the details are as follows: Freehold Land Location Significant Extent Original Cost Revalued Revalued Freehold Pledged Mortgaged to Unobservable Amount Amount as Building Financial Institution Inputs No. of Times Square Feet of Cost Rs. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 5,000,000 p.p 2A-0R-33.29P 414 1,523,320 3,679.52 85,272 No. 56, K. Cyril C. Perera Mawatha, Colombo 14 4,000,000 p.p Sanctioned Street Line 2,000,000 p.p No. 61, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 5,500,000 p.p 0A-1R-04.00P 18,014 242,000 13.43 11,418 No. 74, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 5,000,000 p.p 0A-1R-14.56P 113,808 272,800 2.40 4,043 No. 800, Sirimawo Bandaranaike Mawatha, 1,500,000 p.p 3A-3R-14.00P 641,519 930,900 1.45 229,025 Colombo 14 No. 135, Mahena Road, Siyambalape and 200,000 p.p 8A-3R-19.90P 37,606 281,700 7.49 96,300 No. 274/A, Kakunagaha Watta, Siyambalape Kirindiwela Road, Weliweriya 97,500 p.p 16A-0R-36.31P 89,958 248,625 2.76 219,880 Commercial Bank No. 360, Madampitiya Road, Mahawatta, 2,000,000 p.p 1A-2R-26.80P 301,599 533,600 1.77 Colombo 14 No. 09, Ariyala, Kandy Road, Jaffna 122,600 p.p 1A-2R-26.72P 32,487 32,700 1.01 38,675 Yaggapitiya Watta, Dambulla Road, Kurunegala 70,000 p.p 5A-0R-0P 54,599 56,000 1.03 No. 23, Kaldemulla Road, Ratmalana 637,500 p.p 0A-3R-27.04P 92,102 93,738 1.02 17,323 No. 63 & 63 A Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 0A-1R-08.75P 176,539 176,539* 13,294 Hunuketalanda, Nayakubura, Walgamwewa 29A-0R-27.85P 68,107 68,107* Total 1,626,752 4,460,029 715,230 p.p-per perch *This freehold land was acquired subsequent to the last revaluation date and therefore, the original cost is shown under the ‘Revalued Amount’ column. Description of the valuation technique used together with a narrative description on sensitivity of the fair value measurement to changes in significant unobservable inputs are as follows: Valuation technique Significant Sensitivity of fair value unobservable inputs measurement to inputs Market Comparable Method This method considers the selling price of a similar property within a reasonably recent period of time Price per perch for land Estimated fair value would in determining the fair value of the property being revalued. This involves evaluation of recent active increase/ (decrease) if the market prices of similar assets, making appropriate adjustments for any differences in the nature, size, price per perch would increase/ location or condition of the specific property. (decrease). 4.9.2 Fully Depreciated but still in Use 4.9.4 Permanent Fall in Value of Property, Plant and Equipment The cost of fully-depreciated property, plant and equipment of the Group and the There is no permanent fall in the value of property, plant and equipment which require Company which are still in use amounted to Rs. 768.3 million (2015/16 Rs. 762.2 a provision for impairment. million) and Rs. 717.9 million (2015/16 Rs. 720 million) respectively. 4.9.5 Title Restriction on Property, Plant and Equipment 4.9.3 Property, Plant and Equipment Pledged as Security against Long-Term There were no restrictions that existed on the title to the property, plant and Bank Loan equipment of the Group/Company as at the reporting date. Land and buildings with a carrying value of Rs. 248 million (2015/16 Rs. 248 million) have been pledged as security against term loans obtained. 142 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information 4.10 Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Accounting Policy Lease rentals paid in advance are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. Such carrying amounts are amortised over the remaining lease period or useful life of the leasehold property whichever is shorter. Carrying Value of Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year 39,938 39,938 39,938 39,938 Additions during the year At the end of the year 39,938 39,938 39,938 39,938 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 13,207 11,002 13,207 11,002 Amortisation for the year 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 At the end of the year 15,412 13,207 15,412 13,207 Carrying amount at the end of the year 24,526 26,731 24,526 26,731 Current portion of lease rentals paid (Note 4.17) 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 Non-current portion of lease rentals paid 22,321 24,526 22,321 24,526 Carrying amount at the end of the year 24,526 26,731 24,526 26,731 4.10.1 Details of Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Location Amount of Lease Duration of the Lease Rs.‘000 i. No. 562/126, D.S. Senanayake Mawatha, Anuradhapura 2,400 From April 1997 to August 2021 ii. No. 562/100, Jayanthi Mawatha, Anuradhapura 37,538 From October 2010 to May 2028 39,938 4.11 Intangible Assets Accounting Policy Basis of recognition Subsequent expenditure An intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future economic benefits that Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic are attributable to the asset will flow to the entity and the cost of the asset can be benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is measured reliably. recognised in Profit or Loss as incurred. Basis of measurement Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised using the straight-line method to write Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated down the cost over its estimated useful economic lives, and is generally recognised amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. in Profit or Loss. These assets are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 143 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Intangible assets mainly represent cost of computer software and the amortisation rate is as follows: Class of Asset Amortisation period (years) Computer software 4 The above rate is consistent with the rate used in the previous years. The amortisation Derecognition method, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and Intangible assets are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic adjusted if appropriate. benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset, is recognised in Profit or Loss in the year the asset is derecognised. Carrying Value of Intangible Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year 65,089 65,089 62,092 62,092 Additions during the year 21,082 21,082 Disposals during the year (1,358) (1,358) At the end of the year 84,813 65,089 81,816 62,092 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 45,512 30,934 42,533 28,548 Amortisation for the year 15,420 14,578 15,409 13,985 Disposals during the year (170) (170) At the end of the year 60,762 45,512 57,772 42,533 Carrying amount at the end of the year 24,051 19,577 24,044 19,559 4.12 Investments in Subsidiaries Accounting Policy Investments in subsidiaries are initially recognised at cost in the Financial Statements Accounting Estimate Provision for Impairment of the Company. Any transaction cost relating to acquisition of investment in An impairment assessment was carried out as at 31st March 2017 and it was subsidiaries are immediately recognised in Profit or Loss. Following initial recognition, concluded that net realisable value of all the investments included under unquoted investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment investments exceed its carrying value except for DIMO Travels (Private) Ltd. Based losses. The net assets of each subsidiary are reviewed at each reporting date to on an assessment made for impairment, the provision given in Note 4.12.1 was determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, considered to be adequate as at reporting date. then the recoverable amount of the investment is estimated and the impairment loss is recognised to the extent of its net assets loss. Carrying Value of Investments in Subsidiaries Company As at 31st March Percentage of Holding 2017 2016 (%) Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Unquoted Investment Ordinary Shares DIMO (Private) Ltd 25,000 ordinary shares 100 250 250 DIMO Industries (Private) Ltd 2,305,000 ordinary shares 100 23,050 23,050 DIMO Travels (Private) Ltd 500 ordinary shares 100 50 50 23,350 23,350 Impairment provision (Note 4.12.1) (61) 23,289 23,350 144 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information The Group does not have any subsidiaries with significant non controlling interests as all subsidiaries are fully owned by Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC. Accordingly no additional disclosures are made in these Financial Statements under SLFRS 12. 4.12.1 Movement in Provision for Impairment of Investments in Subsidiaries Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year Provision for impairment 61 At the end of the year 61 4.13 Fair value of Assets and Liabilities Accounting Policies Financial assets On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount of the asset (or the carrying amount allocated to the portion of the asset derecognised) Initial recognition and measurement and the sum of the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any The Group classifies financial assets at initial recognition as available-for-sale new liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in financial assets or loans and receivables based on the purpose, characteristics and Other Comprehensive Income is recognised in Profit or Loss. Management’s intention in acquiring them. At the end of each reporting period all classifications are re-evaluated to the extent that such classification is permitted and Financial liabilities required. Initial recognition and measurement All the financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable The Group classifies financial liabilities at initial recognition as other financial liabilities. transaction costs. At the end of each reporting period all classifications are re-evaluated to the extent that such classification is permitted and required. The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification. Details of different types of financial assets recognised in the Statement of Financial All the financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less any directly Position are given in Notes 4.14 and 4.16 on pages 150 and 151. attributable transaction costs. Other financial liabilities mainly consist of trade and other payables and bank borrowings. Financial assets available-for-sale (AFS) Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification. designated as available-for-sale financial assets or are not classified as loans and Details of financial liabilities recognised in the Statement of Financial Position are receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through given in Notes 4.22 and 4.27 on pages 154 and 160. profit or loss. Derecognition Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in quoted shares held for The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are earnings on income or for capital appreciation. discharged, cancelled or expired. Loans and receivables Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables mainly the Statement of Financial Position when, and only when, the Group currently has a consist of trade and other receivables. legally enforceable right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset (or where applicable a part of thereof) when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred, or it neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and it does not retain control over the transferred asset. Any interest in such derecognised financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 145 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.13.1 Financial Assets and Liabilities by Category Financial Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 i. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss ii. Held-to-maturity (HTM) iii. Loans and receivables (L&R) Trade and other receivables 4,276,799 3,877,074 3,243,893 3,092,234 Cash and cash equivalents 281,799 176,140 269,556 164,243 Amounts due from subsidiaries 79,319 53,714 iv. Available-for-sale (AFS) Financial assets-available-for-sale 7,825 7,179 7,804 7,156 Total financial assets 4,566,423 4,060,393 3,600,572 3,317,347 Financial Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 i. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss ii. Other financial liabilities Current portion of long-term borrowings 319,425 398,101 319,425 398,101 Long-term borrowings 590,100 907,030 590,100 907,030 Short-term borrowings 7,472,692 5,179,865 7,406,351 5,147,647 Trade payables 1,681,344 1,645,819 1,563,181 1,565,629 Amounts due to subsidiaries 195,149 382,855 Total financial liabilities 10,063,561 8,130,815 10,074,206 8,401,262 Fair value of assets and liabilities The Group measures the fair value using the following fair value hierarchy, which Non-financial assets measured at fair value reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurement. The valuation technique and inputs used in measuring the fair value of freehold land are given in Note 4.9.1. Level 1: Inputs that are quoted market prices (unadjusted) in an active market for identical instruments; The Group held the following financial and non-financial assets carried at fair value in Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level that are observable the Statement of Financial Position. either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); Level 3: Valuation techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair values that are not based on observable market data. 146 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Financial assets Classified as available-for-sale Level 1 7,825 7,179 7,804 7,156 Level 2 Level 3 Non-financial assets Freehold land Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 4,460,029 4,391,922 4,460,029 4,391,922 Financial liabilities are not measured at fair value. 4.13.2 Financial Risk Management The Group has exposure mainly to the following risks from financial instruments: (a) Market risk a. Market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and cash flow Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange interest rate risk) rates, interest rates and equity prices, will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is b. Credit risk to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while c. Liquidity risk optimising the return. Risk management framework (i) Currency risk The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for the establishment and The Group is sensitive to the fluctuations in exchange rates and is principally exposed oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Group’s overall risk to fluctuations in the value of Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR) against the US Dollar (USD), management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and Euro (EUR) and Japanese Yen (JPY). Group’s functional currency is the Sri Lankan seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Rupee (LKR) in which most of the transactions are denominated and all other currencies are considered foreign currencies for reporting purpose. The Group had The overall objectives and policies for the Group’s financial risk management are as taken measures to manage risk by having foreign currency trade receivables and per the internal treasury practices. It will cover foreign exchange policy, investment foreign currency bank account balances to cover the exposure on foreign currency policy, financing policy and policies on credit risk and risk limits. Further details are payables. Hence the overall objective of currency risk management is to reduce the discussed in the Risk Management Report on pages 56 to 61. short term negative impact of exchange rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flow, thereby increasing the predictability of the financial results. Sensitivity Analysis Based on exchange rate fluctuation against Sri Lankan Rupee Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 US Dollar (USD) % of Appreciation/(depreciation) during the financial year 2.75 9.95 2.75 9.95 1% change impact to profitability byRs.’000 2,160 251 1,472 110 Euro (EUR) % of Appreciation/(depreciation) during the financial year (2.76) 14.97 (2.76) 14.97 1% change impact to profitability byRs.’000 594 941 120 504 Japanese Yen (JPY) % of Appreciation/(depreciation) during the financial year 3.59 17.58 3.59 17.58 1% change impact to profitability byRs.’000 3 183 (2) 43 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 147 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes EXCHANGE RATE US DOLLAR EXCHANGE RATE EURO EXCHANGE RATE JAPANESE YEN Rs. Rs. Rs. 155 165.0 164.56 1.50 1.4536 152 151.73 162.94 1.4142 163.2 1.42 149.8 162.03 1.3538 149 161.4 1.34 1.2867 161.43 1.281 146.72 146 145.25 159.6 1.26 143.9 143 157.8 1.18 157.87 1.10 140 156.0 Mar-16 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Mar-16 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Mar-16 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 (ii) Interest rate risk equity price risk through diversification and by placing limits on individual and total Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial equity instruments. The Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity investment instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s decisions. Sensitivity analysis on the value of the investments is not provided as it is exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the deemed to be not material. Group’s long-term debt obligations with floating rates. The Group manages its interest rate risk by monitoring and managing cash flows, negotiating favourable rates on (b) Credit risk borrowings and deposits including and maintaining an appropriate combination of Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to fixed and floating rate debt. a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from Group’s trade receivables. Sensitivity Analysis If interest rates had been higher/lower by 100 basis points and all other variables The Group has taken several measures to manage and mitigate the credit risk were held constant, the profit before tax for the year ended 31st March 2017 including carrying out a credit evaluation as per the Group credit policy, prior to would decrease/increase by Rs. 402,146 (2015/16 Rs. 5.7 million). This is mainly extending credit. A review of age analysis of trade receivables and follow-up attributable to the Group’s exposure to variable rates of interest. meetings are carried out by the business unit managers at least once a month and by the Group Management Committee (GMC) at least once a quarter. In the event of a debt becoming doubtful, legal action is initiated by the Manager-Legal. (iii) Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk because of investments in quoted shares Credit risk exposure held by the Group classified as financial assets available-for-sale. The maximum risk exposure of financial assets which are generally subject to credit The value of these investments is subjected to the performance of investee company risk are equal to their carrying amounts. Following table shows the maximum risk and the factors that affects the status of the stock market. The Group manages the positions. Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Trade and other receivables 4,276,799 3,877,074 3,243,893 3,092,234 Amounts due from subsidiaries 79,319 53,714 Cash and cash equivalents 281,799 176,140 269,556 164,243 Total credit risk exposure 4,558,598 4,053,214 3,592,768 3,310,191 148 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Balances with banks Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Fitch Rating AAA 30,020 65,627 30,020 65,627 AA+ 129,870 37,457 129,845 37,457 AA 14,597 14,744 6,284 5,643 AA78,915 31,708 78,871 31,708 Total bank balances (Note 4.18) 253,402 149,536 245,020 140,435 BALANCES WITH BANKS GROUP 2017 (%) BALANCES WITH BANKS GROUP 2016 (%) A-12 A-44 D-21 D-31 B-51 A AAA C-10 B AA+ C-6 C AA D AAB-25 (c) Liquidity risk 4.13.3 Capital Risk Management This is the risk that the Group will encounter in meeting the obligations associated The objectives of the capital management can be summarised as follows: with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. a. Appropriately allocate capital to meet strategic objectives. In the management of liquidity risk, the Group monitors and maintains a level of cash b. Enable the Group to face any economic downturn/ crisis situation. and cash equivalents deemed adequate by the management to finance the Group’s operations and to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in cash flows. The Group’s The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to ensure investor, objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through creditor and market confidence in order to sustain future development of the the use of bank overdrafts and bank loans. Access to source of funding is sufficiently business. The impact of the shareholders’ return is also recognised and the Group available. recognises the need to maintain a balance between higher returns that might be possible with greater gearing and the advantages and security afforded by a sound Maturity profiles and specific risk management strategies with regard to trade capital position. payables and bank borrowings are given in the respective Notes. The Company manages its capital structure and adjusts it accordingly in line with changes in global and local economic and market conditions and its overall risk appetite. Given below is a summary of the capital structure of the Group: As at 31st March 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Long-term borrowings (Note 4.22.1.1) 909,525 1,305,131 Equity 10,164,942 9,989,679 Total equity and long-term borrowings 11,074,467 11,294,810 Gearing ratio (%) 8% 12% Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 149 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.14 Financial Assets Available-for-Sale (AFS) Accounting Policy After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial investments are subsequently Accounting Estimate Assessment of Impairment measured at fair value. Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is any objective evidence value are recognised in equity through Other Comprehensive Income in the availablethat an asset or a group of assets is impaired. In the case of equity investments for-sale reserve. When these financial assets are derecognised, the gain or loss classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a ‘Significant’ or accumulated in equity is reclassified to Profit or Loss. ‘Prolonged’ decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost. ‘Significant’ is evaluated against the original cost of the investment and ‘Prolonged’ against The fair values of quoted shares are based on current bid prices at the end of the the period for which the fair value has been below its original cost. Where there is reporting period. evidence of impairment, the cumulative impairment loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, is recognised in Profit or Loss Dividends earned whilst holding available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in and removed from Other Comprehensive Income (available-for-sale reserve). Profit or Loss as ‘Other Operating Income’ when the right to receive the payment has been established. Carrying Value of Available-for-Sale Financial Assets Group Company No. of Market Total Cost Fair Value No. of Market Total Cost Fair Value Shares Value Shares Value As at 31st March 2017 2017 2016 2017 2017 2016 (Per Share) Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Per Share) Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Quoted Investments Ordinary Shares Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 900 46.30 14 42 46 450 46.30 7 21 23 Hatton National Bank PLC (non-voting) 33,943 185.00 700 6,389 5,804 33,943 185.00 700 6,389 5,804 Ceylinco Insurance PLC (non-voting) 1,700 820.00 298 1,394 1,329 1,700 820.00 298 1,394 1,329 1,012 7,825 7,179 1,005 7,804 7,156 4.15 Inventories Accounting Policy Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated cost of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make The cost of inventories that are not interchangeable are recognised by using specific the sale. identification of their individual cost and other inventories are based on weighted average cost formula. The cost of inventories includes expenditure incurred in Goods-in-transit are recognised at purchase cost. acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their present location and condition but excluding borrowing cost. Carrying Value of Inventories Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Stock-in-trade 7,614,666 6,354,811 7,527,741 6,282,113 Work-in-progress (at cost) 406,459 304,979 135,621 105,550 Provision for slow moving inventories (Note 4.15.1) (405,821) (261,966) (385,805) (245,472) 7,615,304 6,397,824 7,277,557 6,142,191 Goods-in-transit 1,326,407 1,209,468 1,296,808 1,184,020 Total inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value 8,941,711 7,607,292 8,574,365 7,326,211 150 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information 4.15.1 Movement in Provision for Slow Moving Inventories Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 261,966 255,751 245,472 229,049 Provision for slow moving inventories 143,855 6,215 140,333 16,423 At the end of the year 405,821 261,966 385,805 245,472 4.16 Trade and Other Receivables Accounting Policy Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services Accounting Estimate Provision for Impairment performed in the ordinary course of business. Other financial nature receivables are The Group/Company considers evidence of impairment for receivables at both recognised as other receivables. If collection is expected in one year or less (or in the an individual asset and at a collective level. All individually significant receivables normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are classified as current assets. are individually assessed for impairment by considering objective evidence i.e. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. experiencing a significant financial difficulty or default in payments by a customer. Those found not to be impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently that has been incurred but not yet individually identified. Receivables that are not measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for individually significant are collectively assessed for impairment. Collective assessment impairment. is carried out by grouping together receivables with similar risk characteristics. In assessing collective impairment, the Group/Company uses historical information on the probability of default, the timing of recoveries, and the amount of loss incurred, and makes an adjustment if current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are likely to be greater or lesser than suggested historical trends. Carrying Value of Trade and Other Receivables Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Trade receivables 4,815,895 4,339,781 3,693,389 3,491,916 Provision for impairment (Note 4.16.1) (544,962) (467,499) (454,966) (404,147) 4,270,933 3,872,282 3,238,423 3,087,769 Other receivables 5,866 4,792 5,470 4,465 Carrying value 4,276,799 3,877,074 3,243,893 3,092,234 4.16.1 Movement in Provision for Impairment of Trade Receivables Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 467,499 250,487 404,147 208,595 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 77,463 217,012 50,819 195,552 At the end of the year 544,962 467,499 454,966 404,147 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 151 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.16.2 Age Analysis of Trade Receivables after Provision for Impairment Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Not due 3,112,656 2,651,294 2,337,178 2,188,878 Due but not impaired Between 61 days to 180 days 960,673 835,201 750,058 646,317 Between 181 days to 365 days 165,408 126,596 141,466 81,454 Over 365 days 32,196 259,191 9,721 171,120 Net trade receivables maximum exposure to credit risk 4,270,933 3,872,282 3,238,423 3,087,769 Provision for impairment 544,962 467,499 454,966 404,147 Gross trade receivables 4,815,895 4,339,781 3,693,389 3,491,916 With respect to trade receivables as at the reporting date, past due but not impaired, based on credit history, there are no indications that customers will not be able to meet their obligations. No indication of default is identifiable for trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. AGE ANALYSIS OF NET TRADE AGE ANALYSIS OF NET TRADE RECEIVABLES-GROUP RECEIVABLES-COMPANY Rs. million Rs. million 4,500 4,500 3,600 3,600 2,700 2,700 1,800 1,800 Not due Between 61 days to 180 days 900 900 Between 181 days to 365 days 0 Over 365 days 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 4.16.3 Carrying amount of trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 4,097,608 3,680,802 3,149,450 2,925,636 USD 134,619 130,372 65,540 125,855 Euro 37,353 57,341 22,571 32,685 Japanese Yen 668 399 177 399 Other 685 3,368 685 3,194 4,270,933 3,872,282 3,238,423 3,087,769  rade receivables jointly with inventories have been pledged as security for shortT 4.16.4 Terms of Trade and Other Receivables term borrowings up to a limit of Rs. 95 million (2015/16 Rs. 95 million). Trade and other receivables are non-interest-bearing and are expected to be received within 60 days. 152 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information 4.17 Other Current Assets Accounting Policy The Group/Company classifies all non financial current assets under other current Advances and deposits are carried at historical value less provision for impairment. assets. Other current assets mainly comprise of advances, deposits, prepayments Prepayments are amortised over the period during which it is utilised and carried at and current portion of the lease rentals paid in advance. historical value less amortisation charge and any impairment. Carrying Value of Other Current Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Deposits and prepayments 647,327 654,154 577,837 562,798 Lease rentals paid in advance (Note 4.10) 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 Other receivables 245,918 32,958 244,404 31,499 895,450 689,317 824,446 596,502 4.18 Cash and Cash Equivalents Accounting Policy Cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash at bank and in hand balances. Cash Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings that are repayable on demand and forming and bank balances are stated at recoverable values. There were no cash and cash an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of equivalents held by the Group companies that were not available for use. cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows. Carrying Value of Cash and Cash Equivalents Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Bank balances 253,402 149,536 245,020 140,435 Cash in hand 28,397 26,604 24,536 23,808 281,799 176,140 269,556 164,243 Review of credit risk The Group’s cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash at bank and in hand balances. The credit risk relating to bank balances are analysed according to ratings of each bank which is available on page 149. 4.18.1 Carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 173,234 109,193 161,005 97,296 USD 108,545 66,947 108,545 66,947 Euro 20 6 281,799 176,140 269,556 164,243 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 153 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.19 Stated Capital Company As at 31st March No. of 2017 No. of 2016 Shares Rs.‘000 Shares Rs.‘000 Ordinary Shares Issued and Fully-paid Ordinary Shares At the end of the year 8,876,437 425,297 8,876,437 425,297 4.20 Revenue Reserve Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 6,725,026 5,973,747 5,869,788 5,323,841 Dividends (452,698) (177,529) (452,698) (177,529) Statement of Profit or Loss Profit for the year 656,791 946,606 593,032 739,723 Other Comprehensive Income Actuarial loss arising from employees benefits (Net of tax) (29,372) (17,798) (28,233) (16,247) At the end of the year 6,899,747 6,725,026 5,981,889 5,869,788 4.21 Other Components of Equity Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 2,839,356 2,838,894 2,839,341 2,838,875 Other Comprehensive Income Net fair value gains on remeasuring financial assets-available-for-sale 542 462 544 466 At the end of the year 2,839,898 2,839,356 2,839,885 2,839,341 4.22 Long-term and Short-term Borrowings Accounting Policy Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequently, they are stated at amortised cost, any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction cost) and the repayable amount (including interest) is recognised in Profit or Loss over the period of the loan using the effective interest method. 154 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information 4.22.1 Carrying Value of Long-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 i. Non-current portion of the long-term borrowings Term loans (Note 4.22.1.1) 590,100 907,030 590,100 907,030 Total non-current portion of long-term borrowings 590,100 907,030 590,100 907,030 ii. Current portion of the long-term borrowings Term loans (Note 4.22.1.1) 319,425 398,101 319,425 398,101 Total current portion of long-term borrowings 319,425 398,101 319,425 398,101 4.22.1.1 Movement and Classification of Long-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 1,301,990 1,597,110 1,301,990 1,597,110 Loans obtained during the year 800,000 800,000 Repayments during the year (394,900) (1,117,662) (394,900) (1,117,662) Exchange rate variance 22,542 22,542 At the end of the year (before adjusting interest payable) 907,090 1,301,990 907,090 1,301,990 Interest payable 2,435 3,141 2,435 3,141 At the end of the year 909,525 1,305,131 909,525 1,305,131 Classified as current liabilities (repayable within one year) 319,425 398,101 319,425 398,101 Classified as non current liabilities (repayable after one year) 590,100 907,030 590,100 907,030 4.22.1.2 Principal Amounts of Long-term Borrowings Lender Currency Company As at Secured Repayments Tenure 2017 2016 31.03.2017 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 400,000 400,000 37,030 Repayable in 120 instalments commenced from February 2008 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 600,000 600,000 310,000 Repayable in 60 instalments commenced from December 2014 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 800,000 800,000 560,060 Repayable in 60 instalments commenced from October 2015 Total 1,800,000 1,800,000 907,090 Details of land which have been pledged against the above bank loan facilities are disclosed in Note 4.9.3. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 155 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.22.1.3 Analysis of Long-term Borrowings by the year of Repayment Commercial Bank Bank of Total As at 31st March of Ceylon PLC Ceylon 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Movement of Loans At the beginning of the year 1,226,990 75,000 1,301,990 1,597,110 Loans obtained during the year 800,000 Repayments during the year (319,900) (75,000) (394,900) (1,117,662) Exchange rate variance 22,542 At the end of the year 907,090 907,090 1,301,990 Analysis of Long-term Borrowings by Period of Repayment Repayable within 6 months from year end 159,960 159,960 209,980 between 6 months and 1 year 157,030 157,030 184,980 between 1 and 5 years from year end 590,100 590,100 907,030 later than 5 years from year end 907,090 907,090 1,301,990 4.22.2 Short-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Short-term bank loans 7,349,669 4,984,543 7,306,939 4,977,399 Bank overdrafts 123,023 195,322 99,412 170,248 7,472,692 5,179,865 7,406,351 5,147,647 Unutilised bank facilities as at 31st March 2017 amounted to Rs. 5,801.3 million Short-term bank loans are repayable within a period of six months and details of (2015/16 Rs. 6,217.8 million). inventories and trade receivables which have been pledged against the above shortterm loan facilities are disclosed in Note 4.16. 4.23 Employee Benefits Accounting Policy Short-term employee benefits Defined benefit obligation Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is provided. A In accordance with the Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, a liability arises for a defined liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has a present benefit obligation to employees. legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of the past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. Such defined benefit obligation is a post-employment benefit obligation falling within the scope of Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS -19 on ‘Employee Benefits’. Defined contribution plan The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position is the present value A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date. The calculation is performed pays fixed determinable contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method (PUC). constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Remeasurement of the defined benefit liability, which comprises actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in Other Comprehensive Income. The Group Employees are eligible to Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) contributions and recognises the increase in defined benefit liability attributable to the services provided Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF) contributions as per the respective statutes. These by employees during the year (current service cost) in Profit or Loss together with obligations come within the scope of a defined contribution plan as per LKAS -19 the interest expenses. The discount rate has been derived considering the yield on ‘Employee Benefits’. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are of government bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the recognised in Profit or Loss as the related service is provided. Group’s obligations. 156 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information The liability is not externally funded. Accounting Estimate The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases and mortality rates. Due to the longterm nature of this obligation, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. Carrying Value of Defined Benefit Obligation Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Present value of unfunded obligation 626,158 500,505 583,912 468,525 At the beginning of the year 500,505 415,647 468,525 390,664 Current service cost 44,933 36,954 39,560 32,792 Interest cost 52,506 41,538 49,195 39,067 Actuarial loss 40,795 24,719 39,213 22,565 Paid during the year (12,581) (18,353) (12,581) (16,563) At the end of the year 626,158 500,505 583,912 468,525 4.23.1 Defined Benefit Obligation Recognised in Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Statement of Profit or Loss Current service cost 44,933 36,954 39,560 32,792 Interest cost 52,506 41,538 49,195 39,067 97,439 78,492 88,755 71,859 Other Comprehensive Income Actuarial loss 40,795 24,719 39,213 22,565 40,795 24,719 39,213 22,565 Total charge for the year 138,234 103,211 127,968 94,424 An actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31st March 2017 by However, according to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability Mr. M. Poopalanathan, AIA, of Messrs Actuarial and Management Consultants (Pvt) for gratuity to an employee arises only on completion of five years of continuous Ltd., a firm of professional actuaries. service. The liability as required by the Payment of Gratuity Act for the Group and the Company as at 31st March 2017 amounted to Rs. 556.6 million and Rs. 519.0 Actuarial Assumptions million respectively. Sensitivity Analysis Type of assumption Description Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial Financial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would have affected defined Rate of discount 11.50% p.a. (2015/16 10.50% p.a.) benefit obligation by the amounts shown below. Salary escalation rate 11.00% p.a. (2015/16 -10.00% p.a.) Demographic Mortality-in service A 67/70 mortality table, issued by the Institute of Group Company Actuaries, London 1% 1% 1% 1% Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Normal retirement age An executive employee 60 years A non-executive employee 55 years Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rate of discount (23,909) 26,211 (21,880) 23,992 Salary escalation rate 28,483 (26,434) 26,092 (24,214) Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 157 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.24 Deferred Tax Accounting Policy Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purpose and the amounts used recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will for taxation purposes. be available against which they can be used. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred the reporting date. taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future Accounting Estimate Judgement Used taxable profits will be available against which they can be used. Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available and can be utilised against such Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the tax losses. Judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised; such that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits, reductions are reversed when the probability of future taxable profits improves. together with future tax-planning strategies. Carrying Value of Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities) Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Summary of net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) At the beginning of the year (180,450) (125,392) (182,161) (124,860) Origination of temporary differences to Profit or Loss (74,545) (61,979) (76,425) (63,619) Reversal of temporary differences to Other Comprehensive Income 11,423 6,921 10,980 6,318 At the end of the year (Note 4.24.1) (243,572) (180,450) (247,606) (182,161) Made up as follows: Deferred tax assets 4,034 1,711 Deferred tax liabilities (247,606) (182,161) (247,606) (182,161) (243,572) (180,450) (247,606) (182,161) 4.24.1 Reconciliation of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Deferred Tax Liability Temporary difference arising from property, plant and equipment (1,502,871) (1,154,995) (1,473,398) (1,128,160) Total temporary difference of deferred tax liability (1,502,871) (1,154,995) (1,473,398) (1,128,160) Closing deferred tax liability @ 28% (420,803) (323,398) (412,551) (315,885) Deferred Tax Assets Temporary difference arising from defined benefit obligation 626,158 500,505 583,911 468,525 Temporary difference arising from warranty provision 6,811 10,028 5,178 9,063 Total temporary difference of deferred tax assets 632,969 510,533 589,089 477,588 Closing deferred tax assets @ 28% 177,231 142,948 164,945 133,724 Net temporary differences (869,902) (644,462) (884,309) (650,572) Net deferred tax liability (243,572) (180,450) (247,606) (182,161) 158 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information 4.24.2 Movement in Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities during the Year Group Company As at Recognised Recognised in Other As at As at Recognised in Recognised in Other As at 01.04.2016 in Profit or Comprehensive 31.03.2017 01.04.2016 Profit or Loss Comprehensive 31.03.2017 Loss Income Income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax liability (323,398) (97,405) (420,803) (315,885) (96,666) (412,551) Retirement benefit obligation Deferred tax asset 140,140 23,761 11,423 175,324 131,186 21,329 10,980 163,495 Warranty provision Deferred tax asset 2,808 (901) 1,907 2,538 (1,088) 1,450 (180,450) (74,545) 11,423 (243,572) (182,161) (76,425) 10,980 (247,606) 4.25 Deferred Income Accounting Policy Undelivered free services relating to vehicle sales Accounting Estimate The Company sells vehicles bundled with free services to the customers with Relative fair value of free services warranty limitations on mileage or usage period. The unprovided free services are The amount charged by the service provider in respect of each service is recognised deferred at the time of selling the vehicles at its relative fair value and recognised as as the relative fair value of free services. These amounts are estimated using the revenue when the recognition criteria are fulfilled i.e. upon provision of the service or combination of historical experience in service and price changes. expiration of entitled period or/and criteria, whichever occurs first. Carrying Value of Deferred Income Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 354,755 173,243 158,313 123,584 Income deferred during the year 1,110,692 595,906 495,856 247,234 Income amortised during the year (1,129,552) (414,394) (545,550) (212,505) At the end of the year 335,895 354,755 108,619 158,313 4.26 Provisions and Contingent Liabilities Accounting Policy Provisions Provisions are calculated based on the historical experience and the specific terms Provisions are recognised when the Group/Company has a present obligation in the individual cases. The Group arrives at an estimate on the basis of an evaluation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of of the most likely outcome. resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and All known provisions have been accounted for in preparing the Financial Statements. a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance Provisions for extended warranty contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the The Company may offer extended warranties on vehicles on its own account in reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented certain circumstances. The extended warranty is provided by giving a warranty period in Profit or Loss net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is that goes beyond the warranty provided by manufacturers. material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase A provision for warranty is recognised when the underlying products are sold, based in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. on the historical warranty data and a weighting of possible outcomes against their associated probabilities. The said extended warranty provision will be reversed upon expiration of the warranty period. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 159 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Accounting Estimate The Management considers likelihood of any claim succeeding in making provisions. The time of concluding legal claims is uncertain, as is the amount of possible outflow of economic benefits. The timing and cost ultimately depend on the due process in the respective legal jurisdictions. Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Provision for litigation and claims 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 Provisions for extended warranty 3,748 3,748 Provisions for warranty 6,812 6,280 5,179 5,315 17,812 21,028 16,179 20,063 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only Currently the Group/Company is involved in pending litigations and claims arising by uncertain future events or present obligations where the transfer of economic out of the normal conduct of the business. The Group/Company does not expect the benefit is not probable or cannot be readily measured. Further, contingent liabilities pending litigations and claims, individually and in aggregate, to have a material impact are not recognised in Statement of Financial Position but are disclosed unless its on Group’s financial position, operating profit or cash flow in addition to amounts occurrence is remote. accrued as provision for legal disputes. The disclosures relating to contingencies are set out in Note 5.2. 4.27 Trade Payables Accounting Policy Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at in the ordinary course of business. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities amortised cost using the effective interest method. if payment is due within one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Generally trade payables are due within 90 days. Carrying Value of Trade Payables Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Trade payables 1,681,344 1,645,819 1,563,181 1,565,629 4.27.1 Review of Liquidity Risk Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and have settlement periods less than 90 The trade payables of the Group include an amount of Rs. 1,321 million as bills days. The quick assets ratio of the Group and the Company as at the year-end was payable corresponding to goods shipped but not received. At the time of settlement 0.51 and 0.42 respectively (2015/16 Group 0.56:1, Company 0.46:1). As a liquidity of such bills, the Group will obtain short-term loans to cover the working capital cycle risk management measure, the Group/Company continually compare trade payables period of the imports. with receivables, cash and cash equivalents and unutilised banking facilities. Unutilised banking facilities are given in Note 4.22.2. 160 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information 4.28 Other Current Liabilities Accounting Policy The Group classifies all non financial current liabilities under other current liabilities. Other current liabilities include accruals and advances and these liabilities are recorded at the amounts that are expected to be paid. Carrying Value of Other Current Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Advanced received 347,444 247,961 324,903 153,568 Unclaimed dividend 7,996 6,440 7,996 6,440 Value Added Tax (VAT) 21,238 8,068 Other payables and accrued expenses 926,292 847,250 758,221 725,629 1,302,970 1,109,719 1,091,120 885,637 4.28.1 Terms of Settlement of Other Current Liabilities Other current liabilities are non-interest bearing and payable within three months excluding advances and unclaimed dividends. Advances received are expected to be set-off within three months. 4.29 Current Tax Assets and Liabilities Current tax assets are recognised at historical value less impairment. Income tax liabilities are recorded at the amounts expected to be paid. Carrying Value of Current Tax Asset/(Liability) Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Opening balance (65,010) 1,265 (23,004) 3,301 Current tax for the year (Note 4.6) (312,056) (371,474) (236,945) (288,700) (377,066) (370,209) (259,949) (285,399) Tax paid during the year: Current tax and withholding tax 365,173 305,199 244,959 262,395 365,173 305,199 244,959 262,395 Current tax liability (11,893) (65,010) (14,990) (23,004) Made up as follows: Current tax asset 6,393 Current tax liability (18,286) (65,010) (14,990) (23,004) (11,893) (65,010) (14,990) (23,004) Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 161 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.30 Amounts Due (to)/from Subsidiaries Name of the Company DIMO (Private) DIMO Industries DIMO Travels As at As at Ltd (Private) Ltd (Private) Ltd 31.03.2017 31.03.2016 Shareholding 100% 100% 100% Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Opening balance due (to)/from subsidiaries (382,855) 53,686 28 (329,141) (77,170) Sale of goods and services 9,692 9,692 23,618 Purchase of goods and services (33,335) (5,193) (38,528) (22,834) Expenses incurred on behalf of subsidiaries 135,582 7,154 142,736 132,035 Fund transfers net 74,138 23,495 149 97,782 (384,790) Asset transfer 1,629 1,629 Closing balance due (to)/from subsidiaries (195,149) 79,142 177 (115,830) (329,141) 4.30.1 Amounts Due (to)/from Subsidiaries comprise: Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Amounts due from subsidiaries 79,319 53,714 Amounts due to subsidiaries (195,149) (382,855) Amounts due (to)/from subsidiaries (115,830) (329,141) 162 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Section 5 Other Disclosures Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information This section provides information on related party disclosures and other disclosures required by the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 5.1 Related Party Disclosures The Company carried out transactions in the ordinary course of its business with Officers who are employees of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC and Directors parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri Lanka Accounting Standard of the subsidiaries and not of the Company have been classified as KMP of the LKAS 24 on ‘Related Party Disclosures’. respective subsidiary only. The Group revenue includes sales made to Key Management Personnel amounting 5.1.1 (a) Transactions with Key Management Personnel (KMP) to Rs. 14.9 million. (2015/16Rs. 3.2 million) According to Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 24 on ‘Related Party Disclosures’, Key Management Personnel are those having authority and 5.1.1 (b) The Compensation Paid to Key Management Personnel (KMP) responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity directly or indirectly. Accordingly, the Board of Directors of the Company (Executive and The Executive Directors are entitled to a structured incentive scheme which is Non-Executive Directors) have been classified as KMP. As the Company is the linked to performance. ultimate parent of the subsidiaries (listed in Note 2.3), the Board of Directors of the Company has the authority and responsibility for planning or controlling the The Company contributes towards a post-employment contribution plan for the activities of the Group directly or indirectly. Accordingly, the Board of Directors of the Executive Directors. In addition to their salaries, the Company provides non-cash Company (Executive and Non-Executive) are KMP of the Group. benefits to KMP. Key Management Personnel (KMP) are entitled to discount schemes which are There are no share-based payments made to the Directors during the year. uniformly applicable to all employees of the Group. No loans were granted to KMP of the Company. Compensation to Key Management Personnel of the Company are as follows: Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Short-term employment benefits 398,816 257,560 386,694 238,649 Post-employment benefits 71,635 53,650 69,775 49,845 Total compensation applicable to Key Management Personnel 470,451 311,210 456,469 288,494 5.1.2 Transactions with Companies in which Key Management Personnel (KMP) The Company also has an obligation towards a post-employment benefit plan for have Control or Significant Influence the Executive Directors. The liability arising from the post-employment obligation has been provided for, based on an actuarial valuation and is disclosed under Employee There were no transactions with companies on which KMP have control. Benefits in Note 4.23 to the Financial Statements. The transactions with companies on which KMP have significant influence are disclosed in ‘Directors’ Interests in Contracts’ on page 117. 5.1.1 (c) Transactions with Close Family Members of Key Management Personnel (KMP) Close family members are defined as spouse or dependant. A dependant is defined as anyone who depends on the respective Director for more than 50% of his/her financial needs. There were no transactions with the close family members during the year. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 163 IN LINE WITH YOUR EXPECTATIONS Section 5 Other Disclosures 5.1.3 Terms and Conditions of Transactions with the Companies on which Key 5.1.4 Transactions with Group Entities Management Personnel (KMP) have Control or Significant Influence The Company has carried out transactions with Group entities in the ordinary course Outstanding balances at the year-end relating to the companies on which KMP have of business. The details are set out in Note 4.30. control or significant influence over these companies are unsecured, interest free, and all related-party dues are on demand. There have been no guarantees provided The Group has not recorded any impairment for receivables relating to amount owed or received for any related party receivables or payables for the year ended 31st by Group entities (2015/16 Rs. Nil). March 2017. 5.2 Commitments and Contingencies Capital Expenditure Commitments Income tax assessments Capital expenditure committed by the Board of Directors for which a provision has Assessments were received in July 2012, December 2013 and July 2015 not been made in the Financial Statements amounted to approximately Rs. 894.2 respectively based on normal tax rates. Appeals were lodged against the taxes million (2015/16 Rs. 1,004.3 million). assessed by the Department of Inland Revenue and the status of each of the appeals are as follows: Contingencies 2009/2010 – The appeal was determined in favour of the Commissioner General Guarantees of Inland Revenue by the Tax Appeals Commission, and a case stated has been filed The contingent liabilities as at 31st March 2017 on guarantees given by Diesel & with the Court of Appeal by an application made by the Company. Motor Engineering PLC, in respect of bank guarantees, bid bonds and performance bonds amounted to Rs. 1,326.3 million (2015/16 Rs. 975.6 million). 2010/2011 – An appeal made by the Company is currently with the Tax Appeals Commission. Litigation Against the Company The claims for lawsuits filed against the Company as at 31st March 2017 amounted 2012/2013 – An appeal has been lodged with the Department of Inland Revenue to Rs. 30.3 million (2015/16 Rs. 33.3 million). Although, there can be no assurance, within the stipulated time period for the assessment raised. the Directors believe, based on the information currently available that the ultimate resolution of such lawsuits are not likely to have a material effect on the results of Having discussed with the independent legal and tax expert and based on information operations, financial position or liquidity. available, the contingent liability as at 31st March 2017 is estimated to be Rs. 233.4 million (2015/16 – Rs. 291.0 million). 5.3 Operating Lease The Group has leased a number of branches and office premises under operating a periodic basis to recent market conditions. There are no restrictions placed upon leases. These leases have an average life of between five to ten years. Lease the Group by entering into these leases. agreements include clauses to enable upward revision of the rental payments on Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Group Company As at 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Within one year 84,282 71,463 61,895 50,596 Between one to five years 208,275 208,112 149,867 129,355 Over five years 104,732 67,376 104,732 65,338 Total operating lease commitments 397,289 346,951 316,494 245,289 164 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information 5.4 Comparative Information The comparative information is reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s presentation and details are given below: Group Company As at 31st March 2016 ReRe classified 2016 ReRe classified classification 2016 classification 2016 adjustment adjustment Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Property, Plant and Equipment 7,935,112 (5,284) 7,929,828 7,951,099 (5,266) 7,945,833 Intangible Asset 14,293 5,284 19,577 14,293 5,266 19,559 Purchased software which were not integral to the functionality of the related equipment has been reclassified under Intangible Assets. These were previously reported under Property, plant and equipment. 5.5 Events Occurring After the Reporting Period There were no material events that occurred after the reporting date that require adjustments to or disclosure in the Financial Statements. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 165 LEADING THE LINE Supplementary Information Appendix I Share Information 167 Appendix II GRI Content Index 169 Appendix III Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 175 Appendix IV Ten Year Summary 178 Appendix V Glossary 179 Corporate Information 181 Notice of Meeting 182 Form of Proxy 183 166 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Appendix I Share Information Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information 1 Stock Exchange Listing The issued ordinary shares of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC are listed with the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka. The Audited Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31st March 2017 and the Audited Statement of Financial Position at that date have been submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange within three months of the Balance Sheet date. 2 Shareholders The number of Shareholders as at 31st March 2017 was 1,832 (1,770 as at 31st March 2016). No of Shares Held Resident Non Resident Total No of Share No of % No of Share No of % No of Share Total No of % holders Shares holders Shares holders Shares 1 1,000 1,572 173,220 1.95 30 8,654 0.10 1,602 181,874 2.05 1,001 10,000 164 472,656 5.32 8 30,832 0.35 172 503,488 5.67 10,001 100,000 39 1,060,877 11.95 3 80,272 0.90 42 1,141,149 12.86 100,001 1,000,000 15 5,284,666 59.54 15 5,284,666 59.53 1,000,001 and over 1 1,765,260 19.89 1 1,765,260 19.89 Total 1,791 8,756,679 98.65 41 119,758 1.35 1,832 8,876,437 100.00 31st March 2017 31st March 2016 Categories of Shareholders No.of Share No.of % No.of Share No.of % holders Shares holders Shares Individuals 1,747 5,533,193 62.34 1,686 5,513,766 62.12 Institutions 85 3,343,244 37.66 84 3,362,671 37.88 Total 1,832 8,876,437 100.00 1,770 8,876,437 100.00 3 Market Value of Shares The Market value of an ordinary share of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (based on the Volume Weighted Average Price) as at 31st March 2017 was Rs.559.90 (Rs. 549.70 as at 31st March 2016). 4 Dividend Payment 2016/17 2015/16 Rs.Mn Rs.Mn Interim Rs.24.00 per share (Final dividend of Rs.27.00 per share 2015/16) 213,034,488 239,663,799 4 Share Trading Information from 1st April 2016 To 31st March 2017 2016/17 2015/16 Highest (Rs.) 790.00 18-May-16 799.00 12-Aug-15 Lowest (Rs.) 542.00 28-Mar-17 520.10 9-Mar-16 Closing (Rs.) 559.90 31-Mar-17 549.70 31-Mar-16 No.of transactions 1,620 1,228 No. of shares traded 340,293 167,237 Value of shares traded (Rs.) 224,075,773 111,892,715 6 Public Shareholding As at 31st March 2017 2016 Number of Shares 4,131,011 4,133,467 % 46.54 46.57 No. of Public Shareholders 1,813 1,753 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 167 LEADING THE LINE Appendix I Share Information 7 History of Share Issues Year Issue No. of Shares Price (Rs) 2011/12 Scrip (one share per every fifty shares held) 174,048 1,395.00 2006/07 Rights (one share per every ten shares held) 1,100,000 55.00 2006/07 Scrip (one share per every ten shares held) 1,000,000 Nil 2004/05 Scrip (one share per every nine shares held) 1,000,000 Nil 2003/04 Rights (one share per every two shares held) 3,000,000 20.00 2000/01 Scrip (one share per every four shares held) 1,200,000 Nil 1995/96 Scrip (one share per every three shares held) 1,200,000 Nil 1994/95 Scrip (one share per every five shares held) 600,000 Nil 1992/93 Rights (one share per every five shares held) 500,000 75.00 1991/92 Rights (one share per every three shares held) 500,000 30.00 1991/92 Scrip (one share per every four shares held) 500,000 Nil 1989/90 Rights (one share per every two shares held) 500,000 10.00 1987/88 Scrip (one share per every share held) 500,000 Nil 1980/81 Scrip (one share per every share held) 250,000 Nil 8 Changes in Shareholdings of Directors and Their Spouses During 2016/17 Name Shareholding % As at 31.03.2017 Movement Shares As at 31.03.2016 Shares Shares Mr. A.R. Pandithage 21.74 1,929,735 1,929,735 Mr. S.C. Algama 6.48 574,779 574,779 Mr. A.G. Pandithage 6.43 570,862 570,862 Mr. A.N. Algama 2.41 213,739 213,739 Mr. A.M. Pandithage 2.53 224,172 224,172 *Mr. M.V Bandara 0.02 1,882 39.61 3,515,169 3,513,287 * Mr. M. V. Bandara was appointed as a Director on 01st June 2016. He owned 1,882 shares of the Company on the date of his appointment. 9 Top Twenty Shareholders 31st March 2017 31st March 2016 Name Shares % Shares % Employees Provident Fund 1,765,260 19.89 1,639,978 18.48 Mr. A.R. Pandithage 991,233 11.17 991,233 11.17 Mrs. J.C. Pandithage 938,502 10.57 938,502 10.57 A & G Investments (Pvt) Limited 630,844 7.11 630,267 7.10 Mr. S.C. Algama 567,786 6.40 567,786 6.40 Mr. A.G. Pandithage 525,814 5.92 525,814 5.92 Almar Trading Co (Pvt) Ltd 310,875 3.50 310,875 3.50 Mr. A.N. Algama 213,739 2.41 213,739 2.41 Mr. T.G.H. Peries 193,069 2.18 193,069 2.18 Mr. A.M. Pandithage 182,319 2.05 182,319 2.05 Dr. D. Jayanntha 160,000 1.80 160,000 1.80 Miss. T.R.N.C Peries 148,009 1.67 148,009 1.67 Mr. L.P. Algama 134,569 1.52 134,569 1.52 Deutsche Bank Ag AG Trustee for JB Vantage Value Fund 123,733 1.39 123,733 1.39 Estate of The Late Mr. N.U. Algama 118,845 1.34 118,845 1.34 United Motors Lanka PLC 109,883 1.24 111,640 1.26 The Trustee Bank of Ceylon Account No. 1 77,935 0.88 77,935 0.88 Pan Asia Banking Corporation /Almar International (Pvt) Ltd 62,810 0.71 62,810 0.71 Mrs. I.S. Salgado 46,000 0.52 46,000 0.52 Mrs. H.S. Pandithage 45,048 0.51 45,048 0.51 7,346,273 82.78 7,222,171 81.38 10 The stated capital represents 8,876,437 Ordinary shares. 168 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Appendix II GRI Content Index Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 181 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 82-93 102-3 Location of headquarters 181 102-4 Location of operations 69 102-5 Ownership and legal form 181 102-6 Markets served 69,82-93 102-7 Scale of the organization 75,82-93,69-70, 123,124, http://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 69, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 102-9 Supply chain 82-93 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 10,69, 82-93,64, 72-73 supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 11, 44,70, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 102-12 External initiatives 16-17,44, 70, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 102-13 Membership of associations 109 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8-11 & 12-15 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-11 & 12-15, 82-93, 56-61 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 5, 16-17, 30-31 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 107, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance Governance 102-18 Governance structure 41, 42 102-19 Delegating authority 34, 42 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 34, 42 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 16-17,34-35,42 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and 49-55, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityits committees performance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance 54, http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship body 102-25 Conflicts of interest http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 114-116 purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 24-27 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s 114-116 performance Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 169 LEADING THE LINE Appendix II GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, 94-111 and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 56-61 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social 114-116, http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability 16-17 reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 78, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 78, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 102-35 Remuneration policies Confidentiality Not disclosure Constraints due to confidentiality of the data 102-36 Process for determining remuneration http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration Confidentiality Not disclosure 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Constraints due to confidentiality 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation of the data ratio Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 35 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 34 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 35 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 37 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 21 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 16-17, 19 102-47 List of material topics 36 102-48 Restatements of information 16 102-49 Changes in reporting 37 102-50 Reporting period 16 102-51 Date of most recent report May-2016 102-52 Reporting cycle 16 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 181 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 16-17 Standards 102-55 GRI content index 169-174 102-56 External assurance 175-177 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Material Topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Economic Performance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95-97 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 95-97 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 95-97 170 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 96 Performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and No major impact. Will report on this next year. opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 156-157, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityretirement plans performance 201-4 Financial assistance received from government None Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,106-109 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 106-109 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 106-109 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 106-109 Economic Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 106-109 2016 Procurement Practices GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,72-74, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 72-74, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 72-74, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 74 Practices 2016 GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series Materials GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,100-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 100-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 95,100-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 101 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 101 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Energy GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 100-107, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 100-107, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 101 2016 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 302-3 Energy intensity 101 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 103,http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance services Water GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 171 LEADING THE LINE Appendix II GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 102-103 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 103 Emissions GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 100 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 100 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 100 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 100 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 100 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and 100 other significant air emissions Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance GRI 306: Effluents 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 306-3 Significant spills http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not applicable 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/ http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Not applicable or runoff Environmental Compliance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 98-105, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Environmental regulations Compliance 2016 GRI 400 Social Standards Series Employment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 172 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Labor/Management Relations GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance GRI 402: Labor/ 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Management changes Relations 2016 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance GRI 403: Occupational 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint managementhttp://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Health and Safety worker health and safety committees 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 78 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance agreements with trade unions Training and Education GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76-79, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 77,http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitytransition assistance programs performance 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 78 performance and career development reviews Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance discrimination 2016 taken Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance GRI 412: Human 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Rights Assessment reviews or impact assessments 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance procedures 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 173 LEADING THE LINE Appendix II GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Local Communities GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 95,http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Communities 2016 impact assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance negative impacts on local communities Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 44,70, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance GRI 416: Customer 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Health and Safety product and service categories 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance and safety impacts of products and services Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 70,http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance GRI 417: Marketing 417-1 Requirements for product and service information http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance and Labeling 2016 and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance communications Customer Privacy GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 44,http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityApproach 2016 performance 103-2 The management approach and its components http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Privacy 2016 customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance Socioeconomic social and economic area Compliance 2016 174 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Appendix III Independent Assurance Statement Value Creation Financial Information on Non-Financial Reporting Supplementary Information Scope and Approach Responsibilities of the Management of DIMO level sustainability data and implementation of DNV GL represented by DNV GL Business and of the Assurance Providers sustainability strategy. We were free to choose Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited has been The Management of DIMO have the sole sites we visited; commissioned by the management of Diesel responsibility for the preparation of the Report »» Review of supporting evidence for key and Motor Engineering plc (‘DIMO’ or ‘the as well as the processes for collecting, analysing sustainability related statements, claims and Company’) to carry out an independent assurance and reporting the information presented in the data in the Report; engagement (Type 2, Moderate level) for the nonReport. In performing our assurance work, our financial qualitative and quantitative information responsibility is to the Management; however, our »» Review of the processes for gathering and (sustainability performance) reported in DIMO’s statement represents our independent opinion consolidating the specified performance Integrated Annual Report 2016 (‘the Report’) in its and is intended to inform the outcome of our data and, for a sample, checking the data printed format for the financial year ending 31st assurance to the stakeholders of the Company. consolidation; March 2017. The sustainability disclosures in this DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of Report are prepared by DIMO in accordance with any statements or data included in the Report »» An independent assessment of DIMO’s the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option of the except for this Assurance Statement. reporting against the GRI Standards and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability reporting requirements for its in accordance: Reporting Standards 2016 (‘GRI Standards’). DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based Comprehensive option. on the assumption that the data and information We performed our work using AccountAbility’s provided by the Company to us as part of our During the assurance process, we did not AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000 review have been provided in good faith. We come across limitations to the scope of the AS) and DNV GL’s assurance methodology were not involved in the preparation of any agreed assurance engagement. The reported VeriSustainTM 1, which is based on our professional statements or data included in the Report except data on economic performance, expenditure experience, international assurance best practice for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL expressly towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) including International Standard on Assurance disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any and other financial data are based on audited Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) Revised*. Our decision a person or an entity may make based on financial statements issued by the Company’s assurance engagement was planned and carried this Assurance Statement. statutory auditors and were subject to a separate out in May – June 2017. independent audit process. Basis of our Opinion The intended user of this assurance statement is A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and Opinion the Management of DIMO (‘the Management’). assurance specialists performed work at DIMO’s On the basis of the verification undertaken, We disclaim any liability or responsibility to a Head Office at Colombo, and sample operations in nothing came to our attention to suggest that third party for decisions, whether investment or Sri Lanka. We undertook the following activities: the Report does not properly describe DIMO’s otherwise, based on this assurance statement. adherence for the chosen reporting option of »» Review of DIMO’s approach towards The reporting topic Boundaries of sustainability the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards as stakeholder engagement and materiality performance are based on an internal and described below: determination process and the outcomes as external stakeholder engagement process carried reported in this Report. We did not have any »» GRI 101: Foundation 2016: This report is out by the Company and covers operations of direct engagement with external stakeholders; prepared based on this Foundation standard DIMO and its subsidiaries in Sri Lanka as well as and chosen the GRI Standards: Comprehensive selected activities in its value chain; this is as set »» Interviews with selected senior managers option of reporting, however, the Report may out in the Report in the sections ‘How to Read responsible for management of sustainability disclose explicitly the application of all the the Report’ and ‘Stakeholder Engagement and issues and review of selected evidence to principles for defining Report Quality and Material Issues’. support issues discussed. We were free to Content. choose interviewees and interviewed those We planned and performed our work to obtain the with overall responsibility to deliver the »» GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016: The evidence we considered necessary to provide a Company’s sustainability objectives; reported information on General Disclosures basis for our assurance opinion and the process meets the disclosure requirements for the GRI did not involve engagement with external »» Site visits to sample branch operations Standards: Comprehensive option of reporting; stakeholders. workshop and branch at Kurunegala, and it was observed that certain disclosures (102the Bosch centre at Colombo to review 35 to 39) are not reported citing the reason for processes and systems for preparing site omission as confidentiality of information. 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on www.dnvgl.com * Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 175 LEADING THE LINE Appendix III Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting »» GRI 103: Management Approach 2016: The The Report brings out omission/partial reporting strategies, management systems and governance Report generally captures the Management of the performance indicators (201-2, 305-7, mechanisms as applicable. However, the Report Approach for the identified material topics 306-4, 306-5, 403-2) with a commitment to needs to strengthen its responses towards and its boundaries, policies, commitments, reporting them in the future. sustainability objectives and targets set out for resources, objectives and targets, and a short, medium and long term basis including sustainability performance monitoring Observations the sustainability context. Further, the Report mechanisms. Without affecting our assurance opinion, we could bring out strategies and changes in also provide the following observations. We have management systems wherever achievements »» Topic-specific Standards: The Report has evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following and shortfalls were identified with respect to brought out disclosures related to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and previous commitments, to further strengthen its Performance Indicators for the identified ‘Needs Improvement’: responsiveness. In our opinion, the level at which material topics: the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Materiality Economic Reliability The process of determining the issues that is most • Economic Performance – 201-1, 201-3, relevant to an organization and its stakeholders. The accuracy and comparability of information 201-4; presented in the report, as well as the quality of • Indirect Economic Impacts – 203-1, Material topics were identified for reporting underlying data management systems. 203-2; based on inputs from its engagement with internal and external stakeholders. The materiality The majority of data and information verified at • Procurement Practices – 204-1; determination process included a stakeholder Head Office and at sample operational sites we engagement survey, an analysis of feedback visited were found to be fairly accurate. Some Environmental from the survey, and assessment of stakeholder of the data inaccuracies identified during the • Materials – 301-1, 301-2, 301-3; verification process were found to be attributable concerns by the Group Management Committee. • Energy – 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4; The process prioritises and fairly explains material to transcription, interpretation and aggregation • Water – 303-1, 303-2, 303-3; topics based on stakeholder engagement errors and the errors have been corrected. surveys, and these are fairly brought out within Hence in accordance with the AA1000AS • Emissions – 305-1, 305-2 305-3, 305the Report. In our opinion, the level at which the (2008) requirements for a Type 2, moderate 4, 305-5; Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. level assurance engagement, we conclude that • Effluents and Waste – 306-1, 306-2, sustainability data and information presented 306-3; Inclusivity in the Report is reliable and acceptable. In our • Environmental Compliance – 307-1; The participation of stakeholders in developing and opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to achieving an accountable and strategic response this principle is ‘Good’. Social to Sustainability. Specific Evaluation of the Information on • Employment – 401-1, 401-2, 401-3; DIMO has established and undertaken a formal Sustainability Performance • Labor/Management Relations – 402-1; and independent stakeholder engagement We consider the methodology and processes • Occupational Health and Safety – 403process to understand and identify sustainability for gathering information developed by DIMO 1, 403-3, 403-4; issues and concerns of its key stakeholder for its sustainability performance reporting to be • Training and Education – 404-1, 404-2, groups, and these concerns are assessed by the appropriate, and the qualitative and quantitative 404-3; Group Management Committee and the Board. data included in the Report was found to • Non-discrimination – 406-1; The outcome of stakeholder engagement is fairly be identifiable and traceable; the personnel brought out in the Report. In our opinion, the level responsible were able to demonstrate the origin • Human Rights Assessment – 412-1, at which the Report adheres to this principle is and interpretation of the data and its reliability. 412-2, 412-3; ‘Good’. We observed that the Report presents a faithful • Local Communities – 413-1, 413-2; description of the reported sustainability activities • Customer Health and Safety – 416-1, Responsiveness for the reporting period. 416-2; The extent to which an organization responds to stakeholder issues. Sustainability Context • Marketing and Labelling – 417-1, 4172, 417-3; Representation of the organization’s performance The Report brings out how the Company in relation to broader concepts of sustainability. • Customer Privacy – 418-1; monitors and responds to key concerns raised • Socioeconomic Compliance – 419-1. by its stakeholders on identified material The Report has attempted to capture the issues, and its responses in terms of policies, sustainability context through the disclosures 176 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information related to Management Approach, however the at which the Report adheres to this principle is • DIMO may strengthen disclosures related to Report may further strengthen its disclosures ‘Acceptable’. Management Approach by bringing out the by presenting its performance with reference targets and performance against targets for its to broader sustainable development goals and Neutrality key material topics. conditions, and national regional and international The extent to which a report provides a balanced • The materiality determination process may be priorities. In our opinion, the level at which the account of an organization’s performance, further improved by identifying, prioritising and Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. delivered in a neutral tone. bringing out material issues specific to each Completeness business vertical and considering impacts The disclosures related to sustainability issues which are external to each business. How much of all the information that has been and performances are presented in a neutral identified as material to the organisation and its tone, in terms of content and presentation and are • The Report may consider inclusion of reporting stakeholders is reported. generally aligned to DIMO’s strategy and vision. In recommendations related to the GRI Standards our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to further improve upon the Report Quality and The Report generally meets the principle of to the principle of Neutrality is ‘Good’. Content. Completeness with respect to scope, boundary and time, however it was observed that certain Opportunities for Improvement • Internal management systems related to performance indicators for identified material sustainability aspects and the reliability of The following is an excerpt from the observations topics are omitted/partially reported due to nonreported sustainability data may be reinforced and further opportunities for improvement availability of data and where systems for reporting by including GRI Standard requirements and reported to the management of DIMO and are performance indicators are being established; the by implementing quality assurance systems for not considered for drawing our conclusion on the Company has committed to reporting the same in data. Report; however, they are generally consistent the future as indicated. In our opinion, the level with the Management’s objectives: For DNV GL Rathika de Silva Kiran Radhakrishnan Vadakepatth Nandkumar Country Head Lead Verifier Assurance Reviewer DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka (Private) Assessor Sustainability Services Regional Sustainability Manager -Regional Sustainability Limited, Colombo, Sri Lanka DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Operations Region India and Middle East Limited, India. DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. 2nd June 2017, Colombo, Sri Lanka. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 177 LEADING THE LINE Appendix IV Ten Year Summary Year Ended 31st March 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 2008/09 2007/08 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Operating Results Revenue 44,492,990 37,749,750 28,037,376 20,884,674 27,711,604 39,862,943 29,357,271 10,530,587 9,187,966 12,687,289 Profit before taxation 1,043,392 1,380,059 847,033 512,858 490,021 3,724,521 3,395,980 420,095 175,082 344,444 Income tax (386,601) (433,453) (250,950) (119,317) (27,871) (1,022,870) (1,274,228) (141,842) (72,054) (139,351) Profit for the year 656,791 946,606 596,083 393,541 462,150 2,701,651 2,121,752 278,253 103,028 205,093 Capital Employed Stated capital 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 182,500 182,500 182,500 182,500 Other components of equity 2,839,898 2,839,356 2,838,894 2,018,475 2,014,752 2,014,752 1,135,612 1,135,612 1,135,612 311,522 Revenue reserves 6,899,747 6,725,026 5,973,747 5,473,721 5,191,118 5,000,566 2,882,735 882,816 686,733 1,163,129 Total equity 10,164,942 9,989,679 9,237,938 7,917,493 7,631,167 7,440,615 4,200,847 2,200,928 2,004,845 1,657,151 Total borrowings 8,382,217 6,484,996 5,253,838 5,950,126 3,417,800 5,045,829 3,068,466 1,966,600 2,709,671 2,802,374 Total capital employed 18,547,159 16,474,675 14,491,776 13,867,619 11,048,967 12,486,444 7,269,313 4,167,528 4,714,516 4,459,525 Assets Employed Noncurrent assets 8,357,266 7,982,821 8,039,357 6,937,410 5,719,010 4,763,435 3,099,509 2,149,406 2,234,911 1,463,068 Current assets 14,402,152 12,349,823 9,910,853 9,157,244 7,183,369 10,536,783 7,839,972 3,389,023 3,028,263 4,368,090 Total liabilities (excluding borrowings) (4,212,259) (3,857,969) (3,458,434) (2,227,035) (1,851,412) (2,813,774) (3,670,168) (1,370,901) (548,658) (1,371,633) Total assets employed 18,547,159 16,474,675 14,491,776 13,867,619 11,048,967 12,486,444 7,269,313 4,167,528 4,714,516 4,459,525 Cash Flow Net cash from/(used in) operating activities (654,758) (836,816) 648,049 (726,849) 3,207,700 (2,430,074) 1,793,848 846,833 625,652 520,706 Net cash from/(used in) investing activities (684,812) (223,129) (677,408) (1,361,283) (970,581) (788,829) (937,710) (24,275) 1,918 (519,212) Net cash from/(used in) financing activities (847,598) (495,191) (340,735) 975,156 (474,062) 277,902 (377,658) (295,885) (416,861) 179,289 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2,187,168) (1,555,136) (370,094) (1,112,976) 1,763,057 (2,941,001) 478,480 526,673 210,709 180,783 Key Indicators Earnings per share (Rs.) 73.99 106.64 67.15 44.34 51.16 304.36 239.03 27.97 9.36 16.95 Net assets per share (Rs.) 1,145.16 1,125.42 1040.73 891.97 859.71 838.24 473.26 252.92 230.39 136.95 Market value per share (Rs.) 559.90 549.70 630.00 505.00 505.00 982.20 1,484.70 394.25 60.25 88.75 Dividend per share (Rs.) 24.00 27.00 20.00 10.00 10.00 40.00 61.00 7.00 3.00 4.00 Dividends approved/ Paid (Rs.’000) 213,034 239,664 177,529 88,764 88,764 244,102 443,822 34,810 26,107 48,400 Annual sales growth (%) 17.86 34.64 34.25 24.64 (30.48) 35.91 178.78 14.61 (27.58) (2.33) Equity to total assets ratio (%) 44.66 49.13 51.46 49.19 59.15 48.63 38.40 39.78 38.09 28.42 Dividends cover (no. of times) 3.08 3.95 3.36 4.43 5.11 7.61 4.00 3.11 2.34 4.02 Price earnings ratio (no. of times) 7.57 5.15 9.38 11.39 9.70 3.23 6.21 14.89 6.44 5.24 Current ratio (no. of times) 1.33 1.47 1.45 1.50 1.71 1.60 1.27 1.20 1.31 1.26 Turnover to capital employed (no. of times) 2.40 2.29 1.93 1.51 2.51 3.19 4.04 2.53 1.95 2.84 Interest Cover (no. of times) 2.22 3.93 3.00 2.42 2.42 15.67 17.35 2.20 1.31 1.67 Average no. of employees 1,649 1,554 1,524 1,518 1,433 1,179 942 867 869 866 178 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Appendix V Glossary Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Accounting Policies Cash Equivalents Direct Employment The specific principles, bases, conventions, rules Short –term highly liquid investments that are The workers employed by the company. and practices adopted by an entity in preparing readily convertible to known amounts of cash and presenting Financial Statements. and which are subject to an insignificant risk of Discount Rate changes in value. A rate used to place a current value on future cash Accolades flows. It is needed to reflect the fact that money Awards and privileges granted as a special honour CFC has a time value. or as an acknowledgement of merit. Chlorofluorocarbon a class of compounds harmful to the ozone layer. Dividend Cover Accrual Basis Profit after tax divided by gross dividends. This Recording revenues and expenses in the period CFL ratio measures the number of times dividend is in which they are earned or incurred regardless Compact fluorescent lamp. An energy-saving covered by current year’s distributable profits. of whether cash is received or disbursed in that lamp. period. Dividend Payout Ratio Chemical Oxygen Demand The percentage of earnings paid to shareholders Actuarial Gain/Loss on defined benefit plan A measure of the capacity of water to consume in dividends. Gain or loss arising from the difference between oxygen during the decomposition of organic estimates and actual experience in an entity’s matter and the oxidation of inorganic chemicals. Dust Extractors defined benefit plan. A system used to enhance the quality of Consolidate Financial Statements air released from industrial and commercial Amortised Cost Consolidated Financial Statements are the processes by collecting dust and other impurities Amount at which the financial asset or financial financial statements of a Group in which assets, from air or gas. liability is measured at initial recognition, minus liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative of the parent and its subsidiaries are presented as Effective Interest Rate (EIR) amortisation using the effective interest method those of a single economic entity. of any difference between that initial amount and Rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash the maturity amount and minus any reduction for payments or receipts through the expected life of Credit Rating the financial instruments or when appropriate, a impairment or un-collectability. An evaluation of a corporate’s ability to repay its shorter period to the net carrying amount of the obligations or likelihood of not defaulting, carried financial asset or financial liability. Apprenticeship out by an independent rating agency. Method in which trainees learn a skill or trade by Effective Tax Rate hands-on experience while working with a skilled Current Ratio Provision for taxation expressed as a percentage worker. Total current assets divided by total current of the profit before taxation. liabilities. Asset Turnover Emissions The amount of sales generated for every rupee Debt to Equity Ratio Emission of fumes, dust & ozone depleting gases worth of assets. It is calculated by dividing sales by assets. Debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds. to the atmosphere. AWPR Deferred Taxation Energy Intensity Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate as Sum set aside for income tax in the Financial Total energy consumed by the Group divided by published by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. Statements that may become payable/receivable the number of full time employees of the Group as in a financial year other than the current financial at the year-end. year. It arises because of temporary differences Basis Point (bp) between tax rules and accounting conventions. Equity One-hundredth of a percentage point (0.01 per cent); 100 basis points is 1 percentage point. Shareholders’ funds. Degradation Used in quoting movements in interest rates or yields on securities. The process in which the status or quality of Ethical something is destroyed or spoiled. Relating to moral principles. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 179 LEADING THE LINE Appendix V Glossary E-Waste Interest Cover Recycle Electronic waste, especially mobile phones, A ratio showing the number of times interest The process of converting waste into reusable televisions and personal computers. charges is covered by earnings before interest material. and tax. Exhaust Gas Risk Appetite Gases ejected from an engine as waste products. LED The amount and type of risk that an organisation Light Emitting Diode used as energy-efficient is willing to take in order to meet their strategic lighting. objectives. Fair Value The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction Loan to Value Ratio Risk Management between market participants at the measurement Financial term used by lenders to express the ratio The identification, analysis, assessment, control, date. of a loan to the value of an asset purchased. and avoidance, minimization, or elimination of unacceptable risks. Financial Instrument Market Capitalisation A financial instrument is any contract that gives The value of a company obtained by multiplying Stewardship rise to both a financial asset in one entity and a the number of ordinary shares in issue by the The role of supervising or taking care of the financial liability or equity instrument in another market value as at a date. organisation. entity. Net Assets Storm Water Financial Leverages Total assets minus long term and current liabilities. Surface water in abnormal quantity resulting from A measure of how an entity used its debt capital heavy falls of rain. to finance its assets, calculated as total assets Net Assets Per Share divided by total shareholders’ equity. Net assets at the year-end divided by the number Toxic of shares in issue. Poisonous. Grey Water Wastewater composed of wash water from Net Profit Ratio Water Consumption workshops, kitchen and bathroom. Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the Usage of water by means of municipal supply, parent divided by total revenue. ground water or rain water harvesting. Groundwater Water found below the surface. Organic Waste Working Capital Bio-degradable waste. Total current assets minus current liabilities. Hazardous Waste Waste that cannot be handled by routine waste Particles Workshops management methods because of its biological, chemical or physical properties that may pose a A minute portion of matter. Locations that carry out the activity of servicing, danger to living organisms, materials, structures or repair, tinkering painting and washing of vehicles. the environment. PH Level Level of potential of hydrogen which is used to Human Rights measure acidity or alkalinity of water soluble A right which is believed to belong to every person. substances. Incineration Price Earnings Ratio The destruction of something, especially waste Market price of a share divided by the earnings material, by burning. per share. Infrastructure Quick Assets Ratio The basic physical and organizational structures Total current assets minus inventories, divided by and facilities needed for the operation of a society current liabilities. or enterprise. 180 ON THE FRONT LINE Introductory Statements Context Enterprise Governance Corporate Information Value Creation Financial Information Supplementary Information Name of the Company Auditors Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC KPMG, Chartered Accountants, Registered Office P.O. Box 186, P.O. Box 339, No 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 3, Sri Lanka. Colombo 14, Sri Lanka. Telephone: +94-11-2449797, Lawyers +94-112338883 Julius & Creasy www.dimolanka.com Attorneys-at-law & Notaries Public E-mail: dimo@dimolanka.com P.O. Box 154, Facsimile: +94-11-2449080 No 41, Janadhipathi Mawatha Colombo 01 Legal Form Sri Lanka A public limited Company incorporated in 1945 under the Laws of the Democratic Socialist Bankers Republic of Sri Lanka. The Company was Bank of Ceylon re-registered as per the requirements of the Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 on 9th May 2008. DFCC Bank PLC Hatton National Bank PLC Company Registration Number Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd PQ 146 Nations Trust Bank PLC NDB Bank PLC Founded People’s Bank Sampath Bank PLC 1939 Company Secretary Accounting Year End B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, F.C.A., M.B.A. (Sri J.) 31st March Company Registrars Tax Payer Identification Number (TIN) Jacey and Company 104002498 No.9/5, Thambiah Avenue Off Independence Avenue Stock Exchange Listing Colombo 07 The ordinary shares of the Company are listed Sri Lanka with the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 181 LEADING THE LINE Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Seventy Second 10. To re-appoint the retiring Auditors Messrs Annual General Meeting of Diesel & Motor KPMG, Chartered Accountants, to hold Engineering PLC will be held at the registered office until the conclusion of the next Annual office of the Company, No. 65, Jetawana Road, General Meeting and to authorise the Colombo 14, on Friday, 30th June 2017 at 10.00 Directors to determine their remuneration. a.m. and the business to be brought before the meeting will be: 11. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. Agenda The profiles of the Directors proposed for re1. To receive and consider the Audited Financial election are given on pages 26 to 27 of the Statements for the Year Ended 31st March Annual Report. 2017, the Report of the Auditors and the Annual Report of the Board of Directors for NOTE the said year. A member is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend 2. To re-elect Mr. S. C. Algama, Director, who and vote instead of himself/herself and a proxy retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of need not be a member of the company. A form of the Articles of Association of the Company. proxy is enclosed for this purpose. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at office 3. To re-elect Dr. H. Cabral, Director, who of the Registrars to the Company, Jacey and retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of Company, No. 9/5, Thambiah Avenue, Colombo the Articles of Association of the Company. 07, not less than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting. 4. To re-elect Mr. B. C. S. A. P. Gooneratne, Director, who retires by rotation in terms of By Order of the Board, Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 5. To elect Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte, Director, who retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Company Registration No. PQ-146 6. To elect Mr. M. V. Bandara, Director, who retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 7. To elect Mr. P. K. W. Mahendra, Director, who retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 8. To elect Mr. S. R. W. M. C. Ranawana, Director, who retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company. B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Secretary 9. To re-appoint as a Director Mr. R. Seevaratnam, who is 73 years old and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of Colombo the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 (the Act). 23rd May 2017 Notice is hereby given to propose the undernoted Ordinary Resolution in compliance with Section 211 of the Act, in relation to his re-appointment. “RESOLVED THAT Mr. R. Seevaratnam, who is 73 years of age be and is hereby re-appointed a Director of the Company and it is hereby declared that the age limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 shall not apply to the said Mr. R. Seevaratnam.” 182 ON THE FRONT LINE Form of Proxy I/We the undersigned ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... of ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. being a shareholder / shareholders of DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC hereby appoint ............................................................................................................................................... of .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Holder of NIC No. ...................................................................................................... whom failing, Mr. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage whom failing Mr. Aruna Gahanath Pandithage whom failing Mr. Ajit Nimal Algama whom failing Mr. Sarath Chandrasiri Algama whom failing Mr. Mudiyanselage Vijitha Bandara whom failing Dr. Harsha Cabral whom failing Mr. Bodiyabaduge Charindra Suresh Alexius Perera Gooneratne whom failing Mr. Pushpawela Kankanamge Wijith Mahendra whom failing Mr. Abeykumar Mohan Pandithage whom failing Mr. Sri Rama Waidayasekera Mudiyanselage Chaminda Ranawana whom failing Mr. Ranjeevan Seevaratnam whom failing Mr. Asite Drupath Bandara Talwatte whom failing Mr. Rohana Channa Weerawardane whom failing as my/our* proxy to represent me/us*and to vote and *…………… as indicated hereunder for me/us and on my/our behalf at the SEVENTY SECOND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Company to be held on Friday, 30th June, 2017 and at any adjournment thereof, and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. I/We* the undersigned hereby authorise my/our* proxy to vote on my/our* behalf in accordance with the preference indicated below:For Against 1. To receive and consider the Audited Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31st March 2017, the Report of the Auditors and the Annual Report of the Board for the said year 2. To re-elect Mr. S. C. Algama, Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 3. To re-elect Dr. H. Cabral, Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 4. To re-elect Mr. B. C. S. A. P. Gooneratne, Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 5. To elect Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte, Director, who retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 6. To elect Mr. M. V. Bandara, Director, who retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 7. To elect Mr. P. K. W. Mahendra, Director, who retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 8. To elect Mr. S. R. W. M. C. Ranawana, Director, who retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company. 9. To re-appoint as a Director Mr. R. Seevaratnam, who is 73 years old and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 (the Act), the Resolution pertaining to which re-appointment is set out in the Notice of Meeting of the Annual General Meeting. 10. To re-appoint the retiring Auditors Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. 11. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. As witness my/our hand this ………………………. day of ………………… Two Thousand and Seventeen. Witness: ..................................................................................... ..................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................... Signature of Shareholder Please delete as appropriate. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Annual Report 2016/17 183 LEADING THE LINE Notes: If you wish your Proxy to speak at the Meeting you should insert the words “to speak and” in the place indicated with an asterisk and initial such insertion. Please indicate with an “ ” in the space provided how your Proxy is to vote. If there is in the view of the Proxy holder doubt (by reason of the way in which the instructions contained in the Proxy have been completed) as to the way in which the Proxy holder should vote, the Proxy holder shall vote as he thinks fit. A Proxy holder need not be a member of the Company Instructions as to completion are given below. Instruction as to Completion 1. To be valid this Form of Proxy must be deposited at the office of the Registrars to the Company, Jacey and Company, No. 9/5, Thambiah Avenue, Colombo 07 not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the Meeting. 2. The full name and address of the Proxy holder and of the Shareholder appointing the Proxy holder should be entered legibly in the Form of Proxy. 3. If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman (or failing him, one of the Directors) as your Proxy, please insert the relevant details overleaf and initial against this entry. 4. In the case of a Company/Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal, which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 5. If the Proxy Form is signed by an Attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney or a notarial certified copy thereof,should also accompany the completed Form of Proxy if it had not already registered with the Company Designed & produced by Digital Plates & Printing by Softwave Printing and Publishing (Pvt) Ltd Photography by Dhanush De Costa
