CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 COMMUNICATING ON OUR PROGRESS Cover: Many Asian cities face issues with urban heat island effects and poor ambient air quality. By using digital models, Ramboll air quality experts are able to identify how the design and placement of new buildings can be optimised. For example, we analyse the air flow and incorporate the results into urban planning in Hong Kong, resulting in improved liveability. Image: Hong Kong near the Chinese industrial city of Shenzhen – Jerome Favre photographer. 3 INTRODUCTION Main achievements in CR Report 2016 3 Driving sustainability 4 Identifying material issues 5 Our approach to sustainability 6 8 SHAPING SUSTAINABLE SOCIETIES Impact through projects 10 Adapting to climate change 11 Transforming to green energy 11 Balanced resource consumption 11 Designing resilient city infrastructure 12 Creating socially sustainable projects 13 Active member of society 14 Advocating for balanced solutions 14 Engaging with our community 15 16 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS Being the employer of choice 18 Ensuring employee engagement 18 Promoting an inclusive work place 20 Creating safe working environments 22 Protecting our people 22 Managing our environmental impact 24 Reducing our carbon footprint 24 Improving environmental management 26 Driving a high integrity business 27 Governing compliance risks 27 Ensuring compliance among employees 28 Taking a lead on anti-corruption 29 Respecting human rights 30 Grievance mechanisms 31 Responsible supply chain management 32 Strategic approach to client and project selection 32 Tax contribution 33 34 DETAILED REPORTING KPI reporting overview 34 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 36 About this report 38 Read the report online here: www.ramboll.com/CRreport2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 3 MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS IN CR REPORT 2016 Definition of CRtarget areas Materiality First human rights impact We have refined our assessment carried out assessment conducted approach to sustainability, We conducted our first We completed our first formalised in the four target materiality assessment in human rights impact areas: Health & Safety, collaboration with KPMG, assessment at Ramboll’s Anti-Corruption, Carbon which formed the basis head office, identifying Footprint and Diversity. for our sustainability actual and potential adverse focus areas within the human rights impacts. new Group strategy. Ramboll is a leading engineering, design and consultancy company founded in Denmark in 1945. The company employs 13,000 globally and has especially strong representation in the Nordics, UK, North America, Continental Europe, Middle East and Asia Pacific. Ramboll works across the markets: Buildings, Transport, Planning & Urban Design, Water, Environment & Health, Energy, Oil & Gas and Management Consulting. www.ramboll.com In connection with the development of our new Group Strategy in 2016, we identified UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 as focus areas for our projects and services. In addition, we selected SDGs 5, 7, 8, 13 and 16 as the SDGs where our own operations have the greatest impact. 4 INTRODUCTION DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY 2016 witnessed a historic and aligned commitment to sustainable development on the global stage. The Paris Agreement on climate change entered into force on 4 November, and the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development embodies a global call to action with 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These goals – and the global commitment to them – are of major importance. They set direction. But they do not get the job done. That is now up to policy makers, investors and businesses, whose strategies and actions must be guided by a shared vision of the future. At Ramboll this is exactly what we want to do. Contributing to society’s sustainable development is not a new focus area for us. We have been committed to creating long-term value for clients, people and society since our founding more than 70 years ago. We remain committed to the UN Global Compact Principles, which we joined in 2007. And we actively engage in public and political dialogue to influence agendas, e.g. at key events such as UN Climate Week, the World Cities Summit and COP conferences. Initially, we have chosen to focus on the SDGs where our But we also believe that the time has come to take our own performance is of highest importance, based on contribution to the next level. This is why sustainability is a the materiality assessment performed in 2016. From this foundational element of our new Group Strategy, ‘Winning selection we have defined the four areas – Health & Safety, Together’. We have asked ourselves where our expert Anti-Corruption, Carbon Footprint and Diversity – where consultancy and solutions have the biggest impact on the new targets will guide our efforts going forward. Our long-term development of society and achieving the SDGs. targets will be realistic and ambitious. The answers will be reflected in the future development of Ramboll, our services and our markets. Our direction is set. In the ‘Demonstrating our progress’ section of this report, we share our 2016 results, efforts In the ‘Shaping Sustainable Societies’ section of this report, and thoughts. In addition to these four new target areas, we share some of our 2016 projects that contribute to other highlights include the completion of our materiality creating resilient societies. assessment and human rights impact assessment all of which position us to work in a structured way to ensure While our projects have the largest impact on society, positive business impacts. it is important to Ramboll that we also walk the talk by reducing negative impacts from our operations. We want I am pleased to share our progress in this Corporate our 13,000 employees to feel safe, enriched and proud Responsibility Report 2016. when working with us, and the 35 countries that host Ramboll offices should feel confident that we do our utmost to manage our social, environmental and economic Jens-Peter Saul impacts. Group CEO, Ramboll These ambitions are reflected in Our Commitment to Society and Our Commitment to People. Our Commitments also address Clients and Company, and they communicate the value we promise to create for our most important stakeholders. They were launched in December 2016 as a part of Our Fundamentals, which also include new mission, vision and values. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 5 IDENTIFYING MATERIAL ISSUES 4.0 Client & project acceptance Business integrity Innovation & technology Sustainable cities Human rights Health & safety Water scarcity Energy transition Importance to stakeholders Employee engagement Waste management Climate change & adaptation Local communities Material use 2.0 Diversity Data privacy Responsible tax Working with suppliers 2.0 4.0 Importance to Ramboil Green Transition Employer of Choice Business Integrity Size of bullets reflects the relative social, environmental and/or economic impact of the issue in our value chain, comprising our suppliers, subconsultants, clients, internal operations and project solutions. In 2016, Ramboll conducted its first materiality assessment The resulting list of potential issues was then categorised in collaboration with KPMG. The assessment was and further assessed from a three-dimensional performed in alignment with the Global Reporting Initiative perspective: 1) importance to stakeholders, 2) importance (GRI) G4’s process for materiality assessments, identifying to Ramboll, and 3) relative social, environmental and topics material to Ramboll and our key stakeholders. economic impact in our full value chain. The result is the Along with selected UN Sustainable Development Goals, above materiality matrix. the assessment has formed the basis for our sustainability focus areas within the new Group strategy. The identified issues are clustered into three main categories: Green Transition, Employer of Choice and The assessment first considered issues related to our Business Integrity. Green Transition covers material issues internal operations or project solutions that pose a that are driven by mega trends (e.g. climate change, risk either to Ramboll or to our stakeholders. In order material and resource scarcity and urbanisation). As to identify these issues, we engaged with numerous such, Green Transition includes both our approach to stakeholders, including directors, issue owners, project sustainability in our services and solutions, as well as managers and employees who regularly work with our internal environmental management. Employer of external stakeholders (e.g. our clients and other business Choice and Business Integrity cover material topics that associates). are business enablers, such as our employees’ health & safety and engagement, as well as Our Fundamentals and We also included the outcome of external stakeholder internal and external control mechanisms. interviews investigating our clients’ perception of Ramboll, which were conducted for us by McKinsey, We have both positive and negative impacts on these as well as media searches, peer benchmarks, internal issues through not only our own operations, but also the documents, policy reviews and a review of our external nature of our services and solutions. communications. 6 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability increasingly becomes a differentiator and driver for our services in the global arena. Ramboll is growing rapidly outside the Nordic countries, adding expertise, cultures and practices from all over the world. This increases the complexity and size of our company, and a strategic and formalised approach helps us continue to deliver services that contribute positively to society, as well as maintaining our ethical standards. During 2016, as part of the development of Ramboll’s Impact from our solutions Group Strategy 2017-2020, ‘Winning Together’, we The second component reflects that our most significant have refined our strategic ambition and approach to impact on society’s development stems from our solutions. sustainability, which is now formalised in four target areas In addition to the direction set out in Our Fundamentals, and a formal approach around the three components our new Group Strategy reflects some of the topics described below. identified by our materiality assessment. For instance the topics identified in the Green Transition category have fed Acting as a responsible business into the strategy process together with the selected UN We are a company driven by a strong purpose. Our reason Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). to be in business is to contribute to society’s sustainable development. It has been this way since our founding in As a direct result of the new Group Strategy, business 1945. In 2016, we revitalised Our Fundamentals, effectively units will be defining Spearhead Services and business creating a revised mission, vision and values. development plans, which will also reflect our commitment to participate in fulfilling the SDGs. We also introduced a vital new element – four explicit commitments to create value for our most important Business impact from own operations stakeholders. Our Commitments to Clients, People, Society The third component is the impact from our own and Company clearly state our promise to contribute operations. The materiality assessment and SDGs also to the long-term development of society and to the formed the basis of the four strategic focus areas to enjoyment and equal opportunities of our employees. drive Ramboll’s social, environmental and economic responsibility performance: Embedding Our Fundamentals (Mission, Vision, Values and Commitments) throughout the organisation is a key Being the employer of choice priority for 2017. The revitalised Fundamentals will be We want to make sure that we appeal to the entire pool of reflected in our Group Policies and Procedures to make talent by ensuring equal rights for all. This is why diversity sure that they are formalised and guide our behaviour. is a focus area for us, with the target to ensure that our gender balance across all job family levels reflects the Our commitment to act as a responsible business is further available talent in our local markets. This enables us to expressed in the next two components of our approach. contribute to SDG 5 on achieving gender equality and empowerment of women and girls. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 7 ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SHAPING SUSTAINABLE SOCIETIES DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS Our impact on society through our service The impact of our business and our internal portfolio, advocacy and knowledge sharing. actions on society. Walking the talk in our actions. Impact through Active member Being the employer Creating safe Managing our Driving a high projects of society of choice working environments environmental impact integrity business Creating safe working environments Ramboll has a commitment to We want to be recognised as an employer who protects our employees, as well as a consultant who supports our act as a responsible business. clients in ensuring safe and healthy working conditions. This is expressed in two ways: Health and safety is a focus area for us, and we have an how we contribute to shaping aspiration to achieve zero harm in our operation. In this sustainable societies and how way, we work towards helping to achieve the ambition of SDG 8 to ensure decent work for all, including safe and we demonstrate our own secure working environments. progress. Managing our environmental impact As part of our environmental management, we work to contribute to SDG 7 on increasing the share of renewables and improving energy efficiency, as well as SDG 13 on combatting climate change. We have selected our own environmental impact as a focus area and have a target to reduce our carbon footprint per employee. Driving a high-integrity business Business integrity is imperative for our continuous development and having this as a focus area enables us to demonstrate our contribution to SDG 16 on promoting just and transparent institutions and substantially reducing corruption and bribery. We have a formalised ambition to achieve a best-in-class anti-corruption practice. Within all four focus areas we will set Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and 2017 will be used to create a baseline. Our goal is to have the new KPIs for all identified areas in place before year-end 2017. Read more about this on page 17. 8 SHAPING SUSTAINABLE SOCIETIES IMPROVING URBAN AIR QUALITY Many Asian cities face issues with urban heat island effects and poor ambient air quality. By using digital models, Ramboll air quality experts are able to identify how the design and placement of new buildings can be optimised. For example, we analyse the air flow and incorporate the results into urban planning in Hong Kong, resulting in improved liveability. Image: Hong Kong near the Chinese industrial city of Shenzhen – photographer Jerome Favre. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 9 SHAPING SUSTAINABLE SOCIETIES As a purpose-driven company, our strategic ambition is to be leading within sustainability. This is why we work on creating resilient solutions through the engineering, design and consultancy services we provide to our clients as well as through active participation in society agendas. In all facets of society, sustainable SDGs as the basis for defining the solutions are increasingly in demand, strategic direction for Ramboll’s UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES and have become a high priority issue services in the coming four-year These principles are covered for most of our clients. strategy period. in this section: Environment 7, 8, 9 At Ramboll, we are committed to In the beginning of 2017, we will UN SUSTAINABLE promoting and providing services and communicate these focus areas as DEVELOPMENT GOALS solutions that contribute to long-term part of the rollout of our strategy, These goals are covered development. We do so by helping to and we will work on defining how our in this section: consider how our insights can benefit various market areas can contribute 3: Good health and well-being as many people as possible without to achieving the global ambitions for 6: Clean water and sanitation 7: Affordable and clean energy compromising business interests. each of these ten SDGs in practice. 8: Decent work and economic growth We enable balanced value creation 9: Industry, innovation by continuously developing and and infrastructure 11: Sustainable cities applying innovative solutions that and communities help our clients manage their impacts 12: Responsible consumption and reach both their business and and production sustainability goals. 13: Climate action 14: Life below water 15: Life on land Challenges such as climate change, rising energy needs, resource KEY ACHIEVEMENT scarcity, population growth, increased Incorporating the SDGs in wealth, urbanisation and ecosystem our portfolio prioritisation degradation all call for resilient during the development of solutions. On the global level, our new Group Strategy. there is a strong call for action by governments and businesses to limit their negative impacts on society with the launch of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015. Ramboll responded to this call by consulting the SDGs as we prioritised our portfolio focus areas in the development of our new Group Strategy. We selected a total of ten 10 SHAPING SUSTAINABLE SOCIETIES IMPACT THROUGH OUR PROJECTS We recognise that our greatest Whatever the case, we strive to positive impact on society stems from provide solutions that enable longADAPTING TO CLIMATE CHANGE close collaboration with our clients term development, while meeting our These SDGs are covered on delivering sustainable solutions. client’s goals and creating maximum in this section: Our opportunity to influence depends value for people, nature and society. 6: Clean water and sanitation 11: Sustainable cities on the scope and our role in a given and communities project. All stakeholders can trust that we 13: Climate action act as independent advisors, and we For example, we may create the take responsibility for the impacts of TRANSFORMING TO GREEN ENERGY overall strategies and masterplans our project work. Our assessments These SDGs are covered for countries, municipalities, cities, are firmly based on technical insight, in this section: organisations, or we may decide expertise and experience, and our 7: Affordable and clean energy which building techniques or conclusions, recommendations and 13: Climate action materials to use for a particular plans are accurate and effective. element. Sometimes it is a balancing We work to achieve the solutions BALANCED RESOURCE COMSUMPTION act to find optimal solutions that fulfil that have the least possible adverse These SDGs are covered our commitments to all stakeholders. impact on communities. in this section: 6: Clean water and sanitation 12: Responsible consumption and production 14: Life below water 15: Life on land CREATING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT THROUGH PROJECTS Adapting to climate change Creating socially Transforming to sustainable projects green energy SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Balanced resource Designing resilient consumption city infrastructure CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 11 This responsibility reflects not only TRANSFORMING ENVIRONMENTAL ACCREDITATION Our Fundamentals and our inherent TO GREEN ENERGY SCHEMES, NUMBER OF LICENSED wish to act responsibly, but also our ASSESSORS ambition to be a leading sustainable Ensuring access to affordable, reliable, 2014 2015 2016 society consultant. The following sustainable and modern energy and pages illustrate just some of the many limiting carbon emissions form part 34 38 40 BREEAM examples of projects our people have of SDGs 7 and 13. The energy mix has worked on in 2016. been in transition for many years, and 16 28 26 LEED the best solutions differ from country 10 20 24 Miljöbyggnad to country, from town to town and ADAPTING 8 9 18 Cert. Energy Expert* from company to company. TO CLIMATE CHANGE 5 7 8 DGNB Addressing climate change and In order to address the green 3 4 4 ESTIDAMA ensuring liveable and resilient cities transition in a structured way, 3 4 5 CEEQUAL are important elements of SDGs 6, 11 the Municipality of Oslo set out 0 1 0 OCDEA and 13. The effects of climate change, to develop a Climate and Energy such as extreme stormwater and strategy, which will act as a road 3 4 5 EPC flooding, are becoming more and map for the city to accomplish its 5 6 4 GSAS more common. Urban areas especially green change. Ramboll helped Oslo 1 1 Green Star have been hit hard by these effects, with creating the strategy, including 1 1 GMM causing municipalities around the measures to achieve its goals, and world to take a new look at how the a climate budget that allocates 10 9 BEAM Prof. effects of climate change can be financing to the various measures 1 1 Envision minimised and mitigated efficiently. and describes how the city can cut its 2 0 CEM fossil fuel emissions in half by 2030 Since an extreme cloudburst and become fossil-free in 2050. 2 1 FiGBC event in Copenhagen in 2011, the 12 0 0 IES implementation of blue-green Much of the European energy supply 4 0 0 CFD ANALYSIS solutions to absorb urban stormwater will reach the end of its lifetime within 3 Well Building Standard has gained momentum as a feasible the next two decades. Transforming way to deal with storm water, while existing power plants to biomass 5 Citylab improving liveability. The latest is a way to ensure a secure energy 2 Svanen example of this approach is the Hans supply with a significant reduction 103 138 157 Total Tavsen’s Park project in Copenhagen, of CO2 emissions at a reasonable an international beacon for climate price. As an important step forward adaptation in cities. Ramboll acts as for the UK in minimising its climate Note: technical lead and SLA is the lead effects, a conversion of Lynemouth Some people may hold several certifications within the different landscape architect for the project, power station from coal to biomass accreditation systems, e.g. BREAM which won the Nordic urban planning will reduce the plant’s CO2 emissions Reviso and BREAM AP competition, Nordic Built Cities by approximately 85%. In 2016 and *Under various national schemes Challenge, in November 2016. throughout 2017, we will be providing engineering consultancy for the Ramboll has a dedicated Liveable project, which is one of the largest Cities Lab performing research and bioconversion projects in the world. supporting services that solve urban challenges like these on a global BALANCED RESOURCE scale. Furthermore, our water experts CONSUMPTION this year received two Professional Awards from the American Society Globally, there is a growing need to of Landscape Architects (ASLA) for reuse, recycle and optimise resource two of our landscape and climate use. Ensuring availability and adaptation projects: Bishan Angsustainable management of water and Mo Kio Park in Singapore and the consumption of resources, conserving concretisation of the Copenhagen and sustainably using marine and land Cloudburst Mitigation Plan. resources and avoiding degradation are part of SDGs 6, 12, 14 and 15. Following Hurricane Sandy in 2012, New York City stepped up its focus The Scottish Government has on resiliency planning. Inspired implemented a Zero Waste Plan by experience from Copenhagen banning landfilling of biodegradable and internationally, the New York municipal waste from 1 January 2021. City Department of Environmental In order to enable the use of waste Protection engaged us in a pilot for generating energy, a new plant project in 2016 to introduce is being constructed in Edinburgh, integrated planning approaches which will treat residual waste from that can link urban development two councils, recovering energy in the and redesign with flood protection form of electricity and the potential management across the city. for heat extraction. Our energy 12 SHAPING SUSTAINABLE SOCIETIES 1 experts were engaged as the client’s and Ramboll worked on integrating engineering representative to support strategies for arsenic mitigation in a DESIGNING RESILIENT its implementation during 2016. UNICEF Water Safety Program for CITY INFRASTRUCTURE Bangladesh during 2016. These SDGs are covered For production companies, the in this section: demands for reducing material use 9: Industry, innovation DESIGNING RESILIENT and infrastructure keep increasing. On behalf of one of CITY INFRASTRUCTURE 11: Sustainable cities and the world’s largest spirits distillers, communities Ramboll experts identified how five Building resilient infrastructure already energyefficient facilities in and making cities and settlements CREATING SOCIALLY North America could further reduce safe, resilient and sustainable are SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS energy use by 10% with a payback addressed in SDGs 9 and 11. Cities These SDGs are covered period of approximately 2.5 years. As worldwide struggle to reduce human in this section: an added value, we found that water exposure to harmful pollutants from 3: Good health and well-being 8: Decent work and use could be reduced by 4 million m3 urban transport, and often a holistic economic growth per year. look at transport planning is needed. In Bangladesh, about 65% of the In 2016, the City of Oslo realised that population lack access to drinking pedestrians had not been prioritised water that is arsenic-safe and free sufficiently in the city’s traffic from microbial contamination, planning, so Ramboll experts from as naturally occurring arsenic is across disciplines were engaged to widespread in the country. Sweden’s design a walking strategy for Oslo Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 13 1 CLIMATE ADAPTATION to ensure that more people walk for to handle the situation. This made STUDY FOR NEW YORK a longer period of the year, walking it clear to German authorities that Ramboll is engaged in a becomes an attractive – and safe – they had to do something about their pilot project for the New York City Department of option for everyone, and walking is welcome procedures. To improve the Environmental Protection incorporated into all urban planning. situation for both employees and aiming to introduce integrated immigrants, our experts helped set planning approaches that can In Hong Kong, there are problems up smarter work routines, streamline link urban development and with urban heat island effects and workflows and integrate new redesign with flood protection management across the city. poor ambient air quality in general. colleagues, while also treating asylum Image: Esusek Dreamstime Using digital models of the air seekers respectfully and providing 2 PROMOTING flow in the city in combination humane conditions. WALKING IN OSLO with topographic features of the Ramboll experts from across surrounding area, our experts are disciplines were engaged to helping to identify how the design design a walking strategy and placement of new buildings can for Oslo to enhance the conditions for pedestrians be optimised to help improve air across the city. Image: Oslo flows in the city as much as possible. Kommune, Bymiljøetaten CREATING SOCIALLY SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS Ensuring healthy lives and well-being for all, and promoting decent work for all are elements of SDGs 3 and 8. The extreme situation with several hundred thousand immigrants on the move across Europe in 2015/16 caused a big strain on the German migration authorities. Especially reception centres were under pressure, and many were struggling Read more about our projects and their value creation at: www.ramboll.com/projects 2 14 SHAPING SUSTAINABLE SOCIETIES ACTIVE MEMBER OF SOCIETY Ramboll participates actively in Participation in events knowledge about climate adaptation society. We want to make our voice Our leaders and key experts have and mitigation solutions. In addition heard by engaging in dialogue with participated in numerous events to participating in discussions and our stakeholders and bringing our throughout 2016, including the UN debates, we published a paper expertise to relevant discussions. Global Compact’s Private Sector about ways for society to take the Ramboll engages with NGOs to Forum, World Cities Summit in low-carbon leap efficiently and costsupport urgent challenges in local Singapore, New York Climate Week, effectively. The publication features communities, and the Ramboll the Copenhagen Climate Solutions our insights and experience to Foundation supports research, conference, Arctic Frontier and the demonstrate how the transition to a education and humanitarian aid. executive, international conference green economy can result in balanced Urbanisation & Exports. In all of these growth and liveability in the public events, we have worked actively to and private sectors. ADVOCATING FOR influence global agendas by sharing BALANCED SOLUTIONS our insights and solutions. Knowledge sharing Ramboll advocates for sustainable Another way we share our knowledge solutions by engaging in conferences Influencing the global agenda is by actively facilitating visits by and discussions with decision makers As a company committed to taking international delegations to our and business leaders across the world climate action, Ramboll participated head office in Copenhagen. Among whenever possible. in COP22 to share our insights and the high-profile visitors we hosted experience and to present new in 2016 were delegations from the SHARING KNOWLEDGE AT THE WORLD CITIES SUMMIT Through active participation in forums, thematic tracks, panel discussions and with a stand as part of the Danish pavilion, Ramboll shared best practice within urban sustainability at the World Cities Summit in Singapore in July 2016. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 15 cities of Helsinki, Boston, Vienna, ENGAGING WITH Stavanger, Oslo and Dublin and the OUR COMMUNITY INVESTING IN COMMUNITY US state of California, with whom we DEVELOPMENT were able to share our insights on Ramboll employees participate Ramboll’s main owner, Ramboll the development of resilient urban actively in society every day, not only Foundation, made the following donations in 2016: solutions. The US Ambassador to through community involvement Germany visited our Liveable Cities in projects, but also by helping • EUR 40,300 for European R&D Lab, which is where we collect our disadvantaged communities through project ‘Prolonging lifetime of common learning within the creation pro-bono work and charity initiatives. old steel and steel-concrete bridges’ in Ramboll Sweden. of liveable cities, to learn more about • EUR 134,200 to UNLEASH for the our facilitation of this work. The Ramboll Foundation offers global ‘SPIRE 17’ event for students financial support for research, where they work on climate strategies On UN World Water Day, Ramboll studies and education and supports and solutions to meet the 17 SDGs. was part of a Danish delegation that charities and humanitarian aid (see • EUR 38,300 to Afri-link for a biogas project in Cameroun. participated in the White House overview on previous page). And our • EUR 89,600 for a PhD about Water Summit for Water Executives operation in India has a Corporate ‘Aerodynamic Stability of Long Span hosted by the US Administration. Responsibility (CR) committee that Bridges’ in Ramboll Denmark. Here, we had the opportunity to prioritises local CR efforts. In 2016 • EUR 13,400 to the UNESCO Centre at Aalborg University for the share insights and expertise, and the the committee supported the project ‘Investigation of Danish and foreign delegation also demonstrated state‘Promoting Right to Education for engineers’ experience with the of-the-art water solutions through Tribal and Girl Children in Odisha’, transition from studies to the Danish a brick model of a small village aimed at eliminating child labour labour market’. named ‘Waterville’. by ensuring primary education • EUR 53,300 to John Hopkins University for the ‘Nordic Ways Project’. with a special focus on girls in • EUR 13,400 to the Technical University Partnerships/memberships marginalised communities. of Denmark for ‘Digitalisation, storage Ramboll can also influence and investigation of historic pictures agendas through memberships and Employee charity of bridges’. • EUR 65,000 to EWB Denmark for partnerships. Our UK business supported ‘WASH Program Sierra Leone’. various causes throughout 2016 • EUR 51,000 to EWB Norway for three A prime example of a public-private with pro-bono engineering services. projects: ‘Mavuno, Kolandtoto’, ‘Healthy partnership is Ramboll’s partnership Among others, we designed a trauma Hospital‘ (phase 3) and ‘ECONEF with State of Green, which we center that has seismic resilience in Orphanage toiletand grey water system dealing with water resources’. formalised in 2016. State of Green Nepal, provided input to the structural • EUR 67,100 to ATV for ‘Science and is an intergovernmental Danish aspects in a guide for planning Engineering Project’. organisation that promotes Danish mass evacuation during natural • EUR 81,600 to EWB Sweden for interests related to the global disasters, providing an engineer for ‘Solar power to Hatfield Archer Memorial Hospital’. green agenda. the Earthquake Engineering Field • EUR 67,100 to BYENSdesign Investigation Team reviewing the KØBENHAVN for ‘Reproduction and We also participate in strategic earthquake damage in Umbria, and –erection of selected urban partnerships focusing on engineering engagement in an industry-wide space elements’. excellence. In 2016, we signed a technical network for support of • EUR 300 for ‘Inspections of public buildings after Amatrice earthquake’ Memorandum of Understanding with the humanitarian sector in disaster in Ramboll Denmark. the Environment & Water Research relief. The UK also sponsored • EUR 40,300 to Danish Association Institute at Nanyang Technological several CSR days to support local of Architects for the student summer University, Singapore. This partnership initiatives and local fundraising events school ‘Resilient Cities through Culture’ in Seoul, South Korea, in 2017. focuses on the areas of Resource and throughout 2016. • EUR 67,100 to Dartmouth College for Waste Management using Singapore ‘Americanizing European Hot Water as a best practice case that can Technology’. leverage regional and international Notes: In 2016, the foundation has also opportunities. supported employees in difficult circumstances and decided to support the establishment of ‘Hannemanns Park’ in front of Ramboll Head And for the past three years, we Office. Read more in the Rambøll Fonden Annual Report: have been part of a large Danish www.rambollfonden.dk/annual-reports innovation consortium that focuses The figures in EUR have been translated from on developing and using new cement DKK using an exchange rate of 7.45. types that require less energy to produce and emit less CO2 during production. The consortium also investigates and demonstrates smarter and better uses of concrete for civil and building structures, and the current project is expected to be finalised in 2018. 16 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS SUSTAINABILITY PILLAR IN NEW GROUP STRATEGY The new business strategy, Winning together, which was officially launched at a global Leadership Conference in January 2017 features four target areas where we want to walk the talk in terms of sustainability. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 17 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS As a business that takes responsibility for our impact and promotes sustainable societies, Ramboll wants to demonstrate that we walk the talk ourselves through our actions. We actively work to minimise the business impact on society from our own operations by being aware of where we can improve for the benefit of all. In 2016, we took a fresh look at how Creating safe working environments we can contribute to demonstrating We look after our employees, and UN GLOBAL COMPACT leadership and progress within the want to ensure healthy physical and PRINCIPLES areas that are most relevant to us. psychological working environments These principles are covered in this section: The result was the identification of where our employees thrive and are Human Rights 1, 2 four strategic focus areas including a able to provide the best solutions for Labour 3, 4, 5, 6 specific target area within each. Key our clients. In 2017, we will focus on Environment 7, 8, 9 Performance Indicators (KPIs) will be defining how we will work towards Anti-Corruption 10 formulated in 2017. The selected focus achieving our ambition of zero harm areas are based on our materiality and set global KPIs. UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS assessment, which identified the These goals are covered areas of most importance to us and Managing our environmental impact in this section: our stakeholders, as well as on the We actively work to minimise the 5: Gender equality UN Sustainable Development Goals adverse impact our own operations 7: Affordable and clean energy (SDGs), considering where our efforts have on the environment by 8: Decent work and economic growth will make the greatest impact. continuously improving the way 13: Climate action we conduct business. We have 16: Peace, justice and The following four strategic tracked the development in our CO2 strong institutions focus areas were agreed upon as emissions for six years. In order to key for driving Ramboll’s social, define realistic KPIs for future CO2 KEY ACHIEVEMENT environmental and economic emissions, 2017 will be used to create Development of refined focus responsibility performance. a baseline. We also plan to revise our areas where we will set fixed sustainability KPIs based on method for collecting and calculating materiality assessment and SDGs. Being the employer of choice our CO2 emission data. We want to act as a responsible and attractive employer to ensure that Driving a high-integrity business we attract the right people to deliver We want to drive a high-integrity solutions to our clients. We seek to business and we continuously focus do so by ensuring that our employees on ensuring compliance with our are engaged and feel that their policies and procedures when we development is encouraged. Since work together with partners, suppliers 2014, we have also worked actively to and clients. Our new strategy includes improve gender equality within our a formalised ambition to achieve company. Especially on management a best-in-class anti-corruption levels this continues to be a challenge. practice. We therefore have a target to ensure that our gender balance across all job family levels reflects the available talent in our local markets. 18 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS BEING THE EMPLOYER OF CHOICE At Ramboll, we have an explicit that enhance the quality of working make a difference through their Commitment to People. This means life and ensure the development project work, we focus on continuous that we care for all employees and motivation of our employees. professional development. We and their development through Furthermore, we are aware that a formalise employee development leadership, investment in people and healthy work-life balance is important, and engagement processes that are equal opportunities. There is no doubt and therefore we seek to enable implemented globally across Ramboll. about the fact that our people are our our employees to maintain that These initiatives not only foster most important asset. balance. We believe this increases individual development, but also our job satisfaction, engagement and ability to provide better solutions to There is a team of dedicated development in our clients and society at large. employees behind every ambitious the long run. and balanced solution that Ramboll Integrated employee development provides to our clients. However, Inclusion and equality facilitate a We consider employee development there is an increasing demand for better working environment and add to be closely connected with the knowledge workers, and engineers value to Ramboll, as well as to our continued fostering of a performance in particular – a demand that shows client solutions. We continuously culture. It is a cornerstone of our no sign of relenting in the near work on improving in this area. ability to deliver world-class solutions future. Therefore, our continuous Gender diversity which includes to our clients, and to be the preferred success depends on our ability to attracting, developing and retaining employer for existing and future attract, develop and retain talented female employees and managers – employees. At the operational level employees, and we strive to be will be one of our future strategic we stimulate this via our integrated the employer of choice within our focus areas. We will set KPIs for Performance and Development profession. overall gender representation in 2017. Process – PDP. Many different factors contribute to The PDP includes an annual ENSURING EMPLOYEE being a preferred employer. Ramboll performance and development ENGAGEMENT has always focused on our people, dialogue between employee and and ensuring their engagement and To ensure that our people are manager to facilitate a transparent enjoyment. We support measures engaged and skilled and want to and structured approach to individual EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AND ENGAGEMENT This year’s response rate was slightly lower than last year, yet still well above our target. The overall result in 2016 shows an all time high employee satisfaction and engagement index of 4.02 on a 5-point scale. 100 4.4 90 4.2 80 4.0 70 3.8 60 3.6 50 3.4 2012 2013 2014* 2015 2016 Response rate, % (left axis), target > 80% Employee satisfaction and *New index calculation for 2014 based on new survey questions. engagement index (right axis), target > 4 On comparable questions, score in 2014 was similar to 2013. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 19 goal-setting, feedback and capability Ramboll business units. We believe development. The process includes that employee engagement drives GROUP POLICIES evaluating past performance and performance. The survey is a valuable • Employee Satisfaction & development, as well as a strong tool in helping us to improve key Engagement Survey (ESES) • Performance and Development focus on the future growth potential areas such as manager capabilities, Dialogue (PDP) of each employee through forwardemployee development, working looking areas of responsibility environment and collaboration within ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 and individual performance and various teams and across business • ESES Satisfaction rate development objectives. units. of 4.02 (target >4) • ESES Response rate of The process has been implemented Transparency and integrity are 91% (target >80%) in all Ramboll business units and is important to Ramboll. We strive AMBITIONS 2017 offered to all permanent employees. for an honest environment, where In 2016, 92% of all Ramboll employees potential issues can be solved • Maintain ESES Satisfaction engaged in PDP dialogues with their through constructive dialogue. We rate above target (>4) • Maintain ESES Response manager, which is below our result in have a formal process for following rate above target (>80%) 2015 (95%), however still above the up on the ESES results, ensuring that target of at least 90%. all managers gather their teams to DEVELOPMENT DIALOGUE, discuss the results and decide on TARGET >90% 92% In terms of having a development actions for improvement. plan in place to support ongoing feedback and follow-up throughout This year’s response rate of 91% is of all employees have had a development dialogue with their the year, 86% of all employees have a slightly lower than last year’s 93% manager in 2016. (2015: 95%) documented plan outlining individual response rate, yet still well above our goals and development activities target of at least 80%. The overall DEVELOPMENT PLAN 86% created in cooperation with their result in 2016 shows an employee managers. We are still working on satisfaction and engagement index of improving the quality and use of the 4.02 on a 5-point scale (2015: 3.98). of all employees have a Performance PDP plans, but are pleased to see a This is the highest level since the & Development Plan. (2015: 82%) notable increase from 82% in 2015. survey was launched in 2009. 85% VOLUNTARY TURNOVER, % of employees are satisfied or very Strengthening satisfied with their job as a whole, and employee engagement 84% would recommend Ramboll as a 11.6% 11.9% 11.8% Another proactive way to foster the great place to work (up from 83% in development and engagement of our 2015). employees is to seek and welcome their input on key areas related As in previous years, the areas to employee engagement. We do receiving the highest scores are 2014 2015 2016 this through an annual Employee engagement, having sufficient Satisfaction & Engagement Survey independent responsibility and (ESES), which is carried out across all challenging tasks, and working 20 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS GENDER DIVERSITY FOCUS AREAS Based on an analysis and report of Ramboll’s gender diversity status, these four key initiatives were defined and approved by our Group Executive Board in 2016. EQUAL PAY GENDER-NEUTRAL TRANSPARENCY TARGETS FOR ANALYSIS COMMUNICATION IN RECRUITMENT FEMALE REPRESENTATION AT ALL MANAGEMENT LEVELS in a unit that supports you. We professional opportunities regardless target area under the heading see a positive development in the of disabilities, race, age, cultural ‘employer of choice’. We will set KPIs assessment of managers – a strong background, religion, sexual in 2017 to ensure progress within this factor for boosting employee orientation or gender. We believe that area. engagement. Investing in developing a diversified employee base adds and providing our managers with the value to our workplace and to the Furthermore, the right to necessary tools and knowledge has solutions we deliver to our clients. non-discrimination and equal been a focus area throughout 2016, opportunities for both genders was and we will continue to focus on this Gender equality identified as a primary potential going forward. Since 2014, Ramboll has worked impact area in our human rights actively to improve gender equality, impact assessment (see page 30), Voluntary turnover is another which remains a global challenge and we will prioritise further action to employee engagement indicator. for us. Though talent availability mitigate this potential adverse impact The 2016 figure of 11.8% is slightly differs across markets, women as a part of our Gender Diversity lower than the 2015 figure of 11.9%. continue to be underrepresented Initiative (see page 21). Our target is to reduce this number in the engineering industry. And year by year, and while we achieved there is more to be done to ensure In 2016, our overall gender this target in 2016, there is room for that women are treated equally to distribution was 34% female and 66% further improvement. their male colleagues, especially in male, the same as 2015. However, the management roles. overall representation of females is decreasing in many of our Principal PROMOTING AN This is important not only from an Business Units (see pages 34-35 INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE ethical and statutory standpoint, but for detailed reporting), and our We support the right of all of also from a workplace environment greatest challenge is to increase our employees to have the same perspective. As a result, gender female representation in management equality has been chosen as our roles. In 2016, the representation of GENDER DISTRIBUTION BY MANAGEMENT LEVEL AND IDENTIFIED SUCCESSORS (B-D LEVEL), FEMALE % 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Management B-level 8% 7% 7% Successor B-level 14% 9% 14% Management C-level 15% 17% 17% Successor C-level 16% 15% 21%* Management D-level 27% 25% 25% Successor D-level 26% 24% 26% Notes: The definition of Manager has been changed in relation to the CR reporting, which means that more managers are now included in the numbers, and thus a larger pool of employees. As a result, comparability to previous years is weakened. * A new employee level introduced in this pool, which means that the number of employees has increased compared to last year. As a result, comparability to previous years is weakened. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 21 females in management also remains neutrally. We are also currently unchanged from 2015. However, working on our visual communication, GROUP POLICIES there is a slight improvement in such as icons and pictures, to ensure • Equal gender the representation of females on not only equal gender representation, • Non-discrimination • Recruitment identified successor levels. From 2017, but also diversity in age and race. • Non-harassment and Non-violence we will focus on ensuring progress at all levels. In order to ensure a transparent and ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 objective process when we recruit • Gender diversity action plan Our gender policy calls for each new employees, we developed a developed based on focus areas gender to be represented by two new global recruitment process • Female representation in Board members in our Group Board during 2016. The new system will of Directors reached our target of two females (out of six members of Directors. In 2015, the gender be implemented worldwide during elected by the shareholders) distribution in the Group Board of the first half of 2017 through our Directors among members elected by Human Resources Management AMBITIONS 2017 the shareholders was 17% female and System. In 2017, we will work on • Set clear targets for female 83% male. In 2016, the shareholders further improving our recruitment representation at all elected one more female to the Group processes, and we will design a employee levels reflecting available talent pool board, achieving our target of at process for target-setting of gender • Ensure transparency least two females and increasing the representation. in recruitment percentage of females to 33%. • Finalise equal pay analysis Encouraging women in engineering and identify actions Gender Diversity Initiative In 2016, Ramboll in the UK continued based on conclusions During the first phase of the gender to support and promote gender GENDER DISTRIBUTION, diversity initiative in 2015, we diversity. This business improvement BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2016 analysed Ramboll’s current gender initiative builds on work in previous 33% female (2015: 17%) diversity status based on interviews years that aims to attract, retain 67% male (2015: 83%) and focus groups of current and and develop the best talent in the former Ramboll employees. UK engineering industry, which is GENDER DISTRIBUTION, experiencing an increasing skills IN TOTAL 2016 The report concluded, among shortage. (In 2016, 9% of the other things, that factors such engineering workforce in the UK were as perceptions of who an ideal female, source: Women’s Engineering manager is and culturally embedded Society). expectations towards women were found to negatively influence some Following the National Women in women’s interest in or possibilities of Engineering Day celebration we 34% 66% taking on or positioning themselves hosted in 2015, volunteers formed two for management roles. Based on working groups, one dedicated to AGE DISTRIBUTION 2016 these findings, recommendations engaging young women currently in were put forward from which four key education and the other establishing 24% initiatives were defined and approved mentoring connections. These two > 50 by our Group Executive Board: groups now support the Equality, 57% Diversity and Inclusion plan currently 30-50 • Conduct equal pay analysis being developed in the UK. 19% < 30 • Ensure gender neutrality in our communication In 2016, Ramboll in the UK became • Ensure transparency in recruitment corporate members of Women in (attract and consider both genders Science and Engineering (WISE). for positions) This organisation works to enable • Set clear targets for gender and promote the participation, representation at all levels contribution and success of women in (including recruitment, successor science, technology, engineering and candidates and high potentials) mathematics. Our membership offers in order to reflect available talent us support, networking opportunities pool. and access to the experience of others. The equal pay analysis was initiated in 2016, in collaboration with Aarhus We are also working on developing School of Business. During 2017 we a networking event in the UK, an will analyse the results and determine initiative that was launched as part of further actions. our National Women in Engineering Day celebration in 2016. The event We have also reviewed all Group provides an opportunity for people to policies, procedures and guidelines come together to discuss topics that to ensure gender-neutral language, concern or interest them and to learn and throughout 2017, we will review from the experiences of others. our websites and intranet to ensure that we are communicating gender 22 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS CREATING SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENTS We are a company that looks after PROTECTING OUR our employees. No profit or deadline GROUP POLICIES PEOPLE is more important than the health, • Health and Safety safety and security of our employees, All employees have the right to safe • Quality as well as that of our clients, other and healthy working conditions, ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 stakeholders and the general whether they are sitting in one of public. The results of our materiality our offices, moving from point A • Health and Safety Policy approved assessment underscored this. to point B, or working on a project • Quality Policy approved Health and safety was rated highly site. To ensure good physical and important to our business and our key psychological working environments, AMBITIONS 2017 stakeholders. our health and safety procedures • Group Health, Safety and Security must be followed at all times. Director to be appointed Through our consultancy services, • Group Quality Director to be appointed we seek to spread awareness of As a consultancy company, we must • Development and implementation potential safety hazards and risks always deliver high-quality work, of Global Health, Safety, and to reduce or eliminate them as often within tight deadlines, which Environmental and Quality far as possible through adequate risk in turn may place high demands on Management System (HSEQ) mitigation measures. Through our our people. In some cases, this can internal procedures and protocols, we result in stress for our employees. continuously seek to ensure safe and At Ramboll, we encourage our healthy physical and psychological employees to maintain a healthy working environments where our work-life balance that enables employees thrive and are able to flexible planning of work hours provide the best solutions to our when possible. clients. Health and safety has been prioritised as one of our four internal focus areas as part of the new strategy. In 2017, we will establish a baseline and set KPIs to ensure progress towards our aspiration of zero harm. In 2016, our Group Executive Board approved two new Group Policies on Health and Safety (H&S) and Quality to be implemented globally in 2017. Two new Group Directors will be appointed to head each of these critical areas to ensure that adequate and ongoing focus is maintained on a global level. This is part of our ongoing process of developing a fully integrated Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ) management system. The enhancements to our management systems will ensure increased focus on our H&S, as well as our Quality performance as a whole, and will enable an equally high standard to be maintained across the organisation worldwide. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 23 QUEENSFERRY CROSSING Ramboll is leading the design joint venture to the main contractors FCBC on the Queensferry Crossing, a 2.7 kilometre bridge that spans the Firth of Forth in Scotland. The design process included extensive consultation with local communities and other stakeholders. Image: courtesy of Transport Scotland 24 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT As a company committed to implemented as part of an integrated contributing to the long-term HSEQ management system (see GROUP POLICY development of society, we promote page 22). • Environmental Management sustainable development and good corporate citizenship wherever ACHIEVEMENT 2016 REDUCING OUR • Group Environmental we operate, and work to minimise CARBON FOOTPRINT Management Policy approved environmental degradation – also through our own actions. The material In order to minimise our own AMBITIONS 2017 topics identified in our materiality environmental impact, we have assessment attest to this being an chosen to focus our efforts on • Identify CO2 reduction KPIs • Continue with establishing a area of high importance to both reducing our carbon footprint per new global process and tools for internal and external stakeholders, employee. In 2017, we will establish a our carbon emission calculation due to our various impact areas in our baseline in order to set credible KPIs process in collaboration with services and our own operations. for our future ambitions. Global Facility Management • Continue development of Global Environmental Management We strive to lead by example by This does not mean that focusing system according to ISO 14001 adopting the practises we advise on our carbon footprint is a new as part of integrated HSEQ to others. In order to do so, we thing. 2016 is the sixth year that we management system actively work to minimise the adverse have measured the worldwide CO2 impacts our own operations have emissions resulting from our energy on the environment by continuously consumption and business-related improving the way we conduct transport. business. We seek to constantly reduce the CO2 emissions stemming Our ambition last year was to revise from work-related transport and our method for collecting and energy use. calculating our CO2 emission data to ensure that we meet international In 2016, a new Group Policy on standards and to secure our global Environmental Management that reporting on carbon emissions in the complies with the ISO 14001 future. While we did not succeed in environmental management finalising this during 2016, it remains a standard was approved by our priority in 2017. Group Executive Board and will be CO2 EMISSIONS PER EMPLOYEE (FTEE), TONNES ENERGY CONSUMPTION BUSINESS-RELATED TRANSPORT TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS 4 4 4 2.25 2.19 2.11 2 2 2 1.43 1.34 1.30 0.81 0.89 0.76 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 See page 38 for notes. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 25 In 2016, we measured Ramboll’s total virtual meetings using video CO2 emission as 26,248 tonnes CO2 technology instead of travelling. LYNC/SKYPE FOR BUSINESS (2015: 19,710) equal to 2.19 tonnes VIDEO CALLS 375%* per Full Time Employee Equivalent While in-person meetings are still a (FTEE) (2015: 2.11). This is an increase necessary aspect of our business, compared to 2015. our continuous focus on using video Increase in the use of Lync video conferencing at Ramboll. Lync video technology has evidently worked, conference calls increased from This year, legacy ENVIRON has been as the number of Lync/Skype for 47,556 in 2015 to 225,941 in 2016. included in our CO2 reporting for the Business (SFB) video meetings *Sweden, Finland and legacy ENVIRON first time, which means that our two conducted in 2016 has increased included this year. principal business units Environment by approx. 375% since last year. & Health and Water are included However, it should be noted that the GLOBAL CONFERENCE CALLS 292,454* (this also impacts the increase in drastic increase is also somewhat CO2 emissions from transport and explained by the fact that our PBUs energy consumption presented in the Environment & Health, Water, Sweden calls on all conference call systems: Lync/Skype for Business, following). Even though this explains and Finland are included in this year’s Ramboll Video Conference the increase in total tonnes of CO2 numbers. Our Finnish and Swedish system and Cisco WebEx. emissions compared to previous units have previously used their *Sweden, Finland and legacy ENVIRON years, the increase in CO2 emissions own Lync/SFB systems, but have have been included this year, adding Cisco per FTEE attests to the fact that there now been integrated into our global WebEx as a new system to our data. is room for improvement. system. Environment & Health still primarily uses Cisco WebEx, but they CO2 from transportation are also transferring to our global We are dedicated to minimising system. All in all, this positive trend the carbon footprint related to our has helped reducing our travel-related business travel. We encourage our CO2 emissions per FTEE, despite our employees to use available public international expansion. transport whenever possible, we provide company pool cars (which The total travel-related CO2 emissions are continuously replaced with increased from 12,841 tonnes in 2015 electric cars), and we encourage to 15,449 tonnes in 2016, however per 26 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS CARBON FOOTPRINT Ramboll is dedicated to minimising its carbon footprint related to business travel and energy use, and we measure our CO2 emissions to keep track of the development within the area. The above figures show how much each aspect contributes to our total CO2 emissions. Reporting period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 See page 38 for notes 36% Airplane 0% 34% Ferry Electricity 2% 21% Public transport Car 7% Heating FTEE, the total number decreased In Denmark, the Facility Management • Our Procurement department slightly from 1.37 tonnes per FTEE in organisation is responsible for the continuously increases the share of 2015 to 1.30 tonnes per FTEE in 2016. estate portfolio and related services environmentally friendly products at Ramboll’s locations. During 2015 that are purchased. For instance, Managing energy usage the organisation developed an we currently purchase 100% We continuously focus on the energy Environmental Sustainability Strategy Eco-labelled cleaning supplies in consumption of our own operations, that prioritises four areas based Denmark, and are currently working however in 2016, our CO2 emissions on material aspects: reduction in on having all new desks and shelves stemming from electricity, cooling CO2 emissions; reduction of water marked with the Nordic Eco-label and heating were 0.89 tonnes per consumption; increased recycling; and in collaboration with the suppliers. full-time employee equivalent (FTEE), sustainable materials. Annual action The aim is to be able to provide a which is quite an increase from 2015 plans are developed which specify completely eco-labelled working (0.78 tonnes per FTEE). As a result, actions within the strategic focus environment over time. this an area where we should be able areas, and we continuously focus on to significantly improve in the ensuring user-driven management. In The Facility Management organisation future. 2016, the following actions were taken is currently transitioning into a global (among others) in Denmark: function, which will facilitate more IMPROVING. and better alignment across our • Water pressure has been lowered in Principal Business Units (PBUs) and ENVIRONMENTAL our head office, which means that locations. MANAGEMENT we use less water every time we A significant element of Ramboll’s turn on a tap. environmental impact is related to the • Charging stations have been set up way our business operates, including at multiple locations to promote how our facilities are managed and the use of electric cars, and we which resources are used in the continuously replace company pool operation. cars with electric cars. We now have 31 electric cars in total. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 27 DRIVING A HIGH INTEGRITY BUSINESS Decency and integrity are Ramboll However, our high ethical standards hallmarks, and we have an explicit are also what makes Ramboll stand GROUP POLICIES commitment to ensure the long-term out in our industry, what makes • Global Compliance success of our company. This is our employees proud to be part of why we focus on compliance with our organisation and what ensures ACHIEVEMENT 2016 company processes, policies and that our clients can always trust our • Compliance risk procedures, and seek to ensure that behaviour. This is why we will not assessment conducted our behaviour and transactions follow compromise our business integrity. AMBITIONS 2017 good corporate governance based on • Identify top three global our Global Commitment and Code of GOVERNING compliance risks (based on Conduct. COMPLIANCE RISKS risk assessment) and develop action plan to mitigate risks Business integrity was identified A Global Compliance Function as our most material issue in the governs compliance at Ramboll, materiality assessment, because monitors compliance risks, and failing to ensure that our employees ensures that Ramboll lives up to or business associates understand increasing compliance demands and act in accordance with our from our clients, business associates, values can pose a significant risk to regulators and other stakeholders. Ramboll’s reputation. Furthermore, as we operate in such different markets, In 2016, we concentrated on sectors and cultures, we must always conducting a systematic compliance maintain our integrity and impartiality, risk assessment in the majority of our which may sometimes place us in Principal Business Units (PBUs) based difficult situations. on a global compliance risk overview THE ANNUAL COMPLIANCE CYCLE PLAN MONITOR 11 global Compliance KPIs were set for 2016, 111 audits conducted by PBU Local Compliance within the following focus areas: Managers (LCMs) Compliance leadership Compliance risk assessment Self-assessment survey conducted among Standards (policies and guidelines) LCMs to determine implementation Training and communication success of the Global Compliance Programme Oversight of compliance activities with very positive results Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 REPORT ACT One annual report and two Training of PBU management six-monthly reports conducted in Global Compliance Policy per PBU in 2016 28 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS COMPLIANCE RISK ASSESSMENT A global systematic compliance risk assessment was performed in 2016. The collected risks identified and rated in the assessment are illustrated below. The global top three risks will be identified in 2017 and will form the basis for the global compliance work going forward. Confidentiality Competition laws New personal data legislation Taxation/tax evasion Third-party Corruption and bribery CR/UN guidelines Internal policies and guidelines Human rights Industry agreements International standards Environmental issues Health and safety Contractual obligations and liabilities developed by the Global Compliance Ensuring global data Phase 4: Implementation of Function. privacy compliance Binding Corporate Rules and newly Data protection has been identified established processes and training of All compliance risk assessments as a key cyber risk globally, and this our employees. were concluded together with the is also one of the major statutory management teams in each PBU, and compliance risks at Ramboll. One Phase 1 was finalised in 2016 and the we identified the above compliance of our key ambitions for 2016 was global data privacy risk assessment risks as the most serious. These to initiate a global data protection was presented to the Group Executive risks will form the basis of the global project in order to ensure compliance Management in the beginning of 2017. compliance work in 2017. The 111 with the new General Data Protection On this basis, necessary activities audits conducted in 2016 by the Local Regulation (GDPR) in the EU/EEA will be implemented globally and Compliance Managers in all our PBUs entering into force in May 2018. the process of mapping all local data primarily addressed one or more flows will be initiated throughout 2017. of the following areas, which were The project is driven globally by the highlighted as our main global risk Global Compliance Function with ENSURING COMPLIANCE areas in the 2015 annual compliance representatives appointed from all AMONG EMPLOYEES reporting: Support Functions and from each PBU. The project has been structured Ensuring that our employees • Business associates (e.g. the use of into four phases, with phase one are aware of Ramboll’s policies, agents in projects) initiated in 2016, and phases 2-4 to be procedures and guidelines is vital • Charitable contributions, initiated and finalised during 2017to enable our people to live our sponsorships, dinners and gifts 2018. First, we focused on all global fundamentals in their everyday work (process and amounts) systems, before rolling out the project life and to maintain a high ethical • Compliance with selected Ramboll to all PBUs in Ramboll: standard. Our policies also ensure Group Policies, e.g. handling our that Ramboll conducts business in internal approval processes. Phase 1: Mapping of all global data accordance with relevant legislation flows and conducting a global data and international standards. During An important learning from 2015, privacy risk assessment on this basis 2016, we initiated awareness training which we have worked with in 2016, Phase 2: Applying for Binding in Ramboll policies through our was to perform deep-dive compliance Corporate Rules to the Danish Data Compliance Management System, and audits, instead of many high-level Protection Agency this effort will continue during 2017. audits. Phase 3: Mapping of all local data flows in all Ramboll units and In 2016, we have trained 1,524 conducting local data privacy risk employees in 31 Group Policies assessment and 16 Group Guidelines. Ramboll’s CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 29 Global Compliance Policy was legislation, which has become sent out to our Group Leadership necessary in the markets where we ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 Team (GLT) covering our PBUs to operate. • Global Data Privacy risk ensure awareness and buy-in to the assessment conducted • PBU management trained in way we work with compliance at Upholding a zero-tolerance policy Global Compliance Policy Ramboll. Furthermore, our new PBU towards corruption while operating Environment & Health, which was in 35 different countries with AMBITIONS 2017 established following the acquisition varying degrees of risk exposure is • Finalise phase 1, 2 and 3 of of ENVIRON, sent out a set of Group challenging. For that reason, antiGlobal Data Protection Project policies and guidelines for ‘read and corruption continues to be high on (phase 4 target 2018) sign’ to employees, to facilitate a our agenda, and has been prioritised • Develop and implement Global Data Protection Policy successful integration into Ramboll. as a target area in our new Group strategy, ‘Winning Together’. Our COMPLIANCE AUDITS Finally, all new employees receive ambition is to have the best industry onboarding training introducing them practice by 2020. In 2017, we will set to Ramboll’s fundamentals and high fixed KPIs within this area to ensure 160 ethical standards, including our Code focus and further development over of Conduct, Policies, Procedures and the coming years. 111 Guidelines, as well as how to raise concerns through our grievance Our new Group Policy, Procedure mechanisms. and Guideline on Anti-Corruption, which states our zero-tolerance policy 2015 2016 towards corruption and bribery, was TAKING A LEAD ON finalised in 2016 and prepared for ANTI-CORRUPTION implementation during 2017. The Local governmental authorities and documents have been developed to international institutions, as well as comply with applicable legislation, public and private organisations, are including the UK Bribery Act (UKBA) increasingly focusing on combating and US Foreign Corrupt Practices corruption. Ramboll also faces Act (FCPA), to ensure that Ramboll increasing demands from our has adequate procedures in place business associates, including clients, to prevent corrupt practices in our to demonstrate and document operations. compliance with anti-corruption 30 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS To ensure thorough awareness Rights (UNGPs) since 2014, when we GROUP POLICIES and implementation among our implemented our policy commitment • Anti-Corruption employees worldwide, a global – Ramboll’s Global Commitment. anti-corruption training, including a ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 customised anti-corruption e-learning The UNGPs prescribe proper human • Anti-Corruption Policy, Procedure training was developed in 2016. It will rights due diligence for businesses, and Guideline approved be rolled out in 2017 using the global which includes the identification of • Face-to-face training of Executive compliance system implemented in actual and potential adverse impacts management conducted • First human rights impact 2015 as a platform for training and on human rights; what businesses assessment of Danish follow-up on compliance. must do to prevent or mitigate these operations conducted at impacts, and track and communicate Ramboll’s head office In order to demonstrate commitment these efforts; as well as grievance and lead by example, our Group mechanisms and remediation. AMBITIONS 2017 Executive Board (GEB) and Group • Anti-corruption Policy, Leadership Team (GLT) received In order to identify actual and Procedure and Guidelines fully implemented worldwide in-person training from the Corporate potential adverse human rights • Start development of Compliance and CR Director together impacts, we conducted our first business integrity training, with expert consultants in December human rights impact assessment including anti-corruption 2016. In 2017, GEB and GLT will aligned with the requirements of the • Define targets for Anti-Corruption • Review and evaluate human complete the entire anti-corruption UNGPs in 2016. Ramboll’s head office rights impact assessment training, after which the training (RHO) in Copenhagen was chosen of Ramboll head office will be rolled out to the rest of our as the scope of investigation for our • Develop and implement Annual employees worldwide. All of our first impact assessment. Since the Statement in compliance with employees will have finalised their pattern of potential adverse impacts the UK Modern Slavery Act • Identify further action to prevent anti-corruption training by August on human rights identified at RHO will and mitigate potential adverse 2017. most likely be the same at any of our impacts on gender equality other Danish offices, this assessment • Conduct a global human Going forward, anti-corruption is considered to cover Ramboll’s rights impact assessment to elaborate a framework for training will be conducted yearly, operations in Denmark. future impact assessments as part of a new global business integrity training to be developed. Though we acknowledge that Ramboll is likely to have more impacts and influence on human RESPECTING rights in other parts of our operations, HUMAN RIGHTS for instance in relation to our projects, Respect for human rights is a natural we also recognise that our own part of Ramboll’s legacy and a core internal operations will have potential element of Our Fundamentals. Our adverse impacts on human rights. management has supported the Therefore, we decided to start with a implementation of the UN Guiding pilot impact assessment of our largest Principles on Business and Human GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION ROLL-OUT PLAN STEP 01 STEP 03 STEP 05 Face-to-face training of Training of Division Directors Training of Senior Professionals Group and Business unit by Global Compliance Function: and Professionals by Local Executive Directors • Read and sign of Policy, Compliance Manager: Procedure and Guideline • Read and sign of Policy • E-learning incl. multiple choice test STEP 02 Online training of Group and Business STEP 04 unit Executive Directors by Global Training of Department Compliance Function: Managers by Local • Read and sign of Policy, Procedure Compliance Manager: and Guideline • Read and sign of Policy and Procedure • E-learning incl. multiple choice test • E-learning incl. multiple choice test CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 31 HOW TO SPEAK UP We encourage all of our employees to speak up if they experience any improper behaviour or non-compliance with our Code of Conduct and/or Policies, Procedures and Guidelines. Our grievance mechanism set-up is illustrated below. Whistleblower Immediate manager hotline Local Compliance Manager and/or the Global Compliance Function office. Furthermore, this assessment and mitigate the potential adverse mechanisms and processes for serves a threefold purpose: impacts. Apart from the actions remediation. already decided and initiated as part 1. As it was our first (pilot) impact of our Gender Diversity Initiative GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS assessment, we needed to build (see page 21), we will look into how internal competencies and learn we can further prevent and mitigate All PBUs systematically monitor and what such an assessment requires these impacts. Together with senior handle compliance irregularities and in terms of resources. management we will decide how to incidents to ensure effective and 2. This assessment will be used as a proceed in 2017. professional responses to issues if practical example for our Principal they arise. A number of grievance Business Units in the process During 2017, we will revisit our mechanisms are in place that we of implementing human rights assessment of RHO in order to encourage our employees to use due diligence across the entire evaluate its continuing relevance, if they experience breaches to organisation globally – which is our as well as to track the effectiveness our Global Commitment, Code of ambition in the long run. of our actions. Furthermore, we Conduct or our Policies, Procedures 3. The results will form the basis will conduct a global human rights and Guidelines (see illustration for our further actions to ensure impact assessment, with the existing above). that we prevent and mitigate the assessment as our point of reference, identified potential impacts on and by including desk top research Our employees may directly approach human rights. and known risks in our industries either their own manager or Local and project work. This global Compliance Manager to take up any The assessment considered the impact assessment will be used experienced irregularities. However, internationally recognised human as a framework for future impact if they feel uncomfortable with this rights as stated in the International assessments both of our own approach, they may contact the Bill of Human Rights, as well as how operations and of our projects. Global Compliance Function or Ramboll might cause or contribute to file an anonymous report via our adverse impacts, or could be linked In compliance with the UK Modern Whistleblower hotline. to adverse impacts, via our business Slavery Act we will develop a ‘Slavery relationships. For all identified and Human Trafficking Statement’ All irregularities and incidents potential adverse impacts, we also based on a risk assessment of our reported through the Whistleblower identified prevention and mitigation operations and business relations, are handled by the Global Compliance steps taken and/or planned. including an action plan to prevent Function with discretion and respect modern slavery in our business. for the person who has raised an The assessment revealed that our issue. When deemed necessary, most urgent potential impact area Finally, we will ensure integration of external experts and lawyers are concerns gender equality. We will human rights due diligence into our involved in the investigation and therefore focus particularly on existing compliance management remediation processes. improving our actions to prevent system, which include grievance 32 DEMONSTRATING OUR PROGRESS Compared to last year, the number a combination of spend (monetary GROUP POLICIES of irregularities and incidents filed value), risk (geographical and • Project excellence through our grievance mechanisms company type) and business • Business risk management has increased from 15 to 41. This is criticality. • Global risk positive as it means that we have • Design and build Purchase Order • Contract with clients on consultancy services created awareness and a healthy process to improve management of • Operational organisation and culture where it is allowed to speak supplier base, e.g. purchasing only delegation of authority up. Furthermore, it is an indicator that from approved suppliers. • CR Guideline on suppliers, our grievance mechanisms work and sub-consultants and are trusted. We expect the number Managing project risks consortium partners • Tax to continue rising during the next Business associates, including • Treasury couple of years. Finally, the trend in suppliers, sub-consultants, the irregularities and incidents filed consortium partners and agents, ACHIEVEMENT 2016 shows that there is a need for further may represent serious compliance • Global Procurement communication and training in our risks in our operations, particularly department established Group Policies. in our project work, if we do not ensure adequate internal controls. AMBITIONS 2017 We have started developing new • New Code of Conduct for RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY global procedures to manage CR and business associates finalised CHAIN MANAGEMENT and implementation into compliance risks and opportunities supply chain started As a global company with a large in our business relations, including supplier base, we are aware that we systematic due diligence of business have a responsibility to prevent and associates. mitigate potential adverse impacts in our supply chain. In order to We are in the process of reviewing manage our global supplier relations, our project due diligence and Ramboll set up a Global Procurement identifying the proper scope for department at the beginning of 2016. global procedures to be implemented into Ramboll’s Project Excellence This year, we have made progress programme, which is our global on developing a solid foundation framework that ensures high-quality for responsible supply chain project management for all of our management, and several initiatives engagements. This involves the have been launched, including: development of new tools to be used for identifying, assessing, • Revising our Suppliers’ Declaration preventing, mitigating and accounting to ensure that our expectations for our potential or actual CR and towards suppliers and other compliance risks in projects. This business associates are clear and work will be finalised during 2017 and up to date. During 2017, we will implemented during 2017 and 2018. start implementing our new Code of Conduct for Business Associates. STRATEGIC APPROACH • Developing a new Global TO CLIENT AND PROJECT Procurement Policy, Procedure SELECTION and Guideline, with specific focus on major spend areas and the Taking a responsible approach to implementation of green policies, how we do business begins before i.e. purchasing eco-labelled goods. undertaking new projects or signing • Segmentation of suppliers agreements with new clients. We according to risk profiles, based on always seek to ensure compatibility COMPLIANCE IRREGULARITIES AND INCIDENTS REPORTED* Category In process Remedied Total In process Remedied Total incidents and/or closed 2016 and/or closed 2015 Human Rights 1 7 8 0 6 6 Business Integrity 13 21 34 1** 8 9 Environment 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 41 15 *The reported irregularities/incidents are divided into their most relevant category to create a simple overview. ** In progress 2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 33 and alignment with our legacy and It is often a better opportunity CORPORATE INCOME TAX, fundamentals in order to make sure for Ramboll to help our clients in DKK MILLION that we can maintain our high ethical choosing more sustainable solutions standards in all of our engagements. and cooperating in a responsible way. 2014 2015 2016 This means that we avoid taking on projects that are destructive towards We consider and weigh the potential 45.1 86.7 78.7 Denmark society or the natural environment, social, environmental and economic 23.4 23.4 26.2 Sweden and we want to protect our people impacts of an issue to find balanced 19.1 7.7 15.4 Norway and Ramboll from potential security, solutions, and often we see potential reputational and compliance risks. for making a positive impact by 10.7 15.5 19.6 Finland Therefore, we respect applicable using our company leverage. If we -3.7 United international sanctions and get involved, we might be able to Kingdom restrictions defined by the UN, influence and mitigate adverse 19.6 US EU, individual countries where impacts by design and consultancy, 10.0 10.5 8.3 Rest of world we operate, and other relevant as well as optimise long-term value governmental institutions. for not only our clients, but society as 104.7 143.8 167.8 Total a whole. As a result, there are specific countries and regions where we will TAX CONTRIBUTION not do business – or to which we strictly limit or preclude travel – and We recognise that paying taxes is an there are specific types of clients important contribution to society in and services that we will not engage the countries in which we do business with or in without proper caution and in 2016, we paid DKK 289.2 and due diligence. This is stated in million in corporate income tax. We Our Fundamentals and reflected in are committed to fulfilling our tax Ramboll’s Group Policy on Global liabilities and obligations wherever Risk, which is continuously monitored incurred. and reviewed by our Group Executive Board and updated whenever In our 2016 financial statements, deemed necessary. Ramboll reported a total corporate income tax charge of DKK 167.8 Ramboll faces dilemmas on a million. This amount should be daily basis, and sometimes simply compared to a consolidated profit saying “no” to a project or client is before tax of DKK 342 million. not necessarily the right solution. 34 REPORTING KPI REPORTING OVERVIEW BEING THE EMPLOYER OF CHOICE Principal Business Unit KPI Year Employee Voluntary Females (%) Females on Females on (PBU) Engagement rate employee management management (scale 1-5) turnover (%) level B (%)* level C (%)* Key Performance Indicator >4 <year before (KPI) target Denmark 2016 4.10 10.4 30 0 0 2015 4.08 10.8 30 0 0 2014 4.04 9.9 33 25 6 Sweden 2016 4.13 18.1 29 0 18 2015 4.08 16.9 30 0 23 2014 4.04 12.7 31 0 24 Norway 2016 4.01 8.9 32 0 35 2015 3.99 9.7 32 0 35 2014 3.91 9.7 35 0 35 Finland 2016 3.91 8.3 32 0 17 2015 3.89 8.1 34 0 16 2014 3.81 6.9 38 0 14 UK 2016 4.06 15.9 28 0 8 2015 4.01 18.4 29 0 14 2014 3.97 11.0 31 0 11 India** 2016 4.14 15.5 16 0 14 2015 4.06 15.7 20 0 0 2014 3.99 22.3 19 0 Middle East** 2016 4.00 15.7 24 0 0 2015 4.06 15.7 20 0 0 2014 3.99 22.3 19 0 Management Consulting 2016 4.03 20.9 43 0 13 2015 3.97 19.2 43 0 8 2014 4.08 14.8 46 0 13 Oil & Gas 2016 4.02 9.8 23 0 0 2015 4.04 14.9 26 0 8 2014 4.01 13.8 27 0 10 Energy 2016 3.98 6.7 21 0 20 2015 3.98 8.6 20 0 0 2014 3.87 7.1 21 0 0 Environment & Health 2016 3.90 11.1 51 0 22 2015 3.80 9.1 51 0 29 2014 Water 2016 4.05 12.7 42 50 20 2015 3.99 10.3 42 100 43 2014 Business Support and 2016 4.05 9.8 41.5 22 Global IT 2015 4.08 7.4 40 29 2014 4.06 7.8 43 20 Ramboll Group 2016 4.02 11.8 34 7 17 2015 3.98 11.9 34 7 17 2014 3.97 11.6 32 8 15 Measure not applicable * The definition of Manager has been changed in relation to the CR reporting, which means that more managers are now included in the numbers, and thus a larger pool of employees. As a result, comparability to previous years is weakened. ** In 2016, the two principal business units India and Middle East have been separated in the CR reporting, whereas previously these were reported under one unit, New Markets. Therefore, data for 2014 and 2015 is a total number for the two units. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 35 MANAGING OUR BUSINESS VALUE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT INTEGRITY CREATION Females on Development Works council CO2 CO2 Total Compliance Customer management dialogue (%) meetings emissions, emissions, CO2 audits satisfaction rate level D (%)* energy transport emission (scale 1-5) per FTEE per FTEE >90% >1 >4.2 22 93 4 0.74 1.85 2.58 10 4.38 26 97 4 0.70 1.88 2.58 19 4.33 30 92 12 0.88 2.09 2.97 4.38 22 88 12 0.33 0.80 1.13 0 4.27 24 89 13 0.44 0.90 1.33 0 4.23 31 84 17 0.40 0.89 1.29 4.23 34 88 4 0.48 0.99 1.47 0 4.24 32 90 4 0.65 0.98 1.62 64 4.13 34 81 4 0.62 0.69 1.31 4.16 32 93 4 0.81 1.03 1.84 0 4.26 28 94 4 1.28 1.15 2.43 4 4.21 32 89 4 0.97 1.15 2.12 4.24 14 95 3 0.50 0.96 1.46 0 4.31 5 97 4 0.54 1.10 1.64 0 4.35 3 92 4 0.82 0.92 1.74 4.25 15 97 2 1.07 1.63 2.70 10 4.34 7 95 10 0.85 1.69 2.54 0 4.22 8 90 1 0.95 2.14 3.09 3.90 8 93 2 0.56 1.04 1.59 10 4.35 7 95 10 0.85 1.69 2.54 10 4.22 8 90 1 0.95 2.14 3.09 3.90 38 91 4 0.81 1.87 2.67 0 4.43 38 90 4 0.48 1.31 1.79 18 4.39 43 92 4 0.71 1.82 2.52 4.46 24 96 24*** 1.62 1.10 2.72 14 4.36 16 96 24*** 1.34 1.27 2.62 18 4.35 17 92 24*** 1.41 1.45 2.85 4.35 13 92 4*** 0.62 1.71 2.33 7 4.42 13 97 4*** 0.64 1.38 2.03 13 4.33 14 84 4*** 0.73 1.66 2.39 4.33 29 92 6**** 1.71 1.31 3.02 36 4.30 24 79 6**** 0 4.31 38 93 1***** 0.77 0.87 1.64 24 4.36 41 91 2***** 14 4.30 30 88 4 29 94 4 33 91 12 25 92 1****** 0.89 1.30 2.19 111 4.32 25 91 1****** 0.76 1.34 2.11 160 4.27 27 88 1****** 0.81 1.43 2.25 4.27 *** Represented in Danish Works Council **** 6 in France (Nordics represented in Nordic Works Councils) ***** 2 in Romania (Nordics represented in Nordic Works Councils) ****** Global Works Council with representative employees from each business unit 36 REPORTING GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) G4 CONTENT INDEX In 2015, Ramboll initiated a transition across the world. The GRI framework transparency, we have indicated the process to align the CR reporting with helps Ramboll to generate reliable, status of our reporting on each GRI the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 comparable, relevant and standardised performance indicator: where full Reporting Framework. Thus, similar to information on our holistic performance. disclosure is available; where partial last year, this report contains Standard disclosure is available . Furthermore, it Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Material aspects is stated where in the CR report you will Reporting Framework, though we are not During 2016, we conducted a materiality find the relevant data and information. meeting the ‘in accordance’ criteria yet. assessment, in order to identify the If it is not available in this report, we Ramboll is currently reporting on 44 most material CR topics to our business, have provided a link or reference to GRI performance indicators, which is an our stakeholders and our value chain either our Annual Report (AR) or our improvement compared to last year. We (see page 5). The boundaries and company website www.ramboll.com. will continue our work to develop and management approach of each material Additionally, the index provides mature our reporting process and data topic are described throughout the information on the correlation between collection, with the aim of improving report under the relevant topics. the GRI indicators reported on, the our performance and consequently UN Global Compact Principles and UN meeting the ‘in accordance’ criteria. Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). It Understanding the table GRI is a global reporting framework should be noted that Ramboll is adhering The following GRI index provides an that provides performance indicators to all UN Global Compact Principles and overview of our performance aligned on social, environmental and economic to more SDGs than included in the index. with GRI G4 performance indicators. To performance, applicable to all This is evident throughout the report. create an easy overview and increase organisations of all types and industries, GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES REFERENCES AND COMMENTS STATUS UNGC PRINCIPLE SDG STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from CEO CR page 4 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation Ramboll Group G4-4 Primary brands, products, services www.ramboll.com/ services-and-sectors G4-5 Location of headquarters CR page 39 G4-6 Countries of operation AR page 4-5, www.ramboll.com/worldwide G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR page 6 G4-8 Markets served CR page 3, AR page 10, www.ramboll.com/worldwide, www.ramboll. com/services-and-sectors G4-9 Scale of the organisation AR page 4-5 + 40-44, www.ramboll.com/services-and-sectors G4-10 Employee breakdown (gender, type, contract) CR page 20-21 + 34-35 6: Labour 5: Gender equality G4-13 Changes during the reporting period CR page 38 (notes), AR page 12 (size, structure, ownership) G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach Code of Conduct: www.ramboll. com/about-us/responsible-andholistic/global-commitment G4-15 External charters, principles or other initiatives endorsed UNGC, UNGP, FIDIC, GRI IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Coverage of entities included in the AR page 51 organisation’s consolidated financial statements G4-18 Process for defining the report and the Aspect boundaries CR page 5 G4-19 Material Aspects identified CR page 5 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation Disclosed continually under each topic G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation Disclosed continually under each topic G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information CR page 34 (first note) + 38 provided in previous reports (notes), AR page 12 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting CR page 5 periods in Scope and Aspect Boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged CR page 5 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period Calendar year 2016, CO2 reporting: 1 July 2015-30 June 2016 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 01 April 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions sustainability@ramboll.com G4-33 Current practice regarding external assurance for the report This report is not externally assured CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 37 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES REFERENCES AND COMMENTS STATUS UNGC PRINCIPLE SDG GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure CR page 38, AR page 60-62, www.ramboll.com/about-us/ organisation ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards, code of conduct CR page 6 + 27-29, http://www. and code of ethics ramboll.com/about-us/responsible-and-holistic GENERIC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Disclosed continually under each topic SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES: MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR page 4, 40, 45 G4-EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities for the CR page 9-13 7: Environment 13: Climate action organisation’s activities due to climate change ENVIRONMENTAL Emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions CR page 24-26 + 34-35 8-9: Environment 13: Climate action Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting CR page 25-26 + 34-35 8: Environment 13: Climate action goods, materials and members of the workforce SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires CR page 19 + 34-35 6: Labour 5: Gender equality and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Occupational Health & Safety G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases CR page 22 8: Decent work related to their occupation and economic growth Training and Education G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance CR page 19 6: Labour 5: Gender equality and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of CR page 20-21 + 34-35 6: Labour 5: Gender equality employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Labour practices grievance mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, CR page 32 1: Human Rights 8: Decent work addressed, and resolved through formal grievance and economic mechanisms growth HUMAN RIGHTS Impact assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have CR page 30-31 1: Human Rights been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts CR page 32 1: Human Rights 8: Decent work filed, addressed and resolved through formal and economic grievance mechanisms growth SOCIETY Anti-Corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for CR page 28-29 10: Anti-corruption 16: Peace, Justice corruption risks and significant risks identified and strong institutions G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption CR page 29-30 10: Anti-corruption 16: Peace, Justice policies and procedures and strong institutions G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken CR page 32 10: Anti-corruption 16: Peace, Justice and strong institutions Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, CR page 32 16: Peace, Justice addressed, and resolved through formal grievance and strong mechanisms institutions PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Product and service labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring client satisfaction CR page 35 38 REPORTING ABOUT THIS REPORT This report is Ramboll’s annual embedding, communicating, ensuring Finland: Corporate Responsibility (CR) compliance and reporting on CR is • Trains in Finland now use CO2neutral energy, which accounts for Report, which complements our headed by the CR and Compliance the decrease in CO2 emmissions Annual Report and constitutes our Function under Group Legal. Status stemming from public transport. ‘Communication on Progress’ (COP) and progress on CR is reported to • This unit has reduced their office space in compliance with the UN Global the Group Board of Directors, who with approx. 3200 square meters Compact and relevant legislation, conveys the information annually to • Uses a mix of national and international CO2 emissions factors (local emission such as the new EU directive for the Ramboll Foundation (the majority factors for heat consumption). Non-Financial Reporting. owner of Ramboll). Read more about United Kingdom: this and find our Policy Commitment • Arithmetical error in last year’s reporting The purpose of this report is to here http://www.ramboll.com/abouton private cars, rental cars and taxis, means that the numbers have changed communicate Ramboll’s holistic us/responsible-and-holistic. for 2015. This means that the CO2 approach and performance (our consumption was actually lower in 2015 social, environmental and economic than reported. In this year’s reporting impacts) to all relevant stakeholders. NOTES CO2 REPORTING the correct numbers are included. This includes policies, actions, results, • Reporting period is 1 July India: 2015 to 30 June 2016. • A mistake was discovered in last challenges as well as ambitions. From years’ reporting on CO2 emissions • This year, our two principal business 2017, we will establish fixed KPIs units Environment & Health and from India. Oil & Gas employees where within selected strategic focus areas, Water have been included in the CO2 included, however, they should only which will enable more transparency reporting for the first time. These be represented in Oil & Gas’ CO2 were established in relation to the accounts to avoid double counting. We regarding our progress. acquisition of ENVIRON in 2015. have corrected this, and consequently • Due to a few errors found in the CO2 the numbers reported this year Report structure reporting from previous years (see for 2015 and 2014 differ from the This year’s report is structured below), the total amount of CO2 numbers reported in previous years. into two main chapters: 1) Shaping emissions in 2015 has been edited in Water: this year’s report compared to what • Uses a mix of national emissions Sustainable Societies, which focuses factors and IEA emissions was reported last year for 2015. on our social, environmental and • If the International Energy Agency factors (legacy ENVIRON). economic impacts through our factors (IEA statistics, ‘CO2 Emission Environment & Health: services and solutions. And 2) from fuel combustion highlights’, • Uses a mix of national emissions 2016 edition) are used instead of factors and IEA emissions Demonstrating our Progress, which national factors, this is stated in factors (legacy ENVIRON). outlines how we ‘walk the talk’ in our Energy: the business unit notes below. own operations. Under Demonstrating • 2016 has been the warmest year • Due to more international projects Our Progress, we report on four in history (Source: NASA), which during 2016, the use of airplane strategic focus areas: Being the can explain the decrease in heat travel increased by almost 50%. and electricity consumption in • Uses a combination of national CO2 Employer of Choice, Creating Safe emission factors and the IEA factors. cold climates and the increase in Working Environments, Managing our electricity consumption in warm Oil & Gas: Environmental Impacts, and Driving climates with cooling needs. • The increase in CO2 emissions per Full a High Integrity Business. These Norway: Time Employee Equivalent (FTEE) • This unit has reduced their office space can be explained by the fact that the focus areas are based on our first with approx. 1,400 square meters. decrease in the market has meant a materiality assessment and the UN cut-down in employees during 2016. Sweden: SDGs (see p 5). • Swedish public transport uses CO2 Management Consulting: neutral energy, which explains • Putz & Partners (acquired in 2015) Reporting principles the very low CO2 emissions. included in this years’ CO2 reporting. • Uses a mix of national emissions Ramboll is currently transitioning factors and IEA emissions factors. the CR reporting process and data to become aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4’s Ramboll works to continuously improve performance on corporate framework, without yet meeting the responsibility. On an annual basis, we are guided by the UN ‘in accordance’ criteria. The body Global Compact Management Model to support our efforts in of the report compares data for the integrating the ten principles on human rights, environment and complete Ramboll Group over the anti-corruption into core strategies and business operations. past three years. In the ‘KPI Reporting overview’ section, the detailed reporting on PBUs is presented on selected KPIs. An overview of our organisational structure is available here: http://www.ramboll.com/ about-us/organisation Anchoring of CR CR is anchored with Ramboll’s Group Executive Board, while the responsibility of developing, We welcome questions, comments and feedback from all stakeholders on our CR Report and performance. Please contact us at sustainability@ramboll.com Linkedin.com/company/ramboll Ramboll Group Twitter.com/Ramboll @rambollgroup www.ramboll.com Head Office: Ramboll Group A/S Hannemanns Allé 53 DK-2300 Copenhagen S Danish CVR No. 10160669 Editors: Frederikke Bøgh Thomsen, Roos Nederveen Art Director: Lone Olai Digital Image Maker: Per Rasmussen Photographers: Jerome Favre/Scanpix, Esusek/Dreamstime, Transport Scotland, Oslo Kommune Bymiljøetaten, Kim Nilsson, Morten Larsen. Printers: Cool Gray A/S. 541-492 WWW.RAMBOLL.COM
