T H I N K I N G W O R K S B Y T H I N K I N G E R G O N O M I X P T Y LT D COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) Period of Communication: March 2016 March 2017 ThinkingWorks by C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ( C O P ) R E P O R T Thinking Ergonomix Pty Ltd Period of Communication: MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017 ABN 63 095 989 638 T +61 (0)2 9726 7177 E sales@thinking.info www.thinking.info 25 Helles Avenue, Moorebank NSW 2170, Australia We are curious We follow a different path 3 OUR STORY Our journey towards sustainability was initiated not as a response to social trends, but because we truly believe it is the right thing to do. Our commitment to become a signatory to the UN Global Compact helps cement this commitment. The ThinkingWorks story began in 1984, when we arrived on the scene as the first designer and manufacturer of height-adjustable desks in Australia. We quickly established ourselves as the commercial furniture company who combined exceptional quality with ingenious creativity. From height-adjustable workstations and smart table systems, to acoustic furniture, quirky seating solutions, and convenient add-ons like power-boxes and monitor arms, our furniture is designed to solve problems in the most beautiful, practical and sustainable of ways. We strive for novel ideas We seek out better solutions With a head office and main manufacturing site in Moorebank and showrooms in Sydney, Melbourne and London – ThinkingWorks products are sold to office furniture and workstations suppliers, and marketed to the architectural and design industry across the world. ThinkingWorks by C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ( C O P ) R E P O R T Thinking Ergonomix Pty Ltd Period of Communication: MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017 ABN 63 095 989 638 T +61 (0)2 9726 7177 E sales@thinking.info www.thinking.info 25 Helles Avenue, Moorebank NSW 2170, Australia 5 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS I am pleased to confirm that ThinkingWorks reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication of Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, DEAN KUCH MANAGING DIRECTOR 21 MARCH 2017 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ( C O P ) R E P O R T UN GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES Our first year as a signatory of the UN Global Fair working conditions and wages are LABOUR PRINCIPLES MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Compact is now complete and we would like to implemented company wide. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the ThinkingWorks has had no reports of take this opportunity to report on our progress. In addition to our Human Rights policy, we freedom of association and the effective investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other have developed an employee handbook recognition of the right to collective bargaining; events related to any breaches to labour, antiHUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES which we fondly call ‘Life At ThinkingWorks’. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of discrimination and or safety regulations in the Principle 1: Businesses should support and All new employees will be inducted using forced and compulsory labour; last 12 months. respect the protection of internationally this handbook. The ‘Life At ThinkingWorks’ ThinkingWorks has a diverse workforce – handbook outlines all our human rights, labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child proclaimed human rights; and labour; and with at least 15 different cultural and ethnic 7 and environmental policies. backgrounds. We employ staff of various Principle 2: make sure that they are not Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in complicit in human rights abuses. In 2016 ThinkingWorks conducted a human age groups – from 18 years of age to 60. rights risk assessment of our top 4 suppliers. respect of employment and occupation. We have a 37% female to 63% male ratio in We chose the suppliers we felt we had most management positions. OUR COMMITMENT AND POLICY influence on and in countries that could be OUR COMMITMENT AND GOALS ThinkingWorks has processes in place to ThinkingWorks is committed to supporting and considered higher risk. address principles 4, 5 and 6 to ensure ThinkingWorks is committed to upholding the respecting the protection of internationally We also introduced a Suppliers Code of rights of our employees in relation to freedom compliance, for example all overtime is freely proclaimed human rights and the International Conduct and spent time engaging with our of association and collective bargaining, forced, chosen and monitored. Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Declaration on suppliers which included one-on-one training compulsory or child labour and understands the Though we do acknowledge freedom of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. on visits to their manufacturing sites. Our importance of having a diverse workforce. We association and the right to collective We conducted a human rights assessment, Inventory Manager makes recommendations for have polices to address all of these bargaining, discrimination, forced, compulsory using the Global Compact risk assessment tool improvement and we monitor these periodically. labour principles. and child labour could be pertinent to our on our business operations and processes. This We have developed a Suppliers Scorecard to suppliers and have included these principles in gave us a good idea as to where we stood, as help us rate our suppliers and our Suppliers code of conduct. track progress. IMPLEMENTATION we had a number of policies and procedures We will continue to engage with our suppliers addressing human and labour rights and where Our commitment to our Human Rights Policy Our employee handbook (Life At and monitor the labour principles against our there were none, we developed new policies. is managed through an internal management ThinkingWorks) includes all polices relevant Sustainable Supply Code of Conduct in the system to ensure procedures, training, to principles three, four, five and six. Staff coming 12 months. We plan to extend the Code It is our purpose to ensure human rights are aware that they have the support of are implemented within our company and responsibilities, and monitoring are in place. of Conduct in 2017-18 to other key suppliers. management should they wish to join a union or companies in which we conduct business and are free to collective bargain. In 2017 we intend to implement a Grievance have influence on. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES procedure and conduct staff training to assist In 2016 ThinkingWorks conducted a labour the staff with understanding the process of ThinkingWorks has had no reports of rights assessment of our top 4 suppliers, IMPLEMENTATION investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other raising a grievance. 6 we chose the suppliers we felt we had most We have developed and implemented a events related to any breaches to labour, antiinfluence on and in countries that could be Human Rights policy which is our overarching discrimination and or safety regulations in the considered higher risk. policy on human and labour rights. This policy last 12 months. We also introduced a Suppliers code of demonstrates a commitment to: Our top 4 suppliers have been given a Suppliers conduct which includes labour principles; • a safe and healthy workplace Code of Conduct to ensure they too conduct freedom of association and collective their business ethically. bargaining, elimination of all forms of forced • anti-discrimination MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017 • zero tolerance to bullying We will continue to engage with our suppliers and compulsory labour, abolition of child labour and monitor them against our Sustainable and elimination of discrimination. Our Inventory • freedom of association and Manager spent time engaging with our Supply Code of Conduct in the coming 12 collective bargaining suppliers which included oneon-one training months. We plan to extend the Code of • no forced, child or bonded labour Conduct in 2017-18 to other key suppliers. at their manufacturing facilities. Our suppliers • allows staff to report any grievance are rated with internal scorecards and are given or harassment. corrective actions where required. C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ( C O P ) R E P O R T DOWNLOADS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES of environmental impacts. Policies and ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Principle 7: Business should support a procedures assist our organisation to set Principle 10: Businesses should work against ThinkingWorks has had no reports of precautionary approach to environmental our commitment, and manage our corruption in all its forms, including extortion investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or challenges; environmental impacts. and bribery. other events related to any breaches in AntiPrinciple 8: undertake initiatives to promote In addition to our certifications, corruption and bribery in the last 12 months. greater environmental responsibility; and ThinkingWorks offsets the carbon emissions OUR COMMITMENT AND GOALS We will continue to engage with our sales and from our business operations by purchasing The Managing Director of ThinkingWorks Dean procurement teams to ensure the highest level Principle9: encourage the development and retiring certified carbon credits under the of integrity with all business dealings. and diffusion of environmentally Kuch, is committed to ensuring that all business 9 global Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). activities are conducted ethically and according Anti-corruption and bribery has been included friendly technologies. to all relevant Australian and overseas standards in our Suppliers code of conduct which we have OUR COMMITMENT AND GOALS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES and legislation. We understand the importance issued to 4 of our top suppliers and will continue ThinkingWorks has been monitoring and of Anti-corruption in all its forms, including to monitor over the next 12 months. ThinkingWorks has been certified to ISO14001: extortion and bribery to our business and EMS certification since 2009. In addition to measuring our environmental impacts since We plan to conduct further training with new 2009. We have released these figures to our stakeholders. sales staff and our Procurement department. the ISO14001 certification a number of our products have Type 1 Ecolabelling certification, include emissions, energy and waste in our 2016 Sustainability Report, found on our IMPLEMENTATION Good Environmental Choice Australia (GECA) and AFRDI GreenTick. Both of these company website. In 2016 we developed an Anti-corruption and certification schemes are recognised by the http://www.thinking.info/about-us/sustainability/ Bribery Policy which sets out the requirements Green Building Council of Australia (GBCA). for all staff to comply with. Employees are We’ve had some wins and some losses in expected to act with the highest standards of 2016 in relation to the monitoring of our integrity in all business dealings. IMPLEMENTATION energy, waste and emissions. We achieved ThinkingWorks understands the importance an 81% reduction of waste over a 6 year The policy directive reinforces bribery of environmental sustainability, using various period and a 22% reduction in overall carbon and corruption, political and charitable technologies to assist us in lowering our emissions based on annual production figures. contributions, gifts and entertainment expenses environmental impacts. We’ve had a fairly substantial increase in and substance-based due diligence. The policy energy 20 % due to the relocation to a sets gift limits and thresholds. We’ve had a number of products undergo new manufacturing facility to cater for the We have introduced and conducted training on a life cycle assessment (LCA) to assist us in continual growth in business. ThinkingWorks the Anti-corruption Policy with our sales and understanding the environmental impacts, purchases 100% GreenPower in our Australian marketing team. emissions and embodied energy in the operations and UK business. materials, coatings and finishes we use on our 8 table bases. Our environmental management system is audited annually as part of our ISO14001 In addition to the LCA technology, we use certification. Finite Element Analysis (FEA), a computer program that assists our design team in In 2017 we plan to update our ISO14001 EMS assessing the minimal material input for certification to the revised 2015 standard, greater strength and durability. and we plan to take a more ‘proactive’ approach to our product design and MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017 As part of ISO14001 certification we development phase and initiate a Design continue to educate our staff, suppliers Checklist which ensures we follow the and the market of the importance of requirements of Australian Type 1 Ecolabelling environmental protection. In 2016 we initiated requirements for all new products. a Suppliers Code of Conduct which includes environmental compliance and management C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ( C O P ) R E P O R T SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Goal 8: 3. The design team uses Finite Element Analysis Since we began offsetting our carbon emissions 17 GOALS TO TRANSFORM OUR WORLD Promote inclusive and sustainable (FEA) to identify environmentally preferable in 2010, we’ve reduced our overall emissions by economic growth, employment and materials along with minimal material input for 22% based on annual production figures. ThinkingWorks understands the importance of greater strength. businesses, individuals and countries to take decent work for all We believe in transparency and have released action against the 17 Sustainable Development 4. Our recycling and reuse program includes a our annual Sustainability Report (2016) which Goals. We have outlined our participation, ThinkingWorks sources materials and box-buy-back initiative which means our clients documents our progress on actions and commitment and action for 6 of the Sustainable components from a global supply chain. Some are rewarded for returning our packaging, initiatives for waste and energy. Development goals. of our manufacturing partners are in low and which is then reused to package new products. middle income countries. We have a growing We also recycled paper, cardboard, metals 11 business and with this growth, comes the and comingle items. In addition, our Styrofoam AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY growth of our suppliers, this in turn helps their packaging is given to another supplier to be local communities. used as packaging in toys. Goal 7: We invest time and energy by assisting our 5. We have a Product stewardship policy in Ensure access to affordable, reliable, suppliers and promoting high standards of place for a number of our ranges for our sustainable and modern energy for all health and safety in their manufacturing Australian customers. facilities. We encourage our suppliers and make Goal 15: Sustainably manage forests, In addition to the 100% Green Power, recommendations to help them create a safe combat desertification, halt and ThinkingWorks offsets the carbon emissions working environment. Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat reverse land degradation, halt from our business operations by purchasing and climate change and its impacts biodiversity loss retiring certified carbon credits under the global Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). The carbon Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among ThinkingWorks evaluates climate change ThinkingWorks conducts due diligence on all footprint of our business is offset by supporting countries risks such as resource scarcity, resource price sourced timbers to ensure we are not procuring a HYDROPOWER project in China. volatility and takes appropriate mitigation and illegally harvested timbers. This project supports the Chinese government’s ThinkingWorks has policies in place to adaptive action. objective to reduce the dependence on demonstrate our commitment to equal exhaustible fossil fuels by: ThinkingWorks monitors, measures and offsets opportunities, prohibiting discrimination in all carbon emissions from our business operations • Reducing the dependence on exhaustible its forms. Anti-discrimination is one of the key by purchasing and retiring certified carbon fossil fuels for power generation; requirements which is included in our Suppliers credits under the global Verified Carbon • Reducing air pollution by displacing coal-fired Code of Conduct. Standard (VCs). The carbon footprint of our power plants with clean, renewable power; business is offset by supporting a hydropower • Reducing the adverse health impacts from air Goal 12: project in China. 10 pollution; Ensure sustainable consumption and The below business operations are included in • Reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases, production patterns the carbon offsetting to combat global climate change; • paper and cardboard • Contributing to local economic development ThinkingWorks has in place a number of processes and initiatives that support • flights through employment creation. sustainable consumption and production • waste and recycling patterns, these include: • hotel accommodation MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017 1. Ecolabelling Type 1 certification – for 5 of our • advertising product ranges • taxis 2.The undertaking of a Life Cycle Assessment • freight (LCA) to better understand the environmental impacts of materials and coatings to ensure a more sustainable outcome. ThinkingWorks by Thinking Ergonomix Pty Ltd Period of Communication: MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017 ABN 63 095 989 638 T +61 (0)2 9726 7177 E sales@thinking.info www.thinking.info 25 Helles Avenue, Moorebank NSW 2170, Australia 12 MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017
