Communication on Progress What is the time period covered by the COP? September 2016 – September 2017 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer 1st September 2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that IMImobile reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. IMImobile is committed as a business to operating at the highest ethical standards, with integrity. We are proud to be a partner of the UN Global Compact demonstrated by our commitment and adoption of sustainable and socially responsible policies and adherence to their universal principles. We care deeply about the social impact that we have on our employees, our customers and the wider community. This annual Communication on Progress describes the actions we have taken to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jay Patel CEO Human Rights Assessment, policy, and goals IMImobile actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human rights. As a business, we operate in multiple global territories and ensure that any third parties or suppliers we engage with are also compliant. Any such external parties who we find, or who have been found to disregard any of the standards set out in this declaration, we will refuse to engage with. Potential partners of the business are subject to a thorough evaluation to ensure that there is no evidence of unethical practices. Internally, IMImobile has a robust collection of policies and guidelines, one of which covers equality and dignity in the workplace which applies group wide. In relation to the matter of Human Rights, IMImobile strives for consistently high standards, often exceeding requirements stipulated by local legislation in several territories. We ensure that all new joiners to the group are given an induction into our principles and commitments. Similarly, all stakeholders, including employees, are trained and frequently reminded of their individual responsibilities in ensuring our commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human rights is upheld. Over the coming year, IMImobile plans to continue its diligent approach to consciously consider human rights issues in its business operations as well as reinforcing this commitment in our recruitment and selection processes and via our internal company values. Implementation On an annual basis, IMImobile will review, and where applicable, update our policy guidelines to ensure that localised internal processes and wider group policies are legislatively sound and ’fit-forpurpose’ within the dynamic business environments in which we operate. We continue to use an anonymised online feedback tool, directly to the CEO via which employees are encouraged to provide concerns around a variety of business issues. We encourage feedback and have carried out a number of staff surveys to ensure that employees can air any grievances in an appropriate forum meaning that we can take action accordingly. The satisfaction and wellbeing of our staff is of the utmost importance to the business. IMImobile is an equal opportunities employer and acts fairly when dealing with matters relating to recruitment, training and development. We are also an accredited member of the Living Wage foundation in the UK. The auditable distribution of our group and local policies and practices is always accompanied by an invitation to discuss or provide feedback from each employee in the group. Measurement of outcomes During annual industry standard and HR audits, it was determined that IMImobile is taking all necessary measures to adequately comply with the standards around human rights matters. We are pleased to confirm that again, for the relevant period covered in this COP, no grievances or disciplinary measures have been taken with regard to this matter. It is our firm intention to maintain a strong focus on our commitment to the overarching human rights expectations within our industry and the UN Global Compact. Labour Assessment, policy, and goals IMImobile continues to uphold a strong ethos of working only with partners who themselves are committed to observing fair labour practices and who resolutely reject all forms of forced and child labour. All employees and other worker groups are issued with an employment contract and employee handbook which detail the company regulations on working hours, pay and time off. This is regularly updated and shared with employees to ensure compliance with industry standards as well as ensuring the full awareness of all employees of any changes that are made which may impact them individually or a faction or group of the organisation. Locally appropriate consultations are conducted in the event of any changes to these contractual items. As a globally present organisation, IMImobile consistently ensures that demonstrable fair labour practices are evidenced and made available throughout the supply chain. Implementation For each jurisdiction which we operate in, internal policy guidelines relating to labour and employment regulation are distributed, reviewed and updated where appropriate. An online anonymous feedback tool, dynamic feedback systems and a documented policy around whistleblowing allow candid feedback from all employees, group wide. The IMImobile employee handbook includes policies covering CSR, discrimination, equality and diversity as well as bullying and harassment. IMImobile prides itself on employment practices that never discriminate on the basis of, race, age, gender, disability, nationality or religion. All employees are welcome to become members of a trade union (or regional equivalent) and they, nor their representatives are treated with any form of discrimination. Measurement of outcomes We value our multicultural, global workforce and believe that the diversity in our employee base presents a competitive advantage for the business, as well as a richness in culture. We have had no legislative action taken against us regarding contravention of the labour principles set out in the UN Global Compact. In addition, within the last year, IMImobile has further enhanced its annual leave and maternity packages within the UK. Based on feedback gathered, we have also introduced a “core-hours” policy within our Indian regions to allow further flexibility and increased work-life balance. We will continually explore ways that we can enhance our support to the labour principles and work to improve current processes in all offices. Environment Assessment, policy, and goals As a global business, we are very aware of the environmental impact that our operations have. As a cloud-services technology provider, we do not manufacture any physical products ensuring that our environmental impact is relatively low. Many of our solutions reduce the environmental impact for our clients, reducing waste and consuming fewer resources through automation. Examples of this include the delivery of paperless statements and the general shift towards digital engagement through various communications channels. We minimise both national and international travel through the increased use of technology and conference call software and try to encourage staff to be considerate of the environment. When international travel is a requirement, we employ strategies to maximise productivity whilst minimising the environmental impact of such excursions such as combining meetings and careful scheduling. The requirement to recycle is introduced at induction phase for all employees, alongside encouraging practices to re-use equipment, re-purpose materials and minimise energy usage. This is underpinned and supported by an environmental policy and guidelines on best practice. We continue to increase awareness of the importance of environmentally friendly operations and hold frequent reviews of our suppliers and day to day office management to ensure maximum compliance and efficiency. We set ourselves a target to achieve 75% of all office sundries either made from or considering recycled/eco-friendly materials. We have achieved a portion of this but have reviewed and put strategies in place to hit the 75% target over the next 12 months. Implementation During the on-boarding process, all IMImobile employees are trained on expected standards for recycling and energy usage. We work closely with our facilities management in our serviced office buildings to maintain and contribute to a viable office environment, including energy saving lighting and sensible use of air conditioning. There are frequent tests during health and safety audits in our major offices to check on water quality etc. Measurement of outcomes IMImobile is pleased to confirm that we have not had any incidents arise relating to environmental issues, nor any legislative claims or issues from staff. Health & Safety compliance and issues are regularly reported to the board with an opportunity for any concerns, issues or solutions to be presented. The company only engages with credible and licensed third parties for the disposal and destruction of equipment and documentation which we carry out from both a compliance but also an environmental perspective Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy, and goals IMImobile policy on anti-bribery and corruption features prominently in our policy guidelines and also frequent training and compliance exercises. IMImobile guidelines include a policy of anti-bribery and corruption. All employees are provided with an overview of the expected standard at the time of on-boarding and all client-facing employees, including senior management and sales staff are asked to re-acknowledge the policy at the time of the document renewal on an annual basis. Over the last 12 months, we have formalised and standardised the on-boarding and continued training program for all staff. For those employees in positions where noncompliance of our commitment to Anti-corruption may, practicably, be more commonplace, support and guidance is offered by the HR and Senior Management teams. For all employees, regardless of position or role, support channels are open and advertised to offer advice in situations where inappropriate or questionable circumstances may present themselves. Implementation Currently, the policy and expectations are highlighted at the beginning of an employee’s career though the on-boarding process and followed up more regularly with certain functions within the business, but on a frequent basis with all staff. IMImobile continues to pride itself on a culture in which all employees have the freedom and comfort of open dialogue with their local HR department or senior manager should they have any concerns regarding this matter. Mike Jefferies, Chief Financial Officer is ultimately responsible for anti-bribery across the group. Measurement of outcomes The authorisation of employee expenses and entertaining is controlled through robust processes involving line management and independent financial sign-off. This is audited and spot-checked regularly with any discrepancies or anomalies being addressed in a timely manner. There have been no issues regarding bribery and we hope to continue in this vein over the coming 12 months.
