Sustainability Report 2016 / 2017 This is SMEC’s seventh annual Sustainability Report. The report covers SMEC’s economic, social and environmental performance from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. Contents Introduction 4 The CEO’s Message This is SMEC’s seventh annual Sustainability Report. The report 6 The Chairman's Message covers SMEC’s economic, social and environmental performance 7 The Board from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. 8 The Executive Committee 10 Scope of Content The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s Australian operations and various international operations. It does not include SMEC’s joint ventures or any other controlled entities. 11 Company Overview SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policies and procedures have been implemented in 12 Global Network Australia over the last year, and have been rolled out across selected pilot sites internationally. 14 Corporate Governance SMEC has applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to a 18 Stakeholders & Objectives self‑declared Level B. The GRI guidelines are the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting 20 Vision & Performance guidelines, and encourage greater organisational transparency. 24 People The data in this report has been gathered using standard measurement techniques which conform 36 Community to national or international guidelines or regulatory requirements. Specific calculations are referenced where appropriate. All monetary figures are in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. 40 Sustainability & Environment For further information, please contact: sustainabilityreport@smec.com 48 Global Reporting Initiative Index 52 Appendix A 54 Appendix B 2 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 3 SMEC is recognised for providing technical excellence and consultancy expertise in urban, infrastructure and management advisory. Consistently ranked among the world’s top engineering design firms, we have contributed to national development in some of the world’s fastest The CEO’s Message growing and emerging economies. We are proud to deliver our seventh annual Sustainability Report for submission to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The purpose of this report is to measure our progress towards the five-year sustainability objectives outlined in SMEC’s Strategic Plan. These objectives formalise SMEC’s commitment to each have begun the roll out of our second Leadership Development Throughout the year, SMEC continued its commitment to SMEC received the Overall International Award at the 12d of its three Corporate Social Responsibility categories: Program (LDP). This Program aims to improve the leadership supporting people in need through the small-scale grant International Innovation Awards, which recognise innovative People; Community; and Sustainability and Environment. capability of employees, teams and the organisation as a whole, support of the SMEC Foundation. The SMEC Foundation is solutions in civil engineering, surveying and data management. Under these objectives, SMEC aims to: create a rewarding, by providing face-to face training, executive coaching, actiona core part of SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) SMEC was recognised for excellence at the Australia India inclusive workplace for our people by encouraging personal based learning techniques and the latest developments in Program, and helps fulfill the Company’s commitment to Business Council Trade investment Awards, and received two development, fostering equal opportunity and ensuring leadership research and approaches. community development and sustainable poverty reduction. high commendations at the 2015 Consult Australia Awards for employee health, safety and wellbeing; support community and Excellence. In Africa, SMEC was successful at the Construction We are also implementing an initiative to enhance and promote During the reporting period, the SMEC Foundation donated charitable programs; and eliminate or minimise potential adverse Industry Business Excellence Awards, winning three awards. technical excellence and innovation. This includes improving over A$140,000 to support communities in which the Company impacts that SMEC’s activities may have on the environment. our technical leadership to drive innovation, cultivating a culture operates. These funds were distributed through grants made SMEC has made significant progress towards achieving the SMEC is committed to improving the energy efficiency of our where people are encouraged to explore new ideas, and in turn, to Habitat for Humanity (for projects in Bangladesh, Myanmar, Company’s sustainability objectives this year. I would like to offices, and reducing the greenhouse gas emissions generated deliver better solutions to our clients. Sri Lanka and Vietnam), So They Can Children’s Home in thank all employees for their ongoing support in creating a by the Company’s operations. In 2016, SMEC’s Australian Kenya and the Australian Foundation for Fostering Learning in sustainably-sensitive work environment, and look forward to Diversity remains a key business priority, and SMEC will offices averaged a NABERS energy rating of three and a half the Philippines. These organisations that have a long-standing driving a culture of sustainability and environmental awareness continue to invest in the implementation of a broad range of stars, above the average three stars for Australian offices. history of effective project delivery, local community engagement in all functional, operational and regional areas of the business. diversity and inclusion initiatives. The Diversity and Inclusion 50% of SMEC’s offices have already achieved the target energy and measurable social benefits and results. Committee will oversee the progress of diversity efforts across rating of four stars and are now working to achieve a five star all of SMEC’s business groups and functions, and will seek to SMEC recently established an ANZ CSR Committee. The rating. Notably, SMEC’s Gold Coast office increased their star identify and address local diversity and inclusion priorities and Committee operates as a representative body of SMEC rating from three stars to five and a half stars, a significant compliance requirements. employees from across the Division, with each member acting improvement in energy efficiency and cost savings. as a point of contact for employees interested in our CSR SMEC’s Diversity and Inclusion Committee drives our Gender I am pleased to advise that despite SMEC’s significant employee activities. The Committee is in the process of developing Andy Goodwin Diversity and Inclusion Strategy. We believe in equal opportunity growth in the preceding year, our overall energy consumption an Action Plan for CSR activities within the Division. CSR for all, and respect differences in ethnicity, gender, age, national CEO SMEC & CEO International, Surbana Jurong per employee per annum in Australia has reduced. SMEC’s office Committees will also be established across each of SMEC’s origin, disability, sexual orientation, education and religion. We energy consumption during the reporting period totalled 1.2 international Divisions. Each Division will administer program strive to promote a positive work environment for all employees million kWh. This equates to 970 kWh per employee, per annum; activities in their respective areas, providing a localised and clients, and understand that the diverse perspectives, 50% less than the industry standard. approach to SMEC’s CSR initiatives. work experiences, lifestyles and cultures of its employees are a At SMEC, we continually invest in programs which encourage strength for the Company. It has been a successful year on the awards front for SMEC. personal development and I am pleased to advise that we Once again we improved our rankings in Engineering News Record (ENR) Magazine’s annual design lists. In Australia, 4 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 5 The Board Max Andy Alastair Findlay Goodwin McKendrick The Chairmans Message Chairman BEc, FAICD CEO SMEC & CEO International (SJ Group) BSc(Eng)Mech, BCom(Hons) Non-Executive Director BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD Max was appointed Chairman of SMEC in Andy joined SMEC in 2012 and was Alastair was elected to the Board as an 2016, after serving as Deputy Chairman appointed CEO in 2014. He became Executive Director in 2001 and has over since 2014, and Non-Executive Director CEO International (SJ Group) in 2016 35 years’ experience working across On behalf of the Board of Directors, I am pleased to welcome you to SMEC’s 2016since 2010. Max serves on the Boards of following the acquisition of SMEC a variety of industry sectors. Alastair 2017 Sustainability Report. This has been a very significant year for SMEC, with a new several organisations including the Royal Holdings by Surbana Jurong. Andy stepped down from his executive Children’s Hospital and listed company has over 30 years’ experience leading position in 2016 after 17 years with the partnership, strong financial results and substantial progress towards our economic, Skilled Group Ltd. Max is a Fellow of the multidisciplinary teams in technical and Company and 16 years in SMEC’s chief social and environmental objectives. Australian Institute of Company Directors. complex environments. financial role. There have been a number of changes to SMEC’s company As part of our growth strategy, in June 2016, SMEC size, structure and leadership throughout 2016/2017. With launched its first off-shore design centre in Bangalore, India. Kate Rodger Heang Fine the changing nature of our industry, SMEC recognised that Operated by global engineering outsourcing consultant, Spargo Bayliss Wong to remain relevant we needed to grow, and to achieve this Cyient, this development will support the Group’s drive to we required a strong partner. offer more effective solutions in all our markets. In May 2016, it was announced that the SMEC Board The SMEC Foundation recently celebrated its 15th year in Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group CEO (Surbana Jurong) entered into an agreement with Surbana Jurong to operation, and throughout that time, we have contributed to BA,LLB(Hons), FAICD BSc, MRACI, FAICD BSc, MSc acquire 100% of the SMEC Group, via the purchase of initiatives and projects across each of our divisions. Kate was appointed to the SMEC Roger was appointed to the SMEC Heang Fine was appointed to the SMEC shares. In July 2016, SMEC Shareholders voted We have strengthened our processes around compliance Board in 2010, is Chair of the Audit Board in 2002. He is a Non-Executive SMEC Board in 2016 and is Chairman overwhelmingly in favor of the agreement, and SMEC in order to ensure the highest standards of integrity and and Risk Committee and a member Director of SMEC, Chairman of the of the Remuneration and Nominations officially joined Surbana Jurong. of the Remuneration and Nominations conduct of The SMEC Foundation and the agencies that we SMEC Foundation Board and a member Committee. Heang Fine is the Group CEO Surbana Jurong is one of Asia’s leading urban and partner with to ensure that funds go to the communities who Committee. Kate is also a Non-Executive of the Remuneration and Nominations of Surbana Jurong Private Limited. His infrastructure development consultancies. The Company need it most. Director on a number of Boards including Committee. Roger’s career includes policy career spans over 35 years and includes Sonic Healthcare Ltd, Fletcher Building development, marketing and international many key leadership positions across a provides urbanisation, infrastructure and engineering This year, we were able to quickly respond to natural Ltd and CoInvest Ltd. trade and investment. number of industries. services to support sustainable social and economic growth disasters in both the Asia Pacific region and the South Asia for its clients. With improved global expertise and local division. I wish to thank all those who have been involved knowledge, our new partnership ensures we continue to in the work of The SMEC Foundation over the past year Eng Cheong Daniel Yan Hui deliver excellence across major infrastructure projects and and look forward to The SMEC Foundation continuing its also offer consultancy services in township and industrial Teo Teo Thiam Guan Loh important work in the years to come. development, master planning, facilities management and smart city projects. SJ Group CEO international SJ Group Chief Financial Officer Deputy CEO, Infrastructure In line with this new partnership I am pleased to welcome four BSc, MSc BSc, MBA MSc new members of the Surbana Jurong Group to the SMEC Board: Mr Wong Heang Fine, Group CEO of Surbana Jurong Eng Cheong was appointed to the SMEC Daniel joined the SMEC Board in 2016 Yan Hui was appointed to the SMEC Private Limited, Mr Teo Eng Cheong CEO International, Mr Board in 2016 when SMEC joined Surbana and is a member of the Audit and Board in 2016 following the acquisition of Loh Yan Hui Deputy CEO, Infrastructure and Mr Daniel Teo, Jurong Group. He joined Surbana Jurong Risk Committee. Daniel is a finance SMEC by Surbana Jurong. He has over Max Findlay from International Enterprise Singapore. executive with over 20 years’ experience 36 years’ experience in the infrastructure Surbana Jurong’s Group Chief Financial Officer. Chairman Before joining the private sector, Eng in operational management, treasury, industry, and has contributed to many Together they bring a wealth of experience and expertise Cheong was a senior government official pricing, mergers, restructuring of research and development projects and to the Board and will help formulate and guide SMEC’s with the Singapore Administrative Service. operations and tax and transfer pricing, at published technical papers in international strategic direction. country, regional and global levels. conferences and journals. 6 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 7 The Executive Committee Andy Andy Angus Goodwin Atkin Macpherson CEO SMEC & CEO International (SJ) Group Finance Director Director Operations BSc(Eng)Mech, BCom(Hons) BSc BE(Civil), CPEng, MIEAust Andy joined SMEC in 2012 and was Andy is the Global Group Financial Angus joined SMEC in 1993 and was appointed CEO in 2014. He became CEO Controller of the Surbana Jurong Group. appointed Director of Operations in 2017, International (SJ Group) in 2016 following In this role Andy is responsible for the he is also a SMEC Foundation Board the acquisition of SMEC Holdings by financial management and systems of member. Prior to this he was Director Surbana Jurong. Andy has over 30 years’ the SJ Group. Prior to this, Andy held of Corporate Affairs. Angus has over 20 experience leading multidisciplinary teams the role of General Manager Finance for years’ experience in the management of in technical and complex environments. the SMEC Group since 2007. large multidisciplinary projects. John Hari Thomas Stocco Poologasundram Hynes Chief Operating Officer Resources Chief Operating Officer ANZ Chief Operating Officer BEng(Mech), CPEng, FIEAust BSc(Eng)Mech, BCom(Hons) Asset Management John joined SMEC in 2014 as Chief Hari joined SMEC in 1994 and was Thomas joined SMEC in February 2010 and Operating Officer of SMEC’s Resources appointed Chief Operating Officer was appointed Chief Operating Officer – Division. John has over 30 years’ Australia and New Zealand in 2012. Asset Management (Global) in 2017. Tom experience in the mining and minerals Hari has 30 years’ experience in the has over 25 years’ experience leading and processing sector with an emphasis on planning, design and management of managing consulting businesses for the business strategy. complex infrastructure projects. delivery of Asset Management services. Dr Uma George Tom Maheswaren Lasek Marshall The Executive Committee (EC) has primary authority for the management and monitoring of the Company’s Chief Operating Officer SAME Chief Operating Officer Americas Chief Operating Officer Africa operations, and the implementation of the Company PhD (Building Science) BEng(Civil) PrEng, BEng, MEng, DEng, MSAICE, FIOD Strategy subject to policies and procedures approved Dr Uma was appointed COO SAME in George joined SMEC in 2011 and was Tom joined SMEC in 2012 as Chief by the Board of Directors. The EC is comprised of 2016, having previously held the role of appointed COO Americas 2016. Prior to Operating Officer Africa. Tom has over CEO and Managing Director, India for this, George held the role of COO SAME 30 years’ experience in civil engineering, nine senior individuals with extensive experience in the Surbana Jurong Group. Dr Uma has since 2015. George has 30 years’ construction supervision and strategic and operational planning. over 10 years’ management experience experience operating at operational and management of multidisciplinary teams across various organisations. strategic levels. throughout Southern Africa. 8 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 9 Scope of Content Company Overview The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s Australian operations and selected SMEC is a multidisciplinary consultancy firm with a global footprint, international operations only. It does not include SMEC’s joint ventures or any other recognised for providing fully integrated engineering solutions to clients and controlled entities. For a complete list of SMEC’s controlled and associated entities, communities around the world. please refer to Appendix A. Material Aspects and Boundaries Figure 1: Material Aspects contained within SMEC has a rich history, dating back to Our integrated services contribute to SMEC, a progressive this report the iconic Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric national development in some of the world’s company, is consistently To determine the material aspects, boundaries and content of this report, SMEC Scheme in 1949. Recognised as a marvel fastest growing economies, and since our recognised for completed a four step process of identification, prioritisation, validation and review. Economic of engineering, the Scheme has been formation, we have delivered thousands technical excellence, This process ensured all aspects identified were material to SMEC, and provided added to Australia’s National Heritage List, of projects in over 100 countries. Working design innovation and a structured approach for implementation of the Reporting Principles for Defining Economic Performance cementing its place in history. with our clients we provide cost‑effective, Report Content. Indirect Economic Impacts environmental and practical and sustainable project Since then, we have grown into a social risk management Material aspects defined in this report are those aspects which reflect SMEC’s Environmental outcomes. Clients include local and progressive global company, with over by the world’s leading significant economic, social and environmental impacts, or which have a multi-national contractors, government 5,800 people across more than 40 engineering bodies. substantial influence on the decisions of company stakeholders. To determine Materials departments, statutory bodies, private countries. the boundaries of each material aspect, consideration was made into the Energy sector organisations, utility providers and impacts of each, both within and externally to SMEC. We deliver engineering excellence and International Financial Institutions (IFIs) Water design innovation across all key areas of Material aspects contained within this report are displayed in Figure 1. All responsible for funding and coordinating Biodiversity infrastructure, including: major infrastructure projects. #48 material aspects identified have an impact both inside and outside of SMEC, and are relevant for all stakeholders outlined in Stakeholder Engagement on page 18. Emissions • Transport In May 2016, it was announced that the • Hydropower and Energy SMEC Board entered into an agreement Defining Report Content Effluents and Waste ENR’s Top 225 • Water and Environment with Surbana Jurong to acquire 100% of In compiling this report, SMEC has adhered to the Reporting Principles for Compliance International the SMEC Group and in July 2016, SMEC Design Firms Defining Report Content. These principles are: • Built Environment Social officially joined Surbana Jurong. • Resources (Mining, Oil & Gas) • stakeholder inclusiveness • materiality Surbana Jurong is one of Asia’s leading Labour Practices and Decent Work • Education, Governance & Government • sustainability context • completeness urban and infrastructure development Employment Advisory Implementation of these principles ensures the content contained within this consultancies. Labour/Management Relations We align technical expertise with local report is relevant, accurate, meaningful and complete. Together, SMEC and Surbana Jurong knowledge to deliver cost effective, Occupational Health and Safety will be a powerful force globally, with a Stakeholder Inclusiveness practical and sustainable project outcomes #69 Training and Education workforce of over 13,000 people across Information in this report pertains to SMEC’s stakeholders and has been and have developed and refined a core 110 offices throughout Asia, Australasia, compiled with reference to the expectations, needs, interests and information Diversity and Equal Opportunity service offering to cover the life of a project. the Middle East, Africa, and North and requirements of these stakeholders. ENR’s Top 150 Global Equal Remuneration for Women These core services include: prefeasibility South America. Sustainability Context and Men and feasibility studies; field investigations, Design Firms This is a significant milestone in SMEC’s This report presents SMEC’s company performance within the wider context Human Rights laboratory testing and computer history and one that presents many of sustainability, and explores the ways in which SMEC contributes to the modelling; preliminary through to detailed Non-discrimination opportunities to further develop our people, improvement of economic, environmental and social conditions on a local, design (structural, civil, architectural, Freedom of Association and Collective better support our clients and significantly regional and global level. mechanical and electrical); tender Bargaining grow the business. and contract management; quality Engineering News-Record (ENR) Materiality Child Labour assurance and control; construction provides news, analysis, data All material aspects identified in this report are relevant and sufficiently important and opinion for the construction supervision; commissioning, operation in reflecting SMEC’s economic, social and environmental impacts. Aspects Forced or Compulsory Labour industry worldwide. and maintenance; training and project identified as non‑material have not been reported. Indigenous Rights management; and whole-of-life asset Completeness Society management services. Material aspects, scope, time and boundaries contained within this report enable Anti-corruption stakeholders to assess SMEC’s performance during the reporting period. Compliance 10 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 11 Global Network Asia SMEC is a diverse and progressive company, with over 5,800 people working within a network of more than 80 offices across Asia, Africa, Afghanistan Malaysia Azerbaijan Mongolia Australasia and North and South America. Bangladesh Myanmar Bhutan Nepal Brunei Pakistan Cambodia Philippines China Qatar Hong Kong Singapore India Sri Lanka Indonesia Tajikistan Kazakhstan Timor-Leste Kuwait United Arab Emirates Kyrgyzstan Uzbekistan Laos Vietnam Macau Africa Angola Nigeria Botswana Rwanda Ethiopia Seychelles Ghana Sierra Leone Kenya South Africa Australasia Lesotho South Sudan Liberia Swaziland 32 Offices Madagascar Tanzania Malawi Uganda Mauritius Zambia Morocco Zimbabwe Mozambique The Americas Namibia 6 Offices Africa Australasia 29 Offices Australia Samoa Fiji Solomon Islands Kiribati Tonga Asia New Zealand Vanuatu Papua New Guinea 17 Offices The Americas Canada Mexico Chile United States 5,800+ 40+ 80+ 3,275+ Employees Countries Offices Active Projects 12 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 13 Corporate Governance Significant Changes in the State of Affairs Audit and Risk Committee On 25 July 2016 the Group was acquired by Surbana Jurong The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with financial Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd (SJHA) (a wholly owned Australian reporting, managing SMEC’s material risks and ensuring that subsidiary of Surbana Jurong Pte Limited (SJ). During the six financial information (provided to investors and the Board) is months period, the Group changed its financial year-end to 31 accurate and timely. The Audit and Risk Committee must have at December to align with that of its parent and became a proprietary least three members, consist only of Non‑Executive Directors, have company (SMEC Holdings Pty Ltd) as it is no longer a public a majority of independent Directors, and have an independent Chair company (previously SMEC Holdings Limited). (who is not the Chair of the Board). Remuneration and Nominations Committee Board of Directors The Remuneration and Nominations Committee assists in SMEC’s Board of Directors is responsible for formulating SMEC’s establishing a Board with an effective composition, diversity and strategic direction and maintaining good corporate governance. size to adequately perform its responsibilities. The Committee aims The Board is accountable for SMEC’s financial and operational to ensure that SMEC secures, motivates and retains highly skilled performance. The Board has a written charter which outlines its and diverse senior executives and employees in order to guarantee responsibilities and governance framework. SMEC’s long-term success. The Remuneration and Nominations SMEC’s Board is composed of five Executive Directors, three Committee must have at least three members, consist only of Non‑Executive Directors (all of whom are considered to be Non‑Executive Directors, have a majority of independent Directors, independent), and a Chair elected by the other members of the and have an independent Chair. Board. Directors are leaders in their field, and their expertise, skills Executive Committee and experience drive the Company’s sustained long‑term growth The Executive Committee (EC) has primary authority for the and ensure transparency of operations. All Directors are required management and monitoring of the Company’s operations, and to retire at the fourth Annual General Meeting following their the implementation of the Company Strategy subject to policies appointment, with the exception of the Managing Director. and procedures approved by the Board of Directors. The EC is comprised of nine senior managers, all of whom have extensive Independence of Non‑Executive Directors experience in strategic and operational planning in the engineering An independent Director is separate from management, free of industry. SMEC’s CEO is the Chair of the Committee, and is relationships that could interfere with the exercise of independent responsible for all matters not reserved for the Board or individual judgement, and meets the criteria for independence in the ASX Directors (generally described as the day-to-day operations and Standards. SMEC’s Board has three independent Non-Executive management of the SMEC Group). The EC’s terms of reference and Directors. authority are approved by the Board. Board Committees Remuneration of Directors The Board has two permanent committees which provide direction Non-Executive Directors are paid annual fees, which in total fall on specific areas. Each committee has written terms of reference within the fixed amount, currently set at A$1,000,000. During the and is subject to annual review by the Board. These committees 2015–2016 financial year, remuneration of Non‑Executive Directors SMEC’s success is driven by an experienced Board are: the Audit and Risk Committee; and the Remuneration and totalled A$365,016. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for of Directors. They are leaders in their field and their Nominations Committee. The Executive Committee (EC) is bonuses or incentive schemes, and only statutory retirement not considered to be a Board committee. The EC consists of benefits are payable. expertise, knowledge and foresight ensure the senior executives appointed by the CEO. The EC assists in the Company’s continued growth. performance of the CEO’s duties to the Board and in their role as an officer of the Company. 14 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 15 Corporate SMEC’s Code of Conduct seeks to guide the actions and behaviour of employees in a way that is consistent with SMEC’s company values. It is management’s Governance (continued) responsibility to demonstrate, through their actions, the importance of this Code, and promote the highest ethical standards across all areas of the business. Code of Conduct SMEC’s Code of Conduct establishes a common understanding SMEC is committed to maintaining an appropriate system During the reporting period, SMEC maintained certification to of the standards of behaviour expected of all SMEC employees in of governance and risk management applicable to all of the ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental the performance of their duties. SMEC employees are expected Company’s locations, business units and functional groups in Management) and AS/NZS 4801 (OHS Management) in all major to comply with this Code, along with all other SMEC policies and order to: implement a Risk Management System conforming Australian offices from third party certifier, Global-Mark. procedures, and any legislation applicable to their role. to International Standard ISO 31000; clarify the roles and SMEC’s ‘Safety in Design’ procedure and system is compliant ISO 9001 The Code requires that all employees act with honesty, integrity responsibilities of management and Boards; identify, assess and with changes to Australian Work, Health and Safety Guidelines. Quality Management manage significant risks and opportunities; maintain the integrity During the reporting period, ongoing training was held throughout and in compliance with the law, perform their duties to the best of SMEC’s assets, people and reporting; and comply with legal all Australian offices in the correct use of this procedure and system. of their abilities, be accountable for their performance, and work obligations in all jurisdictions in which SMEC operates. ‘Safety in Design’ workshops continue to be held for clients, collaboratively with their colleagues. The Code encourages employees to report any unethical, dishonest or unlawful practices SMEC seeks to improve risk management through: appropriate contractors and other key stakeholders involved in major projects. and ensure the safety of themselves and those around them. charters for the Board and management groups (including their SMEC’s Project Management System underwent further review responsibilities to their various stakeholders); a Code of Conduct to simplify and streamline procedures for minor projects. In addition to the above responsibilities, managers are expected to recognising SMEC’s responsibilities to all stakeholders; promotion Improvements were also made to the Opportunity Management develop a positive working environment, provide ongoing support and feedback to employees, and take appropriate action if a breach of workplace culture, practices and behaviours which value and reflect honesty, integrity and professionalism; the identification and System in order to improve efficiency of proposal management ISO 31000 of the Code (or breach of any other SMEC policies and procedures) and increase information sharing across the business. Risk Management management of risks, issues and opportunities at team, project, may have occurred. business unit, subsidiary and corporate levels; alignment of controls Business Integrity Equal Employment Opportunity Procedure with the SMEC governance and risk management policy and SMEC’s Business Integrity Policy and related procedures work in In addition to the Code of Conduct, SMEC has an Equal framework; and the application of policies, controls, and review conjunction with SMEC’s Code of Conduct, and address areas Employment Opportunity Procedure to promote a positive work processes to all business units and subsidiaries. of employee conduct, including: bribery and corruption; fraud; environment for all employees and clients. SMEC is committed to conflicts of interest; misleading conduct; collusion; engagement promoting an inclusive organisational culture, and strives to provide Quality Management with suppliers, joint venture partners and third-party a safe and flexible workplace where employees and clients are treated with dignity, respect and consideration at all times. SMEC is committed to implementing quality management principles on all projects, and has developed a Quality Management System representatives; political donations, charitable donations, gifts and entertainment; and non-normal business. ISO 14001 Environmental (QMS) to comply with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008. SMEC does not condone any behaviour which may be perceived SMEC is serious about having a culture of compliance, and all Management as bullying, intimidation, discrimination, or any form of sexual SMEC’s QMS provides systematic control of business activities to employees are required to adhere to the standards of behaviour or workplace harassment. As such, SMEC encourages the ensure client expectations are being met and, if possible, exceeded. outlined in these policies, procedures and agreements. Should an development of an inclusive and diverse workforce, and believes The QMS includes processes for planning, documenting, managing employee wish to register a breach or suspected breach of these that diversity is a strength for our people, our clients, our partners and controlling everyday business needs and activities, as well as standards, a report may be made anonymously through a Business and our communities. review processes to monitor and measure performance and identify Integrity Reporting Portal. improvements. SMEC is committed to attracting the best talent, and engages in recruitment and selection processes that are based on merit. SMEC’s QMS covers all stages of the project lifecycle, from inception AS/NZS SMEC’s recruitment activities are undertaken free of bias or discrimination, and in compliance with all relevant local legislation. through to handover, and provides a formalised and structured approach to project quality management. The QMS ensures: 4801 development of project quality objectives incorporating client OHS Management Risk Management operability, maintainability and delivery requirements; quantification The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring there are of project risks through assessment; implementation of design adequate organisational arrangements for designing, implementing, management and review processes to manage critical design quality monitoring, reviewing and improving risk management aspects; communication of risks and responsibilities through planning throughout SMEC. workshops; and development of risk auditing regimes. 16 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 17 Stakeholders & Objectives Stakeholder Engagement following: one‑on‑one meetings; industry initiatives; corporate Clients publications; company announcements; media releases; the Clients remain SMEC’s primary focus, and the Company is SMEC’s stakeholders are identified as any person, group or website (www.smec.com); the intranet; the internal company dedicated to proactively responding to their requirements. organisation that has an interest or concern in the Company. SMEC newsletter or webinars. SMEC works with key client stakeholders to identify business interacts with a wide range of stakeholders, from local community members and contractors to employees, clients, industry bodies SMEC’s major stakeholder groups are: employees and clients. improvements, and to develop and implement effective and and opinion leaders. SMEC’s policies and procedures identify and manage issues that sustainable project solutions. may impact these stakeholders SMEC works with clients to understand their business objectives, SMEC stays up-to-date with emerging trends and sensitive issues through effective and regular dialogue with stakeholders. This Employees drivers, resources and processes in order to deliver the best possible dialogue feeds directly into the ongoing development of SMEC’s SMEC’s management has an ‘open door’ philosophy, whereby project outcomes. SMEC is responsive and flexible to clients’ business practices. SMEC recognises that it is important to all employees may feel comfortable approaching management to changing needs, and strives to build sustainable client relationships engage with local stakeholders to develop a Corporate Social discuss any issue or idea. through integrity and trust. Responsibility (CSR) framework that resonates with employees, SMEC utilises an in-house Client Relationship Management Employees receive regular company updates from the CEO and clients, communities and other affected parties. (CRM) system, Client Connect, as the platform for the Company’s other senior management via email announcements and SMEC’s The diverse nature of stakeholder groups means a variety of intranet. Our internal newsletter, provides information on our projects, client‑focused initiatives. Client Connect promotes the internal methods are used to communicate effectively at every level. The people, events, achievements, community engagement initiatives and sharing of client intelligence and aims to drive stronger and more types of communication methods used depends on the situation company updates. sustainable client relationships. and the stakeholder, and may involve any combination of the People Community Sustainability & Sustainability Our Commitment Our Commitment Environment Objectives Create a rewarding, inclusive workplace for our people by encouraging personal development, recognising good performance, Support community and charitable programs that provide long-term solutions. Our Commitment SMEC has set a number of five year fostering equal opportunity and ensuring employee health, safety Eliminate or minimise any adverse impacts that SMEC’s office objectives to help deliver on the and wellbeing. Five Year Objectives activities and projects have on the environment. commitments the Company has made • To deliver the best possible social and development Raise employee, client and community awareness of the in each of its three Corporate Social Five Year Objectives outcomes for people in need through small-scale grant importance of environmental sustainability. Responsibility (CSR) categories: People; • To provide and maintain a satisfying and rewarding work support provided by the SMEC Foundation Community; and Sustainability and environment for all employees • To protect and uphold internationally proclaimed human Five Year Objectives Environment. SMEC reports on progress • To achieve and maintain cultural and gender balance and rights, particularly in the areas of child abuse and forced • To operate energy efficient offices and reduce Greenhouse against these objectives in the Company’s increase awareness of the importance of diversity compulsory labour Gas (GHG) emissions generated by SMEC’s operations annual Sustainability Report. • To provide employees with personal and career development • To support and encourage employee participation in their • To provide long-term environmentally sustainable project opportunities and clear career paths local community, particularly charity work advice to clients • To eliminate or manage hazards and practices that could cause • To implement an Environmental Awareness Program to accidents, injuries or illness educate employees, clients, partners and contractors about the importance of environmental sustainability 18 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 19 Vision & Performance Vision and Values Australia India Business Council Awards SMEC’s Strategic Plan was developed with input from SMEC’s In May 2016, SMEC was recognised for Excellence in the Services Board of Directors, Executive Committee and overall employee Sector at the Australia India Business Council Trade Investment base. This organisation-wide plan sets the future direction of the Awards. These awards recognise the achievements of businesses Company, ensuring SMEC’s business objectives are clear, realistic and individuals that have made significant contributions to progress Company Memberships and relevant to the business. SMEC’s key priority areas are: Client trade and investment between Australia and India. Focus; People Development; Organic Growth; and Systems and SMEC has delivered key projects to clients in India since 1975, Processes. including the prestigious Rohtang Highway Tunnel (one of The Strategic Plan has a strong focus on SMEC’s clients and people, the longest road tunnels in India), Karnataka State Highways and features a Vision and set of core Values for the Company. These Improvement Project and the Assam Power Sector Enhancement Vision and Values are owned by SMEC’s employees; they guide good Investment Program. Association of Consulting Australian Water Association Property Council of Australia decision making, foster genuine relationships and reflect what SMEC Established in 1986, the AIBC was founded to foster bi-lateral Engineers Malaysia (South Australia Division) employees stand for. British Chamber of Commerce relations between the two countries. SMEC’s Vision ‘To deliver outstanding infrastructure services for our Association of Consulting in Hong Kong Property Council of Australia clients and communities’, coupled with eight strong Values define the Surveyors (Victoria Division) (Victoria Division) Board of Engineers Malaysia way SMEC operates. This Vision aligns with the Company’s ethos of Technical excellence and innovation are key focus areas Association of Land Roads Australia ‘Local People. Global Experience.’ and supports SMEC’s localisation for SMEC. We are constantly evolving: in our thinking, Development Engineers International Conference on model of developing local people and being responsive to the needs our approach, our technologies and our systems. Large High Voltage Electric Urban Development Institute of of local clients. Australasian Corrosion Power Systems (CIGRE) Australia (Queensland Division) SMEC’s Values are: Association Consult Australia Urban Development Institute of • Teamwork & Trust • Integrity & Innovation Construction Industry Business Australian Chamber of Australia (Victoria Division) Excellence Awards Commerce in Hong Kong Engineers Registration Board • Diversity & Delivery • Safety & Sustainability In May 2016, SMEC South Africa was awarded three Diamond Tanzania Waste Management These Values underpin the way SMEC operates, and define the way Arrow Awards (highest rated) in the categories: Civil Consulting Australian Green Infrastructure Association SMEC works. Employees are encouraged to adopt these values Council International Road Federation of Australia Engineers; Structural Consulting Engineers; and Combined Civil in a meaningful way. This will enable SMEC to continue to grow as & Structural Consulting Engineer at the Construction Industry Australian National Committee Pakistan Engineering Council Water Industry Alliance a business and strengthen its reputation in the global market as a Business Excellence Awards. These awards are based on market leading provider of high‑quality consultancy services. on Large Dams (ANCOLD) research results from within different industries. ENR Rankings 12d International Innovation Awards SMEC is consistently ranked among the world’s top engineering In July 2016, SMEC received the Overall International Award at the firms, and in 2016 secured strong rankings in Engineering News 12d International Innovation Awards held in Brisbane, Australia. Record (ENR) Magazine’s annual design lists. ENR’s annual market These awards recognise inspired thinking and innovative solutions in analysis is based on global surveys of key construction segments. civil engineering, surveying and data management. SMEC’s Urban These design lists rank firms on size and design-specific revenue Engineering team received the award based on finding innovative generated locally and internationally in a range of market categories. ways to extract efficiencies and quality in software platforms. SMEC increased it’s ranking in Engineering News Record (ENR) Magazine’s annual design lists. SMEC ranked at number 48 in the ‘2016 Top 225 International Design Firms’ list, up three places, and at number 69 in the ‘2016 Top 150 Global Design Firms’ an increase of seven places. 20 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 21 Vision & Performance (continued) Government Financial Assistance Figure 2: Economic value generated in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Economic Performance The Australian Government offers a Research and Development Generated Southern Central Northern Australia Company Performance (R&D) tax incentive (40% tax offset) for activities which are SMEC continued to grow steadily during the 2015-2016 financial Revenue 67,087 136,757 65,288 269,133 innovative or have high levels of technical risk. Under the R&D tax year, maintaining our sound financial position, with revenue and incentive, SMEC may claim a 40% non-refundable tax offset. At the Net Operating Profit After Tax – – – 22,628 other income increasing from A$537.4M to A$581.9M. current 30% corporate tax rate, this equates to a 10% net benefit. Our financial performance is the result of our continued focus on The 40% tax offset is broadly equivalent to a 133% tax concession. Figure 3: Economic value distributed in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) growth as a strategic priority, a significant increase in infrastructure During the reporting period, SMEC spent A$5.8M on R&D activities Distributed Southern Central Northern Australia development around the world and a strong focus on previously and received A$581,287 as a tax benefit, as displayed in Figure 6. less profitable parts of the business. Operating Costs (6,529) (13,309) (6,354) (26,191) SMEC has solid work-in-hand for the year ahead (and subsequent Significant Changes in the State of Affairs Employee Compensation (50,940) (103,840) (49,574) (204,353) years), and the Australian business is expected to perform On 25 July 2016 the Group was acquired by Surbana Jurong Payments to Providers of Capital – Dividend – – – (6,263) particularly well with the help of major transport infrastructure Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd (SJHA) (a wholly owned Australian projects along Australia’s east coast. subsidiary of Surbana Jurong Pte Limited (SJ). During the six Government (Tax) – – – (9,698) With record work-in-hand, and a new partnership adding months period, the Group changed its financial year-end to 31 Total (246,505) complementary skills, the outlook for the 2016-2017 financial year is December to align with that of its parent and became a proprietary very positive. company (SMEC Holdings Pty Ltd) as it is no longer a public Figure 4: Economic value generated internationally (all figures are in A$’000) company (previously SMEC Holdings Limited). Economic Value Generated and Distributed South Asia During the reporting period, revenue in Australia increased to Generated Middle East Asia Pacific Africa International A$269.1 million. SMEC’s net operating profit after tax in Australia Revenue 98,621 199,410 61,734 359,765 increased to at A$22.6M. SMEC’s operating costs increased by Net Operating Profit After Tax – – – (1,761) 13% to A$26.2M, with employee compensation increasing by 27% to A$204.4M. The generation and distribution of SMEC’s Figure 5: Economic value distributed internationally (all figures are in A$’000) economic value within Australia is displayed in Figures 2 and 3. South Asia In SMEC’s international operations, revenue decreased by 3% Distributed Middle East Asia Pacific Africa International to A$359.8M, with net operating loss after tax totalling A$1.8M. SMEC’s operating costs increased by 15% to A$78.4M, with Operating Costs (21,504) (43,482) (13,461) (78,447) employee compensation decreasing by 4% to A$264.8M. The Employee Compensation (72,597) (146,790) (45,444) (264,831) generation and distribution of SMEC’s economic value within Payments to Providers of Capital – Dividend – – – – its international operations is displayed in Figures 4 and 5. Government (Tax) – – – (18,247) Total (361,525) Financial Highlights Figure 6: Financial assistance received from the Australian Government (all figures are in A$) Fee revenue increased by 7.1% to A$390.6M Claimed in 2015 Estimate Claim Tax Deduction at 133% Tax Deduction at 133% TOTAL Substantial work-in-hand for FY16/17 and beyond (1/4/16–30/6/16) (1/7/16–31/3/17) (1/4/16–31/3/17) R&D Expenditure $1,453,218 $4,359,653 $5,812,871 Before Tax Cash Benefit $479,562 $1,438,685 $1,918,247 Surbana Jurong acquires 100% of SMEC shares After Tax Cash Benefit $143,322 $431,605 $575,474 Net Tax Benefit to SMEC $145,322 $435,965 $581,287 22 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 23 People SMEC provides a culture which encourages personal development, fosters equal opportunity and ensures the health, safety and wellbeing of its employees is paramount. SMEC strives to promote a positive work environment for all employees and clients, and understands that the diverse perspectives, work experiences, lifestyles and cultures of its employees are a strength for the Company. Through the establishment of our Diversity and Inclusion Committee, we prioritise diversity and recognise the value and importance of an inclusive workplace for our employees and clients. 24 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 25 People Employee Demographics Throughout the year we have provided 360 degree feedback Figure 7: Employee numbers in Australia & New Zealand to over 100 leaders in the organisation. This was supported by As at 13 March 2017, SMEC had over 5,800 employees across regional workshops to identify how our leaders are impacting Region Full Time Part Casual Fixed TOTAL more than 80 global offices. Of these employees, 1,366 were Time Term our culture, and our culture impacting our leaders. Development based in the Australia and New Zealand (ANZ) division. Southern 307 22 76 14 plans were created for individual leaders and regions to drive the 419 The majority of employees from SMEC’s ANZ Division (76%) are adoption of a constructive culture. Central 452 32 76 15 575 contracted on a full time basis, followed by casual (16%), part time Northern 272 14 68 13 367 (5%), and fixed term (3%) as displayed in Figure 7. Remuneration New Zealand 4 0 1 0 5 SMEC’s ANZ employees are spread across the following regions: SMEC has four levels of Consulting Professionals: Principal, Total 1035 68 221 42 1366 Southern (South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia), Central Senior, Experienced and Entry Level. Figure 8 provides a (the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales), Northern comparison of actual remuneration at each professional level (Queensland and the Northern Territory) and New Zealand. (with gender breakdown) in comparison with the average Figure 8: Remuneration at each professional level industry benchmark. Remuneration benchmarks are based on The majority of employees work within the Central region (42.1%), Aon Hewitt’s Consult Australia Remuneration Report. During the Engineering Professionals % Difference Female % Difference followed by the Southern region (30.6%), the Northern region reporting period, SMEC improved the percentage difference in to Benchmark Male to Benchmark (26.8%), and New Zealand (0.5%). remuneration for females at the Senior, Experienced and Entry Principal 93% 106% Employee Culture Survey Level (0-4 years) professional levels. Senior 89% 101% SMEC conducted an Employee Culture Survey in association with Turnover Experienced 88% 99% the Human Synergistics’ Organisational Culture Inventory (OCI). Entry Level (0–4 years) 103% 98% The overall turnover for ANZ employees during the reporting The objectives of the survey were: to define the actual company period was 13.7%. This is comprised of 11.4% voluntary culture; establish a preferred company culture; and develop turnover (resignation or retirement) and 2.3% involuntary turnover individual and team programs to grow and enhance this preferred Figure 9: Employee turnover by gender and age in Australia & New Zealand (dismissal, redundancy or demise). As displayed in Figure 9, the culture. 60 majority of employee turnover was comprised of males in the Approximately 180 employees completed the survey. This 35-44 year age bracket (32%), followed by males in the 25-34 MALE 50 sample group included representatives from SMEC’s Executive year bracket (21%) and females in the 25-34 year bracket (12%). Number of Employees FEMALE Committee, Level Two Managers, members of the ANZ Future A breakdown of the reason for employee turnover in ANZ is 40 Leaders Program and senior technical employees. Participants displayed in Figure 10. were selected based on their influence on SMEC’s culture and 30 impact on SMEC’s people and company performance. 20 Key findings from the survey include: 10 • SMEC employees desire a highly constructive organisational culture. This places a strong value on service, product quality, 0 goal attainment and professional development. 17–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + Age in Years • SMEC is driven by ‘achievement’. This characterises employees’ drive to do things well, to attain high-quality results, and to accomplish challenging yet realistic goals. Figure 10: Reason for employee turnover in Australia & New Zealand • Employee engagement in strengthening the company culture .06% is high, and management has shown a keen interest in early 6.20% action planning for culture improvements. 10.5% Areas for improvement were also identified, including: innovation, role clarity and the delivery of superior client service. SMEC is Retirement Resignation working to develop Action Plans in each Division to address Dismissal Redundancy these areas. 82% 26 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 27 People (continued) Employee Benefits Gender Diversity Figure 11: Utilisation of the Employee Assistance Program Flexible Working Arrangements Tertiary Education Assistance SMEC is committed to promoting gender SMEC 4.2% SMEC’s Flexible Working Arrangements (FWA) procedure was SMEC’s Tertiary Education Assistance Program supports diversity, establishing an inclusive working 4.0% INDUSTRY Percentage Utilisation 3.7% introduced in 2012, and includes options to vary work hours, work professional development, allowing employees to continue their environment and promoting engineering 3.5% from home and job share. The objective of the procedure is to education and gain the skills and knowledge required to excel to women through active industry 3.3% enable employees to balance their work and personal commitments. in their roles. Continuing full-time and part-time employees, who representation and participation. 3.0% 3.0% have completed 12 months employment with SMEC, are eligible SMEC encourages a gender diverse During the reporting period, 19 new applications (79% female) for to apply for Tertiary Education Assistance. SMEC will reimburse workforce by: developing strategies to a FWA were approved, taking the total number of employees on a 2.5% participants 50% of course fees, up to a maximum of A$10,000 attract and retain female employees; FWA to 21 (76% female). Of the new applications received by female 0 per calendar year. During the reporting period, five employees took measuring progress in gender diverse Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 employees, 47% were aged between 25 and 34 years. 52% of FWA Year advantage of SMEC’s Tertiary Education Assistance Program. Since recruitment; encouraging the development applicants cited ‘caring for a child under school age’ as the reason the Program’s inception in 2009, SMEC has supported a total of 31 of high-potential employees to establish a for the arrangement. employees to achieve qualifications ranging from Certificate IV to pipeline of female managers and leaders; Purchased Additional Annual Leave Masters in a broad range of study fields. Figure 12: Employees by gender and age and providing training to raise internal SMEC is committed to helping its employees balance work, family Employee Assistance Program awareness of gender diversity and equal 300 and lifestyle commitments. To assist with this, SMEC introduced SMEC’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is provided by employment opportunity in the workplace. MALE a Purchased Additional Annual Leave procedure in 2012. This 250 Number of Employees Davidson Trahaire Corpsych, a leading national provider of As at 31 December 2016, 22% of SMEC’s FEMALE procedure enables employees to salary package an additional four employee assistance, corporate psychology, critical incident employees globally were female (an 200 weeks of annual leave per year, on top of their normal annual leave training, and health and wellbeing services. increase of 1% from 2015).In Australia entitlement. In 2016, 183 employees took advantage of purchased 150 additional annual leave. Through the EAP, SMEC employees (and their families) can access and New Zealand, this figure was higher, 100 short-term confidential counselling and advice on a broad range of with 25% female employees across the Parental Leave Division. These figures are significantly personal, financial and work-related issues. In 2016, SMEC had a 50 SMEC employees who are the primary care giver of a child can apply higher than the Australian industry standard. utilisation rate of 3.0%, showing a decrease of 0.8% from 2015. A for 52 weeks of unpaid parental leave, and are entitled to 18 weeks According to a report released by Engineers 0 comparison of SMEC’s utilisation rate against the industry average 17–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + paid leave (comprised of the statutory paid leave and topped up to Australia, titled Women in Engineering: is displayed in Figure 11. Age in Years the normal salary level by SMEC), capped at A$150,000 per annum. A Statistical Update, 10.7% of the total SMEC also provides employees with one week’s paid paternity leave, Corporate Health Plan Australian engineering workforce and 16% in addition to their annual leave, long service leave and governmentSMEC offers all employees a Corporate Health Plan through one of engineering graduates are female. funded Dad and Partner Pay entitlements. of two healthcare providers: BUPA and Choosewell. Benefits of the As displayed in Figure 12, the majority of health plans include discounted health insurance, waived waiting During the reporting period, 39 employees commenced a period of SMEC’s female employees in Australia periods and access to free health checks. paid parental leave. 18 employees took advantage of the Parental and New Zealand were aged between Leave Top Up; 83% of whom were female. Of these 18 employees, At the time of reporting, 261 employees had taken advantage 35-44 years (37%), followed by 25-34 83% have returned to work and 17% currently remain on parental of SMEC’s Corporate Health Plan: 214 employees were Bupa years (34%). 79% of female employees leave. 17% of those employees who returned to work are now members and 47 employees were members of Choosewell. This were classified as experienced (degree utilising a Flexible Working Arrangement. In the period, 21 employees is an 8% increase in utilisation of Corporate Health Plans from the qualified engineers, scientists and took advantage of SMEC’s Paid Paternity Leave. 100% of these previous year. corporate services). employees have returned to work. In January 2017, SMEC partnered with Bupa to bring employees In 2016, 24% of new starters in Australia Australian Defence Force Leave the Bupa Health and Wellbeing Program. This Program helps to and New Zealand were female; 69% of SMEC introduced an Australian Defence Force (ADF) leave maximise wellbeing at work and at home and includes a number of which were degree qualified professionals. procedure in 2012. Under this procedure, SMEC provides up to benefits to help achieve health goals. As displayed in Figure 13, the majority of 10 days ADF leave annually (comprised of the Defence Reserve female new starters were aged between Service’s Payment Scheme and topped up to the normal salary 35-44 years (37%), followed by both 25level by SMEC). The scheme provides a weekly payment based 34 years (33%) and 45-54 years (15%). on Average Weekly Ordinary Time Earnings (AWOTE). During the reporting period, no employees took ADF leave. 28 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 29 People (continued) Gender Diversity (cont.) Gender Diversity Initiatives team leadership, project outcomes and client Figure 13: New starters by age and gender Career Development relationships; and build new approaches, During the reporting period SMEC continued to implement a Career Pathways behaviours and mind-sets for doing business. number of programs to increase awareness of gender diversity. 300 SMEC provides employees with clear career pathways within its SMEC believes that in order to achieve gender diversity, the Through the Program, participants will MALE 250 global business. SMEC is committed to employee development Number of Employees Company must create cultural change by aligning work practices, develop competencies across 11 modules: FEMALE and workforce sustainability, and provides a workplace with processes and systems with diversity initiatives. Self Leadership, People Leadership, 200 targeted learning and development programs and an equitable Culture of Accountability, Building Trust The first step in creating cultural change is raising awareness of reward and recognition framework. SMEC is looking to increase 150 and Managing with Integrity, Business the importance of gender diversity. During the reporting period, its investment in training for the year ahead, as part of its overall 100 Leadership, Communicating for Results, SMEC continued to review the Company’s gender diversity workforce planning and management strategy. Building Relationships, Client Relationship 50 practices, in line with the criteria outlined by the Australian Talent Management Leadership, Innovation, Visionary Leadership Workplace Gender Equality Agency. This companywide review 0 Talent management continues to be a priority for SMEC, with the and Actioning Strategic Change. 17–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + includes the establishment of new strategies in recruitment, retention and succession planning. These strategies will support Company seeking to achieve strategic priorities by strengthening During the reporting period 30 participants Age in Years gender diversity at SMEC and increase the representation of the pipeline of job-ready leaders. were enrolled in the Future Leaders Program; females at management and senior management levels. SMEC’s Talent Management System combines talent identification 23% of whom were female. Now in its second (individuals identified for fast-tracked development) and year in the ANZ Business, the Leadership Our Diversity and Inclusion Committee, which includes the CEO, succession planning (to establish a leadership pipeline). This Development Program will be rolled out to our a member of the Board, and the COOs of each Division and system is reinforced by open conversations between employees Global Operations in 2017, beginning with the representatives from Corporate Services, continued to meet on and managers that foster trust, promote transparency, and South East Asia division, followed by Africa a quarterly basis and oversee the implementation of Divisional support the Company’s development decisions. and South Asia/Middle East. Action Plans. In ANZ, this was supported by a local Diversity and Inclusion Working group, with representatives from each region, In 2016, SMEC completed a review of the Succession Planning SMEC is also developing a Managers and a cross spread of type and level of employees. Program and commenced the development of a global Development Program (MDP), designed for talent pool system. Critical positions have been identified at front line managers, and employees new As in previous years, SMEC prepared an annual public report for Management Level 1 (Executive Committee), Level 2 (direct to management, designed to equip our submission to the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Agency. reports to the Executive Committee) and Level 3 (direct reports managers with the essential skills identified This report responded to a set of predetermined gender equality to Level 2). Succession Plans are being developed for each of necessary to be effective in their role. indicators, including: gender composition; equal remuneration between women and men; availability and uptake of Flexible these critical positions, outlining: individuals capable of stepping The Modules support the build of a Working Arrangements; and consultation with employees on into the role as a temporary caretaker; those capable of fulfilling culture of accountability and sustainable gender equality issues. Following submission of the report, SMEC the role immediately; individuals who may be ready for the high performing teams that contribute to received verification of compliance with the Australian Workplace position in 1-3 years; and potential candidates for the role in organisational success. Gender Equality Act 2012. more than three years. • Communicating for Leadership Success In 2017, SMEC will continue to focus on supporting employees Unconscious Bias Workshop • Setting Goals & Reviewing Results and managers to engage in career coaching conversations in In June 2016, SMEC continued its focus on unconscious bias • Delegating with Purpose line with SMEC’s Career Coaching Guidelines. across the ANZ Division, to raise awareness of stereotypes and • Coaching for Performance micro-inequalities in order to promote more effective and inclusive Leadership Development Program leadership. Future workshops are planned where participants will: • Resolving Conflict SMEC’s Leadership Development Program was launched in explore and implement specific actions to achieve a flexible and 2015 with the objective of enhancing the leadership capability of • Driving Change inclusive workplace; identify common implicit biases and practical employees, teams and the organisation as a whole. This tailored • EQ and Self Awareness actions for challenging these biases; and develop specific goals Program combines face-to face training, executive coaching, and action plans to reduce bias and stereotyping. action-based learning techniques and the latest developments in In 2017, unconscious bias workshops will continue to be leadership research and approaches. implemented for Level 2 Managers throughout Australia and The Program seeks to: identify, develop, support and retain New Zealand. individuals with leadership potential; equip future leaders with the skills, tools and techniques to lead more effectively; improve 30 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 31 People (continued) Project Management Training achieve their goals, work towards their aspirations and support the SMEC recognises the importance of project management skills for organisation in achieving our priorities. In 2016, 77% of employees the organisation and its clients. SMEC’s Strategic Plan outlines the who participated in CareerTrac were male and 23% were female Company’s commitment to increasing capability and leadership in (this aligns with SMEC’s gender workforce composition). The the area of project management. majority of employees (78%) received a ‘Meets Expectations’ rating, During the reporting period, SMEC completed a review of all project followed by ‘Exceeds Expectations’ (21%). management training modules and materials. As a result, in 2016, Professional Development Program a new suite of training programs has been developed and has The Professional Development Program (PDP) is one of four been implemented. New training modules incorporate e-learning, pathways offered by Engineers Australia to assist members in face-to-face communication and hands-on practical experience. achieving a Chartered Engineer status. Training material focus on the fundamentals of project management SMEC supports employees in their professional development for graduate engineers and the advanced principals of project through sponsorship of this Program, including funding the cost of management for experienced project managers. registration and ongoing assessment fees. Managers play a key role The training has been developed in conjunction with Engineers in assisting employees with the completion of their PDP. Managers Australia and The University of Melbourne and include qualifications are required to monitor employees’ progress, provide development up to Diploma level. In 2016, there were 47 participants in the opportunities, offer mentoring and guidance, and encourage the program, 21% of whom were female. submission of Engineering Competency Claims. Equal Employment Opportunity Training During the 2016 reporting period, 11 employees were enrolled in SMEC introduced an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) the PDP through Engineers Australia; 27% of whom were female; framework in 2012 to promote a safe, inclusive and flexible work 50% of 2016 PDP Graduates were female. environment for all employees and clients. This comprehensive Career Recognition framework covers training, policy development and review, and SMEC values its employees’ commitment to the Company is designed to encourage mutual respect in the workplace and and believes it is important to acknowledge career milestones. reinforce SMEC’s company values. SMEC’s Career Recognition Program formalises this process. EEO training continues to be a compulsory element of SMEC’s Each year, employees who achieve a career milestone of between online induction compliance module in Australia and New Zealand. five and 50 years (at five year intervals) are acknowledged for Internationally, all employees are required to read and understand their commitment to the Company. A review of the Program was SMEC’s Code of Conduct, including the Company’s Equal undertaken in response to SMEC’s Employee Engagement Survey, Employment Opportunity Procedure. Weekly reports are submitted whereby employees identified that improved recognition practices to our CEO in order ensure the highest level of completion rates. were needed. As a result, SMEC introduced a new Global Career Performance and Development Review Recognition Program to improve the consistency and timeliness of SMEC conducts annual Performance and Development Reviews milestone recognition. During the reporting period, 136 employees (PDR) for all employees through the in-house appraisal system, achieved a career milestone; 24% of whom were female. CareerTrac. The objective of CareerTrac is to review employee performance and set future objectives by aligning individual performance, development needs and aspirations with SMEC’s business plan. The training and development needs of employees are also reviewed annually as part of CareerTrac. This review considers the needs of the employee, their manager and the needs of SMEC as a whole. The focus continues to be on building a constructive culture and high performing teams. The process encourages employees to align their key activities and identify the behaviours needed to help them 32 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 33 People (continued) Safety Talks Conducted: Australia and New Zealand Division Northern 15 95 Central 40 Southern 1 New Zealand Workplace Health and Safety SMEC Zero Harm objectives are embedded in SMEC’s company 2016 Achievements Figure 14: culture through: A new injury management and return to work Reported incidents by region: Australia and New Zealand Division Health and Safety Commitment program was implemented to improve the level SMEC is committed to promoting and maintaining a culture Training and development: all SMEC employees complete a of support and care available to employees and working environment in which risk to health and safety is mandatory company induction, which includes a Health and Safety if they are injured at work. Known within 45 unacceptable. This commitment is demonstrated through a module. All employees receive ongoing training as required. This SMEC as InjuryCARE, the program provides 40 fully-integrated Health and Safety Management System, and a ensures SMEC employees are fully equipped to achieve SMEC’s immediate access to injury management companywide Strategic Plan which features safety as one of Zero Harm objectives. 35 Number of Incidents advice for managers via a dedicated hotline, SMEC’s company values. Management commitment: lead by example, eliminate unsafe 30 options for obtaining prompt medical To meet this commitment, SMEC (in so far as reasonably work practices, and recognise that healthy workers are productive treatment and ongoing return to work support. 25 practicable) provides safe and healthy working conditions for workers. 20 A monthly ‘safety share’ strategy was all people associated with the Company, including employees, Monitoring and evaluating performance: encourage a culture of 15 launched to provide our teams with suggested contractors, visitors and the general public. openness and proactive reporting amongst all employees. 10 content for safety talks, along with key In order to meet these responsibilities, SMEC: Rehabilitation and return to work services: ensure employees are learnings from incidents reported and 5 • Maintains a safe work environment (including work conditions, able to return to work as soon as possible. investigated. 0 Northern Central Southern New Zealand practices and procedures) Region Effective consultation: involve stakeholders in workplace safety SMEC’s support of the annual Australia • Ensures full compliance with all applicable statutory and decisions. National Safe Work Month continued in 2016 Lost Time Injury Property Damage Drill or Inspection licensing requirements with a variety of initiatives organised including Medical Treatment Motor Vehicle Accident Near Miss Safety in Design • Undertakes proactive reporting of near misses, hazards, drills bicycle rides, seminars and morning teas. SMEC invests in its people to enhance their knowledge and Hazard External Event First Aid and inspections to ensure that all incidents are accurately Health and Safety in 2017 encourage the implementation of safety principles in the design and reported, recorded and lessons learnt are shared In 2017, SMEC will continue its commitment to delivery of projects. SMEC works closely with clients to ensure that • Involves all employees and management in health and safety the safety needs of their projects are well documented within Scope safety as a core value of the Company. SMEC management through consultation of Works and Project Management Plans. SMEC facilitates Safety will work to implement its goal of Zero Harm Figure 15: in Design training and awareness programs to educate employees for its employees, contractors, visitors and the 140 Reported incidents by activity: Australia and New Zealand Division • Develops safety awareness throughout the Company via formal and informal training and clients in regards to: local legislation requirements; potential general public. cost savings; and the ability to eliminate or reduce hazards. 120 • Minimises or eliminates hazards within the workplace through Incident reporting and investigation: SMEC risk identification, assessment, control and monitoring 2016 Year in Review – Australia and New Zealand will introduce a new incident reporting Division and investigation protocol that assigns 100 Zero Harm Culture In 2016, SMEC continued to improve proactive health and safety investigation requirements according to Number of Incidents SMEC aims to develop a workplace that eliminates the risk of serious initiatives, including regular Safety Talks in all Australian and New actual or potential incident consequences 80 harm to any person affected by SMEC’s business activities. To Zealand offices. SMEC surpassed its ‘proactive alerts’ reporting and involves senior management in reviewing achieve this, SMEC has implemented policies, procedures, targets for the fifth consecutive year. Proactive alerts involve regular investigation findings. guidelines, work instructions and reporting tools to measure 60 and planned testing, inspection and identification of potential hazards progress towards Zero Harm objectives. Health and wellbeing: Following on from before an incident occurs. enthusiastic staff involvement in community SMEC’s Zero Harm objectives are: 40 In 2016, SMEC recorded 343 proactive alerts, an increase of 77% initiatives such as RU OK? Day, SMEC will • zero incidents that cause a fatality from the previous year. Proactive reporting accounted for 71% of all launch a program that will provide a range Workplace Health and Safety reporting during the period. SMEC had of resources to help employees improve 20 • zero incidents that cause a permanent disability a total of 480 reported incidents in 2016. Safety Talks Conducted’ their health and wellbeing awareness. By • zero incidents that cause permanent health issues accounted for the greatest number of reports (34%), with 162 participating in the program, employees 0 • zero long-term psychological injury due to the work Office Project Site Travel recorded. This was followed by ‘Drill or Inspection’ (59 reported) and will have access to online training modules, environment ‘Hazard’ (52 reported). Figures 14 and 15 display a breakdown of seminars and activities covering topics such Activity • zero long-term detrimental impact on the environment reported incidents by region and activity. In the Australia and New as coping with change, stress and resilience, Zealand Division, the Lost Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate per million work-life balance and mental health. Northern Central Southern NZ • year-on-year reductions in workplace injuries hours worked decreased from 1.8 in 2015 to 1.71 in 2016. 34 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 35 Community Human Rights SMEC supports and respects the protection of internationally legislation, and seeks to ensure the highest standards of protection Some of the activities SMEC have committed to which directly support Aboriginal proclaimed human rights. SMEC ensures it is not complicit in for all of the Company’s employees. participation include developing a plan to increase procurement from ATSI owned human rights abuses through a broad range of policies and businesses, increasing ATSI employment within our organisation, and ensuring our Indigenous Rights frameworks. workplace is culturally appropriate for current and future ATSI employees to promote SMEC works closely with clients to ensure the rights and retention and engagement. Corruption and Bribery heritage of Australia’s indigenous population are protected. This SMEC is serious about having a culture of compliance, and is includes the completion of Indigenous Heritage Assessments Some of the activities SMEC have committed to which indirectly support Aboriginal committed to ensuring ethical and safe working conditions for and Management Plans as a component of Environmental participation include: all employees. SMEC’s Code of Conduct prohibits bribery and Impact Assessments. SMEC encourages active participation, • Developing our RAP Committee to oversee the launch and implementation corruption by employees, consultants and third parties who act skill development and long-term employment opportunities for • Conducting a review of cultural awareness training needs within our organisation and on SMEC’s behalf. All of SMEC’s standard commercial agreement indigenous people wherever possible. addressing these needs templates include anti-corruption and anti-bribery protection SMEC recently sponsored the Inaugural National Indigenous • Raising awareness of NAIDOC Week and National Reconciliation week, including provisions. Football Championships in regional New South Wales. The event, holding events internally, and encouraging and facilitating involvement in events SMEC has strengthened its company compliance with the which uses football as a pathway to community participation and externally introduction of compulsory Anti-Bribery and Corruption Training. engagement with community, was tabled in parliament as an We look forward to continuing our work with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples This training is mandatory for all SMEC employees, managers example of National Indigenous Achievement. SMEC is pleased and communities, to strengthen relationships and create respectful bonds with those and directors, and covers the following topics: bribery; collusive to see the success of this inaugural event and looks forward to within, and external to, our sphere of influence. practices; internal corruption; conflicts of interest; gifts, hospitality supporting its growth in coming years. and entertainment; donations; partner evaluations; and reporting SMEC recently sponsored the Inaugural National Indigenous Community Development procedures. Football Championships in regional New South Wales. The event, The SMEC Foundation is a core part of SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) To date, 93% of SMEC’s employees globally completed the training. which uses football as a pathway to community participation and Program, and helps fulfil the Company’s commitment to community development and Training will continue to take place throughout 2017. engagement with community, was tabled in parliament as an sustainable poverty reduction. The SMEC Foundation provides small-scale grant support example of National Indigenous Achievement. SMEC is pleased Child Protection Policy for people in need and strengthens SMEC’s links with the communities in which it to see the success of this inaugural event and looks forward to SMEC maintains a zero-tolerance policy in relation to child operates. The SMEC Foundation aims to improve the quality of life for people who live supporting its growth in coming years. exploitation and abuse. Child abuse includes unacceptable in geographic regions where SMEC has a presence, by addressing the root causes of behaviour directly involving children or observed by children. In January 2017, SMEC’s Reconciliation Action Plan was endorsed poverty and assisting communities (and individuals) to become more self-sufficient. Child Protection Policy training is a mandatory element in SMEC’s by Reconciliation Australia. SMEC commenced work on the Operating with financial support from SMEC employees, the SMEC Foundation focuses induction process. During the reporting period, 236 new starters development of a Reconciliation Action Plan in conjunction on projects in the areas of community development, emergency relief, health, education completed the training. with Reconciliation Australia in 2015. Reconciliation Australia is and the environment. an independent, not-for-profit organisation that partners with SMEC’s Child Protection Policy continued to undergo a review During the reporting period, the SMEC Foundation donated over A$140,000 to support workplaces to promote indigenous reconciliation. This is achieved to ensure recruitment practices, training content and reporting communities in which the Company operates. by strengthening relationships and fostering trust between procedures remain as effective as possible in preventing any form of businesses, the wider Australian community and Aboriginal and These funds were distributed through the following grants: unacceptable behaviour towards children. Torres Strait Islander (ATSI) peoples. Following this review, a series of policy updates have been put • A$25,000 to Habitat for Humanity Emergency Relief Program in Bangladesh SMEC’s RAP outlines the Company’s commitment to: forward. These include mandatory police checks for all employees • A$25,000 to Habitat for Humanity Emergency Relief Program in Sri Lanka working with children, and a strengthening of SMEC’s child • Raise our employees’ awareness of and engagement with ATSI • A$30,000 to Habitat for Humanity Housing, Water and Education Project in Northern protection reporting procedures. In 2017, SMEC will continue cultures Vietnam to review our processes and practices to ensure continued • Strengthen our relationships and work alongside business accordance with Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. partners who are also committed to reconciliation • A$25,000 to Habitat for Humanity Urban Resilience Project in Myanmar Forced and Compulsory Labour • Investigate opportunities to ensure our workplace is culturally • A$19,000 to So They Can (STC) to assist in the provision of a new waste SMEC is committed to the elimination of all forced and compulsory appropriate for current and future ATSI employees to ensure we management system at the SMEC Foundation-funded Miti Mingi Home in Kenya labour, and believes that working relationships should be freely continue to attract and retain a diverse workforce • A$16,000 to the Australian Foundation for Fostering Learning in the Philippines chosen and free from threat. SMEC’s Code of Conduct ensures that • Actively participate in and celebrate National Reconciliation for the Mindanao Health and Nutrition Project, which addresses the needs of ethical employment and labour practices are implemented across Week and NAIDOC week as an organisation committed to malnourished students. the Company. SMEC is compliant with all national employment reconciliation in Australia 36 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2015-2017 37 Community (continued) SMEC Community Projects Fostering Learning in the Philippines Location: Philippines The Australian Foundation for Fostering Learning in the Philippines (AFFLIP) is a not for profit Foundation that contributes to the educational development of young people living in some of the poorest areas of the Philippines. At present its work is located in Mindanao in the Southern Philippines. The SMEC Foundation provided a grant of A$15,600 for the Mindanao Health and Nutrition Project, which addresses the needs of malnourished students. These funds will help schools to establish vegetable gardens and ponds to sustain school feeding programs. So They Can Residential Home Low Income Housing, Water and Education Landslide Recovery Location: Kenya Location: Vietnam Location: Sri Lanka The SMEC Foundation donated A$18,600 to So They Can (STC) The northern provinces of Vietnam continue to experience some On 15 May 2016, Sri Lanka was hit by Cyclone Roanu, a severe to assist in the expansion of amenities at the SMEC Foundationof the highest rates of poverty in the country. There is limited tropical storm that caused widespread flooding and landslides funded Miti Mingi Home, a residential community home to more access to clean water and sanitation. The SMEC Foundation in 22 districts of the country. The storm affected more than than 40 children in need. Since its expansion, the employees and donated A$30,000 to this project which aimed to improve 500,00 people and damaged more than 4500 homes. The SMEC residents at Miti Mingi have begun a small-scale farming scheme housing conditions and increase access to clean and safe water Foundation donated more than A$25,000 in Emergency Relief in to be self-reliant in the future. SMEC’s recent contribution will go and sanitation services in Dong Thinh commune. Thanks to this the wake of Roanu. Donations from the SMEC Foundation went towards a waste management system that allows environmentally project, low income households in Phu Tho now have greater towards the construction of two permanent, disaster resilient friendly water to be discharged. The treatment process assumes socioeconomic and physical security through new houses, homes for two families affected by Cyclone Roanu. In addition to a process of sedimentation, separation of solids from the liquid home repairs, and installment of water/sanitation facilities. The these homes, an emergency cash donation was provided to a waste; aerobic breakdown of the waste; and disinfection. community has increased knowledge and access to clean SMEC employee who was directly impacted by the disaster. water through water/sanitation improvements and WASH (water, sanitation and hygiene) campaigns at schools. Traditional Shelters Dala Urban Resilience Project Location: Bangladesh Location: Myanmar Tropical Cyclone Roanu hit Bangladesh on 21 May 2016, affecting Dala Township is characterised by a constantly changing and more than 140,000 people. The SMEC Foundation, in partnership expanding population, living under a range of formal and informal with Habitat for Humanity, contributed A$25,000 towards caring for settlement and rental agreements. SMEC donated A$25,000 to those affected and providing disaster preparation education. Twelve this project with the aim to improve the resilience and general of the most severely affected families in the Khankhanabad area welfare of the local communities in Dala by helping them gain were selected to participate in the program. Each family received access to basic essential services and to connect them with the new transitional shelters and disaster management training. The necessary service providers. This project has helped to provide families who participated in the program now have safe, secure increased access to water, sanitation and hygiene, and improve transitional shelter and the skills to prepare for similar disasters. disaster awareness and preparedness. The community is better able to advocate for their community’s development through the strengthening of existing community structures and facilitating linkages with local government. 38 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 39 Sustainability & Environment Sustainable Offices Environmental Management Plans All of SMEC’s major Australian and New Zealand offices have Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) in place. These plans Sustainability Principles provide an assessment of environmental impacts associated with each office in the areas of procurement, waste generation, SMEC continues to improve its understanding of the sources, • Monitoring, reviewing and auditing SMEC’s environmental electricity, transport and water. Objectives, targets, actions, scope and extent of its resource use, and is committed to performance procedures and processes are then outlined for each aspect, with improving the energy efficiency of its offices, and reducing the Environmental Impact Assessment timelines and responsibilities identified to ensure accountability. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions generated by the Company’s operations. SMEC has controls in place to manage and (wherever possible) The objective of these EMPs is: to minimise harm to the reduce potential environmental impacts resulting from project environment; ensure compliance with ISO 14001 (Environmental SMEC operates under a companywide Environmental Management and office activities. Project Managers and Regional Managers Management) requirements; improve environmental performance; Policy and an Environmental Management System (EMS), are responsible for determining the potential consequences of increase reporting transparency; and assist in mapping SMEC’s formalising the Company’s commitment to environmental environmental impacts, using SMEC’s Environmental Impact progress towards its sustainability objectives. responsibility. SMEC’s EMS complies with the requirements of ISO Assessment Scale (as displayed in Appendix B). 14001 (Environmental Management), and is designed to ensure the Office initiatives implemented during the reporting period via the implementation of sustainable business systems, procedures and Where the environmental impact rating is above eight, SMEC EMPs, include: practices. employees are required to develop an Environmental Management • Installing Video Conferencing (VC) equipment to reduce Plan (EMP), outlining appropriate risk treatments, targets, objectives, non-essential travel SMEC’s EMS provides a systematic and methodical approach controls and responsibilities. to planning, implementing and reviewing SMEC’s environmental • Implementing online training to reduce travel and training performance. The objective of the EMS is to avoid (or minimise) Where a risk rating is identified as above 15, the hazard is assigned materials environmental impact, while contributing lasting environmental to senior management for review. Where a risk rating is identified as • De-lamping and upgrading lighting where possible benefits to local communities in which SMEC operates. Effective 20 or above, the hazard is assigned to executive management. It is management’s responsibility to ensure the risk is managed in an • Encouraging public transport use (by making train, bus or implementation of the EMS has assisted SMEC in creating a appropriate manner across the Company’s operations. tram tickets available for employee use) company culture that is focused on incorporating sustainable practices into everyday business decisions. Project Managers must develop and document environmental • Purchasing paper from sustainable forestry operations (with objectives and targets for each project during the planning green manufacturing processes) Environmental Management Policy stage. Achievements against these set objectives and targets • Encouraging the use of cloud‑based technology to share SMEC operates under a detailed Environmental Management are measured annually for long-term projects, and upon project information (such as reports, plans and contracts) between Policy which is reviewed and reaffirmed annually by SMEC’s completion for short-term projects. external and internal project teams, in lieu of hard copies Chief Executive Officer. SMEC is committed to operating in an environmentally responsible manner by: • Enabling the ‘power saver’ function on printers and faxes • Implementing and improving environmental management SMEC invests in sustainable business practices • Introducing a ‘Swipe and Print’ printer system systems, in accordance with ISO 14001 to achieve long-term prosperity, and is committed • Defaulting printers to double-sided printing • Complying with legal requirements to embedding a culture of sustainability and • Recycling printer toner cartridges environmental awareness in all functional, • Implementing environmental management programs to achieve • Recycling paper, glass and plastics operational and regional areas of the business. environmental objectives and targets • Providing reusable envelopes for inter-office mail • Conducting all activities in an environmentally responsible SMEC strives to undertake all project and office manner to minimise the potential for adverse environmental activities in an environmentally responsible manner, Sustainable Procurement Procedure impacts and to identify, manage and mitigate any risks that SMEC implements a Sustainable Procurement Procedure, • Enhancing the beneficial environmental effects of any activities may impact negatively on the environment. whereby employees who undertake procurement of items valued to improve the quality of the environment for current and future over A$150,000 (capital works, fleet and office supplies) must generations complete an Environmental Sustainability and Social Equity Questionnaire. This Questionnaire determines whether purchases: • Preventing pollution associated with SMEC’s activities minimise waste disposal; reduce greenhouse gas emissions; • Providing environmentally responsible, sustainable and practical maximise resource efficiency; conserve and improve biodiversity; solutions to clients incorporate ethical considerations; or have a low carbon footprint. 40 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 41 Sustainability & Environment providing phone, instant messaging, content sharing and video SMEC offices across the country could improve consumption and (continued) conferencing capabilities. The purpose of utilising this system is: recycling habits in order to reduce unnecessary waste. to improve and integrate communication within SMEC; enhance The audit revealed that, although the Melbourne office performed collaboration, mobility, efficiency and productivity across the above the Australian office recycling target of 70%, there was still business; and significantly reduce telephony and travel costs. This room for improvement, increasing recycling from 75% to 87% and Sustainable Offices (cont.) platform serves as a complete replacement for SMEC’s existing reducing landfill from 22% to 12%. By employing some simple telephony system, and provides inbound and outbound calling Think Green. Take Action details for their local office’s CSR Coordinator; locations of recycling changes across the business, including removing under desk bins to both landlines and mobile phones, as well as an integrated SMEC’s ‘Think Green. Take Action’ program is designed to: raise stations and collection points; details on SMEC’s dedicated ‘Think and making recycling easier, SMEC offices around Australia will be voicemail system. It promotes collaboration across regional and employee awareness about the importance of environmental Green. Take Action’ intranet site; and suggested ways in which able to achieve a significant reduction in unnecessary waste. functional groups, and enables real-time desktop and application sustainability; encourage proactive participation in SMEC’s employees can become more involved in SMEC’s CSR Program. sharing with video, audio and text capabilities. City Switch sustainability initiatives; and communicate the Company’s progress Swipe and Print SMEC has committed all Australian offices to the CitySwitch Green towards its environmental objectives. CDP Water Management Program SMEC utilises a ‘Swipe and Print’ printer system in selected Office Program. CitySwitch is a national tenancy energy efficiency SMEC is a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) The program includes a dedicated intranet site containing a range offices throughout ANZ. The purpose of this system is to limit program that supports organisations in improving their National Water Management Program. This Program forms part of CDP’s of sustainability resources for employees, including: Corporate print wastage, reduce printing costs, improve document security, Australian Built Environmental Rating System (NABERS) office global standardised climate change reporting framework, and Social Responsibility (CSR) announcements and updates; tips for increase printing location flexibility and enhance the efficiency of energy ratings. is currently the world’s leading platform for corporate water being green in the home and office; corporate sustainability policies, SMEC’s printing environment. disclosure. NABERS is an Australian rating system that measures the procedures and guidelines; relevant supplementary publications and The system utilises swipe card technology, which enables users to environmental performance (energy efficiency, water usage, waste materials; and a ‘Submit Your Green Idea’ suggestion box. The CDP Water Management Program supports SMEC’s retrieve their individual printing jobs using a personal swipe card. management and indoor environmental quality) of buildings, commitment to eliminate (or minimise) adverse environmental The ‘Think Green. Take Action’ program also incorporates a monthly Print jobs remain in a print queue until a user personally retrieves tenancies, offices and homes. NABERS utilises a zero to six star impacts resulting from SMEC’s office and project activities. The sustainability update in the Company’s internal employee newsletter. their printouts. Should a print job not be retrieved within 24-hours, it rating scale (with one star indicating very poor performance and objective of the Program is to assist SMEC in taking a proactive This update includes relevant information is automatically deleted from the print server. six stars representing market leading performance) to measure the approach to sustainable water stewardship, through a better for employees on new green programs, results and progress of environmental performance of a building against other comparable Since the introduction of the ‘Swipe and Print’ system, the average understanding of the risks and opportunities associated with water existing initiatives, and tips on incorporating sustainability into daybuildings in a similar location. monthly pages printed has reduced by approximately 15%. The resource management. to-day activities. environmental impact of this is a reduction in paper, toner, ink and All of SMEC’s Australian offices are working towards achieving Localised induction modules and orientation booklets contain CitySwitch Waste Audit an accredited four star NABERS energy rating by reducing electricity from a reduced number of print jobs. tailored information on ‘Think Green. Take Action’ initiatives in each In September 2016, SMEC’s Melbourne office undertook a energy consumption, lowering carbon impacts, and improving Australian office. These materials provide new employees with: an Video Conferencing CitySwitch Waste Audit as part of a broader waste reduction initiative. the sustainability of operations. Figure 16 (overleaf) provides a overview of the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) SMEC has rolled out Skype for Business as the primary The purpose of this audit was to establish an indicative baseline of breakdown of the energy performance of each Australian office Program; an outline of SMEC’s sustainability objectives; contact communication method across all Australian and New Zealand waste and consumption in the Melbourne office, and learn about how during the reporting period. offices. Skype for Business is an all-in-one communication tool 42 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 43 Sustainability & Environment (continued) Sustainable Offices (continued) NABERS Energy Ratings Sunshine Coast In October 2016, all Australian offices underwent a CitySwitch Energy Audit. The objective of these audits was to identify revised indicative NABERS energy ratings, total electricity used per annum, and current Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions for each office. A gap analysis was then completed to compare the 2016 energy performance of each office against data collected during the previous audit undertaken in 2015. In 2016, SMEC’s Australian offices averaged a NABERS energy Gold Coast rating of three and a half stars, above the average three stars for Australian offices. 50% of SMEC’s offices have already achieved the target energy rating of four stars and are now working to achieve a five star rating. Notably, SMEC’s Gold Coast office increased their star rating from three stars to five and a half stars, a significant improvement in energy efficiency and cost savings. To complete these audits, SMEC collected data for electricity and Sydney Canberra GHG emissions across most Australian offices for the year. Despite SMEC’s significant growth in the preceding year, SMEC’s Western overall energy consumption per employee per annum in Australia Adelaide Sydney has reduced. SMEC’s office energy consumption during the reporting period totalled 1.2 million kWh. This equates to 970 kWh per employee, per annum; 50% less than the industry Figure 16: Energy Performance by Office standard as reported in the Australian Government Annual Report (Top performers shown) 2013–2014. Best Office Ratings Energy Performance Western Sydney Canberra Gold Coast Sydney Adelaide Sunshine Coast 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 6 TONNES SAVED CO 2 5,280 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED 35 TONNES SAVED CO 2 30,374 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED 11 TONNES SAVED CO 2 12,105 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED 173 TONNES SAVED CO 2 73,966 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED 17 TONNES SAVED CO 2 24,422 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED 2 TONNES SAVED CO 2 1,945 EMISSIONS kWh SAVED 44 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 45 Sustainability & Environment (continued) Sustainability Services Natural Resources and Environment SMEC’s services include: strategic planning and policy SMEC has extensive experience in the provision of environmentally development; waste to energy conversion; site rehabilitation sustainable services for infrastructure projects, balancing the and remediation; geotechnical investigations; landfill monitoring; competing demands of the community, the environment and hydrogeological and hydrological investigations; waste audits; economic viability. landfill and transfer station design; and contaminated site SMEC’s services include: managing environmental resources, assessment and management. impacts, risks and liabilities; permit applications (in accordance with Contamination environmental planning frameworks); social studies and resettlement SMEC is experienced in a range of contamination projects and plans; compliance monitoring and due diligence investigations; recognises that the assessment and management of contaminated strategic planning; ecological and heritage assessments; natural resources requires a thorough understanding of land contamination and remediation studies; and surface water, ground properties, exposure scenarios, toxicology, carbon footprints, water and water quality management. biodiversity, regulatory compliance, economic costs and community Renewable Energy perceptions. SMEC works closely with clients to reduce carbon emissions and SMEC’s services include: due diligence audits; investigation and deliver efficient and cost-effective renewable energy systems for a assessment of land, sediments, water, groundwater and air; broad range of renewable technologies, including: solar photovoltaic, human health and environmental risk assessments; preparation solar thermal and hybrid systems; wind energy; geothermal; of remediation options and designs; technology reviews and hydropower; biomass; landfill gas; and biofuel production. optimisation; remediation action plans; and preparation of SMEC’s services include: sustainable energy policy and sector environmental management plans. planning; carbon services; site evaluations and feasibility studies; Coastal Management load forecasting models; long-term generation planning using SMEC has a thorough understanding of climate change impacts, simulation and dynamic programming techniques; and stakeholder including high sea levels, frequency of cyclones and coastal communications. flooding. SMEC’s knowledge of coastal processes, and use Climate Change Adaptation of broad‑based modelling and engineering skills, is the key to SMEC has undertaken numerous sustainability and climate change designing infrastructure that can withstand and adapt to predicted adaptation projects worldwide, and has assisted both government climate changes. and industry clients with the development of frameworks, tools and SMEC’s services include: marine infrastructure development; indicators for sustainable and environmentally sensitive change coastal and estuarine processes analysis; coastal zone solutions. management; beach erosion and water quality studies; climate SMEC’s services include: climate risk, vulnerability and adaptation change analysis; design and contract documentation; community assessments; land use planning and management; habitat consultation; and environmental planning and engineering. connectivity and pest species management; wetland and waterway Land Use Management rehabilitation; coastal erosion risk assessment and management; SMEC is committed to sustainable land management, the compliance assessment; and sustainable contamination and development of engineering solutions that cause minimal damage waste management. to ecological processes, and the maintenance of biodiversity, SMEC invests in sustainable business practices to achieve Waste Management ecological integrity and natural capital. long-term prosperity, and is committed to embedding a SMEC considers waste a resource, and seeks to achieve sustainable SMEC’s services include: environmental and land capability culture of sustainability and environmental awareness in all development through avoidance, recovery and reuse. SMEC’s waste assessments; environmental management of land, air and water; management projects incorporate the technical, economic and risk environmental impact assessments; flora and fauna surveys; functional, operational and regional areas of the business. aspects of waste, and integrate the latest engineering processes and ecological assessments; water quality monitoring (ground, technologies with sustainable and cost-effective outcomes. surface and drinking water); acid sulphate soils assessment; and investigations into indigenous and non‑indigenous heritage. 46 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 47 GRI Index This report applies the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines to a self-assessed Level B. GRI Page GRI Page Description Comments Description Comments Indicator Number Indicator Number 1.1/G4-1 Statement from the CEO. 4-5 4.1/G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation. 14 Strategy 4.2 Chair of the highest governing body. 4-8, 14 1.2/G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 4-7, 22 4.3 Independent and non-executive board members. 4-8, 14 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to the 14-16 2.1/G4-3 Name of the organisation. SMEC Holdings Limited highest governing body. 2.2 /G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. Feasibility studies, detailed design, tender 11 4.5 Compensation and performance. 14-17 Governance, Commitments and Engagements and contract management, construction supervision, operation and maintenance, 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interests. 14-17 training and 4.7 Process for determining qualifications and expertise. 14-17 project management. 4.8/G4-56 Mission, values and code of conduct. 17, 20 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 14 4.9 Processes for management of company performance. 14-16 2.4/G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Level 10, 71 Queens Road, Melbourne, VIC 3004, Australia. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the 14-16 highest governing body. 2.5/G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates. 40+ 11-13 4.11/G4-14 Precautionary principle addressed. 4-5, 14 Organisational Profile 2.6/G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 14-15 4.12/G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and 18-21 2.7/G4-8 Markets served. Transport, Hydropower and Energy, Water 11-13 social charters. and Environment, Built Environment, Resources, Education, Governance & 4.13/G4-16 Memberships in associations. 21 Government Advisory. 4.14/G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 18-19 2.8/G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation. 11, 22-23 organisation. 2.9/G4-13 Significant changes to size, structure or ownership Significant Changes in the State of Affairs 14 4.15/G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. 10, 18 during the reporting period. On 25 July 2016 the Group was acquired by 4.16/G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 10, 18 Surbana Jurong Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd 4.17/G4-27 Key stakeholder topics and concerns. 10, 18 (SJHA) (a wholly owned Australian subsidiary of Surbana Jurong Pte Limited (SJ). During G4-38 Composition of the highest governing body. 4-8, 14 the six months period, the Group changed G4-39 Explain whether the Chair of the highest governing 4-8, 14 its financial year-end to 31 December to body is also an executive officer. align with that of its parent and became a G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governing body. 14 proprietary company (SMEC Holdings Pty Ltd) as it is no longer a public company G4-10 Breakdown of employee demographics. 12-13, (previously SMEC Holdings Limited). 26-35 Additional General Disclosures 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 20 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by bargaining Nil. agreements. 3.1/G4-28 Reporting period. 1 April 2016 – 31 March 2017. 2 G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain. 11 3.2/G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. April 2016. 2 G4-18 Explain the process for defining report content and 10 3.3/G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual. 2 Aspect Boundaries. 3.4/G4-31 Contact point for report. sustainabilityreport@smec.com 2 G4-19 List all Material Aspects identified for defining report 10 Report Parameters 3.5 Process for defining report content. 10 content. 3.6 Boundary of the report. 10 G4-20 For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 10 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 10 within the organisation. 3.8/G4-17 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other entities. 10 G4-21 For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 10 outside the organisation. 3.9 Data measurement techniques. 2, 10 3.10/G4-22 Explanation of restatements. Nil. 3.11/G4-23 Significant changes in scope and boundary during the Nil. reporting period. 3.12/G4-32 Table identifying location of Standard Disclosures. GRI Index. 48-50 3.13/G4-33 External assurance. Not used for this report. 48 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 49 GRI Index (continued) GRI Page GRI Page Description Comments Description Comments Indicator Number Indicator Number G4-56 Values, principles, standards and behaviour. 16-17, 20 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour. Nil. Society G4-SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations. Nil. Ethics G4-57 Internal mechanisms for advice on unlawful behaviour. 16-17 G4-PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety laws. Nil. Product Responsibility Internal mechanisms for reporting concerns on G4-58 16-17 unlawful behaviour. G4-PR4 Non-compliance with information laws. Nil. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 22-23 G4-PR7 Non-compliance with marketing laws. Nil. Economic G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. 22-23 G4-PR8 Breaches of client privacy. Nil. G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts. 36-41 G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance. Nil. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. 42-45 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation. 42-45 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 42-45 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 43 G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused. 43 Environmental G4-EN12 Impact on areas of high biodiversity value. 46 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 46 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. 42-45 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil. G4-EN25 Weight of transported waste. Nil. G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 40-45 G4-EN29 Non-compliance with environmental laws. Nil. G4-LA1 New hires and turnover by age, gender and region. 26-31 Labour Practices and Decent G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full time employees. 28-31 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental 26-31 leave, by gender. G4-LA6 Rates of injury and lost days. 34-35 G4-LA10 Skills management and lifelong learning programs. 30-33 G4-LA11 Regular performance reviews. 32-33 G4-LA12 Workforce diversity. 24-33 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of women to men. 27 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination. Nil. Human Rights G4-HR4 Rights to freedom of association. All employees are entitled to join unions. G4-HR5 Risks to child labour. 36 G4-HR8 Incidents involving indigenous people. Nil. 50 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 51 Appendix A Appendix A (continued) Associated Entities Country of Name of entity Incorporation Country of Name of entity SMEC Servicios De Ingenieria De Mexico Mexico Incorporation PT SMEC Denka Indonesia Indonesia SMEC Mongolia LLC Mongolia SMEC Energy SDN Berhad Malaysia SMEC Myanmar Company Limited Myanmar SMEC (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia VKE Namibia Consulting Engineers Pty Ltd Namibia Vincpro (Pty) Ltd Namibia Controlled Entities SMEC New Zealand Ltd New Zealand Country of SMEC Nigeria Limited Nigeria Name of entity Incorporation South Asia Middle East Management Company LLC Oman SMEC Australia Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Oil and Gas (Private) Limited Pakistan SMEC International Pty Ltd Australia Engineering General Consultants (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan SMEC Services Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan SMEC Foundation Ltd Australia SMEC PNG Ltd Papua New Guinea Brisbane City Enterprises Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Philippines Inc Philippines Global Maintenance Consulting Pty Ltd Australia ECCL Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore SMEC Testing Services Pty Ltd Australia Global Maintenance Consulting Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore SMECTS Holdings Pty Ltd Australia GMC Global Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa STS Geoenvironmental Pty Ltd Australia SMEC South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa ACE Consultants Limited Bangladesh Soillab Pty Ltd South Africa SMEC Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh SMEC International (Africa) (Pty) Ltd 9 South Africa Engineering Consultants Underwriters Ltd Bermuda Ocyana Consultants Pvt Ltd Sri Lanka VKE Botswana Pty Ltd Botswana ZMCK–Swaziland Property Holdings Pty Ltd Swaziland SMEC international (Canada) Inc 1 Canada SMEC (Tanzania) Limited Tanzania Global Maintenance Consulting Chile Limitada Chile SMEC Uganda Limited Uganda Frontier Energy Ltd Dubai Global Maintenance Consulting – America, Inc. United States of America Frontier Hydro Ltd Dubai SMEC Vietnam JSC Vietnam SMEC Asia Ltd Hong Kong 1. Formerly known as Global Maintenance Consulting (Canada) Inc Leadrail Infra Solutions Private Ltd India SMEC India (Pvt) Ltd India SMEC Central Asia LLP Kazakhstan SMEC Kenya Limited Kenya SMEC Macau Engineering Consulting Limited Macau SMEC International (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia Energy Holdings Limited Mauritius SMEC International (Africa) Ltd Mauritius 52 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 53 Appendix B Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Impact 1 2 3 4 5 Major, Insignificant Minor Moderate but reversible Catastrophic 5 Almost Certain 5 10 15 20 25 4 Above Average 4 8 12 16 20 Likelihood 3 Moderate 3 6 9 12 15 2 Rare 2 4 6 8 10 1 Very Rare 1 2 3 4 5 Rating Treatment 1–6 Manage aspects via safe operating procedure. 8–12 Process decisions and treatments or controls are assigned specific responsibilities within the process. 15–16 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to senior management for review. 20–25 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to executive level management for review. 54 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2016-2017 55 local people global experience www.smec.com
