SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About This Report CONTENTS OVERVIEW The ‘2016 Hyundai Elevator Sustainability Report’ is the first such report published by Hyundai Elevator for the purpose of sharing the company’s economic, social and environmental achievements as well as 04 CEO Message the progress and goal of the sustainability management with domestic and international shareholders. 08 2015 Highlights The report contains the sustainability management activities carried out at Hyundai Elevator’s head of10 Company Profile fice and other domestic and overseas business units and focuses on reporting contents that are of high interest to our stakeholders. The report was prepared in accordance with the standards and procedures 14 Governance specified in the ‘GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Guidelines.’ 18 Ethical Management Reporting Period 22 Risk Management The ‘2016 Hyundai Elevator Sustainability Report’ covers Hyundai Elevator’s business activities con23 Vision ducted between January 1 and December 31 of 2015. It also includes the company’s activities and per24 Materiality Test formance results from the latter half of 2014 and the first half of 2016 for whenever such information may be deemed to be of importance to stakeholders. When listing quantitative performance, we also 26 Our Business At a Glance included data from the three previous years of 2013, 2014 and 2015 to demonstrate the changes in the trend. Data that reflected annual change was calculated based on the account closing date (December 31) and the data collection period was separately provided whenever disclosure was necessary. SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES 36 ISSUE 1 Technical Competitiveness Reporting Scope The 2016 Hyundai Elevator Sustainability Report covers the business activities of the company’s Icheon 40 ISSUE 2 Customer Satisfaction head office, Seoul office and distribution centers. We are planning on reporting the sustainability man44 ISSUE 3 Talent Development agement of overseas business units including China and Brazil in the future. It is our ultimate goal to de48 ISSUE 4 Safe Work Environment velop a comprehensive report that discloses the sustainability achievements of all of our business units. 52 ISSUE 5 Mutual Growth with Partners Reporting Principles and Assurance ISSUE 6 Work-related Social Contributions 56 This report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Options’ of the GRI G4 Guidelines. The reporting status of items recommended under the GRI Guidelines may be checked in the GRI Guidelines 60 ISSUE 7 Environmental Impact Index on page 90. To ensure the reliability of the report, the contents of the report were also assured by a third-party verification agency. MANAGEMENT REPORT Additional Information 66 Economic Performance The Hyundai Elevator Sustainability Report can be downloaded from the website (www.hyundaieleva69 Social Performance tor.co.kr). Please feel free to contact us for further questions. We look forward to hearing from our esteemed stakeholders. 79 Environmental Performance Public Relations Department, Hyundai Elevator Phone +82-2-3670-0717 APPENDIX E-mail hecsr@hdel.co.kr 84 Financial Highlights 87 GHG Emissions Assurance Report 88 Independent Assurance Report 90 GRI Index 92 UN Global Compact COVER STORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Hyundai Elevator’s first sustainability report summarizes the com93 Contributing Departments pany’s impressive history of becoming the leading elevator company in the Korean market and provides insights into its promising future of becoming the top elevator company in the world. The company’s commitment to prosper alongside its stakeholders is well-expressed in the graphical motif that represents the essence of Hyundai Elevator and the color gradation that symbolizes the company’s brand value. OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX CEO Message Dearest customers, shareholders and partners, On behalf of Hyundai Elevator and its employees, I would like to extend my deepest gratitude for your continued support for the company. Since its inception in 1984, Hyundai Elevator has grown into a top tier elevator company with outstanding technological prowess. We will continue to do our best to grow alongside our shareholders, partners, society and its members by providing superior products and services worldwide. In 2015, Hyundai Elevator was named the top elevator company in the new installation category for the ninth consecutive year, and simultaneously achieved a dominant market share, managing over 100,000 elevator units on a paid basis in the service category. We also attained significant achievements both domestically and internationally including the first-ever operation of a double-deck elevator in Korea, the completion of our technology training center for elevator professionals and procurement of the construction contract for all elevators inside Yongsan Hotel and Water Garden, the largest hotel in Korea and the largest shopping mall in the world located inside the Istanbul International Financial Center, respectively. In April 2015, to fulfill our responsibility as a global corporate citizen, we joined the UNGC (United Nations Global Compact) and have strived to comply with the ten principles under the four categories of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption when carrying out all business activities. Based on these achievements and efforts, Hyundai Elevator now aims to take a bold leap forward towards the global standard through sustainability management. Hyundai Elevator was able to achieve amazing growth over the past 32 years thanks to our stakeholders’ warm encouragement and candid advice. We plan on fortifying the sustainability management system and create social and economic values through implementing management strategies such as strengthening of R&D capability, innovation of quality and price competitiveness, development of differentiated services and cultivation of new talents. Following the core concept of ‘Glocal (Think Global, Act Local),’ we will continue to establish more overseas branches and share our values with the world. Under the current system of Glocal economy, sustainability management is no longer an option but a core value required to achieve a symbiotic relationship between humanity and nature/corporations and society. Governments and civil societies emphasize that corporate citizens should practice both economic justice, namely lawabiding management and ethical management, and social justice. Money-blinded corporations that neglect such duties are greatly frowned upon and may be apt to become a thing of the past. The ‘2016 Hyundai Elevator Sustainability Report’ is the first work published by Hyundai Elevator for the purposes of sharing the company’s economic, social and environmental achievements with domestic and international shareholders and promoting mutual growth. Hyundai Elevator will continue to strive to grow into a trustworthy global corporation. We kindly ask for our customers, shareholders and partners to show us continued interest and encouragement. Thank you. July 2016 Bob Jang, CEO / Representative Director, Hyundai Elevator 4 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 5 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Global Innovation Hyundai Elevator on the Global Stage Hyundai Elevator is receiving global recognition in diverse areas through the development of new technologies and taking on new challenges. With outstanding technological prowess and years of international experience, Hyundai Elevator became the leading elevator company in Korea and is now making forays into the global market. KRW 1,448.7 2015 sales billion KRW 156.5 billion 2015 operating income 122,600 units Largest domestic market share for the ninth consecutive year 13.3 % Average annual growth rate Leading elevator maintenance company in Korea Market share 43.3% in global orders Busan International Finance Center (BIFC), [600m/min, 66F] 6 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 7 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX 2015 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Highlights Society Economy Inducted into the Hall of Fame Designated as the Top Elevator Completed the ‘Training Center,’ Installation and Operation of Received the Gold Tower Paid Maintenance of More Than for Businesses with Outstanding Brand in the Korea Brand Power Korea’s First Technical Training Korea’s First Double-deck Elevator Order of Industrial Service 100,000 Elevator Units Quality Competitiveness Index (K-BPI) in 2015 for the Center for Elevator Installation (LG U+’s office building in Yongsan, Seoul) Merit at the 39th National In 2015, Hyundai Elevator held a 43.3% doHyundai Elevator was designated as an outFourth Consecutive Year and Repair Professionals Korea’s first double-deck elevator, installed inProductivity Awards mestic market share in the new installation catstanding business for quality competitiveness Hyundai Elevator was elected as the leading The Hyundai Elevator Technical Training Center side the new office building of LG U+, began Hyundai Elevator received the Gold Tower Oregory and defended its top elevator company at the ‘2015 Businesses with Outstanding elevator brand in the 2015 Korea Brand Power was completed on August 27, 2015, in order operation on February 3, 2015, after passing der of Industrial Service Merit at the 39th Natitle for the ninth consecutive year. It also eleQuality Competitiveness’ competition hosted Index (K-BPI) by the Korea Management Asto train elevator professionals. The first of its the elevator inspection by the Korea Elevator tional Productivity Awards, the highest honor vated itself into becoming the leading elevator by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy sociation Consulting (KMAC). It received the kind in Korea, the center has five ground levSafety Agency. A double-deck elevator is difin its category. The award was presented in maintenance provider in 2015, managing over and Korea Agency for Technology and Standhighest score in the brand loyalty category els and occupies a total floor area of 975.5m2. ferent from a single-deck elevator in that two recognition of the outstanding results of the 100,000 elevator units on a paid basis. Out of ards and sponsored by the Korea Standards and received 784.5 points in the overall Brand Roughly 4,000 elevator professionals will be elevators are vertically connected inside one company’s companywide productivity innovathe 583,165 elevator units in Korea (data as of Association. The company’s outstanding qualPower Index. Hyundai Elevator remains the trained each year in elevator installation, mainshaft to allow two consecutive floors to use the tion campaign, which yielded a 41% increase the end of 2015, Korea Elevator Safety Agenity competitiveness was further recognized as top company in brand power in the elevator tenance and production quality. elevator simultaneously. It is a highly efficient in production volume and a 44% increase in cy), Hyundai Elevator provides maintenance it passed the hall of fame screening that honcategory for the fourth consecutive year since system with increased transportation capability labor productivity. service for 122,600 elevator units (data as of ors businesses which maintained outstanding 2012. and shorter passenger wait time. the end of 2015). quality competitiveness for over 10 years. Enhancement of Practicing Sustainability Management 2015 Safety & Health Slogan − Established a Co-Existence with In 2015, Hyundai Elevator publicly announced its sup‘Don’t Hurry, Be Safe’ Greenhouse Gas Inventory Partners port for principles on human rights and labor by join‘Don’t Hurry, Be Safe’ was selected as the 2015 For the purpose of reducing energy consumpHyundai Elevator, which received an ‘excellent’ ing the UN Global Compact. We do not discriminate against our employees based on their gender, race, reEnvironment safety & health slogan to prevent safety incidents and establish a corporate safety culture tion and greenhouse gas emissions, Hyundai Elevator established a greenhouse gas invengrade in the ‘2014 Mutual Growth Index Assessment’ published by the Korea Commission ligion or place of origin and instead provide a fair work & Safety among all employees, on-site workers and partners of Hyundai Elevator. ‘Don’t hurry, Be tory system that manages energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Through the for Corporate Partnership, continued to make unsparing efforts for mutual growth with Partenvironment where all employees are given an equal opportunity to demonstrate their skills. Safe’ contains the message that a safe workGreenhouse Gas Inventory, Hyundai Elevator is ners in 2015 as well. As part of such efforts, at the 2015 Mutual Growth Convention, we place should be accident-free by conducting all work safely without rushing. able to secure objective and reliable data concerning greenhouse gas emissions and actively presented an appreciation plaque to four outSustainability Received ‘AA’ Grade in the CP Rating respond to the greenhouse gas energy goal standing partners in each category and signed Hyundai Elevator participated in the first-ever CP rating management system. a mutual growth Agreement with our partners evaluation hosted by the Korea Fair Trade Commission and the Korea Commission for Corporate Partin 2015 and earned the top rating of AA grade. nership. 8 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 9 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Company Profile Corporate Total Moving Solution Provider evolving alongside its customers Financial Hyundai Elevator is the leading elevator company in Korea with the highest sales and operating income in Overview Hyundai Elevator, with leading R&D-based technological prowess and differentiated products that actively Performance the industry and an average growth rate of 11.8% (2010~2015, consolidated basis). In 2015, despite the harsh economic climate, we deployed over 100,000 elevator units in the service category, elevating ourselves reflect customer demand, is maintaining its position as the top elevator company in Korea in the new inas the leading elevator maintenance company. stallment category for the ninth consecutive year. As the leading elevator company in Korea, the company operates a diverse range of business units including an elevator division which includes elevators, escalators and moving walks as well as material handling system, platform screen doors and auto parking system. Our production bases and sales networks in China and Brazil allow us to be on par with other global elevator companies. Hyundai Elevator will provide its customers with the best products and services and share Total Assets Sales outstanding performance results and values with its shareholders and partners in order to become a global corporation that leads the global elevator market. KRW 1,772.7 Billion KRW 1,448.7 Billion Corporate Overview Company Name Hyundai Elevator Co., Ltd. Total Capital Operating Income Date of Establishment May 23, 1984 CEO Bob Jang KRW 641.8 Billion KRW 156.5 Billion Major Businesses Production, sales and maintenance of elevators and other products [Data from 2015, consolidated basis] Head Office Location 2091, Gyeongchung-daero, Bubal-eup, Icheon-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea No. of Employees 1,873 (as of the end of 2015) Company History Since 1980s Establishment 1990s Momentum 2000s Growth 2010s Take-off Globalization 1982~1989 1990~1995 1996~1999 2000~2005 2006~2009 2010~2016 Launched the Transport Machine Business Division Completed third factory at Icheon Head Office Listed on the Korea Exchange (KRX) Acquired CE mark for all elevator Opened the first GIS customer center in the Achieved KRW 100 billion sales in service busiEstablished Hyundai Thanh Cong Elevator Received the Gold Tower Order (1982.06) (1990.11) market (1996.07) units (2002.04) industry (2006.03) ness (2011.12) Vietnam Co. Ltd.(HETCV) (2014.01) of Industrial Service Merit at the Produced 50,000 elevator units Designated as a Labor-Management Culture 39th National Productivity Awards Established Hyundai Elevator Co., Ltd. (1984.05) Formed Employee Stock Ownership Association Awarded the USD 50 Million Export Acquired the OHSAS 18001 and Green ManCompleted the factory in Brazil (2014.04) (2002.06) Model Company (Ministry of Employment and (2015.10) (1991.12) Tower on Trade Day (KFTA & Minagement System (GMS) marks (DNV) (2012.01) Designated as 100 job creating businesses Completed the elevator factory in Icheon (1985.05) Inducted into the Hall of Fame for istry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Installed the first PSD (Platform Labor) (2006.09) Awarded the first presidential citation on elevafor two consecutive years (2014.04) Approved for the establishment of a technology Exceeded production of 10,000 elevator units Businesses with Outstanding Quality (1992.04) (1997.12) Screen Doors) in Korea (Two stations Awarded the Green Energy Grand Prize (Ministry tor safety management in the industry (Group Installed the fastest (600m/min) elevator in R&D center (Ministry of Science and Technology) Competitiveness (2015.11) Acquired ISO 9001 & ISO 14001 in Gwangju Subway) (2003.10) of Knowledge Economy) (2008.03) category) (Ministry of Public Administration and Korea (Busan International Finance Center) (1986.04) Established Shanghai-Hyundai Elevator Co. in a joint Received ‘AA’ Grade in the CP Rating certifications for all business lines of Appointed Chairwoman Hyun Established Hyundai Elevator Indonesia Ltd. Security) (2012.12) (2014.06) Completed the test tower at Icheon Head Office venture with China (1993.08) (2015.12) elevators, parking and distribution Jeong-eun (2003.10) (2008.03) Established HYUNDAI ELEVADORES DO BRAZIL 30th Anniversary (2014.05) (1986.11) Established Hyundai Elevator Service Philippines in a systems (1998.03) Manufactured 70,000 elevator units Established Hyundai Elevator India Ltd. (2009.04) LTDA (2013.01) Formed the labor union (1987.08) joint venture with the Philippines (1993.09) Started operation of the first double-deck Developed the first machine room-less (2005.07) Completed the “Hyundai Asan Tower,” the Established HYUNDAI ELEVATOR MALAYSIA elevator in Korea (2015. 04) Decapitalized Westinghouse Electric Corp. (1988.06) Awarded the Management Innovation Grand Prize elevator in Korea (1999.09) tallest elevator test tower in the world (205m) Sdn Bhd(HEM) (2013.01) (1993.12) Reached maintenance of more than Completed second escalator factory (1988.07) (2009.04) Opened Hyundai Elevator Customer Care Center Completed the R&D building for the Technical 100,000 elevator units (2015.04) Shipped 100,000 elevator units (2009.04) (CCC) (2013.03) Research Center at Icheon (1995.04) Completed the first elevator technology Awarded the Presidential Award at the Labortraining center in Korea (2015.10) Began operations of the Cheonan Distribution Management Awards (Ministry of Employment Center (1995.11) and Labor) (2013.10) 10 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 11 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Global Network RUSSIA POLAND MONGOLIA MAKEDONIA KAZAKHSTAN AZERBAIJAN ARMENIA KYRGYZSTAN JAPAN TURKEY KOREA IRAN CHINA TUNISIA SYRIA IRAQ SEOUL USA JORDAN ICHEON LIBYA PAKISTAN EGYPT ISRAEL KUWAIT BANGLADESH BAHRAIN Gangwon Branch Office ALGERIA UAE HONG KONG SAUDI ARABIA Seoul Office OMAN MYANMAR QATAR Incheon Branch Office INDIA THAILAND Head Office & Factories PHILIPPINES Gyeonggi Branch Office YEMEN CUBA DOMINICAN REPUBLIC MEXICO CAMBODIA VIETNAM ETHIOPIA Cheonan Distribution Center GUATEMALA NIGERIA SRILANKA PANAMA Daejeon Branch Office MALAYSIA COLOMBIA VENEZUELA KENYA Chungcheong Branch Office Daegu Branch Office ECUADOR INDONESIA Jeonju Branch Office Ulsan Branch Office Gyeongnam Branch Office PERU Gwangju Branch Office Busan Branch Office BRAZIL CHILE Jeju Branch Office Major Business Units ARGENTINA Hyundai Elevator operates a head office, a number of production factories and 12 branch offices domestically and 9 corporations and Overview of Business Units 51 business offices overseas. Based on a well-connected global network, the company is taking a bold leap forward into engaging the global market. Domestic Head Office | Icheonㅣ Factory 1, Factory 2, Factory 3, Factories Technical R&D Center, Customer Care Center Business Units Domestic Branch Gyeonggi Branch Office ㅣ Busan Branch Office ㅣ Incheon Branch Office ㅣ Icheon Head Office (Gyeonggi-do) Seoul Office (Yeonji-dong, Jongno-gu, Seoul) China Factory (Shanghai, China) Brazil factory (Sao Leopoldo, Brazil) Offices Daejeon Branch Office ㅣ Daegu Branch Office ㅣ Ulsan Branch Office ㅣ | [Factories 1, 2 and 3] Advanced production | Sales: Korea Elevator Business Division, | Scale: 28,716m2 | Advanced facilities (13,337m2) Gangwon Branch Officeㅣ Jeonju Branch Office ㅣ Gwangju Branch Office ㅣ facilities (46,484m2) Overseas Business Division | Manufactures elevators and escalators | Manufactures elevators | Manufactures elevators, material handling | Service: Service Business Division | Elevator test tower (height: 72m) Gyeongnam Branch Officeㅣ Jeju Branch Office systems, parking systems and platform screen | Planning and Management: CHO, CFO, CSO, doors (PSD) Ethical management Distribution Center Cheonan Distribution Center Major Facilities Overseas Overseas China [Shanghai, Yantai] ㅣ Brazil ㅣ Malaysia ㅣ Vietnam ㅣ Corporations Indonesia ㅣ India ㅣ Turkey ㅣ United States Business Units Overseas 9 in Asia ㅣ 14 in the Middle East ㅣ 11 in North / South America Hyundai Asan Tower Hyundai Customer Care Center (CCC) Agencies 9 in Europe & CIS ㅣ 8 in Africa | The tallest elevator test tower in the world | Offers real-time remote management service (HRTS: Hyundai Real Time Service) and customer counseling 12 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 13 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors Board of Directors Operation and Activities Organization The Hyundai Elevator Board of Directors is the company’s highest decision-making organization that deliberOperation Hyundai Elevator votes on key business items through the Board of Directors. Shareholder opinions and emates and votes on important matters concerning laws and articles of association, consigned items from the ployee requests from general shareholders meetings and investor relations presentations are shared with the general shareholders meeting, principles regarding business management and implementation of tasks. The Board of Directors before each meeting. All directors are allowed to participate in Board of Directors meetboard is composed of three internal directors, three external directors and one non-executive director. To enings via a means of communication, and their attendance is acknowledged in such cases. Board of Director sure efficient decision-making, we also operate three sub-committees under the Board of Directors: the Audit meetings can be summoned as necessary on an emergency basis. To ensure efficient decision-making, the Committee, the External Director Recommendation Committee and the Personnel Management Committee. Board of Directors sub-committees are given partial authority to handle certain matters that would ordinarily be authorized by the Board of Directors. The validity of establishment and resolution at the Board of Directors Organization Data from 2016 meeting shall be confirmed by majority attendance and consent to the execution of an item, respectively. Job Title Key Experiences When the law or regulation requires an increased majority, the Board of Directors shall comply with its Vice Chairwoman of Seoul Chamber of stipulations. A director’s vote cannot be exercised by proxy and directors with special interest in a particular Jeong-Eun Hyun Chairman of Hyundai Group Commerce and Industry matter cannot exercise their voting right in that matter either. In 2015, 11 Board of Directors meetings were Internal Bob Jang CEO of Hyundai Elevator Former CEO of Otis Elevator held with 30 introduced and handled agendas and an average attendance of 85%. Directors Former Deputy Managing Director of Ki Seon Kwon CFO of Hyundai Elevator Hyundai Group, Strategic Planning Division 11 30 85 Former Assistant Planning Director Former Visiting Professor at Myongji UniNo. of Board No. of introduced Attendance Jongsang Yu at the Office for Government Policy versity, Department of Public Administraof Directors and handled rate of external Coordination tion meetings held agendas directors External Former Auditor at Inport DevelopFormer Head of Korea Development Bank, times cases % Directors Sangjae Ok ment Ireland Branch Managing Director at Yieum Private Managing Director at Kamur Investment Dongbeom Seo Equity Partners, PE Division Non-execuExecutive Managing Director at HyunFormer Executive Managing Director at Evaluation and Compensation Hojin Kim tive Director dai Group Strategic Planning Division Daewoo Securities IB Division Unit: KRW Million Hyundai Elevator sets the compensation limit of its directors at the general shareholders meeting in accordance with Article 388 of the Commercial Act and the Articles of Association. Once determined at the general Remuneration Amount Independence shareholders meeting, compensation is offered in a fair and transparent manner in consideration of the Highest wage 2,722 management evaluation and payment standards. Hyundai Elevator seeks to achieve a balance in power dynamics between its internal executives and external directors while reaching logical and fair resolutions by designating three external directors for the Board Employee average 78 of Directors. Directors with special interests cannot cast a vote in a particular matter that concerns them. Communication with Stakeholders Ratio (times) 34.9 Further independence and transparency are secured in the decision-making process by operating three subThe Board of Directors communicates with stakeholders via diverse channels including disclosures and comcommittees under the Board of Directors and requiring the attendance of at least one external director at pany presentations. The highest decision-making is carried out at the general shareholders meeting, and imeach committee meeting to keep a check on major shareholders and executives. The Audit Committee, in portant resolutions are immediately announced so that management information is provided to our shareparticular, has the right to request sales reports, investigate the financial condition of the company, demand holders and stakeholders in the most efficient manner. related employees or external auditors to attend a meeting and receive advice from an expert at the company’s expense. Sub-committees Classification Members Activities Transparency and Expertise in Director Election Matters regarding the general shareholders meeting Hyundai Elevator’s internal and external directors are elected at the general shareholders meeting in accordJongsang Yu, Sangjae Ok and Audit Committee Matters regarding the directors and Board of Directors Dongbeom Seo ance with related laws and articles of association. Internal directors are recommended by the Board of DirecMatters regarding audits tors while external directors are recommended by the External Director Recommendation Committee comExternal Director Jongsang Yu, Sangjae Ok, Recommendation, evaluation and selection of external posed of five members. We select people with expertise in different fields to enhance the overall expertise of Recommendation Dongbeom Seo, Bob Jang and directors candidates who are to be appointed at the Committee Ki Seon Kwon general shareholders meeting the Board of Directors. Our current directors include one former professor (Jongsang Yu), one accounting specialist (Dongbeom Seo) and one international finance specialist (Sangjae Ok). Appointment, dismissal and promotion of executives Matters regarding the compensation of executives Personnel Management Jongsang Yu, Sangjae Ok, including remunerations and bonuses Election Process Recommendation Review and deliberaApproval by general shareof candidates > tion of candidates > holders meeting Committee Bob Jang and Ki Seon Kwon Treatment regarding executives and incentive systems Granting of stock options and their quantity Internal Directors | Board of Directors External Directors | External Director Recommendation Committee Changing and installing key HR systems 14 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 15 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Sustainability The Sustainability Management Committee is the highest decision-making organization in the company’s Stakeholder Hyundai Elevator defines “stakeholders” as groups that directly or indirectly influence our business activities. sustainability management category. The committee is in charge of setting strategic directions for sustainOur stakeholders include shareholders, customers, partners, employees, local communities and the governManagement ability management, reviewing business activities from a sustainability management aspect, and deducing Engagement ment. To better listen to and reflect the opinions of our stakeholders, we operate various communication Framework improvement projects and reviewing plans in progress. The organization consists of a Chairperson and memchannels that allow us to identify key expectations and requirements of our stakeholders. We plan on further bers in each business division and sector. Sustainability management sectors include Sustainability Managesolidifying sustainability management through active communication with our stakeholders and hope to ment in General, Human Rights and Labor, Compliance, Mutual Growth, Social Contributions, Environment disclose the outcome of stakeholder engagement in our sustainability report. and Safety, Technology and Products, etc. Each sector handles improvement projects as consigned by the Sustainability Management Committee and reports outcomes and future plans at the biannual Sustainability Management Committee meeting. Shareholders The Sustainability Management Committee carries out sustainability management activities in the most Employees and Investors comParticipate systematic manner. We have conducted a sustainability management diagnosis to identify the ecoctivate in de are, a cisio d welf lish a laborsharehold e rs m n-m n nomic, social and environmental risks and opportunities involved in sustainability management and io na y, estab eeti aki ng ct pan e ce n ng sfa om -exist ,b th reported the results to the chairperson and heads of each business division in the Corporate Social sati h ec ip of co ance uil r d a o ug rk t ns h st r u th in tio ctu so h wi ela u Im Responsibility Committee. Based on this report, working level teams gathered in the Sustainability Manmu pro ve tr ees, in tranet, General s h areh re n era l nic wo en ploy old ers d en em uncil eg agement Working Level Consultation Committee and deduced improvement projects, established plans ma ation ey of eme nt co tions, stock exch ang me eti th ove rn na urv nag ed ng g ge es ma isc , in and reported their conclusions to the Sustainability Management Committee. After receiving review m air bo rlos ur v Qu , la e handling cus ela ivities for es rr tion of opinions generate and approval by the Sustainability Management Committee, we shared the outcomes and plans that news let tio nn esto eb site t reflec e act o te ,w m r were established at the Sustainability Management Committee with internal/external stakeholders in d by bution activities, sisterhood re e r customer care cente r co m u la r ial contri anc the sustainability report. Elevato loca r (H Reg pport growth of c lation us soc C sfac Enh CC), c a ti tio ie , su n plai omer s , ndai i m s l ship omm Vario it pr o nts cust usto n communities for and s with local v Hyu u unit e prod m partne rvey, customer eve g mer action su in and a r i Elev tor busine ies com e Local gath d a rship n uct nd increase accountab Customers nts satisf u l Communities ss un Hy ia Committee c so lity a | Sustainability Management Execution System und its ility qua aro Organization pate ltrai nin tici l CEO in Par entra ica g go wit hc hn om ver an tec pe ply s dm nm il, tit ent nc ica iv e m er un proj cou s Co rt n w icip ects, alliance Coopera tion eti ng tio ith al g me ’c n pa ove hi sta r nme er s m un Sustainability Management p b tut nt agen cies a rt n m es etw p co of er Committee rtn s an d nt se e e a en reg m r e pa go the ulati ons, fo enh anc e y , i nc ith p r iv Suppo r t c ver nm ate rm et e n nw Chairperson, CHO ent secto c o mp at i o r and ness and i nform hare Key expectations and requirements and s Communication channel SM Secretariat Government Partners Korea Elevator Business Division Overseas Business Division Service Business Division Manufacturing Division Quality Safety Division CTO CHO CFO CSO Stakeholder Survey Results Issue Top 10 Distribution Equipment Ethical Management Division The Stakeholder Survey was conducted to ascertain how our stakeholders rated their Development of Sustainability level of interest and materiality regarding the seven categories of sustainability manImprovement of Product Safety Management Strategies agement, in general, economics, customers, partners, human rights and labor, local communities and the environment. Stakeholders responded that priority should be Establishment of an Environmental Customer Communication Business Management Structure given to the improvement of product safety and also showed strong interest in the enhancement of environmental management and social contribution. Further analysis Business Units with Work-related Total Process Management Social Contributions of the survey revealed that stakeholders considered the categories of “Improvement of Product Safety,” “Establishment of an Environmental Management System,” “BusiEnhancement of Health and Safety Recycling and Reusing of Resources ness Units with Work-related Social Contributions,” “Improvement of Occupational Health and Safety” and “Selection of Fair and Transparent Partners” most important in Fair and Transparent Selection of Enhancement of Employee their respective order. The survey results were reflected in the materiality test. Partners Satisfaction 16 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 17 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Ethical Management Ethical Establishment of Ethical Management Structure Operation of the Cyber Report Center Management The Ethical Management Department was established in 2007 in accordance with the permanent organizaThe Cyber Report Center is a reporting system that allows people to report complaints anytime and anytion guidelines, which is implemented under the direct supervision of the CEO of Hyundai Elevator’s affiliated where. Cyber reports made via the ethical management division are categorized into civil complaints and Structure companies. In 2012, the organization was restructured to strengthen its diagnostic function across all busivalid reports. On-site complaints and simple afterservice reports are transferred to relevant departments ness activities. In order to achieve continued growth and reach management goals, the Ethical Management and handled promptly. Valid reports include malpractice, unfair transactions and corruption. They are first Department inspects, evaluates and improves the company’s compliance with regulations and fulfillment of reported to the CEO, and the handling results are notified to the informant after going through a special instructions. The Department aims to effectively perform internal control as well as secure sincerity, transpardiagnosis. The ethical Management Department updates reports and handling results each month, keeps ency, fairness and responsibility in the company’s business management. The Cyber Report Center page on a casebook for each sector and provides ethics violation training to newly appointed heads of departments our website strives to achieve enhanced work transparency, fair transaction and reinforced ethics. and branch offices. Ethical Management Structure Cyber Report Center’s Handling Process CEO Head of Ethical Management 1 2 3 4 5 6 Receipt of Identification Phone call with Report and Receipt of Announce hanCyber Report of construction person in charge transfer received handling results dling results and Ethical Management Department (content-certified) overview (On-site complaints complaints (On-site complaints conduct postor simple A/S) (On-site complaints or simple A/S) management or simple A/S) Ethical Management Team Compliance Team ▶ Send to Ethical Management ▶ Construction title (Construc▶ Check progress of ▶ Transfer on-site complaints or ▶ Relevant department writes ▶ Notify handling results to the Department via text message tion No.), contract date (due complaints simple A/S to relevant departthe handling report and informant or e-mail date) ments > Report contents to reports to head of division ▶ Report handling results to ※ Actions that violate the prac▶ Query of overall computerDivision Heads, Department ▶ Feedback of handling results CEO (quarterly, biannually, Heads, staff in charge and Code of Conduct tice of ethical management including unfair trade and based information, including rate of payment, person in other relevant employees to Ethical Management Department annually) ▶ Enhance prevention activities corruption charge of sales (or installation) ▶ For reports on corruption, to stop recurrence of similar “Ethics” is the primary value of Hyundai Elevator’s business activities. We seek sustainable growth alongside conduct special diagnosis after accidents through training reporting to the CEO our customers, partners and employees by not merely complying with the laws and regulations but also heads of departments and <Remarks> branch offices on cyber report fulfilling our duty as a responsible corporate citizen. To ensure a clean and transparent corporate culture, all casebook writeups 1) On-site complaints or simple A/S Step-by-step process from step 1 to 6 employees are well-versed in the code of ethics, and the company is actively promoting ethical management 2) Valid reports concerning unfair transactions or corruption Conduct steps 1, 4 and 6 activities to allow ethics to become firmly rooted throughout the company. A Code of Ethics Handbook, ▶ Special diagnosis is conducted after reporting to the CEO, and disciplinary actions are taken by referring to the HR committee written in four languages (Korean, English, Chinese and Portuguese) to improve the ethical awareness of our employees, is available on our website for stakeholders to read. Enhancement of Ethical Management Execution Voluntary Declaration of Will for Compliance To practice ethical management, Hyundai Elevator has published and distributed a “Code of Ethics HandCompliance of All employees are required to strictly comply with the Fair Trade Act to instill a fair trade culture and ensure effective business management. Hyundai Elevator’s CEO announces the importance of the Fair Trade Act to book” and an “Ethical Management Self-diagnosis Card” to all employees and partners. In 2014, we disFair Trade all employees, external stakeholders and customers through management meetings and CEO letters. tributed an “Ethical Management Self-diagnosis Card” to form a corporate culture of self-inspection and ethical management. In 2015, we conducted the “Ethical Management Survey” to identify employees’ level Monitoring and Sanctions Structure of awareness in ethical management and promote continual advancement of the corporate culture. We The essence of the Fair Trade Compliance Program is prevention and supervision of legal violations. are planning on carrying out the Ethical Management Survey each year to improve the ethical awareness of Twice a year, Hyundai Elevator conducts a cartel vulnerability survey, inspects fair transactions of subconemployees. tracting and unfair special subcontractor agreements, and inspects overall operations to check for any possible violations of the Framework Act on Construction Industry and the Subcontracting Act. Through regular inspections, we evaluate departmental risks and apply strict disciplinary systems to prevent legal violations. 18 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 19 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Systematic CP Education Propagation of a Signed Agreements on Fair Trade and Ethical Management Hyundai Elevator is working on establishing a voluntary fair trade compliance culture through conducting Culture of Mutual Hyundai Elevator signs fair trade agreements with our partners each year to enhance mutual competitiveness preventative training on Fair Trade Act violations, unfair collective acts and cartel activities. We conduct reguthrough co-existence. We also signed ethical management agreements for transparent deals with partners lar compliance education for our employees twice a year. Special education is offered to high-risk departGrowth and practicing of ethical management. ments and officers, newly hired employees, employees working at agencies, and sales representatives. We also sponsor CP manager workshops and CP-based management declaration ceremonies to allow employees Compliance with the Four Rules for Subcontracting and Use of the to directly participate in the compliance program. These programs help employees develop preemptive perStandard Subcontract Form ception and ex post facto discernment. To develop a fair trade order with our partners, Hyundai Elevator uses standard subcontract forms while adhering to the four rules related to subcontracting. The standard forms are available on our website (http:// Publication of Compliance Newsletters www.hyundaielevator.co.kr) for employees as well as partners to view. Hyundai Elevator has been informing employees of the compliance program through the CP newsletter since 2014. The newsletter is uploaded on groupware and compliance support systems and also directly provided to employees via e-mail. The newsletter helps employees to adhere to the operational procedures by providing them with corporate CP-related news, matters to improve in connection with transactions, information Four rules to follow in on the Fair Trading Act and changes in market conditions. subcontracting AA Grade Received ‘AA’ Grade in the CP Rating Hyundai Elevator received AA grade in the CP rating assessment hosted by the Fair Trade Commission in First elevator company 2015. This was the first time AA grade was awarded to an elevator company and the highest grade ever Ceremony for compliance-based To receive ‘AA’ Grade in the management CP Rating granted by the Fair Trade Commission. (CP rating assessment hosted by the Regulations for Practical rules for Fair Trade Commission in 2015) Practical rules for Practical the operation of issuing or archivselecting and contracting rules the mutual growth ing subcontracting managing partners for co-existence review committee documents CP education Regular Management System for Preemptive Prevention of Fraud Monitoring Complying with the Fair Trade Act through CP Activities In response to the rising need for systems of corruption risk management and response structure, Hyundai Elevator performs preventive activities through compliance programs and education on fair trade Internal Hyundai Elevator has collected many risk scenarios and developed a fraud prevention system to ensure law. We also monitor enterprise-wide performance through periodic inspections. In addition, we have deRisk effective monitoring. The fraud prevention system constructed by the Ethics Management Departployed systems for ex post facto administration, including improvement of vulnerable areas and disciplinary ment was designed to regularly monitor relevant work (domestic sales, overseas sales, installation, actions on violators. service, purchasing, S/S, distribution PSD, quality management) by creating an inspection checklist Visit to primary partners (Daehyun) Domestic and overseas sales Purchasing division to offset fraud risk and other risk factors. Issues detected from the list are inspected each month to Support for Secondary Partners Quality assurance division promote awareness among employees and establish a transparent and fair corporate culture. Hyundai Elevator propagates a culture of mutual growth by offering mutual growth programs to our secInstallation division ondary partners after signing a fair trade agreement between primary and secondary partners. We also stage Service division improvement activities by operating a win-win payment system, technical support and visitation of secondSystem solutions division ary partners by executives in charge of purchasing and the CEO. Visit to secondary partners (Selim E&C) 20 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 21 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Risk Management Vision Risk Management Policies and Strategies Due to rapid changes in the business environment, internal and external risks are diversified and more interconnected now. Accordingly, it has become more important to identify and prevent risks through preemptive management on a companywide basis. Hyundai Elevator detects and responds to risks by developing means for identifying, defining and managing risks that threaten the overall management. VALUE VISION 2020 Risk Management Structure Globalization The Global Leader in Hyundai Elevator’s preventative structure was established to minimize the company’s risks and losses. Providing TSM Through classifying risks into financial risks and non-financial risks and further dividing them into sub-risk categories, we preemptively respond to risks that impede the company from attaining its business goals from a comprehensive perspective. Financial Risk Management Hyundai Elevator is exposed to diverse financial risks including market risks, credit risks and liquidity risks. SLOGAN Core Tasks Financial risk management concentrates on minimizing potential uncertainties that may impede financial performance. Our goal is to accomplish management plans by enhancing the soundness of our financial Total Solutions for Increasing Revenue Base Securing Service Source structure and improving the predictability of management indices through conducting appropriate risk Movement (TSM) Enhancing Business Efficiency hedging in the unstable market. Upgrading Customer Service Foreign exchange risks arise from fluctuations in currency exchange rates in assets or Foreign liabilities expressed in foreign currencies. As Hyundai Elevator is exposed to the risk of Exchange currency fluctuations through foreign contracts and purchasing of raw materials, we Risk periodically conduct forex risk measurement. Management Policies Risk exists with changes in interest income and expenses arising from deposits and borrowings depending on fluctuations in future market interest rates. Hyundai Elevator Interest preemptively manages interest rate risk by improving the borrowing structure, mainRate Risk taining an adequate ratio of fixed and variable interest rate deposits, monitoring interest rate movements on a weekly and monthly basis, and developing plans to address interest rate changes. Pursuing Innovating Strengthening Promoting a Fostering Human Globalization Quality and Cost Liquidity risk refers to the possibility of a problem rising in foreign payment due to lack R&D Capabilities Service Mindset Resources Drive Competitiveness Liquidity of liquidity. Hyundai Elevator maintains a sufficient cash reserve through active sales Risk activities and utilization of funds within our credit ceiling and adequately manages liquidity risks. Four Major Non-financial Risk Management Implementation Hyundai Elevator classifies key non-financial risks that may arise in the categories of safety, environment, Strategies quality and reputation into business risks, legal risks, and operational risks and defines control processes to Increasing Securing Service Enhancing Business Upgrading Customer minimize financial loss. Hyundai Elevator pursues sustainability management by deducing risks that directly Revenue Base Source Efficiency Service or indirectly affect management activities, developing quantitative indicators for identifying them and improving them through process compatibility review. 22 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 23 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Materiality test Materiality Map Hyundai Elevator strived to include all relevant information by selecting the stakeholders’ core interests derived through a materiality test as core issues. We reported these in accordance with the formats of the reporting principles Impact 73.2% 53.7% 1 3 2 of the GRI G4 Guidelines for global sustainability reporting. Recycling and reuse of resources 4 5 Material Issues Management of 6 8 entire product 11 1 Enhancement of product safety processes Establishment and Materiality Test Process operation of a green distribution system 7 2 Work-related social contributions Hyundai Elevator performed the materiality test considering the GRI reporting principles of “Stakeholder InclusiveEnhancement of health and safety at Maximization of customer values 9 3 installation or service sites through quality innovation 12 10 ness”, “Sustainability Context”, “Materiality” and “Completeness” The materiality test was conducted by assessing Propagation of communication 13 4 Fair and transparent selection of partners with partners stakeholder impact and business relevance of 32 issues in consideration of the characteristics of the industry and the Fair performance assessment 56.1% 5 Improvement of occupational health and safety current circumstances of Hyundai Elevator. Exploration of new markets including overseas markets 6 Prevention of unfair trading Prohibition of discrimination of employees and enhanced respect for human rights 7 R&D investment and activities Enhancement | Materiality Test Process and Reporting of Issues of production efficiency and Propagation of ethical management programs 8 Enhancement of satisfaction through profitability Activities to support partners communication with customers Development of eco-friendly products 9 Strengthening employee communication Reporting Issues CSR programs considering the needs of local communities 10 Management of environment pollutants 80.5% Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Global CSR programs Activities for enhancing satisfaction by Business Impact Propagation of sustainability 11 management within the employees supply chain Administration of harmful chemical materials 12 Enhancement of employee competence Issue Assessment Prioritization Activities to improve the local living environment Pooling Reduction of the environmental impact of business units Disclosure of product information Relevance Potential Issues 13 Response to climate change (Monitoring) Stakeholders’ Interest Level ** Policy/structure-related issues were excluded from the materiality map. (Sustainability strategies, organization and operation of a sustainability committee, securing sound governance structure, augmentation of stakeholder engagement processes, management team leadership, enhanced risk management Global benchmarking Business relevance assessment Reflect outcomes of the structure, mutual growth policies, CSR strategies and policies, and establishment or implementation of an environmentally-friendly management structure) International standard analysis Global benchmarking results materiality test report Media Analysis International standard analysis results Materiality Test Processes and Reporting Media analysis results Impact on Hyundai Elevator Business Stakeholder impact assessment Material Issues Shareholders / Community / GRI G4 Aspect Organization of a Selection of 13 Customers Employees Investors Partners Gov. / NGOs Cases pool with 32 issues Qualitative analysis results of employee interviews material issues Results of the stakeholder survey Prevention of unfair trading ● Anti-competitive 19, 20 Fair and transparent selection of partners ● behavior 21 To organize a pool of 32 issues for our 2016 Business relevance assessment | Global benchmarking Hyundai Elevator selected 13 issues in the R&D investment and activities ● 37, 38 Sustainability Report, Hyundai Elevator consulted results revealed “improving customer satisfaction” economic, social and environmental sectors Products and services Improvement of product safety ● 41 our own analysis of related industry groups and “propagating sustainability of the supply chain” from the results of the materiality test for the Enhancement of satisfaction through Marketing (elevators and escalators) at home and abroad as material issues. Analysis of international standards 2016 sustainability report. In the economics customer communication ● communications 41 including the management status and related showed “fair and transparent selection of partners” and sector, material issues were “R&D investment Enhancement of employee competence ● Training and education 45, 46 issues, related business-related articles since “social contribution” as material issues. Media analysis activities,” “improvement of product safety,” and 2013, and sustainability guidelines, including revealed that “new market exploration” and “business“enhancement of customer satisfaction through Improvement of occupational health and safety ● 49, 50 Occupational health and GRI G4.0 Guidelines and ISO 26000 Guidance. related social contribution activities in local communities” communication.” In the environment sector, safety Enhancement of health and safety at were frequently reported on. material issues were “improvement of occupational installation or service sites ● 51 health and safety,” “management of pollutants,” Stakeholder impact assessment | Stakeholder survey Business-related social contribution ● Local communities 57 and “response to climate change.” In the social activities results revealed that stakeholders are highly interested sector, material issues were “enhancement of Management of environment pollutants Effluents and waste 61, 62 in “improvement of product safety,” “establishment ● ● ● ● employee competence and communication” of an environmental management system,” “businessResponse to climate change ● Energy and Emissions 63 and “activities for the enhancement of employee related social contribution activities,” and “improvement Labor practices and satisfaction.” In addition, “prevention of unfair of occupational health and safety.” Interviews with Strengthening employee communication ● complaint handling 74, 75 trading,” “fair and transparent selection of mechanisms key stakeholders revealed that “R&D investment and partners,” and “business-related social contribution Activities for enhancing employee activities” and “management of environment pollutants” ● Employment 72, 73 activities” were also chosen as material issues. satisfaction were considered to be the most important. 24 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 25 Moving Solutions Our Business At a Glance Hyundai Elevator provides moving solutions to accommodate customers and system solutions such as distribution systems, parking facilities and screen doors. Escalators System Solutions Auto Parking systems Elevators Moving walks 04 03 02 Platform screen doors 01 Material handling systems Moving Solutions Elevators Escalators Moving walks System Solutions Material handling systems Auto Parking systems Platform screen doors 26 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 27 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Moving Hyundai Elevator has patented technologies for elevators, escalators and moving walks and continues to increase its market share in the moving solution sector. Solutions Total number of elevators installed in 43.3% Korea in 2015 Elevators Since its former US partner Westinghouse withdrew business from Korea in 1989, Hyundai Elevator has Leading domestic market 37,452 focused on obtaining original technology and achieved quantum growth through continued efforts. Our elevator business obtained the leading domestic market share in 2007 and has maintained that status since share of 43.3% for the ninth 2014 for nine consecutive years. In 2009, we completed construction of Hyundai Asan Tower, a first-class elevator consecutive year in 2015 34,395 test tower. In 2010, we showcased our leading technological prowess by manufacturing the 1,080m/min ultra-high speed elevator, the fastest in the world, and the 600m/min ultra-high speed double-deck elevator Top for 2013 using pure original technology. The 600m/min elevator has been successfully installed and is in operation inside the BIFC. Hyundai Elevator continues to lead the market while continually expanding its market share. 4 years in a row Number 2015 Korea Brand Power Index (K-BPI) designates 29,967 installed by Hyundai Escalators Hyundai Elevator has actively promoted the escalator business along with the elevator business. Upon our Hyundai Elevator as the leadElevator in establishment, we built an escalator production facility at the Icheon Factory and expanded the sales base ing elevator company for four 2015 for our escalator products by releasing top-notch escalators that target both the domestic and international consecutive years 2014 16,217 markets. In 2002, we received a lot of attention for developing the Millennium Escalator using ergonomic design and microprocessor control. In 2005, we installed the first escalator inside a ship in Korea and in Number of elevators 15,290 2007, procured a contract to build a 100m-long escalator in Kazakhstan. Based on such diverse construction installed in Korea (2013~2015, experiences and technological prowess, we continue to lead the industry to this day. Unit: elevators) 2013 13,579 Moving Since starting the moving walk business through signing a technical contract with foreign companies, we have focused on securing original technology and developing our own models. Our main accomplishments walks include the 1999 Incheon International Airport Transportation Center Project and the 2003 construction of the longest moving walk in Korea inside Jongno 3-ga Station. Our moving walks, which are flexibly connected in horizontal directions and slopes and therefore are extremely comfortable to ride on, are installed in a wide range of buildings including large transportation facilities, welfare facilities, culture and sports centers and commercial buildings. Source | Estimated by Hyundai Elevator based on the data registered with the Korea Elevator Safety Agency. Includes passenger elevators, cargo elevators, Elevators Escalators Moving walks escalators, moving walks, dumbwaiters and wheelchairs. Elevators are in operation as of 2015 and exclude disused elevators. 28 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 29 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX System Hyundai Elevator strives to enhance customer convenience by developing and providing diverse system solution products. Solutions Sales by product (data from 2015) Unit: KRW Volume of new orders for Material Hyundai Elevator launched the Material Handling System throughout the entire enterprise with the goal of improving customer productivity and employee work environment by accomplishing unmanned automa39.1billion parking systems Handling tion, integration and standardization of production, storage and shipment facilities. We provide distribution 31,082 Parking System solutions such as automated distribution consulting and engineering, production distribution system and 76.2billion KRW million product distribution system. Our supply facilities include stacker cranes for automated warehouses, unDistribution 2015 manned transfer vehicles (automated guided vehicles and laser guided vehicles), conveyors, roving transfer 29.2billion vehicles, automated overhead traveling vehicles (SKY-RAV), and automated sorting and picking systems. We PSD pioneer the industry by maintaining our lead of the domestic market share in the material handling system market. Domestic market share of material handling system (2011~2015) 36% 35% Auto Hyundai Elevator launched the Auto Parking System line as part of the company’s business diversification KRW 26,909million Parking plan. Our auto parking products are distinguished for their outstanding quality and performance. In 2005, we entered the global market by developing the E650 model with a maximum speed of 180m/min and in 2013 System 20% 24,060 22% 21% 2015, manufactured a fork type parking facility. We are also constantly expanding the scope of our business. KRW million In 2009, we engaged the bicycle parking facility business, which meets the government’s low carbon green 2014 growth policy and contributes to enhancing citizens’ living convenience. '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 Platform In 2003, we installed the first platform screen door in Korea at Docheong and Geumnamno Stations of Gwangju Subway. We also installed platform screen doors at subway stations in Seoul, Busan, Daegu and Market share of parking Screen Daejeon, which amounts to 51.2% of all platform screen doors in Korea. Hyundai Elevator continues to lead systems Door the industry with leading market share. 20% 15.93% 18.2% 2013 2014 2015 Material Handling System Auto Parking System Platform Screen Door 30 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 31 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Performance MOVING SOLUTION Busan International Finance Center (BIFC) Venezuela Centro Simon Bolivar | Caracas, Venezuela Songdo I-Tower | Incheon, Korea Lerthai Center | Shijiazhuang, China Hanoi Landmark Tower | Hanoi, Vietnam LG U+ Yongsan Office Building | Busan, Korea | Seoul, Korea [High-speed elevators] 600m/min., 2 units | 540m/min., 3 units | 480m/min., 2 units | 420m/min., 4 units | 360m/min., 2 units | 15 units in total 360m/min., 2 units | 18 units in total 360m/min., 4 units | 10 units in total 240m/min., 2 units | 29 units in total [Double-deck elevators] 240m/min., 2 units | 12 units in total 480m/min., 8 units | 46 units in total Elevators SYSTEM SOLUTION Seoul Integrated Freight Terminal Paju Book Center [Publications distribution center] Airport railroad (AREX) Sinbundang line (DX line) Hyundai Department Store Cheonho Public parking lot, Guui-dong | Seoul, Korea | Gyeonggi-do, Korea | Seoul Incheon, Korea | Seoul Seongnam, Korea [Large-scale cubic parking facility] | Seoul, Korea | Seoul, Korea Material handling system | Platform screen doors | Auto Parking System 32 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 33 OVERVIEW OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY | SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA ISSUES | MANAGEMENT | MANAGEMENT REPORT| REPORT | APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Core Sustainability Issues 01 Technical Competitiveness 02 Customer Satisfaction 03 Talent Development 04 Safe Work Environment 05 Mutual Growth with Partners 06 Work-related Social Contributions 07 Environmental Impact 34 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2015 35 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX ISSUE 01 Technical Competitiveness R&D Structure Research CONTEXT AND APPROACH and Strengthening our technological edge on a continual basis is tantamount to satisfy customers and gain market dominance. When product quality does not meet the Establishment of R&D infrastructure development Hyundai Elevator established its R&D infrastructure to Tallest test tower market standard, it becomes difficult for a company to achieve long-term developin the world >> focus on systematic technology development. The Techment. Hyundai Elevator hopes to upgrade its R&D infrastructure by diversifying existing technologies and developing new technologies. We hope to solidify our position as a nology Research Institute was founded in 1986 for new product development where 100 researchers are currently 205 m global corporation with outstanding performance. dedicated to technology development. At Hyundai Asan Height of Asan Tower Tower, one of the tallest elevator test towers in the world ACTIVITIES (205m) with ultra-high-speed elevators, the reliability and safety (e.g. vibration, noise and pressure) of ultra-high Fastest elevator >> Established the advanced in the world Developed variable speed Applied the eco-friendly, speed systems and related parts are tested. The tower opremote service system hybrid system anti-virus handrails (HRTS) erates the fastest elevator in the world (1,080m/min), the 600m/min ultra-high speed double-deck and single-deck 1,080 m/min Maximum speed elevators, and the fastest observation elevator in the world PERFORMANCE (420m/min). Based on this R&D infrastructure, we have registered a total of 93 patents, 35 utilities, 74 designs, KRW 20.66 R&D expenses (2015) billion Cumulative total of 270 cases Patents, designs, utility models, and 68 trades and service marks. Hyundai Asan Tower trade and service marks Registered trademarks Patents Utility models Designs Trademarks INTERVIEW 1 18 Hyundai Elevator developed synchronized traction machines Registered cases using ferrite magnets, a newly discovered non-rare material, through joint research with Department of Automotive Engi2011~2012 15 46 cases >> R&D expenses neering at Hanyang University. They first contacted the school and requested for joint research and active discussions ensued (Unit: KRW million) throughout the entire research process involving development 12 direction and required testing. Through such exchanges, I was 15,443 16,317 20,661 convinced that Hyundai Elevator was determined to further 11 their technology development through developing energy-efRegistered cases ficient elevators as well as future-generation elevators that are 23 2013~2014 differentiated from competitors’ products. Hyundai Elevator’s 78 2015 executives and researchers are all aware of the importance of cases 2014 R&D and hope to further improve its research development 28 capability. I hope that Hyundai Elevator will strengthen its re2013 16 search development capability from a long-standing point of view through training employees on core technologies, buy56 ing testing and measuring equipment and securing talented 10 Registered cases 3 employees through industry-academia scholarship programs. 2015~2016 5 8 patents, 3 utility models and 74 1 design registered in 2015 cases Jung-Pyo Hong Professor of Department of Automotive Engineering at Hanyang University 36 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 37 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Key R&D Achievements Environmental and Safe R&D Synchronized Traction Machines Using New Materials Achievements Conventional Ferrite magnet-based synchronous traction machines use a rotor structure (SPM type) using rare magHyundai Elevator Develops Global elevator companies are engaging in cutthroat competition in order to develop ulnets with powerful magnetic force to enhance output, but Ultra-high Speed Elevator tra-high-speed elevator technologies for vertical transportation inside skyscrapers as tall as Hybrid Acceleration & Transmission System rare element supply is unstable and harmful substances 1,000m. In 2010, Hyundai Elevator developed the fastest elevator in the world with a speed Conventional high-speed elevators inside skyscrapers add are generated during production. To address these issues, Technology of 1,080m/min and installed it inside Hyundai Asan Tower (205m). Ultra-high-speed elevaburden to the building’s electric power equipment by exHyundai Elevator developed a new synchronous motor, a tors that are currently in the market, however, are unable to perform vertical transportation ceeding the power capability by 2 to 3 times above the concentrated magnetic flux spoke type, using commonly for more than 600m in a single elevator shaft due to structural and physical constraints. rated load on the input power source during acceleration. used ferrite magnets. Ferrite magnets are procured locally, To solve this problem, in 2014, Hyundai Elevator began developing a system with a stroke Hyundai Elevator’s hybrid acceleration and transmission guaranteeing stable rare element supply and prices. It is distance of 1,000m or longer, a loading capacity of 1,800kg (28 people) and a speed of system combine the capacitor and electronics technoloalso expected to reduce harmful substances including 63 1,200m/min. gies to transfer peak electricity that exceeds the rated powmillion liters of waste gas containing sulfurous acid gas, Key technologies of the 1,200m/min ultra-high-speed system include: △ super-strong lighter during acceleration at the energy storage device. In ad200,000 liters of acidic waste water, and 1.4 tons of raweight suspension device for high stroke movement, △ ultra-high speed large-capacity tracdition to cutting down on electricity loss of the building’s dioactive industrial waste water (based on 1 ton of refined tion system and drive-control system, △ technologies for monitoring of control system and system errors, △ safety devices for elevators, △ and sealed elevator cages and pressure electric power equipment, the system also flexibly controls the speed of the elevator for different load conditions to By 25 % rare element). Further research must be conducted to reduce the size and raise the price competitiveness of syn>> Increased operational control devices. We are also developing a vibration control system that will contribute to safe improve the operation efficiency of lowand high-speed efficiency of highchronous traction machines using ferrite magnets which and comfortable elevator operation. We expect the 1,200m/min ultra-high speed elevator speed elevators are bulky in size and expensive to process. elevators by 25% and 10%, respectively. system to vitalize the domestic elevator industry and help us grow into an elevator exporting powerhouse. AI-based Group Management System Save Eco Recycle Business Case The increase in the number of skyscrapers demands a technology that can efficiently transport a large number Improved transport efficiency >> of passengers to selected floors. To that end, Hyundai Elcompared to existing systems Utilization of Environmentally-friendly evator developed an upgraded AI-based group manageDouble-deck elevators through an AI-based group Materials control system ment system. When a passenger summons an elevator, at LG U+ this system supplies the best elevator through a simulation Hyundai Elevator does not use harmful substances such as 119.9 ferric chloride, volatile organic compounds and total hythat uses a Gametree algorithm. Adaptive Neuro Fuzzy 103.3 drocarbon in its materials and manufacturing processes. Inference System (ANFIS), a hybrid AI technology, studAs an environment-friendly company, we hope to continComparison between convention SPM-type (using The first double-deck elevator in Korea installed by Hyunies patterns in previous data and applies them to Gameue to manufacture eco-friendly materials and apply them rare element magnets) and spoke type (using ferdai Elevator is in full operation. A double-deck elevator is tree, allowing for calculation-based group management rite magnets) traction machines to our elevators to create sustainable value and a competidifferent from a single-deck elevator in that two elevathrough combining Gametree and ANFIS. The AI-based tive edge. tors are vertically connected inside one shaft to allow two group management system is at least 15% more effective consecutive floors to use the elevator simultaneously. It than existing systems and is expected to save energy. By is a highly efficient system with increased transportation securing original group management technologies based Application of Environment-friendly >> capability and shorter passenger wait time. Double-deck on a cutting-edge AI algorithm, we have enhanced our Anti-virus Handrail 65.1 elevators are also equipped with a floor distance adjust63.3 54.8 sales competitiveness accordingly. To replace handrails made with general paint containing ing device which allows operation between floors with 40.0 large amounts of heavy metal or plastic, we have develdifferent heights. Other applied technologies include a oped the New Yzer handrail with anti-virus ceramic coatspecial traction machine that can hoist two elevators at ing. This model takes up 60% of our handrail output and Conventional SPM type SPOKE Type once and technologies for controlling vibration, noise will be applied on future handrail models as well. Hyundai Magnets are affixed to the rotor Magnets are inserted along the and pressure during operation. The LG U+ new office Average Boarding Wait Elevator will grow into an environment-conscious corporasurface. Rare element (Nd) magshaft to increase the effective service time time time building, which was completed in February 2015, opertion through continued efforts to reduce the use of harmnets are used to boost output. area. Magnetic forces are arUnit: second ranged to face each other to ates both double and single-deck elevators. Up peak (morning rush hour) based ful substances. concentrate magnetic fluxes and on artificial intelligence maximize magnetic force. Up peak (morning rush hour) based on conventional logic 38 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 39 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX ISSUE 02 Customer Satisfaction Management that Places HRTS Remote Control Service Customer CONTEXT AND APPROACH Hyundai Elevator developed the Hyundai Real Time Service Satisfaction Recently, many companies are aiming at providing long-term customer-centered manTop-priority on Customer (HRTS) in response to the diversifying elevator usage that agement for greater customer satisfaction rather than setting short-term goals like cost reduction and sales expansion. Neglecting customers may harm the corporate Convenience and Safety resulted from an increase in elevator supply and technical complexity. The remote management service effectively image and weaken market competitiveness. Prioritizing customer satisfaction, on the repairs and manages elevator units by monitoring elevaother hand, will lead to sustainable growth based on trust. tors 24/7 and providing remote inspection and repair. The Product safety Safety test >> certification system reduces maintenance costs by decreasing the numHyundai Elevator inspects elevator parts by conducting a Emergency stop device ber of regular inspections and identifying an optimum ACTIVITIES safety test and obtaining certifications for each part. Our Draft gear replacement cycle of disposable parts. It also prevents Governor certified parts include emergency stop devices, governors, breakdown through remote management, minimizes inEnhancing customer Prioritizing Strengthening quality Ascending overspeed protecsatisfaction customer safety competitiveness elevator locking devices, ascending over-speed protection tion brake convenience through prompt repair service and prevents Platform door locking device unnecessary repair work and parts usage through analybrakes, draft gears (spring, hydraulic), a device for preventUCMP (unintended car moveing elevator movement when doors open, and platform sis of breakdown and operation data. We have increased ment protection) certification door assembly (450J). Each part is thoroughly tested to EMI certification the number of models that can be managed by the HRTS PERFORMANCE ensure customer safety. system through continued R&D efforts and plan on further expanding the service to include parking facilities and Received Gold Tower Order of Industrial 94.8 Service Merit at the National Productivity Product Safety Certification escalators. Award in 2015 % Hyundai Elevator prioritizes customer safety above all else. Inducted into Hall of Fame for Businesses with To ensure product safety, we have obtained certification 2015 Customer satisfaction Outstanding Quality Competitiveness in 2015 survey by KC-Mark and received the CE-Mark and UL/CSA by passing strict European and American standards. Elevator safety (KC) | System Configuration | >> certification Case Study Network (Ethernet) Network (3G network) – for wired type – for wireless type Convergence between elevators and the >> Internet of Things (IoT) Remote Remote Hyundai Elevator’s Hyundai Real Time Service (HRTS) sysdatabase server server tem is a 24/7 on-line real-time remote management service that monitors the operational condition of elevators installed in Korea to remotely conduct safety inspections Mobile HRTS and fix simple errors (excludes parts replacement). We also developed and launched the Mobile HRTS service that alCustomer care center server lows people to check the opFailure information erational status of elevators transmitted in real-time on their smartRemote control command phone for the first time in the world. Technician assigned to site Counselor Site technician 40 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 41 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Enhancement of Quality Quality Management System Hyundai Elevator has acquired ISO9001 (Quality ManageQuality Enhancement in All Procedures | Enhancement of Product Quality Management Competitiveness ment System), ISO14001 (Environmental Management Capability System) and OHSAS18001 (Health & Safety Management Hyundai Elevator enhances the quality of its products by Quality Management Policy System) certifications. We have also been selected as a introducing advanced quality management techniques Acquisition of quality management business with outstanding quality competitiveness for the that prevent defects across all production stages. During Hyundai Elevator provides outstanding products and sercertificates 12th consecutive year in 2015 and was the first elevator the initial stages, development and quality management vices in strict adherence to the company’s quality mancompany to be inducted into the Hall of Fame at the ‘2015 systems were reorganized and the APQP1) technique was agement standards. All employees are fully aware of and Businesses with Outstanding Quality Competitiveness’ introduced to prevent quality defects from the developcomply with the company’s quality management system event which was hosted by the Ministry of Trade, Industry ment stage. In 2015, the APQP1) technique was further based on ISO9001 standards. >> and Energy and overseen by the Korea Standards Assosystematized to enhance product quality. The FMEA2) ISO9001 ciation. In addition, we received the Gold Tower Order of technique was simultaneously introduced to improve Quality Management Structure quality management certification system Industrial Service Merit at the 2015 National Productivity quality across the production stages of development, proHyundai Elevator operates its quality management struccessing and manufacturing. | Enhancement of Reliability Tests for Products in Award sponsored by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and ture based on the quality management system. We have Development Energy and overseen by the Korea Productivity Center. 1) Advanced Product Quality Planning (APQP) recently reorganized the entire quality management sys2) Failure Mode Effects Analysis (FMEA) Hyundai Elevator is in the process of reorganizing the tem that proceeds in the order of Sales, Development/ reliability structure of development products in order to Design, Purchase, Production (Manufacturing/Installa2015 National Productivity | Enhancement of Production Quality Manageimprove the quality of its key safety parts. In 2016, we tion), Inspection/Testing, Shipping and Service. To prevent Competition Gold Industrial will begin to conduct large-scale investments, reorganize ment Capability Medal awarded defects and eliminate fundamental problems at the initial Hyundai Elevator is planning on reorganizing the qualthe structure of our reliability equipment and provide sysstage, we have also introduced the Advanced Product ity management system according to the 2015 revised tematic training to employees in order to nurture them Quality Planning (APQP) technique. ISO9001 specifications and implement it in 2016. We are into becoming reliability experts. All employees at Hyundai working on introducing D-FMEA1) to reinforce our qualElevator are dedicated to providing safe elevator products 2015 elected as a business ity prevention activities during the development stage and to our customers. that is outstanding in hope to realize customer satisfaction by minimizing qualquality competitiveness for ity issues in the production stages of development, pro12 consecutive years cessing and manufacturing. We are also planning on cre>> Case Study 2015 National Productivity Competition ating a control plan and training APQP professionals who | Quality management structure map | will conduct systematic quality inspections in the future. Inducted into the Hall of 1) Design-Failure Mode Effects Analysis (FMEA) First elevator company to Fame for Businesses with be inducted into the Hall DevelopINTERVIEW of Fame for Businesses Outstanding Quality Sales ment/ Purchase with Outstanding Quality Competitiveness Design Ever since COEX was completed and escalators were inCompetitiveness | Procedure for verifying development items | In 2015, Hyundai Elevator was once again recognized for stalled inside the complex in 1988, Hyundai Elevator personnel have resided in and conducted maintenance work its outstanding quality by being inducted into the Hall for the escalators. As escalators inside COEX are used by Verification of electric/ Verification of of Fame for Businesses with Outstanding Quality ComAll-IN ONE SYSTEM electronic parts mechanical parts petitiveness. Businesses with Outstanding Quality Coma significant number of people each day, it is important petitiveness are awarded to manufacturing businesses, to prevent accidents well in advance. Hyundai Elevator public enterprises and construction businesses by the conducts pre-inspections to identify possible problems Lab test Korea Standards Association after careful evaluation by and takes action preemptively. The company’s superb professionals in academia and industry. Select companies inspections have indeed prevented accidents in the past, among those commended for ten years or longer are inthe most famous case being identification and repair ducted into the Hall of Fame after going through a strict Pilot test of a damaged handrail. Hyundai Elevator is superior to review process. Since the award was established in 1997, other companies in its product and service quality. The only 17 of the 1,019 outstanding businesses were inductDomestic Inspection/ company’s diverse communication channels allow prompt ed into the Hall of Fame, and Hyundai Elevator is the first production Shipping Service Testing response to problems and offer specialized information. Final quality audit and only elevator company among them. As the leading (manufacturing/ installation) elevator company in Korea, we will continue to pioneer the global market through continued efforts to enhance Taeseop Lee Manager ㅣ COEX Mass production product quality. 42 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 43 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX ISSUE 03 Talent Development People Development Human CONTEXT AND APPROACH Resources Hyundai Elevator’s management goal is to lead the global market by breaking into Structure the ‘Global Top 7’ list through ‘establishing an effective task operation structure’ and ‘strengthening product competitiveness.’ We are striving to accomplish our goals by People development Policy learning from the creative and innovative examples of global talents, advancing our Hyundai Elevator regards ‘People Development’ as a core employees’ work capability and promoting organizational vitalization. value required for securing an advantageous position in the competitive market and accomplishing the company’s management goals. We train talents that can lead the ACTIVITIES company in the era of globalization in line with the comPeople development Strengthening global pany’s management strategies and implement people deWork-life balance structure capability velopment policies that focus on functional competency skill up. To train our employees as change management professionals who can flexibly respond to the rapidlyPERFORMANCE changing business environment, we also provide training Training of | Regional expert training program on organizational change, innovation and crisis manageglobal talents | Site expert training program Completed the ‘Training ment. 75.9 Center,’ Korea’s First Technical Training Center hours for Elevator Installation and | Analysis of specialized Repair Professionals Advancement of Training hours per Direction for Enhancing Employee technical tasks employee (year) 5 stories above ground, 975.5m2 specialized tasks | Specialized task training Competence program Hyundai Elevator selects and trains core talents to ensure continued growth in the global market. Our training pro| Promotion of communication Vitalization grams are developed and operated for the purpose of of overall capacity | Strengthening of cooperative strengthening the three core capabilities of ‘global Top 7 elevator organization synergy people development,’ ‘advancement of specialcompanies in the ized tasks,’ and ‘vitalization of the overall orglobal market ganization.’ Create business performance People development Map through training core talents From a performance-oriented Activate enterprise-wide Practice CSR through corporate culture through communication and strengthen government projects and train upgrading global HRD corporate synergy through industry personnel capability collaboration Enhance competence Enhance specialized Enhance basic aptitudes Consortium for Work-Study of global key leaders job skills common throughout the developing national System entire enterprise human resources Problem-solving leadership | Emotional leadership | Facilitator leadership | Educate installing partners | Educate repair partners | Explore leadership strategies | Female leadership | Business Chinese | Educate manufacturing partners | Business English | Experts of global regions | Experts of global sites On-the-job training | Mentoring system | Acquire national technique qualifications 44 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 45 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX People Development Program Corporate Vitalization Training Program Hyundai Elevator implements the Corporate VitalizaFunctional skill up Employment Assistance for Partners Hyundai Elevator operates a ‘prospective employees protion Training Program to improve training efficiency and training for partners gram’ in order to refer prospective employees to partGlobal People Development Program employee satisfaction as well as to obtain a Great Work ners in order to provide customized recruits. Prospective Hyundai Elevator is strengthening the global competence Place (GWP) status. In 2015, we implemented the ‘One Functional skill up Training Program employees are hired by partners through matching after of its employees with the goal of creating future corpoMind Training’ program to enhance cooperation between Hyundai Elevator operates a technical training program to completing 4 weeks (160 hours) of elevator training. In rate values. Due to the expanding overseas elevator maremployees and departments and create a culture of comstrengthen our partners’ competitiveness in order to ac2015, more than 40 people were hired by our small and ket, an increasing number of employees are dispatched to munication. Recently, awareness on the importance of complish co-existence and mutual growth amongst small, medium-sized partners. foreign countries. To develop global leaders, we provide customer service and employee self-management is rising medium and large businesses. Trainers focus on product “A Grade task-oriented training including language training and in relation to corporate vitalization. Accordingly, we are quality, enhancement of elevator installation and repair regional and industrial site expert training. We also train focusing on maximizing work concentration and worker skills to strengthen the market competitiveness of our workforces in newly established overseas corporations to satisfaction by providing training on CS leadership, emproducts. Along with the implementation of the ‘National enhance their work capability and provide global competence training to various workforces to raise them into be75.9 ployee mental health care and stress management. HR Development Consortium’ training project, a Ministry Business performance in 2015 National Human hours of Employment and Labor project, we are operating an coming future global leaders. Resources Development elevator technology training program based on the NaConsortium (hosted by the Training hours per tional Competency Standard (NCS). The technical training Ministry of Employment Job Competency Training Program employee program is conducted each year for partners. In 2015, and Labor) Hyundai Elevator operates its job competency training Hyundai Elevator operates 3,500 employees completed the program, and 4,000 are program in response to increasing work complexity and a specialized training program in order to develop expected to receive training in 2016. the need for more specialized workers. We analyze tasks the job competency of our to deduce a people development capability model and deemployees. Training program for prospective employees at partners velop and operate a training program for the purpose of enhancing job competency. Our task training structure is regularly updated to meet global market standards. We train our employees on shared capabilities such as tax and Case Study accounting as well as CAD, 3D Inventor, sales and installation technologies. Completed the ‘Training Center,’ Korea’s First Technical On-Boarding Training Program 75.9 Training Center for Elevator Installation and Repair Technical education for Partners Hyundai Elevator provides on-boarding training for new Bonding through Professionals employees in order to maximize work competence and ‘One Mind Training’ promote soft-landing to the company. We hope to estabHyundai Elevator established the first technical elevator training center in Korea with 5 ‘New 30 Years with Renewed Hearts.’ ‘One Mind Received ‘A Grade’ in the 2015 Nationlish a sense of belonging and promote the understanding ground level floors and an area of 975.5m2 as part of the Ministry of Employment and of corporate culture to attain harmony among old and Training’ was conducted to promote a communicaal HR Development Consortium 37.9 tion-oriented corporate culture at Bloom Vista, HyunLabor’s National HR Development Consortium. Customized training programs are offered new employees and realize each employee’s potential to Hyundai Elevator received ‘A Grade’ in business perfordai Group’s training center that opened in 2015. The at all levels in lecture halls, repair rooms and installation practice rooms that are built to the fullest. mance from the 2015 National HR Development Consorprogram was carried out company-wide as a form of resemble actual sites. The center will foster 4,000 elevator professional each year. We are tium hosted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor and vitalization training centering on the three themes of in the process of developing and operating diverse training programs on elevator instalconducted by the Korean Skills Quality Authority. Hyundai ‘Communication and Network,’ ‘Promoting Commulation, maintenance and production quality for partners as well as potential employees. Elevator provides unsparing support to enhance the technity Spirit’ and ‘Vision Sharing.’ Employees actively We promote the mutual growth of small, medium and large businesses through building nological prowess of all participating companies and proparticipated in the training which was conducted for a connected employment system with mote the competence of all human resources. the first time in eight years since 2006. 1,565 em300 small and medium-sized businesses ployees completed the training excluding executives, and providing newly hired professionals. dispatched workers and those on business trips. 800 Hyundai Elevator fulfills its responsibiliof the participants, which amounts to about half of ties as a corporate citizen through trainall participants, joined the company after the previing a professional workforce to encourous training in 2006, making the training all the more age SME HR development and creating 1,081,000 significant. new jobs through employment assis2014 2015 tance for partners. KRW Task training hours per person Unit: hour Dedication ceremony of the technical education center Training cost per person (2015) Professional Workforce Training Program for Partners 46 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 47 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX ISSUE 04 Safe Work Environment Health and Safety Health & CONTEXT AND APPROACH Safety Risk elements always exist at elevator sites and business units. Accidents can negatively Management Structure impact business activities, even causing financial damages such as penalties, fines and delay in the manufacturing process as well as non-financial damages such as brand Enhancement of Health and Safety value depreciation. Hyundai Elevator strives to develop a safe work environment, by Management Structure strengthening health and safety-centered management systems and promoting siteHyundai Elevator implements systematic health and safety oriented safety activities. management based on OHSAS certification. Our Icheon factory has maintained its OHSAS ‘18001 certification’ ACTIVITIES since 2011, and our business units, and branch offices are expanding upon OHSAS internal inspection. We have also Strengthening health and Steady management of health and safety at Site-centered health and developed a online health and safety management system >> OHSAS safety systems factories safety programs for inspection and education in order to implement health and safety management in a more systematic manner. 18001 Occupational Accident Management PERFORMANCE for each Division 0.05 28 The business divisions of Hyundai Elevator promote division-centered safety management activities to establish a % hours (per person) practical system for health and safety management. DeOccupational accident rate Safety education hours partment heads and team leaders of each business divisions conduct safety inspections of sites once a week while the division head does so once a month. Each division manages its occupational accident rate. Health and safety certification Reorganizing and Enhancing Health and Safety Regulations Hyundai Elevator has strengthened its regulations on health and safety management because relevant statutes INTERVIEW were strengthened due to the rising social concern over worker health and safety. We assess risks that occur durAs Hyundai Elevator’s installation partner, we are in charge ing manufacturing and installation in advance and make 2015 occupational of all elevator and escalator installation work from postimprovements in the system. Regarding remodeling work, accident rate contract up to shipping. Installation work always poses which is expanding on a regular basis, we operate a task a risk of accident as the worker goes inside the elevator force team composed of safety representatives, installation departments and partners and revised our safety 0.05 % to assemble parts. This is why Hyundai Elevator provides safety education to partners and new recruits twice a year manual to expand the practice of safety programs. 2015 0.05 for four hours each. They also provide regular safety edu2014 0.00 cation to the operation manager. Thanks to such training, no occupational accidents occurred at our company for 2013 0.07 the past five years. Ki Rang Lee CEOㅣDAERYOON ELES CO.,LTD. 48 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 49 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Steady Management Strengthening of Emergency Drills to ‘Keep the Golden Time’ Site-centered Health Programs for Employee Health improvement of Health and Safety Accidents unattended to in their initial stages can lead to and Safety Activities Hyundai Elevator implements health enhancement proat Factories more devastating consequences. Hyundai Elevator puts grams to create a healthy work environment. Employees emphasis on ‘Golden Time’ emergency training in order with abnormal findings are prioritized; they receive intento respond quickly to accidents. In the event of fire and Performing Safety Education by Rank sive health management training and counseling. Implementing Programs for Risk cardiac arrest, failure to respond within five minutes could and Division Employees perform stretches before starting work in order Assessment and Reduction lead to a larger fire or brain death. We set 5 minutes as Hyundai Elevator regularly trains employees to prevent octo prevent musculoskeletal diseases attributable to changHyundai Elevator implements risk assessment in order to the golden time and conduct regular training to enhance cupational accidents and promote safety awareness. We es in work environment and use belt massage machines eliminate risk factors at work sites and strives to reduce initial response ability. In 2016, we will train employees at train our employees on site safety for the ranks of Departto help blood circulation. In addition, a total of five AEDs risk factors that are identified through the assessment. Risk assessment refers to identifying and improving harmful risk factors such as unstable behavior or condition. The the technical R&D building on evacuation procedures and carry out CPR training for all employees. ment Head, Team Leader, Part Manager and Foreman. Collective education is offered for each work position along with a safety awareness training program. Our spe>> A Grade Received A Grade in co(automated external defibrillators) are installed – 3 at the Icheon factory, 1 at the R&D building, and 1 at Cheonan – as cardiac arrests are more likely to occur among aging cial training for site supervisors include programs on instalexistence program for four employees. We also conducted CPR training including AED system categorizes work processes into units in order to consecutive years from the find out the fundamental source of accidents and analysis lation, service, manufacturing and improvement of safety Ministry of Employment and training. and improve risk level so that workers can perform their awareness. We train our employees to better respond Labor duties in a safe environment. In 2015, we conducted a to accidents through conducting department and team risk assessment in cooperation with the Korea Industrial training based on possible accident scenarios at work sites Safety Association for all work processes and deduced 431 including safety experience training and competency en>> risk factors and corrected 115 factors of them which pose hancing cluster training. · Roles and responsibilities of managers Department the highest risk. After completing each risk reduction activ28 Head · Enhancement of health and safety awareness hours ity, a reassessment was conducted, and all activities were Operating the Coexistence Program reflected in the following year’s plan to improve shortcomSafety education hours Considering Safety Part Manager/ · Understanding of safety manual per person Foreman · Practical application of risk assessment ings. We also hold regular meetings to discuss the proHyundai Elevator operates the co-existence program to gress and results of risk assessments to share potential risk identify potential risk factors and construct a pleasant · Enhancement of safety management skills at sites >> Team Leader factors on sites and train risk assessment supervisors. The work environment. The program involves firefighting, · Guidelines to address accidents training was conducted for employees who were unable safety, training and conferences and invests heavily in imto complete the 2014 training and 2015 training of new proving workplace safety infrastructure such as fire facilisupervisors. ties. We develop site-centered programs through business presentations and council meetings and reflect our partEnhanced Control over Dangerous ners’ demands by conducting a circulatory inspection of Case Study Machines and Forklifts partners. As a result of our efforts, we have received ‘A Golden time drill Grade’ in our co-existence program for four consecutive Safety accidents occur frequently at manufacturing sites ‘Don’t Hurry, Be Safe’ for Slower but Safer Sites due to negligent management and careless driving of danyears since 2012 from the Ministry of Employment and gerous equipment and forklifts. To prevent such accidents, Labor. We plan on enhancing workplace safety and imHyundai Elevator conducts regular safety training for forkproving the work environment through providing support lift and dangerous equipment operators. We also desigto activities such as the musculoskeletal disorder prevennated a staff member to inspect our dangerous equipment tion program. | Safety education hours | and forklifts using a safety checklist each month and our certified internal inspectors carry out precise inspections at least twice a year. In 2016, our internal inspector will carry 50,452 Hyundai Elevator instills a safety culture that allows employees and partners to work hours out a lot test on dangerous equipment and provide special in a safe environment. Most accidents occur due to a lack of safety consciousness safety training to all forklift drivers. 43,034 such as failure to comply with rules or not wearing protective gear. The ‘Don’t hurry, Be Safe’ campaign enhances employees’ safety awareness by implementing slogans 36,344 that emphasize the importance of safety on protective gear and facilities and providing training to remind employees of safety rules and response plans. We preemptively 2015 control safety accidents that occur due to poor communication during processes by 2014 promoting communication concerning health and safety with employees of partners. 2013 50 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 51 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX ISSUE 05 Mutual Growth with Partners Strategies and Activities for Supply CONTEXT AND APPROACH Hyundai Elevator strives to enhance the overall competitiveness of the entire industry Operational Structure Enhancing the Chain including its partners participating in manufacturing, installation and maintenance. Sustainable growth based on co-existence will help us grow into a global corporation for the Promotion of Competitiveness of alongside our partners. Mutual Growth Partners ACTIVITIES Strategies for the Promotion of Mutual Hyundai Elevator operates diverse programs including financial aid, technical support and protection, support in Financial, technical, Growth Enhancing the competitive Communication with employment and hiring, education, training, and welfare and benefits to edge of partners partners education-related support Hyundai Elevator seeks mutual growth with its partners help its partners become self-sufficient. We provide subthrough implementing three major strategies while destantial assistance to our partners by lessening their finanploying infrastructure and developing programs that procial burden through direct or indirect financial support as PERFORMANCE vide direct aid to our partners. well as early payments. To help enhance their competitiveness, we provide technical support, training and human ‘Outstanding’ in Contest for Benefit Sharing 3 major strategies resources to small and medium-sized businesses. All in all, among Multiple Parties Mutual Growth Index we propagate the culture of mutual growth by supporting ‘Grand prize’ in the private Enhancing · Financial aid Mutual Growth Index sector partner · Technology support and secondary partners who do not directly do business with competitiveness protection Hyundai Elevator. · Providing growth opportunity · Supporting training and hiring people | Co-existence Team | Strengthening · Communication with partners partnerships · Mutual exchange · Enhanced PR activities Working-level council Mutual growth Propagation of a · Continued signing of fair trade for mutual growth review committee mutual growth agreements Working-level Review of key agendas culture · Increased assistance to consultation related to related to mutual growth secondary partners and mutual growth provision of business opportunities · Expand support for nonpartners Co-existence Team Operational Structure for Mutual Growth Hyundai Elevator is strengthening communication with its partners by establishing a governance structure for pracContractor Meetings with ticing systematic mutual growth. We review and vote on council partners key agendas related to mutual growth through a mutual Two-way communication Enhancing communication growth review committee. The voices of our partners are channels, exchange of with partners feedback among partners Listening to and improving reflected in our overall management through discussion difficulties meetings with partners and contractor council meetings. 52 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 53 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Programs for Listening to and ImprovBenefit Sharing Key areas Mutual growth programs Details Key achievements ing Difficulties of Partners Hyundai Elevator achieves cost reduction, process improvement, quality enhancement and parts and new products Financial aid Direct financial aid Interest-free loans are provided to partners as an emergency operational KRW 1.91 billion provided in support Hyundai Elevator’s CEO and procurement executives visit fund, R&D fund, and equipment purchase fund. to 185 companies from 2013 to 2015 partners to listen to their difficulties and recommendadevelopment through innovative activities in cooperation with partners and shares its profits through pre-agreed Mixed financial aid Deposits money to form funds at banks to help partners take out loans KRW 12.62 billion provided in support tions and take corrective actions. In 2014, we started visit(Co-existence loan) at a lower rate than the standard rate. to 41 companies from 2013 to 2015 means including cash compensation, long-term contracts, ing secondary partners as well. We strive to enhance our unit cost adjustment and joint patent applications. 19 proSpecial financial aid Funds invested in business cooperation foundations to help human KRW 470 million provided to 120 operational efficiency through substantial improvement. jects were signed between 2014 and 2015 and 7 of them (investment funds for resources development and enhancement of productivity for partners companies from 2013 to 2015 In addition, we have been surveying our partners’ satismutual growth) are completed. Proceeds from completed projects were faction regarding mutual growth each year since 2015 in distributed to partners via cash compensation and longIndirect support Credit line provided by banks to partners recommended by Hyundai order to reflect their feedback in our mutual growth politerm contracts. Since 2015, we have included secondary Elevator based on their sales cies or programs. partners in our benefit sharing system. Technical Joint R&D Joint development of new products and localization and purchase of KRW 640 million provided in support prototypes (samples) to 132 companies from 2013 to 2015 support/ protection Free technology transfer Technologies and know-how transferred to partners at no cost 3 technologies and know-how transferred in 2015 Benefit sharing system Sharing of achievements from cooperative activities between Hyundai 19 tasks registered and 7 tasks comElevator and partners based on pre-discussed methods pleted from 2014 to 2015 Before improvement After improvement Technical/quality Assignment of engineers, verification and calibration of measuring 4,300 cases supported from 2013 to guidance instruments, support for tests by certified agencies, deployment of 2015 Communication with Partners quality assurance systems, co-existence program, etc. Hyundai Elevator listens to the voice of its partners through Ceremony for the autonomous promotion of the multilateral Joint patents and Protection of partners’ technologies through support to joint filing 5 cases supported from 2014 to 2015 communication channels such as discussion meetings benefit-sharing system certifications of patents with partners and contractor council meetings as well as Technology The core information of small businesses is protected by retaining it 2 cases supported in 2015 visitations to primary and secondary partners by the CEO Hyundai Elevator Mutual Growth retention system at the business cooperation foundation. If technology is leaked, its and procurement executives. In 2015, we held 23 discusConvention ownership is evidenced by the retained information. sion meetings, 23 contractor council meetings and 229 Hyundai Elevator hosted the ‘2016 Mutual Growth ConHiring & Job fair Hire employees by participating in job fairs sponsored by the Federa4 persons hired in 2014 and 11 visitations to partners. We also operate a fair trade reportvention’ which involved 270 partner representatives of tion of Korean Industries (FKI) and the Korea Commission for Corpopersons hired in 2015 by participating Training partners ing system (Please see the Hyundai Elevator CP website) to manufacturing, installation, service and distribution farate Partnership. support prevent unfair trade practices. cility businesses and 30 Hyundai Elevator employees. At Training and hiring for Help partners to hire trained prospective employees 66 persons trained and 37 hired in the event, appreciation plaques were handed out to four Management prospective employees 2015 model partners and a Fair Trade Agreement was signed support of partners among Hyundai Elevator and its primary and secondary Welfare & Job training Training on job skills, quality and safety on behalf of partners 15,618 people trained from 2013 to partners. Other programs included a special lecture on Benefits 2015 mutual growth, presentation of best practice cases, persupport Case Study formances and a luncheon. The convention contributes to building a long-term partnership based on communicaManagement consulting system Co-existence consulting program designed to eliminate business obstacles of partners and improve their business conditions through 12 companies participated from 2013 to 2015 a triangular cooperation system among small and large businesses tion and trust between Hyundai Elevator and its partners. and the management advisory group of FKI “Outstanding” in the 2015 Mutual Growth Index We hope to share the company’s vision and plans at future mutual growth conventions. Support for welfare Provision of funeral supplies for partner employees, support for anand benefits niversary day events, recuperation, work uniforms and safety gear Hyundai Elevator received ‘Outstanding’ in the 2015 Mutual Growth Index announced by the Mutual Growth Committee in June 2016. The mutual growth index is divided into the four categories of Excellent, Outstanding, Fair and Average. We received Fair in INTERVIEW the first year and was promoted one grade up in 2015. We signed a Fair Trade Agreement with partners in 2013 under the theme of ‘Companions Working and Advancing Our company has been supplying electronic parts to Hyundai Elevator since 1991. We are benefitting greatly from Hyundai Elevator’s campaigns to promote mutual Together’ and are operating diverse programs on fair trade compliance, financial supgrowth with its partners. The multilateral benefit-sharing system is instilling a sense of ownership in our employees as partners of Hyundai Elevator. We have received port, improving payment conditions, protecting technical support, and training and consulting and training on technology, assets and productivity through the Management Consulting System and were able to hire recent college graduates through hiring support. We will strive to promote mutual growth with our partners through the Partner Joint Job Expo. Feedback collected at various partner meetings in the manufacturing, installation and distribution divisions are reported to Hyundai Elevator, and the processing results of such feedback are shared with all partners. We are more than confident that Hyundai Elevator will continue to act as a corporate expanding our activities to include our secondary partners in order to develop a sound citizen that contributes to the advancement of society on a long-term basis. ecosystem of mutual growth. Young Chong Yim CEO | WOOJIN ELECTRIC CO.,LTD. Hyundai Elevator Mutual Growth Convention 54 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 55 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX ISSUE 06 Work-related Social Contributions Social Contribution Hours per person of Goal Social CONTEXT AND APPROACH participation in service Through its social contribution activities, Hyundai Elevator Contribution Corporate social contribution programs advance the direction of development with loStructure activities Unit: hours/person seeks to practice its responsibility as a corporate citizen in cal communities based on the core capabilities of the businesses. Furthermore, society connection with the new corporate culture of 4Ts, creates expects businesses to perform their duty as responsible corporate citizens in addition Objectives and Key Activities of Social synergy by implementing and institutionalizing enterpriseto seeking profit. Hyundai Elevator actively plans and implements social contribution Contribution wide social contribution programs in order to provide a programs to benefit society as a whole. 12.8 foundation for sustainability management and enhance Hyundai Elevator seeks to establish a foundation for susthe company’s image as a social business. tainability management by conducting social contribution 11.9 11.3 activities under the mission of “Performing social contribuACTIVITIES tion as a responsible market leader.” We have systemaCampaign for the correct use of elevators Supporting children’s welfare facilities tized our social contribution activities by establishing a step-by-step operation system. Based on this system, we Sharing happiness! Voluntary house repair are improving the system for social contribution, conductMatching grant fund activities service group ing strategic social contribution related to business units and planning new social contribution programs. 2013 2014 2015 PERFORMANCE KRW 107.9 Investment in social million 12.8 hours (per person) Social contribution service Social Contribution Structure contribution activities hours System Fund Key operation management activities Target hours per person Change-based mutual aid fund Corporate social responsibility (CSR) Annual target of 12 hours per person Saving and donation of small sums beEnhancement of the corporate image for / Reflected in individual performance low KRW 1,000 from employee payroll strategic CSR activities (Campaign for the evaluation (0.5 points added) proper use of elevators) Matching grant fund CSR reward system The company sets aside an amount Support for local communities Year-end citation of departments, identical to the deduction of small sums Support for children’s welfare facilities (Nuri individuals and clubs with outstanding each month to generate funds (operatHome), one company-one village support, social contribution service / Hosting of ing a scholarship fund) help for farmers, year-end donations for the volunteer service festivals disadvantaged, etc. Corporate card points Election of Departmental CSR Accumulating points based on purchasClubs and talent donation leaders es made with the corporate credit card Sharing happiness! Volunteer house repair Promotion of social contribution (included in the matching grant fund) service group, talent donation by the phoprograms / Application of benefits to tography club departmental CSR leaders (counts as two Donation by clubs and departments hours of service points) Funds raised through the donation of Launch of social service group prize money and similar funds Registration and operation of clubs or communities (73 members, Leader: Jung-Han Lee, Executive Director) 56 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 57 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Support for Child Welfare Facilities Social Contribution Hyundai Elevator provides educational programs to chilStrategic Social Talent Donation Activities for Local dren’s welfare facilities. We promote talent development Contribution Activities Communities in local communities and foster friendships between children of the welfare institution and our employees through sports activities. In addition, we provide financial support Hyundai Elevator plans and offers practical social contriEmployee Community Service Group Social Contribution Activities in by purchasing fruit grown by the institution while providbution programs in consideration of the company’s charHyundai Elevator repairs houses of underprivileged, lowCooperation with NGOs ing school uniforms and bags to those who move on to acteristics. These strategic programs create synergy and income groups and seniors living alone. We have been Hyundai Elevator offers a lecture on sharing culture as higher grades. Fruit is donated to underprivileged groups promotional effects as well. awarded a plaque by the Gyeonggi provincial government part of its social contribution activities in cooperation with in the local community, creating a virtuous cycle of supin recognition of our contributions to activation of volunNGOs. The ‘Fun Donation’ lecture allows participants to port activities. Promotion of the Elevator Safety teer service. Our photography club members are planning indirectly experience sharing culture through practical incampaign on taking photos of elders and multicultural families as formation on sharing and donations. In addition, we seek Hyundai Elevator conducts promotional activities for its part of its talent donation. to increase awareness of non-cash social contributions safety campaign together with the Korea Elevator Safety Agency and the Ministry of Land, Construction and Transwhile instilling a culture of donation in daily life including talent and clothing donation. 4,358 persons port. We promote campaign activities with related personCumulative participants Personnel participating in social contribution nel in Seoul and other regions. in social contribution programs activities in 2015 Unit: person 4,358 Autumn field day at Nuri Home 3,836 3,196 22,421 House repair activities Donation and support activities hour Hyundai Elevator provides scholarships to students from PR Activities to Encourage Employee Sharing bazaar with BeautifulStore Social contribution underprivileged families through the matching grant Participation service hours in 2015 Promotion of the elevator safety campaign scholarship and also hands out charcoal briquettes, rice Hyundai Elevator provides diverse information to encourOne Company, One Village Sisterhood and other necessities through the change-based mutual age employee participation in systematic volunteer service Elevator Safety Education for Children Program aid fund. We also contribute money for the treatment of programs, including information concerning the guideHyundai Elevator created the “One Company, One Village children with cancer and donate blood through the Korea This program is for educating children aged 6 to 10 on lines of service programs, related agencies and recomSisterhood Program” to support underprivileged groups, Childhood Leukemia Foundation. how to use elevators safely in particular situations. We mended programs by theme. We share the achievements hope to reduce elevator safety accidents involving children including seniors living on their own and low-income of social contribution activities by publishing social contriand help them grow into responsible adults. households, and increase farm-based income and interacbution guidebooks and the bimonthly ‘Sharing’ newsletter tion between urban and rural residents through the dito induce further employee participation in social contrirect supply of agricultural produce. We practice sharing Education on Lifesaving in Elevators bution activities. management by donating directly purchased produce to This is a program to educate people on lifesaving tech2013 2014 2015 regional welfare facilities. niques and prepare for accidents that occur inside elevators. It is expected that this program will enhance safety consciousness and reduce human damage as well as social costs. To ensure optimal results, the program will be implemented after consultation with related departments and target entities. Donation agreement between Hyundai Elevator and Purme Foundation Social contribution newsletter ‘Sharing’ One Company, One Village Rural Help Program 58 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 59 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX ISSUE 07 Environmental Impact Water Resources | Aggressive Efforts to Recycle/Reuse Water Environment CONTEXT AND APPROACH We saved 5,000 tons of water and reusing condensed The government is gradually strengthening environmental regulations on the control Management steam water in heating. We also reduced 280 tons of waste water by reusing water from production facilities. and emission of greenhouse gases and other pollutants and public and media interest in the environment is rising accordingly. Hyundai Elevator complies with the governZero Discharge Disposal System | Efforts for Reducing Water Usage ment control policy for emitting greenhouse gas while minimizing pollutants by operHyundai Elevator strictly controls the small amount of waste Hyundai Elevator has reduced the water consumption for ating a zero discharge disposal system. water generated during the manufacturing process. Icheon its pre-processing facility by converting powder chemicals Head Office Factory, in particular, is located within the Water into liquids and enhancing solubility. ACTIVITIES Quality Preservation Special Measure Areas, making it more important to protect the Namhan River water system and Unit: 1,000 tons Total water consumption Zero discharge disposal system Reducing waste co-exist peacefully with the local community. We operated a zero discharge disposal system and upgraded the old zero 2015 36 2015 Improving energy efficiency and discharge disposal system which evaporated the waste withAir pollution monitoring system 2014 41 saving energy >> out going through a preprocessing stage by adding a physicochemical processing system. Through such efforts, we were 2013 35 able to reduce the amount of pollutants that were emitted. PERFORMANCE Saved 5,000 tons We will continue to reduce environmental impact through of water Amount of water recycled/reused 215,040 553 reducing the load and improving evaporation efficiency at air Reduced 280 tons pollution control facilities. of waste water 2015 3 2015 KW KRW million 2014 3 Energy saving Environmental investment cost | Zero discharge Disposal System | ① Oil water separator ② Condenser/Precipitator/Dehydrator Influx of waste water Emissions into atmosphere Sludge discharged Pre-heating tank Recovery of steam WET SCRUBBER Steam injected ④ Zero discharge emissions into atmosphere ③ Evaporation/Condensation 60 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 61 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Waste Management Efforts to Manage Harmful Waste Hyundai Elevator strives to minimize the use of harmful Improvement of Campaign Staged to Propagate Energy Saving Awareness Promotion of Resource Recycling material. All harmful materials are stored, discharged and Energy Efficiency Hyundai Elevator complies with the government’s energyHyundai Elevator reuses scrap steel, chips, stainless steel controlled thoroughly pursuant to the relevant statutes. We conduct inspections and activities to prevent leakage during Production saving policy by providing all employees with cooling and heating appliance guidelines during peak power demand (SUS) and other waste materials generated in its producand regularly perform environmental safety patrols of the periods. tion processes by reclassifying them into resources usable factory. We also provide annual training to operators and Hyundai Elevator performs a wide range of activities to by other industries. We reused a total of 745 tons of waste dischargers. enhance energy efficiency while minimizing waste during materials through optimized recycling processes in 2015, production. including 425 tons of scrap steel, 315 tons of chips, and | Enhancement of Operational Efficiency 5 tons of stainless steel. We also reduce air pollution from Hyundai Elevator strives to minimize energy consumption incineration and consumption of resources by reusing 30 tons of plastic resin discharge after thorough separation. Volume of reused by maintaining an optimized operation through steady inCase Study >> spection and maintenance of production and support faAir Pollutant by-products cilities. In 2015, we saved 215,040kw of energy by replacUnit: kg Efforts to reduce 745 ing a superannuated compressor with a high-efficiency ton Management inverter compressor. 215,040 kw greenhouse gas We also enhanced energy efficiency by replacing super6,130 11,040 >> emissions by partners Reuse of waste (2015) Deployment of an Air Pollution Moniannuated production equipment such as washers and Energy saving 476,690 5,470 toring System heat exchangers with high-efficiency equipment and perHyundai Elevator participates in the ‘STOP CO2 Men373,760 forming maintenance work on utility equipment such as 315,310 Hyundai Elevator operates a system that inspects the gentoring Project,’ an agreement to reduce greenhouse valves and plumbing systems. We were able to enhance Enhancement of Efforts to Reduce Disposable Product eral condition and emission status of air pollutants at air operational efficiency gas emissions, in order to support the government’s operational efficiency at our factories by deriving the opWaste pollutant emission and prevention facilities. The air pollutgreenhouse gas control policy and lower the greentimized equipment layout through factory rationalization. ant emission facility is strictly managed through the daily house emission volume across all business units. The Hyundai Elevator makes a concerted effort to reduce Furthermore, we also reduced the energy used to ventilate inspection checklist which is recorded by each manageSTOP CO2 mentoring project is a mutual benefit busiwaste generation at business sites. We reduced 40 tons Factory No. 3 by introducing powerless natural ventilation ment level including the operator, the environmental safeness for both small and medium-sized businesses of vinyl waste per year by replacing vinyl material fasteners systems that emit air using the difference between indoor ty patrol and the supervisor. We also consistently monitor and large businesses. Large corporations provide with mini-ratchet belts used for transporting materials inand outdoor temperature. We are in the process of apply684,040 the pollutant emission concentration in compliance with greenhouse gas reduction technologies to small and side the factory. We also blocked the unnecessary waste of 520,570 ing this natural ventilation system to all of our factories. 425,690 relevant laws and regulations. Indoor air quality is monimedium-sized businesses that are faced with the tasks resources and generation of waste by replacing wooden tored for each business unit to check leakage and secure of facility improvement and new investments and purpallets with reusable pallets for parts or components sup| Reuse of Waste Energy a pleasant work environment. We plan on constructing chase the right to emit additional amounts of greenHyundai Elevator deployed a system for reusing conplied to us by our partners. a comprehensive environmental control system across the >> 49,370 Nm 3 house gas from small and medium-sized businesses. densed water by feeding hot condensed steam water into whole company to systematically control all environmental Gas saving The project is expected to bring about greenhouse gas Replaced by boilers that heat our business units. Through the system, mini-ratchet factors including air pollutant emission status, self-inspecreduction for Hyundai Elevator’s partners as well. we saved 3,500 tons of water and 49,370Nm3 of gas fuel belts tion, operational log and chemical substances usage. used in our boilers each year. Reusing waste energy Established a Greenhouse Gas Inventory For the purpose of reducing energy consumption and 2013 2014 2015 greenhouse gas emissions, Hyundai Elevator established Scrap steel a greenhouse gas inventory system that manages energy Chips consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. The invenRecovery of Coating Material Stainless steel scrap tory calculates the amount of energy used in all processes Hyundai Elevator recovers more than five tons of powand the amount of greenhouse gas emitted as a result. der paint that have been sprayed with powder coating Through the Greenhouse Gas Inventory, Hyundai Elevathrough a cyclone recovery system each year. By reusing tor is able to secure objective and reliable data concernSTOP CO2 mentoring agreement recovered paint, we can reduce paint consumption and Patrol activity for environmental safety ing greenhouse gas emissions and actively respond to the minimize environmental pollution. greenhouse gas energy goal management system. 62 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 63 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX MANAGEMENT REPORT Sustainability Report 66 Economic Performance 69 Social Performance 79 Environmental Performance 64 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 65 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Economic Creation of Economic Hyundai Elevator recorded KRW 1.662 trillion in sales in 2013, KRW 1.3056 trillion in 2014, and KRW 1.4487 trillion in 2015 despite the harsh economic climate. With ‘Enhancement of business capability at domestic revenue bases and the global market’ as our main management philosophy, we are securing future growth Performance engines through targeting the high value-added ultra-high speed elevator market and expanding overseas Value markets. Sales figures Unit: KRW Million Creation of Economic Performance Classification 2013 2014 2015 Creation of Economic Values General-purpose machinery manufacturer 1) 908,033 1,100,864 1,198,220 Distribution of Economic Performance Service 2) 158,020 203,964 249,675 Real estate rental 160 753 759 Creation of Market Trend The elevator industry is developing new products with upgraded performance and efficiency such Total3) 1,066,213 1,305,581 1,448,654 Economic as the ultra-high speed inverter elevator and the machine room-less elevator. Our business units are striving to build a differentiated infrastructure by improving our hardware as well as software includ1) Sales of elevators, escalators, automated distribution equipment, parking equipment and platform screen doors 2) Sales from maintenance work 3) Based on consolidated performance Performance ing the group management system and customer management system. While the elevator market is 0.02% 0.06% 0.05% 17.24% expected to fluctuate according to the state of the real estate business, absolute demand is consistent 14.82% 15.62% in the domestic market. More high-rise buildings are scheduled for construction in Korea and overseas, 82.71% anticipating a sharp increase in demand for ultra-high-speed elevators, which is a high value-added 85.16% 84.32% model. Replacement of existing elevators will also increase due to the increasing number of building Total3) (Unit: KRW Million) 1,066,213 1,305,581 Total1,448,654 reconstructions and deterioration of elevators inside large buildings. The trend of gentrification and 2013 2014 2015 manhattanization of buildings will be reflected in the elevator business as well. From now on, we will have to concentrate on qualitative growth instead of quantitative growth. General-purpose machinery manufacturer1) Service2) Real estate rental Financial information 37,452 Elevators installed 34,395 Classification 2013 2014 2015 in Korea per year 29,967 The number of elevators under operation Sales (KRW 100 million) 10,662 13,056 14,487 (Unit: set) including passenger and cargo elevators, escalators, moving walks, dumbwaiters and Operating income (KRW 100 million) 986 1,338 1,565 wheelchair lifts based on data from the Korea Elevator Safety Agency EBITDA4) (KRW 100 million) 1,079 1,492 1,688 2013 2014 2015 Operating income ratio (%) 9.25 10.25 10.80 4) Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (EBITDA) Market Share Hyundai Elevator maintains its lead of the domestic market share against global manufacturers through steady development of new and high value-added products, maximized efficiency in production, installation Sales by division (as of 2015) Operating income (KRW 100 million) EBITDA4) (KRW 100 million) Operating income ratio (%) and repair, and an enhanced sales force. In addition, we are emerging as a global supplier of elevator and automated distribution equipment by enhancing international competitiveness through advancement into Non-elevator sales 10.80 KRW 151.0 billion 10.25 Southeast Asia, USA, Japan, China and Europe. 1,565 1,688 11% 1,338 9.25 Service 1,492 KRW 203.2 billion 986 1,079 Sales growth compared to the Classification 2013 2014 2015 previous year Elevators Market share 1) 45.3% 44.5% 43.3% KRW 993.8 billion 1) Estimates based on data from the Korea Elevator Safety Agency 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 66 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 67 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Distribution Hyundai Elevator continuously strives to lead value creation for the purpose of advancing society. In 2015 alone, we distributed a total of KRW 900.9 billion to our partners and stakeholders, including employees, Social Performance of Economic local communities, shareholders, investors and the government. Performance Total distributed amount HR Management Customer Satisfaction 900.9 Mutual Growth Distribution of profits among stakeholders Social Contribution KRW billion Hyundai Elevator always strives to lead value creation for the purpose of advancing society. HR Principles of HR Management Hyundai Elevator values ‘risk-taking and creative professionals with a flexible mindset.’ Our HR manManagement agement focuses on hiring talented individuals who take pride in the organization that they work for, equipped with professional knowledge and technologies in their respective area, and treated as the best workforce anywhere in the world. A company where talented individuals come together KRW 14.9 billion ShareholdLocal KRW 110 million Pride Professional Priority ers and Communities Have pride in the organization Equipped with professional Treated as the best workforce Realization of investment earnings Investors Practice sharing that they work for knowledge and technologies in anywhere in the world Payment of dividends and interests the cost of social contribution their respective area activities Hyundai Respect for Human Rights Elevator In 2015, Hyundai Elevator publicly announced its support for principles on human rights and labor by joining KRW 12.1 billion Government Employees KRW 231.4 billion the UN Global Compact. We do not discriminate against our employees based on their gender, race, religion or place of origin and instead provide a fair work environment where all employees are given an equal opportunity to demonstrate their skills. We also prohibit child labor and forced labor and thoroughly comply Fulfilling tax duties Work-life balance with the relevant items ratified by domestic laws and the International Labor Organization. In 2015, not a Corporate tax1), taxes and dues2) Employee payroll3) single violation took place regarding child labor and forced labor. Partners Employees KRW 642.4 billion Hyundai Elevator employed a total of 1,873 employees as of December 2015. They can be broken down into 49.8% of field workers and 50.2% of office workers. We strive to stabilize employment by making ‘employment’ the highest value in human resources management. We are proud to say that we have never laid off Cost of direct and indirect purchases for mutual a single worker since the establishment of the company. growth and support Unit: persons Total number of employees Classification 2013 2014 2015 Classification 2013 2014 2015 1) Distribution of profits– Corporate tax: Based on the consolidated cash flow statement rather than the actually paid amount 2) Distribution of profits – Taxes and dues: Only taxes and dues under sales and administrative expenses are indicated as a detailed breakdown of manufacturing costs Male 1,279 1,509 1,701 Employment Regular employees 1,355 1,547 1,747 is not available in the information disclosed, though manufacturing costs and sales and administrative expenses should be utilized. Gender type Contract employees 70 120 126 Female 146 158 172 3) Distribution of profits – employees: Prepared based on “Payroll + retirement allowance + welfare and benefits.” Though the manufacturing costs and sales and administrative expenses should be utilized for retirement allowance and welfare and benefits, only the amounts under sales and administrative expenses are indicated 2013 1,425persons Handicapped 21 22 22 Office workers 626 755 852 Diversity as a detailed breakdown of manufacturing costs is not available in the information disclosed. Patriots and veterans 17 18 18 Production/Technical 2014 1,667persons workers 668 726 806 30 or younger 287 447 531 Job 31 ~ 40 418 483 551 Researchers 61 66 89 Age 41 ~ 50 534 518 547 2015 1,873persons Other 70 120 126 51 or older 186 219 244 68 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 69 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Recruitment Hyundai Elevator’s active participation in the government’s job sharing policy to resolve the unemployment Talent Promotion Education System of young people resulted in the increase of the number of employees by 1.5 times from 1,230 persons in Hyundai Elevator operates a standardized educational system to benefit all employees. We are developing 2011 to 1,873 in December 2015. The company’s efforts to create jobs and perform its social responsibility and operating diverse educational courses for the purpose of strengthening the three core capabilities of led to its designation as one of the ‘Top 100 Job-creating Companies’ in 2013 and 2015. We also secure global talent development (localization and globalization), professional work advancement, and corporate global talents to expand our overseas operations. Our efforts to attract talented research professionals who vitalization. Furthermore, we strategically develop core professionals through innovative external cooperawill become the future growth engine include academia-industry cooperation programs, R&D scholarship, tion programs and overseas training. and recruitment through business plans of new or existing overseas subsidiary corporations or establishment 75.9 of corporate bodies. hours Key educational index Recruitment of Women and Local Talents Hyundai Elevator does not discriminate against candidates in the hiring process based on gender. We operTask training hours per person Classification Unit 2014 2015 ate an internship system through an MOU with Duksung Women’s University to increase recruitment of Task training Training hours per person hours 37.9 75.9 female employees. Candidates are recommended by local high schools or community colleges to secure technically skilled personnel. To hire more locals, we have developed a system for hiring outstanding candidates from local communities in cooperation with the placement information centers of leading local KRW 1,081,000 universities and colleges. Of the 358 employees newly hired in 2015, 28 were women, 102 were college Task training expenses per person Classification Unit 2014 2015 Increase in total number of graduates and 74 were high school graduates. Hyundai Elevator provides its employees with opportunities Compliance program(CP) training Number of persons Persons 525 1,785 employees to explore and develop career paths by experiencing diverse jobs. We help them develop the ability to design Sexual harassment prevention training Number of persons Persons 1,559 1,690 a career that is compatible with their aptitude by instilling in them a comprehensive understanding of jobs Information protection training Number of persons Persons 429 1,446 and ownership toward their occupation. We hire many of our contract workers as regular employees and re-hire retirees as well. 2011 New hires and resignations (Dec. 2015) Unit: persons Educational programs Classification 2013 2014 2015 Leadership training Professionals 1.5 times New recruits Male 129 289 330 Classification Specialized Language Corporate culture Female 39 31 28 Leadership Core personnel Supervisor Common duties duties skills Resignation rate 5.5% 5.6% 8.9% Number of resigning employees 79 93 166 2015 Executives Those assigned to positions Leader’s Forum HELDP (Hyundai Executive New executives Leader Development Program) COP (voluntary learning) / M-Learning (by Creative TV) ManageGeneral Breakthrough Total number of new hires in last three years rial acCoaching on performance/ Managers leadership counting GWP & Corporation Vitalization Unit: persons HLDP Global talent development Internal instructor training Language skill assessment (Hyundai Leader Development Program) Future strategy Outsourcing training Deputy One-mind training Special lecture leadership Intermediate Managers assessment management Basic tasks course accounting Sexual harassment prevention Facilitating Female leadership 2015 Managers leadership 2013 2014 168 320 358 Assistant Executional leadership Document preparation Personal information protection Basic Managers accounting Basic skills Installation Staffs Introduction practice Mentoring 70 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 71 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Fair Performance Performance-based HR Evaluation Encouragement of Annual Leave Evaluation and Hyundai Elevator operates a fair performance-based HR evaluation system in order to motivate and boost the Hyundai Elevator encourages all employees to take annual leave to motivate them and increase their job morale of employees. HR evaluations are performed twice a year – competence evaluation (in the first half) efficiency. In order to establish a proactive culture of annual leave, we accept annual leave utilization plans Compensation and performance evaluation (in the second half). Comprehensive evaluation is enabled through bottom-up from each department (division). We hope that the annual leave activation campaign will achieve a work-life leadership evaluations. Compensation is differentiated for the performance evaluation where December bobalance and increase employees’ work satisfaction. nus and incentive payments are different by performance grade. Expanded Implementation of Family Day Operation of a Performance-based Compensation System Hyundai Elevator implements the ‘Family Day’ (overtime-free day) system to enhance job satisfaction through Hyundai Elevator operates a performance-based compensation system to motivate employees. work-life balance. Every Friday is designated as Family Day to enhance productivity by encouraging employees to leave work on time so that they can relieve stress and become motivated after spending time with ● Sales incentive (Sales division, overseas business division, distribution family. division) Order incentives, implementation rate incentives, project incentives, special project incentives, and new account incentives Promotion of Maternity Protection System Incentive ● MR (Margin Recovery) incentive Hyundai Elevator established the maternity protection system to promote a culture that is sympathetic to● Product incentive ward female employees whose careers are interrupted due to pregnancy, childbirth or nursing. We improve ● Cost reduction incentive the work environment of female employees so that they can reach their full potential without concern. Paid to members of relevant departments that exceeded the target based Employees can take advantage of reduced work hours during pregnancy and take maternity leave before or on their contribution to cost saving after childbirth. In 2015, five employees (one male and four female employees) used the child care leave and five female employees used their leave before or after childbirth. Hyundai Elevator further supports its female ● Basic performance-based bonus employees through providing a special employee card for pregnant women and building nursing rooms at Based on achievement and growth rate of sales/operating income the head office and Seoul office for resting and breastfeeding. Bonus ● Excess profit dividend bonus system 10% of excess amount over operating income target + 5% of growth of Operation of Retirement Pension operating income Hyundai Elevator operates retirement pensions to provide for employees after they leave the company. We ● Bonus to managers operate a defined benefit retirement pension under the Act on the Guarantee of Workers’ Retirement BenePaid to managers who obtained ‘B grade’ or higher in each division or ‘B fits (KRW 80.4 billion in 2015) and a personal pension fund (50-50 contribution by company and employees) grade’ or higher in their performance evaluation (second half of the year) as a better alternative to general annuity systems including the National Pension Fund and retirement pay. Employee Welfare Citation of Employee Proposals Hyundai Elevator enhances competitiveness and productivity by collecting proposals on cost saving or efficiency through its internal proposal system. Outstanding proposals receive citations and prize money to encourage active participation. KRW 10,900,000 was awarded as prize money to 43 employees in 2015. Operating Committees to Enhance Employee Welfare Hyundai Elevator enhances employee welfare through communicating with employees at quarterly labormanagement council meetings, the cafeteria improvement committee, health and safety committee, etc. KRW 10,900,000 and providing daily amenities, promoting employee morale, and supporting cultural activities and housing. We also operate diverse welfare programs including scholarships for children, welfare cards, paid leaves and citations for long-term employees, employee housing rental, and welfare fund management. We are dedi2015 reward payments cated to protecting the health of our employees through offering periodic checkups of employees and their spouses, aid for medical expenses and propagation of safety exercises. 72 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 73 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Corporate Culture Promotion of Corporate Culture Forming a Labor-Management Relationship of Mutual Growth and Employee Hyundai Elevator has achieved Great Workplace (GWP) status by promoting corporate vitalization and enLabor-Management Hyundai Elevator establishes labor-management values based on mutual respect and co-existence by recoghancing employee satisfaction. We came up with the slogan ‘Work hard, Play Hard’ and prepared customnizing each other as companions rather than separate entities. Our management respects the labor union Communication ized corporate culture vitalization plans for each division to achieve work-life balance, enhance employee Relationship of and the labor union engages in business management. We are further developing the labor union culture morale, expand communication and promote mentoring. Mutual Growth of three NOs (no labor disputes, no employment regulations and no occupational accidents) to carry on the company’s honorable legacy of developing a healthy and productive labor-management relationship. Junior Board Creation of a stable employment environment is one of the many positive outcomes of our amicable labormanagement relationship. Another noteworthy accomplishment is recording no labor disputes across all The ‘1st junior board,’ an autonomous consultative body to realize Hyundai Elevator’s vision and enhance business units for 27 consecutive years since 1989. As part of the company’s social contribution project, the its productivity, was launched on June 5, 2007, as part of the company’s internal communication policy. labor union and management engage in co-existence programs and social contribution activities. In recog27 The junior board seeks fresh management ideas from young employees by offering them a chance to parnition of such efforts, we were selected as an ‘outstanding labor-management corporation’ in June 2013 ticipate in management and encouraging communication across departments and ranks. Section managers Dispute-free business for and received the ‘Presidential Award,’ awarded to the single company which demonstrated an outstanding and lower level employee representatives explore new ideas and discuss ways to improve the corporate cul27 consecutive years labor-management culture of co-existence through exemplary labor-management partnership, at the Laborture through monthly meetings and workshops. They proactively contribute to the company’s development Management Culture Awards sponsored by the government in September 2013. Furthermore, we were sethrough reflecting employee interests and suggestions throughout the process. lected as a ‘Representative Benchmarking Corporation with Outstanding Labor-Management Culture’ by the Presidential prize for an outstanding laborKorea Labor Foundation. Tripartite commissions from other countries made a visit to the company through management culture an event hosted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor and the Korea Labor Foundation to benchmark Hyundai Elevator’s labor-management relationship. This generated substantial overseas sales, promotion and marketing effects and led to the opening of new Hyundai Elevator agencies in Cambodia. Communication-based Deployment of a Labor-management Culture Labor-Management Hyundai Elevator pursues ‘communication’ and ‘co-existence’ as the core of labor-management culture. To Communication Channel between Labor and Management develop a co-existence-based labor-management culture, we promote ‘labor-management relationship of Hyundai Elevator establishes a cooperative labor-management relationship by holding discussion meetings Relationship mutual growth,’ ‘labor-management relationship based on honesty and trust,’ and ‘enhancement of comwith field workers and reflecting their opinions in management activities. This allows our employees to munication.’ become more committed to and confident of their work. We also practice transparent management. The labor union participates in the annual management strategy meeting where they share information about Presidential Award at the management performance and future prospects. At the labor union executive workshop, in turn, the Chief Labor-Management Culture Awards Human-resource Officer (CHO) solidifies the close relationship between labor and management by discussing We establish our labor-management Labormanagement achievements and strategies. Our labor and management strive to promote mutual growth Management values based on mutual respect and Relations Based co-existence by recognizing each by engaging in joint productivity improvement and factory innovation efforts. The company also hosts joint on Honesty and training programs, quarterly labor-management council meetings and labor-management hiking events to Trust’ other as companions rather than separate entities. promote communication and understanding between the two corporate entities. Finally, our complaint handling and proposal mechanisms pursue open management, improvement of work environment and LaborManagement Companions employment stabilization. Labor unions participate in business planning Relationship of Mutual Working and seminars and management vision creation where Growth Advancing Labor Union they discuss the company’s business plans and shortand long-term visions and come up with Together Selected as Company with Outstanding Hyundai Elevator’s labor union currently has 806 members. Thanks to the cooperative labor-management Labor-Management Culture new goals along with the management. relationship, there has been no labor dispute or strike to date. Enhancement of We create an environment where employees 76.1 71.5 68.6 Communication can work in a pleasant environment where communication is valued. 2013 2014 2015 Status of union participation: Ratio of union participation 74 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 75 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Management Customer Satisfaction Execution System Hyundai Elevator conducts customer satisfaction activities to truly impress customers. We strengthen our Mutual Promotion of Step-By-Step Mutual Growth Hyundai Elevator engages in business with many partners for the production, installation and maintenance for Customer management structure through enhancing customer satisfaction activities, prioritizing customer safety and Growth of products including elevators and escalators. Businesses need to promote mutual growth in order to create Satisfaction improving quality competitiveness. new values. Hyundai Elevator implements systematic strategies and objectives to enhance the competency of its partners through developing a culture of trust and deploying and stabilizing programs. Enhancing customer Prioritizing Improving quality System for satisfaction activities customer safety competitiveness promoting Conducted customer Obtained safety-related Established quality management customer satisfaction survey certifications policy and structure satisfaction Enhanced customer Performed regular safety Operated quality management Substantiality execution convenience inspections system of programs system Enhanced education for Implemented quality enhancement Stage 3 customer service activities in all processes Deployment of programs Stage 2 Development Strengthening Customer Service Training of a trusting | Systematize programs Hyundai Elevator regularly trains employees of partners to enhance their skills and service-oriented mindset culture Stage 1 | Propagate a mutual growth culture as they provide service to customers. Collective training is offered at the Head Office in Icheon while itinerant | Deploy suitable models | Deploy models with improved training is provided at each business unit. The company elevates customer satisfaction so that employees can awareness level promptly respond to system failures and customer complaints. | Establish the internal structure | Prepare a foundation for mutual growth Collective training Itinerant training (technical) Training on new model systems, understanding Characteristics and adjustment of systems by Mutual growth outcome the system for existing models, hand-on training model, theory for parts inspection, underon repairing key failures, and training for parts standing of elevator drawings and circuits, Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 inspection troubleshooting Number of partners provided with financial support companies 19 149 178 Performance | 310 persons 4,960 hours Performance | 404 persons 1,212 hours KRW 100 Amount of financial support million 50 59 41 Financial support Service mindset training Prospective employee training Ratio of cash (or equivalent) payment % 100 100 100 Training attitude and technique for inspection, Understanding of the elevator industry, basics Number of Payments times 1~2 1~2 1~2 training for rescuing passengers from elevators, of inspection work and role playing, basics of Number of technical customer response and prevention of reoccurring failure handling, and technical training development support cases cases 998 1,546 1,778 Technological complaints 14,104 support/protection Number of technical protection support cases cases 0 3 4 hours Performance | 1,484 persons 4,452 hours Performance | 29 persons 3,480 hours Support for Support for education persons 4,334 3,917 7,367 Employee training for customer education/ satisfaction HR management/ hiring Recruitment at job fairs persons 0 4 11 Customer Satisfaction Survey Hyundai Elevator conducts its customer satisfaction survey to provide better service through identifying customers’ requirements and complaints. Each year, we ask elevator users and managers about the friendliness System and Procurement Structure and Performance of technicians, service speed, and response to products and reflect customer opinions in our activities to Achievement 94.8 Hyundai Elevator engages in business with many partners for production, installation and maintenance. % improve product performance and customer satisfaction. In 2015, we conducted 5,011 cases of survey to measure customer satisfaction. of Partner Mutual growth outcome 2015 Customer satisfaction survey Procurement Broad Mid classification Detailed Unit 2013 2014 2015 Degree of satisfaction Degree of kindness Speed classification classification Number of 2014 93.8 2014 93.2 2014 91.1 Number of key partners companies 257 250 258 Partners 2015 94.8 2015 94.5 2015 94.2 Total amount purchased from key partners KRW Million 521,303 568,987 642,440 76 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 77 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Social Hyundai Elevator, under a slogan of ‘Business Growth through Sharing,’ pursues sustainable growth alongside all members of society by steadily communicating with and returning benefits back to society as a Environmental Performance Contribution responsible corporate citizen. Social Contribution and Performance Management Reflecting the Demands by Local Communities Environmental Management Hyundai Elevator performs social contribution activities reflecting the demands and Health and Safety ideas of stakeholders and local communities. We plan on measuring the outcome of social contribution activities and heightening the expertise and efficiency of our ‘strategic social contribution programs’ by conducting satisfaction surveys and deploying feedback systems such as expert diagnosis. Environmental Hyundai Elevator is committed to fulfilling its social and ethical responsibilities while minimizing environmental impacts by efficiently utilizing resources and energy throughout its business activities. We Management enacted environmental management policies and are implementing relevant activities to minimize the emission of environmental pollutants in all processes from production to maintenance. We also acquired ISO 14001 International Environmental Management Certification to establish a systematic Amount Invested in Social Contribution environmental business structure. In 2015, Hyundai Elevator invested KRW 108 million in local communities. KRW 60 million was paid in donations and KRW 47 million was used to subsidize various activities. Environmental Management Organization Unit: KRW Million Hyundai Elevator has a department dedicated to environmental management for the purpose of developing environmental management strategies, maintaining environmental facilities, and complying Classification 2013 2014 2015 with environmental statutes. The organization consists of representatives from the Global Planning Donation1) 21.1 350.5 60.7 Department, head office business unit management department, and technology development departments at the Research Institute. The planning department develops environmental management Amount paid2) 20.6 21.9 47.2 strategies of business units at home and abroad. The business unit management department admin1) Donations: Net donation amount 2) Amount paid: Amount including expenses for activities, preparation and meals isters matters related to the environment and energy arising from production activities, including response to environmental regulations at home and abroad, treatment of environmental pollutants, and energy management. Lastly, the technology development department performs R&D work, including Participation in Social Contribution the development of technologies for reducing environmental impact and improving processes. In 2015, 4,358 people participated in Social Contribution activities. Each person volunteered for an average of 12.8 hours. The number of people participating in Social Contribution activities and their hours of participation are increasing each year. Participation in volunteer work increased due to the introduction of the individual setup of target hours. Environment Policy Hyundai Elevator seeks globalization in the production, installation, and service of its elevators. We consistently per4,358 persons Number of participants (Unit: persons) Service hours (Unit: hour) Service hours per person (Unit: hour/person) form the below activities to deploy an environmental management system that complies with the outcome of the environment management assessment and the Group’s environmental management policies. Our goal is to realize Number of employees who a better global environment while minimizing emission of environmental pollutants: participated in social contribution in 2015 22,421 We develop and operate enhanced internal regulations while complying with environmental statutes and related 4,358 18,481 regulations. 3,836 15,528 We consistently perform environmental improvement activities to prevent pollution and minimize the emission 3,196 12.8 of environment pollutants. 11.9 We strive to enhance environmental awareness by regularly evaluating performance related to environmental 11.3 objectives and delivering information to all employees, and conducting thorough environmental training. We publish our objectives and policies regarding environmental management to the general public to ensure transparency. Therefore, all employees faithfully carry out their given missions in order to realize environmental policies and 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 objectives while efficiently operating the environmental management system. January 3, 1997 Hyundai Elevator Co., Ltd. 78 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 79 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Environmental Investment Waste Management Hyundai Elevator is gradually increasing its environmental operation fund to reduce environmental impact Hyundai Elevator manages the waste generated at its factories in the categories of recycling, landfill and during production. We also invest in the environment in order to create a pleasant work environment. incineration. We conduct regular evaluation of and training on waste disposal companies to ensure transparent and lawful waste disposal while adhering to relevant statutes. Unit: KRW Million Unit: ton 109% Classification 2013 2014 2015 Environmental investment 581 264 553 Classification 2013 2014 2015 Increase in environment investment Waste discharge Total 490 394 421 Landfill 24 21 19 Atmospheric Environment Management Incineration 263 225 255 Hyundai Elevator strives to maintain a pleasant atmospheric environment by controlling dust, odor and noise Recycling 153 101 107 that occur during production. We control dust and other atmospheric pollutants whose total amount is Designated waste 50 47 40 regulated at 30% of the statutorily allowed standard emissions. Unit: ton Unit: kg Classification 2013 2014 2015 Classification 2013 2014 2015 By-products By-product total 1,166 904 745 Atmospheric pollutants (dust) 3,381 4,173 3,961 Steel scrap 684 520 425 chip 476 373 315 sus 6 11 5 Raw Material Usage 100% Recycled amount 1,166 904 745 Hyundai Elevator uses different kinds of raw materials to manufacture key elevator parts. We will contribute Ratio of recycled waste (%) 100 100 100 to reducing environmental impact by using raw materials in an efficient manner. Recycling rate of by-products Unit: KRW Million Waste discharge By-products/total/recycled amount Classification 2013 2014 2015 (unit: ton) (unit: ton) Purchased amount of Total 493,774 580,575 663,799 raw materials Steel sheets and beams 24,797 28,053 28,413 1,166 904 Traction Machine 22,193 38,872 39,974 745 Castings 15,047 13,755 18,332 490 Control Pannel 41,633 47,996 57,712 394 421 Guide Rail 24,802 35,607 42,721 Cable 13,245 21,588 23,215 Wire Rope 9,255 11,517 15,299 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Step & Chain 300 10,057 12,577 Drive Unit 182 2,938 6,575 Hatch parts of hoistway 75,425 100,730 114,543 Climate Change Response Structure Other 266,895 269,462 304,438 Hyundai Elevator seeks to minimize greenhouse gas emissions through actively participating in the government’s response to the new climate change agreement. We are surveying energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions at our business units and replacing and upgrading excessive energy consumers. Our goal is to deploy a greenhouse gas inventory and organize a dedicated managerial department to operate a more efficient energy management structure. By participating in government-sponsored greenhouse gas reduction policies such as the greenhouse gas emission trading, mandatory reduction and preparation of response measures, we hope to fulfill our civil responsibility towards society. 80 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 81 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Usage Hyundai Elevator calculated greenhouse gas emissions from its Icheon head office, distribution center and Seoul office. In 2015, the company emitted 6,530tCO2eq of greenhouse gas and consumed 123 TJ of 11% energy. We plan on reducing energy consumption through systematic reduction activities. Unit: tCO2eq APPENDIX Reduced unit emission of Classification 2013 2014 2015 greenhouse gas Total 6,871 6,568 6,530 Scope 1 1,987 1,794 1,802 Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2 4,510 4,342 4,268 Scope 3 374 433 460 Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 Total TJ 132 125 123 Energy usage Electric power kwh 9,672,724 9,311,748 9,154,448 Gas Nm 3 888,736 797,303 800,038 Unit emission of greenhouse gas1) Unit consumption of energy2) 6.09 1.24 0.96 4.70 4.19 0.85 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 1) Greenhouse gas emission/sales x 1,000 2) Energy usage/sales x 10,000 Health and Health and Safety Outcome Hyundai Elevator operates customized and systematic safety management systems at business or work sites Safety through acquisition of OHSAS 18001 certification. Unit: persons Classification 2013 2014 2015 84 Financial Highlights Accident rate1) % 0.07 0 0.05 87 GHG Emissions Assurance Report OHSAS 18001 Number of victims Number of accidents 1 1 0 0 1 1 88 Independent Assurance Report Health and safety certification 1) Number of victims/total employees x 100 90 GRI Index 92 UN Global Compact Operation of the Occupational Health & Safety Committee 93 Contributing Departments Hyundai Elevator fosters a culture of occupational health and safety by operating the Occupational Health & Safety Committee. The Committee consists of an equal number of labor and management representatives and includes an employee rep and a management rep. The company improves employee health and safety by reviewing and deciding on important health and safety issues and preventing risks or hazards that pose danger to employees’ health and safety. 82 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 83 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Financial Highlights 32nd term as of December 31, 2015 31st term as of December 31, 2014 30th term as of December 31, 2013 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Unit: KRW Classification 32nd term 31st term 30th term Classification 32nd term 31st term 30th term Assets Capital Current assets 1,014,834,502,764 552,482,729,615 652,261,601,749 Shares owned by dominant company 641,517,557,231 370,621,466,824 159,221,829,566 Cash and cash equivalents 429,503,480,822 126,819,019,126 114,983,668,303 Capital stock 123,162,565,000 98,162,565,000 68,162,565,000 Short-term financial instruments 7,000,000,000 8,000,000,000 5,000,000,000 Consolidated capital surplus 469,224,378,554 678,534,277,559 530,240,065,159 Held-to-maturity financial assets 761,050,000 1,513,520,000 867,085,000 Other consolidated components of equity 31,192,972,200 0 0 Trade receivables 245,190,565,952 215,173,610,311 172,853,912,072 Consolidated accumulation of other comprehensive income (17,633,477,291) (5,409,401,513) 9,022,915,646 Due from customers for contract work 120,170,428,164 99,944,963,660 112,474,008,306 Consolidated retained earnings 35,571,118,768 (400,665,974,222) (448,203,716,239) Other receivables 15,098,136,948 12,410,822,908 3,361,787,406 Non-controlling interest 284,659,859 1,064,141,853 850,217,845 Derivative financial assets 6,462,345 301,505,182 436,989,366 Total equity 641,802,217,090 371,685,608,677 160,072,047,411 Inventories 33,467,518,829 29,812,734,336 12,486,513,154 Total liabilities and equity 1,772,684,568,489 1,072,912,063,301 1,204,331,841,704 Other financial assets 144,275,566,689 43,764,461,506 204,006,779,088 Other current assets 15,257,571,616 14,064,980,181 25,790,859,054 Current income tax assets 4,103,721,399 677,112,405 0 32nd term as of December 31, 2015 31st term as of December 31, 2014 30th term as of December 31, 2013 Non-current assets 757,850,065,725 520,429,333,686 552,070,239,955 Long-term financial instruments 18,000,000 8,142,970,330 835,485,120 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Unit: KRW Available-for-sale financial assets 2,281,289,898 2,559,473,609 23,538,154,620 Classification 32nd term 31st term 30th term Held-to-maturity financial assets 2,587,172,153 3,146,540,000 4,362,735,000 Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates 175,722,305,483 257,540,610,213 279,565,425,375 Sales 1,448,653,887,563 1,305,580,741,993 1,066,212,843,099 Derivative financial assets 8,190,570,000 0 575,060 Cost of goods sold 1,138,026,321,805 1,047,283,518,957 879,037,034,937 Investment property 13,430,343,071 13,539,927,499 14,556,156,918 Gross profit 310,627,565,758 258,297,223,036 187,175,808,162 Property, plant and equipment 439,159,367,027 120,851,188,402 99,959,058,767 Selling and administrative expenses 154,117,053,936 124,534,588,459 88,552,510,884 Intangible assets 48,028,695,243 6,559,741,689 5,631,477,066 Operating income 156,510,511,822 133,762,634,577 98,623,297,278 Other financial assets 17,833,718,389 16,536,924,631 15,684,849,399 Other income 20,381,010,916 18,729,170,525 5,069,330,633 Other non-current assets 18,754,812,060 2,690,078,446 7,987,110,872 Other expenses 19,444,658,697 15,732,136,113 15,654,034,747 Deferred income tax assets 31,843,792,401 88,861,878,867 99,949,211,758 Profit and loss of investment in associates according to the equity method (128,550,994,676) 4,848,216,022 (166,412,724,726) Total assets 1,772,684,568,489 1,072,912,063,301 1,204,331,841,704 Profit and loss from disposal of investment in associates 18,253,632,872 504,673,263 5,260,561,747 Liabilities Financial income 17,050,270,649 8,987,158,284 9,656,925,078 Current liabilities 647,739,460,355 567,195,613,095 737,572,346,468 Financial expenses 30,210,905,028 79,661,327,158 326,382,200,522 Accounts payables 150,146,204,852 137,035,681,247 116,536,185,908 Profit (Loss) before income tax 33,988,867,858 71,438,389,400 (389,838,845,259) Other payables 98,314,121,966 52,395,836,462 44,873,037,568 Income tax expenses (benefit) 39,025,499,883 21,018,936,495 (47,176,688,545) Borrowings and debentures 162,798,349,819 187,624,041,569 120,425,095,875 Profit (Loss) for the year (5,036,632,025) 50,419,452,905 (342,662,156,714) Derivative financial liabilities 18,275,734,852 44,695,181,160 336,022,741,816 Other inclusive income or loss (after income tax) (31,044,441,916) (17,339,861,542) 8,969,091,934 Advances received 29,251,142,050 22,359,982,529 7,185,302,729 Items not reclassified as net profit (loss) Liabilities from overcharged contract work 144,091,424,537 98,242,730,751 81,348,431,084 Re-measured elements of net fixed pay liabilities (17,185,482,295) (1,688,151,261) 8,463,308,158 Provisions 18,923,209,433 10,168,152,753 9,972,450,460 Share of re-measured elements of net fixed pay liabilities of associates (1,726,746,301) (1,239,562,881) 968,772,439 Other financial liabilities 661,880 1,099,040 1,393,800 Items that can be subsequently reclassified into net profit Other current liabilities 22,842,009,771 13,181,570,522 12,711,081,505 Income (loss) for assessment of negotiable financial assets 81,417,677 (8,692,877,899) 321,423,890 Current term income tax liabilities 3,096,601,195 1,491,337,062 8,496,625,723 Share of other inclusive income or loss of associates or joint ownership companies (9,170,320,284) (6,410,531,799) 2,226,528,396 Non-current liabilities 483,142,891,044 134,030,841,529 306,687,447,825 Exchanged gain or loss in overseas operations (3,043,310,713) 691,262,298 (3,010,940,949) Other liabilities 75,601,972,592 689,500,000 770,500,000 Total consolidated comprehensive profit (loss) (36,081,073,941) 33,079,591,363 (333,693,064,780) Long term unearned revenue 177,964,929,605 0 0 Attribution of consolidated profit (loss) Borrowings and debentures 194,701,862,900 105,402,211,036 194,641,364,582 Stocks owned by dominant company (4,050,678,414) 50,465,456,159 (342,331,766,285) Derivative financial liabilities 4,704,406,053 626,359,939 96,836,135,291 Non-controlling interest (985,953,611) (46,003,254) (330,390,429) Provisions 627,308,000 0 0 Attribution of total consolidated comprehensive profit (loss) Net fixed pay liabilities 23,494,321,794 20,710,602,734 10,926,386,731 Stocks owned by dominant company (35,186,982,788) 33,105,424,858 (333,077,008,515) Long-term employee benefit obligations 5,890,282,937 5,139,742,038 3,513,061,221 Non-controlling interest (894,091,153) (25,833,495) (616,056,265) Deferred income tax liabilities 157,807,163 1,462,425,782 0 Income per share of shares owned by dominant company Total liabilities 1,130,882,351,399 701,226,454,624 1,044,259,794,293 Basic or diluted earnings (loss) per share (185) 2,711 (26,473) 84 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 85 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX 32nd term as of December 31, 2015 31st term as of December 31, 2014 30th term as of December 31, 2013 GHG Emissions Assurance Report Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Unit: KRW No.: AS_PRJC-546664-2016-AST-KOR Classification 32nd term 31st term 30th term Introduction Cash flow from operating activities 150,051,941,818 143,483,273,967 104,352,583,220 DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL” hereinafter) performed verification of the greenhouse gas emission volume of HyunCash generated from operations 162,020,947,794 164,736,531,896 117,497,740,117 dai Elevator Co., Ltd. (“Hyundai Elevator” hereinafter) in 2013 through 2015 under limited assurance. Hyundai Elevator is responsible Interest received 11,956,018,134 3,068,262,269 6,151,986,967 for preparing data concerning greenhouse gas emissions based on the principles specified under ISO 14064-1: 2006, WRI / WBCSD Interest paid (14,398,400,761) (13,130,826,836) (22,036,421,511) GHG Protocol: 2004 or IPCC Guidelines: 2006. DNV GL will not be responsible for this verification statement regarding any third party, Dividends received 41,053,300 765,218,993 186,152,976 except for the parties to the verification service contract under the contract terms. Income tax paid (9,567,676,649) (11,955,912,355) 2,553,124,671 Cash flow from investing activities (178,595,528,384) (289,245,534,477) (212,431,583,576) Disposal of held-to-maturity financial assets 1,513,520,000 841,308,070 326,615,000 Scope of Verification The volume of greenhouse gas emissions dealt with under this verification statement includes the direct emissions (Scope 1), energy Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 172,315,168 19,108,647,257 116,763,103 indirect emissions (Scope 2) and other indirect emissions (Scope 3) provided under the “Greenhouse Gas Inventory Computing Tool”. Disposal of investment in jointly controlled entities and associates 0 1,293,979,737 0 ● Emission volume subject to verification: Greenhouse gases emitted in 2013 to 2015 Disposal of preemptive rights 5,305,851,971 0 0 ● Scope of the emission report and verification service: Hyundai Elevator home office and Cheonan distribution center Deposit recovered 42,422,837,987 164,867,436,333 17,514,844,400 Decrease in derivative financial assets 465,732,653 503,270,941 716,581,831 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 170,064,821 1,301,215,599 229,552,007 Verification Methods This verification was performed based on the verification principles and standards under ISO 14064-3 from May to June 2016. DNV GL Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 985,454,545 0 793,354,653 performed the verification based on the materiality test standard of 5% after developing a verification plan to obtain information and Government subsidy received 1,300,000,000 0 0 data required to present verification opinions concerning the greenhouse gas emission volume and completion of the greenhouse gas Decrease in long-term loans 169,707,375 0 0 inventory reported by Hyundai Elevator. As part of the verification processes, the following have been checked: Acquisition of short-term financial instruments 3,608,681,630 0 0 ● Hyundai Elevator greenhouse gas inventory tools Acquisition of long-term financial instruments 5,516,288,700 817,485,120 3,000,000 Net cash flow of the acquisition of equity investment by subsidiaries 13,001,249,564 7,840,848,430 104,926,693 ● Hyundai Elevator processes for the management or collection of greenhouse gas data, calculation of emission volume and reporting Increase in short-term loans (139,200,000,000) 0 0 Increase in long-term loans 0 (260,051,600) (184,361,621) Conclusion Acquisition of short-term financial instruments 0 (3,000,000,000) (5,000,000,000) The declaration of greenhouse gas emission volume and related information have been duly described without error, omission or false Acquisition of long-term financial instruments 0 (8,140,610,561) (817,485,120) statement pursuant to the above-mentioned verification standards. Hyundai Elevator greenhouse gas emission volumes in 2013 to Acquisition of held-to-maturity financial assets (1,175,055,000) (297,325,000) (1,900,690,000) 2015 have been confirmed as follows: Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets 0 (501,882,510) (79,782,750) Acquisition of investment in associates (51,366,931,440) 0 (59,469,738,179) Hyundai Elevator greenhouse gas emission volumes in 2013 to 2015 (Unit: ton CO2eq) Increase in deposits (4,530,995,108) (979,653,306) (88,013,887,745) Hyundai Elevator Direct emission (Scope 1) Indirect emission (Scope 2) Other indirect emission (Scope 3) Total emission volume Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (10,674,947,963) (27,048,855,284) (25,851,922,717) 2013 1,987 4,510 374 6,871 Acquisition of intangible assets (7,031,406,124) 0 (1,798,493,072) 2014 1,794 4,342 433 6,568 Decrease in derivative financial liabilities (39,247,897,163) (445,591,347,703) (49,120,860,059) 2015 1,802 4,268 460 6,530 Cash flow from financial activities 333,075,085,774 156,935,522,669 (35,604,012,467) ※ The above greenhouse gas emission volume may have a tolerance of less than ± 1 tCO2 from the actual system value as the figure has been rounded off to Increase in borrowings and debentures 357,015,655,520 79,225,812,642 64,909,850,000 report in whole numbers. Issuance of common stock 275,073,259,006 178,533,969,900 95,755,326,200 ※ Total emission volume = direct + indirect + other indirect emissions Capital returned to jointly-controlled entities (200,000) 0 (200,000) Repayment of borrowings and debentures (298,931,896,656) (100,824,259,873) (196,668,984,206) Dividends paid (81,732,096) 0 0 June 10, 2016 Sehui Park In-Kyun Ahn Payment of non-controlling interest 0 0 399,995,539 Assurance team leader Country Representative, DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 304,531,499,208 11,173,262,159 (143,683,012,823) Beginning cash and cash equivalents 126,819,019,126 114,983,668,303 259,999,021,577 Effects of exchange rate fluctuation for cash and cash equivalents (1,847,037,512) 662,088,664 (1,332,340,451) This verification statement by an outside verification service provider is valid as of the day it is published (June 10, 2016). This verification statement may be revised because of any event or situation that may arise between the day it is published and the time it is read to have a material impact on the calculation of Hyundai Ending cash and cash equivalents 429,503,480,822 126,819,019,126 114,983,668,303 Elevator greenhouse gas emission volume. 86 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 87 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX Independent Assurance Statement Introduction Opinion and Observation Hyundai Elevator Co.,Ltd.(hereinafter referred to as “Hyundai Elevator ”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (hereinOn the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherafter referred to as “DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of the ‘Hyundai Elevator Sustainability Reence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4 nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI G4 Core option. Further opinions port 2016’ (the “Report”). The directors of Hyundai Elevator have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of Hyundai Elevator in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our Stakeholder Inclusiveness review have been provided in good faith. Hyundai Elevator has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customer, Shareholder & Investors, Employees, Suppliers, Government and Local Communities. The Report presents the stakeholder engagement process. Stakeholder survey has been Scope of assurance carried out to identify stakeholders’ interests and importance of issues for this first Report. Hyundai Elevator has identified key issues The scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period 1st January to 31st and effects on each other, through various channels with stakeholder at major worksite levels. December 2015. This included: Sustainability Context ● Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability ReportThe Report discloses the background and approach to sustainability, key activities and performance by each key issue. Hyundai Elevator ing Guidelines 4.0 is expected that the sustainability concept with respect to economy, environment and social aspects, will be embedded in the corporate ● Verification of disclosures to check the Report is prepared ‘In accordance’ with the GRI Guidelines G4 (Core option) (Verification on management philosophy and core values, organization’s performance needs to be reported in relation to broader concepts of sustainaggregated level of data and activities that refers to the period between January and December in 2015) ability. For better understanding, it is recommended to present sustainability management strategies and related outcomes. ● Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the Materiality process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. The Report presents the material assessment process. The relevant issue pool was formed from various sources, such as international peer group benchmarking, international standard and media research. Key issues were selected in terms of the business relevance and Basis of our opinion stakeholder impact. The audit team has reviewed and confirmed that the main issues selected through the materiality assessment We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional experience, interprocess have been included in the report. national assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in May 2016. The site visits were made to Hyundai Elevator Head office. We undertook the Completeness following activities as part of the assurance process: The Report covers sustainability aspects of economic, environmental and social impacts. Hyundai Elevator discloses information on the performance of the key sustainability issues for the reporting period. The report does not omit important information that influences or ● challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data informs stakeholder assessments or decisions in the stakeholder engagement process and materiality assessment process. management system, information flow and controls; ● interviewed representatives from the various departments; Accuracy and Reliability ● conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system and associDNV GL audit team has evaluated the accuracy of data and information by sampling of several data sets. Any errors or misstatements ated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; identified during the engagement were corrected prior to the Report being published. Data and information contained in the report has ● reviewed the outcomes the materiality assessment report. been described as an accurate and reliable way on the basis of the work undertaken. The reference and aggregate method of internal and external data and information should be clearly recorded and maintained to ensure the consistency with the future reporting. Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Hyundai Elevator’s associated comCompetence and Independence panies, subsidiaries, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholdDNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, ers as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as Hyundai Elevator’s website (http://www.hyundaielevator.co.kr). These documents, financial statements was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. In Kyoon Ahn 8 June 2016 Country Representative 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html Seoul, Korea DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. 88 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 89 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX GRI Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4 G4 Aspect Disclosure Title Assurance Page Aspect Disclosure Title Assurance Page Disclosure Disclosure STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from senior decision-maker ● 5 G4-EN5 Energy intensity ● 82 G4-3 Name of the organization ● 10 ENERGY G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● 63 G4-4 Activities, brands, products, and services ● 26~33 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ● 63 G4-5 Location of headquarters ● 12, 13 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach ● 60 G4-6 Location of operations ● 12, 13 G4-EN15 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ● 82 2, 2015 Annual G4-EN16 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ● 82 G4-7 Ownership and legal form ● Report 5 EMISSIONS G4-EN17 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ● 82 G4-8 Markets served ● 12, 13 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity ● 82 G4-9 Scale of the organization ● 10, 11 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions ● 63 G4-10 Information on employees and other workers ● 69 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ● ODS not discharged G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements ● 75 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 60 G4-12 Supply chain ● 77 G4-EN22 Water discharge by quality and destination ● 61 2, 2015 Annual EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-13 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain ● Report 5 G4-EN23 Waste by type and disposal method ● 81 G4-14 Precautionary Principle or approach ● 22 G4-EN24 Significant spills ● No spill cases G4-15 External initiatives ● 92 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach ● 58 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-16 Membership of associations ● 92 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services ● 39 G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements ● 2015 Annual Report LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 4, 5 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 69 G4-18 Defining report content and topic Boundaries ● 24, 25 G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover ● 70 G4-19 List of material topics ● 24, 25 EMPLOYMENT IDENTIFIED MATERIAL G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees ● 72, 73 ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-20 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ● 24, 25 G4-LA3 Parental leave ● 73 G4-21 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ● 24, 25 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach ● 48 G4-22 Restatements of information ● 2 G4-LA5 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees ● 82 G4-23 Changes in reporting ● 2 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH G4-LA6 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities ● 82 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups ● 17 AND SAFETY G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ● 50, 51 STAKEHOLDER G4-25 Identifying and selecting stakeholders ● 17 ENGAGEMENT G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 82 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement ● 17, 24, 25 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach ● 44 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised ● 24, 25 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee ● 46, 71 G4-28 Reporting period ● 2 TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA10 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs ● 73 G4-29 Date of most recent report ● 2 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ● 72 G4-30 Reporting cycle ● 2 REPORT PROFILE LABOR PRACTICES DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach ● 18, 74 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report ● 2 GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-LA16 The management approach and its components ● 19, 74, 75 G4-32 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards, GRI content index, External assurance ● 2 G4-33 External assurance ● 2 SOCIETY GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure ● 14~16 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach ● 56, 60 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior ● 18, 19 LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-SO1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs ● 58, 59 G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities ● 61-63 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 19, 20 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES ANTI-COMPETITIVE ● BEHAVIOR G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices ● No related cases G4 Aspects Disclosure Title Assurance Page PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure ENVIRONMENTAL DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach ● 40 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND G4-PR1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories ● 41 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach ● 60 SAFETY G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services ● No related cases ENERGY G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● 82 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization ● 82 DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach ● 40 MARKETING G4-PR6 Activities, brands, products, and services ● No related cases COMMUNICATIONS G4-PR7 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications ● No related cases 90 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 91 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES | MANAGEMENT REPORT | APPENDIX UN Global Compact Contributing Departments Hyundai Elevator adheres to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in the four major areas of human rights, labor, environment and antiSustainability Management (SM) Promotion Secretariat corruption. We intend to carry out our social responsibility as a sustainable global leader by strengthening our sustainability management in General Manager Kee Seob Kwon, Manager Chan-Ho Cho, and Assistant Manager Jin Kyoung Lee of the Public Relations Department compliance with international standards. Sustainability TFT Category Principle Key Activities Page Classification Department Name Position Korea Elevator Business Unit Korea Sales Dept. No. 4 Yong Tae Kwon Deputy Manager Businesses should support and respect the Respect of HR principles and human rights 69 protection of internationally proclaimed Overseas Business Unit Southeast Asia Sales Department Jae Gook Sung Manager human rights; and Recruitment 70 Human Rights People development (training on ethics and prevention of sexual harassment) 71 Service Business Division Service Planning Department Dong Hoon Cho Deputy Manager Fair evaluation and compensation of performance 72 make sure that they are not complicit in Corporate culture and employee communication 74 Production Technology Innovation Department Gye Soo Kim Deputy Manager human rights abuses. Manufacturing Division Min Soo Yook General Manager Production Department Businesses should uphold the freedom of Yong Chul Jin Assistant Manager Communication-based labor-management relationship 74 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Labor-management relationship of mutual growth 75 Safety & Environment Department Cheon Ho Lee Deputy Manager the elimination of all forms of forced and Quality And Safety Division Hong Keun Lee Senior Researcher compulsory labor; Quality Assurance Department Labour Respect of HR principles and human rights 69 Hyung Jin Choi Manager the effective abolition of child labor; and CTO R&D Management Department Dal Hyun Song Chief Researcher Respect of HR principles and human rights 69 HR Department Young Hwa Son Manager the elimination of discrimination in respect Recruitment 70 of employment and occupation. CHO HR Development Department Nak Hwan Choi Manager Fair evaluation and compensation of performance 72 Social Contribution Team Jin A Hyun Assistant Manager Businesses should support a precautionary Risk management 22 approach to environmental challenges; Approaches and principles to reduce environmental impact 60, 79 Sales Management Department Young Soo Kim General Manager Finance Department Hyun Jun Jang Manager Water resources management 61 undertake initiatives to promote greater Waste management 62, 81 CFO Management Planning Department Byung Ki Jung Manager Environment environmental responsibility; and Air pollutant management 62, 80 Jin Sung Bae Deputy Manager Improvement of energy efficiency during production 63, 82 Legal Support Department Min Hyun Bang Deputy Manager Environmental and Safe R&D encourage the development and diffusion CSO Strategy Planning Department Si Yong Jung General Manager Hybrid acceleration/transmission system and synchronous traction 39 of environmentally friendly technologies. machines using new materials Distribution Equipment Business Distribution Equipment Sales Department Jin Ho Jung Deputy Manager Representative Businesses should work against corruption Ethical management 18 Antiin all its forms, including extortion and Fair trade Voluntary compliance 19 Ethical Management Department Ju Hyun Kim Deputy Manager corruption Representative of Ethical bribery. Propagation of a mutual growth culture 21 Management Compliance Team Tae Hui Yeo Manager 92 HYUNDAI ELEVATOR Sustainability Report 2016 93 For more information Public Relations Department, Hyundai Elevator Phone 02-3670-0717 Fax 02-3672-0660 E-mail hecsr@hdel.co.kr Website www.hyundaielevator.co.kr Address 194, Yulgok-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea 2091, Gyeongchung-daero, Bulbal-eup, Icheon-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea This report is printed on FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper with soy ink.
