COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT QURI.QA ABOUT NIRAS NIRAS is an international, multidisciplinary engineering consultancy company with over 1,400 employees located in offices around Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. We provide impartial consultancy in a variety of fields, such as construction and infrastructure, public utilities, environmental and natural resources, climate change and energy, planning and development consulting. Our special trademark is an interdisciplinary and innovative approach to projects, and we take pride in transforming clients’ visions and challenges into sustainable solutions. NIRAS was founded in Denmark in 1956. Today NIRAS is one of the leading consultancy companies in Denmark. We are not affiliated with contractors, manufacturers or suppliers, and we are a member of the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Carsten T. Boesen Chief Executive Officer At NIRAS we are committed to excellence in improving social and environmental issues for our clients, meanwhile supporting sustainable development of the society and a balanced life for our employees. We consider the Global Compact a natural part of doing business. In 2016 NIRAS in particular took notice of the UN 17 Sustainable Development Goals, which also in the years to come will provide guidance for NIRAS’ activities. The issue on human rights and the importance of compliance pervade all NIRAS’ activities, which in 2016 comprised more than 275 development projects in about 75 countries outside of Scandinavia. Prior to entering into contracts and agreements, we screen projects for issues related to human rights. To improve NIRAS’ Duty of Care, NIRAS has in 2016 signed a membership of Falck Global Assistance Group. In this way we have established a system which reduces and mitigates risks for our employees working abroad. NIRAS develops sustainable and environmentally sound solutions for our clients and our own organisation. E.g. in 2016 NIRAS designed systems for reducing emission of the potent greenhouse gas methane from landfills and dumps. Also NIRAS supported implementation of the Paris Agreement in the focus countries Colombia, Georgia, Vietnam, Egypt, Ethiopia and Nigeria. Furthermore NIRAS has in 2016 updated the Integrity Management System (IMS) according to the current international anti-corruption instruments. Consequently we will continue to improve and commit ourselves to further sustainable development. Carsten T. Boesen, Chief Executive Officer 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ACTIONS AND OUTCOME Full subscription to charters and conventions on human rights is reflected internally in the organisation as well as in our external projects. In 2016 NIRAS was present in 75 countries, carrying out over 275 development projects outside of Scandinavia. The issue on human rights and compliance pervades all NIRAS’ activities. NIRAS promotes and encourages respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all people regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, language and religion. In cooperation with development partners we design our projects and programmes using a “human rights lens” and with it a set of intricate rights based tools. We ensure that rights issues are mainstreamed into the design and implementation of our programmes as a means to promote rights based outcomes. Prior to entering into contracts and agreements, we screen projects for issues related to human rights. We base our work on a human rights based perspective where non-discrimination, participation, equality, transparency and respect for each other guide our work in all assignments. NIRAS’ Young Professional Programme, combining classroom and on-the-job training in our offices in Europe and all over the world, is very successful and provides skilled employees within management of e.g. human rights. The performance and targets for 2016 have been met at satisfactory levels. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS fully subscribes to all charters and international conventions on Human Rights. This encompasses Rights of the Child, Rights of Indigenous People, gender related issues including Elimination of All Forms of Decimation of Women as well as the Rights of LGBT. NIRAS ensures all present and future employees equal opportunities, regardless of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political or sexual orientation and family status. NIRAS ensures a work environment free of harassment, including discrimination. NIRAS considers diversity to ensure clients a better quality of service and promotes inspiration inhouse. The culture and values in NIRAS are based on respect for the individual and this also implies acceptance and tolerance of diversity among colleagues and clients. 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ACTIONS AND OUTCOME NIRAS continuously improves easy access to management support and to information and guidelines for employees. In 2016 NIRAS performed an employee satisfaction survey, showing progress and increase of the overall satisfaction level. To improve NIRAS’ Duty of Care we have signed a membership of Falck Global Assistance Group. In this way we have established a system which reduces and mitigates risks for our employees working abroad. NIRAS does not employ children who are under age. The performance and targets for 2016 have been met at satisfactory levels. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS wishes to take a holistic approach, making space for “the whole person”. Our aim is to be reflected in the way in which we relate to and act towards one another. NIRAS’ employees are free to enter into associations and to enter into collective bargaining with management. All NIRAS employees have individual contracts, and the employment conditions comply with current national legislation and requirements. NIRAS must be a safe and healthy workplace, where employees have good job satisfaction and good potential for development, as well as comprehensive security assistance to all travelers. Activities related to NIRAS’ projects and in-house operations must be performed such that the health, safety and welfare of the affected human beings are ensured to the greatest possible degree. 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ACTIONS AND OUTCOME NIRAS develops sustainable solutions for our clients and our own organisation. We integrate environmentally friendly technologies into an increasing number of client projects relating to buildings, industry and construction as well as water, energy and wastewater systems. In 2016 NIRAS has i.a. developed methodologies for investigations and design of the Biocover” technology, which is an environmentally friendly, cost-saving and purely biological way to reduce emission of the potent greenhouse gas methane from landfills and dumps. Also NIRAS was responsible for a project in the Municipality of Esbjerg (Denmark) on river restoration and use of storm water in order to enhance environmental quality of drained wetlands and reduce the risk of flooding in downstream urban areas. Through contracts with the European Commission and GIZ NIRAS has provided knowledge, products and capacity building training to support the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The focus countries have been Colombia, Georgia, Vietnam, Egypt, Ethiopia and Nigeria. NIRAS prepares a yearly “climate account” for our activities. The performance and targets for 2016 have been met at satisfactory levels. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS takes our responsibility towards climate change, environment and society seriously in our approach to our services and operation of business. NIRAS maintains an open dialogue with clients and stakeholders and seeks solutions that are compatible with the principles of sustainable development. NIRAS supports the International Federation of Consulting Engineers’ (FIDIC) recommendations on the environment and sustainable development. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ACTIONS AND OUTCOME In 2016 NIRAS has further updated the Integrity Management System (IMS) according to the actual international anti-corruption instruments. Requirements for compliance with NIRAS’ Integrity and Ethics Policy are strongly emphasised in all contracts with employees, managers and sub-consultants. NIRAS’ Integrity and Ethics Policy is also emphasized whenever NIRAS expands its business through joint ventures or acquisition of companies and activities anywhere in the World. NIRAS has further established procedures that ensure a very short response and action time if incidents or suspicions of fraud and corruption are being reported. All employees, joint venture partners and sub-contractors are thoroughly instructed and sign declarations of compliance with NIRAS’ IMS . The performance and targets for 2016 have been met at satisfactory levels. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS has a zero-tolerance policy to corruption and fraud, and NIRAS will actively contribute to combating corruption and fraud in all of its forms. NIRAS has developed an Integrity Management System, including Business Integrity and Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct. The system and policies are in compliance with the international anti-corruption instruments, defined by OECD, FIDIC, Transparency International and United Nations. 7 OUR WORLD NIRAS A/S Reg. No. 37295728 Denmark T: +45 4810 4200 8 Sortemosevej 19 FRI, FIDIC F: +45 4810 4300 3450 Allerød, Denmark www.niras.com E: niras@niras.dk
