COP 2016 PAC Doverie 1 COP 2016 – PAC Doverie STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT One more year has passed and once more it’s a great pleasure and even greater honor for all of us at PAC Doverie to reaffirm our support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the four key areas of Human rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In 2016 it became 7 years since PAC Doverie formally joined the UNGC. I say formally , because during the more than two decades of its existence, PAC Doverie has always demonstrated an absolute dedication and commitment to the core values synthesized in the ten principles of the GC. As we’ve always declared, we take our membership in the UNGC initiative above all as a key moral obligation not only to always stick to the ten principles, but also to use every opportunity to attract other companies and organizations to start sharing these values. And we’ll continue to do so, as we believe that those eternal values are the key to a better future for all of us. Daniela Petkova Chair of the Management board of PAC Doverie 2 COP 2016 – PAC Doverie SOME PRACTICAL ACTIONS, TAKEN IN 2016, TO FOLLOW THE GC PRINCIPLES I. Human rights  The Company has successfully undergone the due yearly audit procedure for ISO/IEC 27001:2013 compliance, demonstrating this way a highest level of personal data protection.  As we’ve pointed out in our previous COP, in 2000 there were no women on PAC Doverie’s Management board. In 2015, there were already two women on the Management board of the Company (33%), including the Chair of the MB. In 2016, the women on the MB became three or 50%, meaning the 50/50 gender balance has been achieved even at that level. II. Labor  In order to secure a total equality in the workplace, regardless of gender or location, the Company, one more year, has implemented newer, upgraded versions of the: o Remuneration policy; o System of categorization of offices and determining the remuneration of their employees.  In order to guarantee absolutely fair and transparent recruitment practices, an Internal control officer is always present at every stage of a recruitment procedure. III. Environment  A special campaign for all our sales employees, granting them rewards for gathering as many as possible e-mails of customers in order to use a digital way of communication and cut down the use of paper.  Mandatory use of recycled paper in the Head office.  Mandatory share of computer files only through a common directory and never on CDs or DVDs. 3 COP 2016 – PAC Doverie  Participation in the No elevators day – an initiative aimed to promote the use of the stairs instead of the elevator in order to cut down the use of electricity and promote a life with more physical activity. IV. Anti-corruption  Continuous training of the employees in the rules and principles of the Policy against Corruption and Related Practices of PAC Doverie.  Implementation of a Compliance Policy of PAC Doverie designed to establish and maintain adequate framework, comprising policies, processes and reporting procedures necessary to identify, measure, monitor, manage and report, on a continuous basis the compliance risks, sufficient to ensure compliance of the Company and its employees with the obligations under the regulatory system in which it operates, and to protect the Company, its shareholders, and customers.  Creation of a special position Compliance officer to be in charge of the strict and correct appliance of the Policy mentioned above. Miscellaneous During the past twelve months PAC Doverie supported numerous charity activities, aimed, above all, to help sick and deprived of parental care children, and sponsored various events, mainly in the culture and sports area including:  the President’s promotion ball for children deprived of parental care;  the initiative A balloon flight over the 7 Rila lakes ;  the charity Buy a Martenitza – give health bazar ( Martenitza is a traditional Bulgarian symbol used every March 1st as a wish for health during the year), organized in order to raise funds for a Foundation for retarded children;  the Bulgarian Christmas initiative;  the award ceremony Bank of the Year ;  the award ceremony Banker of the Year ;  the 8th National festival of cinematography art Golden eye ;  the Finance forum: Education, Personnel, Growth ;  Investor’s Finance forum, etc. 4 COP 2016 – PAC Doverie A special remark deserves the initiative of the traditional charity Christmas lottery for the employees aimed, this time, to raise money for a brave teenage girl who was taking care, all by herself, of her mother suffering cancer. Unfortunately, the mother died shortly after the initiative had taken place, but the money gathered will, undoubtedly, help the now orphan girl to rearrange her life after the loss. All the information and details on the Communication on Progress of PAC Doverie will be available on our internal site and our official internet site www.pocdoverie.bg Contact persons: Daniela Petkova – Chair of the MB Miroslav Marinov – Executive Director Asen Asenov – Corporative Communications Director PAC Doverie JSC 13B Tintyava str. Sofia 1113 Bulgaria E-mail: head@poc-doverie.bg Tel.: +359 2/ 46 46 196 5 COP 2016 – PAC Doverie
