FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 UG2 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 XXX Eat me! y R ep ort.---t ain abili st Su at our to e abl For e u s, s en be v u stai ld e nabil hou ity means that you s The report in your hands is Cradle to Cradle™-certified. This means that in this report, we only use substances ---> that can be entirely returned into the biological cycle. Thus, the consumption of this report is also harmless to humans, as illustrated by the various food subjects. CONTENT Franke Group Sustainability Report 2016 4 CEO statement 6 Group profile 8 Franke focuses on sustainability 11 Sustainability management 15 Environmental 17 Energy efficiency in production 18 Water, waste water 18 Material efficiency in production 18 Resource-efficient products 23 Social Responsibility 26 Executive staff development 27 Occupational health and safety 28 Human rights 31 Economy 33 Profitability 34 Business integrity 35 Product Responsibility 37 Reliability and longevity of the products 38 Safety impacts of products 38 Product innovation 39 Appendix 41 Report parameters 43 GRI content index 46 Contact 3 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CONTENT CEO STATEMENT as key figures for occupational health and safety. Franke is convinced that committed employees are the key to success. After all, it is our approximately 8500 employees who convert our strategy and our brand into concrete behavior and actions. The contribution of our leaders is fundamental in this regard: Increasing commitment is not solely a matter of concern for Senior Leadership and Human Resources at the group or division level. Leaders at all levels must promote employee commitment. Transparent dialogue between leader and employee is vital. Only those who communicate clearly and openly, who give feedback as well as celebrating successes, will create a basis for further development. Dear Readers, Why is sustainability so close to my heart? Sustainability Leadership contribution is ultimately the core of our brand promise, to Make It Wonderful, just as it is for our fifth Franke value of Be is fundamental Accountable. The latter embodies the idea of Corporate Sustainability – sustainability in the company. The two of them enable us to enter into an effective dialogue For all these reasons, we value the views of our employwith our customers and all other stakeholders and to ees on the status quo. We would like to know what they excite them with sustainable and innovative products are satisfied with and where Franke could still improve. and services. This is how Franke employees should actively participate in the further development of the company. Franke Our ambition must be to remain steadfastly committed carried out its first-ever Employee Engagement Survey to sustainability, since ethical handling of people and in 2016 with this in mind. The survey measures the resources is and continues to be our most significant commitment of the employees and the drivers of this. claim. I am very proud of our progress and the contribuThe Franke Management Board and all executive leaders tions that each Franke employee makes to this every day. around the world are now working at full speed to hammer out the details of the improvement measures arising Ultimately, it is the core topics covered in this report from the survey results. Executives and employees which make our progress in the individual sustainability are sorting through the survey results in team dialogues disciplines measurable and comparable. These are and, based on this, defining measures for improvement. the factors which we can refer to in our dialogues with our stakeholders – as well as being factors which can At the group and division level, we would like ascend and should be expected of us. further into the area of Learning and Development, among others. For this reason, Franke is set to introIn order to account for our comprehensive measures in duce a recognition program. More feedback and apthe area of social responsibility, for example, we are now preciation is the fertile soil for a culture of recognition. also drawing attention to the advances in the develop­ If everyone pulls together – management, executive ment of our leadership team, in addition to such things individuals, and employees – then we will surely be 4 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CEO STATEMENT recording even better results in the next Employee In addition to our values, local roots form the basis for En­gagement Survey in 2018. consistent quality. Franke sees itself as a globally active company with regional connections through approxiThe second major development discussed in this report mately 40 production sites. On this note, a brief anecis product responsibility. We have strengthened our focus dote to close. When I switched to Franke Group in 2012, on this in the core topics of reliability and longevity innomy ex-colleagues asked if I would be taking up residence vation and the health & safety impact of products. After in Germany. They thought Franke was a German comall, our products are known to exercise a significant influpany. Equally, Americans also think that Franke is a ence, not only on people but also on the environment. dynamic US company because we have large production sites in Nashville. These local ties, combined with Swiss values such We utilized our as sustainability and quality as I mentioned above, are surely the things that make Franke so unique. resources better I now wish you a pleasant read and express my gratitude for your interest in our journey – final destination? Make Thanks to the implementation of our One Franke strat­ It Wonderful. egy – which stands for more customer experience and collaboration between divisions and countries within Franke – we have achieved a great deal. In 2016, we were Best regards, once again able to continue to successfully implement our strategy on cooperation, innovation, new products, Alexander Zschokke and enhanced efficiency. Our business units worked toCEO Franke Group gether more closely, continued to drive a strong perform­ ance and increased market presence, made better use of our resources, optimized working processes, and thereby improved profit margins. Our business units work more closely together Other minor innovations can be found, on the one hand, in this report’s section on environmental impacts. There we draw attention not only to energy efficiency in production but also to the use of resources – separated by waste and materials used. And whereas, on the other hand, our products’ energy efficiency was the relevant sustainability feature in the section on product responsibility in the past, the emphasis is now on reliability – also in the sense of durable quality and customer focus, of course. 5 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CEO STATEMENT GROUP PROFILE Franke Group includes the divisions Kitchen Systems, Foodservice Systems, Water Systems, and Coffee Systems. The Group employs around 8,500 people worldwide and generated consolidated sales of CHF 2.0 billion in 2016. Divisions Figures Franke Kitchen Systems is the world’s In comparison to 2015, based on the leading provider of smart kitchen sysvalues reported on page 17 onwards. tems. We establish valuable, long-term – 22.8% partnerships thanks to our long history of reliability and expertise. We help our partners improve their business operations and make their customers’ lives easier by making work in the kitchen a pleasure. CO2 emissions, absolute Franke Foodservice Systems is a leading – 8.7% supplier of kitchen furnishing, equipment, and accessories for restaurant operators. One part of the division is a complete provider for equipping the kitchenarea in fast-food restaurants. The other part sells furnishing elements through distributors Water consumption, to food-service operators, as an original equipment manufacturer. absolute Franke Water Systems is a worldleading provider of smart water resource management systems for public and semi-public washrooms. We provide tap – 5.9% solutions for residential kitchens and bathWaste water, absolute rooms under the Franke and KWC brand – 9.9% names. The focus is on innovative, exclusive design, and the highest of quality standards. Franke Coffee Systems is a world-leading provider of smart coffee systems. Waste, absolute – 24.5% We serve our partners through innovation and customized solutions, enabling successful service concepts and the fine art of coffeemaking. We offer our expertise and passion for coffee as the foundation of our customers’ service concept and shared success. Lost day rate 6 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GROUP PROFILE Net Sales Locations worldwide Organization BY DIVISION Franke Group has production Board of Directors companies and/or own representatives Thomas A. Erb, Chairman in 38 countries. Headquarters are in Michael Pieper, Vice Chairman Aarburg, Switzerland. Dr. Andreas Hauswirth Christian Mäder Dr. Michael Soormann Europe (22 countries) Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Management Board IN CHF M Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Alexander Zschokke, President/CEO Franke Kitchen Systems 976 Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Franke Foodservice Systems 628 Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Franke Water Systems 231 Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Group Functions Franke Coffee Systems 222 Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom Finance Jürg Fischer Human Resources Beat Sigrist Other Activities 24 Operations Lukas Burkhardt Americas (5 countries) Information Services Markus Bierl BY REGION Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, USA Legal & Compliance Martin Wyser Asia/Oceania (7 countries) Divisions China/Hong Kong, India, Japan, Franke Kitchen Systems Kazakhstan, Philippines, Singapore, Lars Völkel Thailand Franke Foodservice Systems Thomas Campion Franke Water Systems IN % Africa/Middle East (4 countries) Roger Basler Europe 60.2 Egypt, Morocco, South Africa, Franke Coffee Systems Americas 27.1 United Arab Emirates Thomas P. Meier Asia/Oceania 8.5 Africa/Middle East 4.2 Brands Employees by region Franke bkon Carron Dominox Dart Valley Systems Eisinger Easi Serv Eurodomo Faber IN % FIFO Futurum Kindred KWC Mamoli Mepam Newair Nokite Europe 60 Americas 16 Roblin S2K Sertek Spar Asia/Oceania 17 Africa/Middle East 7 7 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GROUP PROFILE FRANKE FOCUSES ON SUSTAINABILITY As one of the world’s leading providers of kitchen, washroom, and restaurant industry solutions, we are conscious of our responsibility for contributing to a sustainable development – and are actively engaged in this challenge. First and foremost, we promise our customers to all, food preparation and habitation are, in addi­tion Make It Wonderful. Making our products and services to mobility, the most important categories of human wonder­ful also, however, means taking responsibility – resource consumption. in accordance with our corporate value, Be Accountable. With this in mind, we accept our duty and focus on where we have been able to identify large effects on environment and society. Our products have Franke is active with its products and solutions in four an impact on vital areas business segments (see graphic on the right). These are divided up into the two areas of Kitchen & Sanitary Sysof everyday life tems and Water Management & Hygiene on the one hand and between the commercial and private sectors on the other. In the commercial sector, everything revolves The consumption of resources at our sites and the around equipping kitchens for professional foodservice, effects on climate change are topics of real concern to semi-public and public washrooms with integrated sysus. However, sustainability is also relevant for our prodtems, and coffee preparation outside the home. In the ucts. In general, a large portion of the energy and reprivate sector, the focus is on equipping domestic kitchsources consumed in households takes place in kitchens ens with integrated kitchen systems for food prepara­tion and bathrooms and is thereby associated with the use and cooking, and private bathrooms with tap systems of products sold under our brand. and accessory parts. All of these business segments have one thing in common: They are resource-intensive As a production company, we also have an internal reand make a significant impact on the environment. After sponsibility, namely to our employees and to our owner, THE FRANKE VALUE CHAIN Supply chain Locations Products Raw materials Components Manufacturing Sales User Recycling 8 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FRANKE FOCUSES ON SUSTAINABILITY OUR STRATEGIC AREAS Commercial Residential Restaurant Kitchen Food and beverage LANDLORD BUSINESS OWNER HOME OWNER LANDLORD preparation Franke Foodservice Systems Franke Coffee Systems Franke Kitchen Systems Washroom Bath Water management LANDLORD BUSINESS OWNER HOME OWNER LANDLORD and hygiene Franke Water Systems Franke Water Systems (TCC) since after all, they make our success possible in the ovens and stoves) and have an influence on the cleanfirst place. liness of water (e.g. taps and filters) or air (e.g. kitchen hood systems). We influence mankind and the environment along our entire value chain (see chart on the left) and beyond the Responsibility as a globally active original product lifecycle itself. People are involved and resources equipment manufacturer are required right from the extraction and production of The restaurant industry is an important consumer of raw materials, their transport and logistics, the innumerresources, for example. In addition to customers such able providers of semi-finished goods and components as restaurant chains, building supplies stores or kitchen for our products, their manufacturing and their sales, all and bathroom providers, other large customers also rely the way to their actual use and disposal and/or recycling. on our products: As a globally active original equipment manufacturer, we partner global corporations – and our In addition to this, the influences can be felt in connecactions can exercise a correspondingly positive influence tion with upstream and downstream processes, ranging on their resource efficiency. all the way from maintenance to kitchen accessories, and ultimately with the type of foods used or their Longevity of our products method of preparation. This means that topics such as Food preparation, sanitation and hygiene technology health and safety are also considered within our area and having a place to call home are not dispensable – of responsibility at Franke. This includes the health of these areas are of equal elementary importance for our employees, including their work-life balance, as well all humans and even necessary for life itself. Franke’s as the safety of our products during the whole lifecycle. influence on society and the environment is accordingly Our products are used in the preparation of food (e.g. great, as is the potential to do good. 9 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FRANKE FOCUSES ON SUSTAINABILITY THE FIVE FRANKE VALUES Enable People Foster Teamwork Act entrepreneurial Deliver Solutions Be accountable The everyday use along with a high consumption of be able to look our children and grandchildren in the resources is substantial when it comes to Franke eye with a clear conscience. This makes acting sustainproducts. This must, however, be seen in contrast to the ably a must.” comparatively long period of utilization of our products – and this has a positive effect on the balance of energy and raw materials over the course of the entire product lifecycle. The majority of our products are designed We influence people for many years of use, reliability, and reparability: For example, the average lifetime durability of a private and the environment along kitchen in Switzerland is between 20 and 25 years. Baths, showers, and toilets must be designed to last for our entire value chain 30 years. This shows that compared with other areas of the con­sumer goods industry (e.g. household appliances, cos­metics, electronics, etc.), kitchen and sanitation Sustainability is important to us and we have already actechno­logy have long lifecycles. complished a great deal in this area in recent years. The longevity of our products is a particular source of pride For the sake of our children and grandchildren to us. Nonetheless, we are conscious of our responWe also pursue a long-term perspective that extends sibility and refuse to rest on the laurels of what we have beyond our products: The continuous pursuit of our stra­ already achieved. On the contrary: In the interests of our tegy is of central importance to us. This is demonstrated many stakeholders and the environment, we dedicate by the fact that there have been only five CEOs in the ourselves to continuously optimizing our actions, to more than one hundred years of Franke’s history. Franke enhancing our efficiency, and to constantly finding new Management and the owner base their efforts on longfuture-oriented solutions. term considerations and are conscious of their responsibility for the environment, society, and economy. “For me, sustainability means fairness to future generations,” Kirill Bourovoi says Michael Pieper, the owner of Franke and the entire Manager Group Sustainability Artemis Group. “In everything that we do, we should Group Head of Learning & Development 10 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FRANKE FOCUSES ON SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT The existing management structures at Franke ensure that Franke has an optimum setup in terms of governance and that it is free of conflicts of interest. In addition to qualifying the Board of Directors with respect to sustainability, the internal guidelines affected should be identified and an overview of the most important stakeholders should be provided. Governance structure, committees under The Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG is comthe Board of Directors posed of five members. The board has no committees. Franke Group has a three-tier governance structure: The Franke Group Management Board is composed of ten members. For more details about the governance structure of Franke Group, see Management Board of Artemis Holding AG (Artemis Group) ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Group Structure 4 members Separation of the chair of the Board of Directors and executive management Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG (Franke Group) Thomas A. Erb, Chairman of the Board of Directors of 5 members (4 of whom are members of the Artemis Group Artemis Holding AG and Franke Holding AG, is neither Management) a member of the Artemis Group Management nor of Franke Group. Four of five members of the Franke Holding AG Board of Directors were members of MB Artemis. Management Board of Franke Holding AG (Franke Group) 10 members Independent members of the Board of Directors No member of the Board of Directors of Artemis Holding AG and its committees is involved in operative manage­ Each body has clearly defined purposes, duties and ment. Four of the five members of the Board of Directors responsibilities defined by the organizational regulations of Franke Holding AG have executive positions within and the terms of reference. The two boards of directors Artemis Group. are responsible for the strategic direction of Artemis Group and Franke Group and have a number of inalienMechanisms for shareholders and employees to able and non-transferable duties pursuant to the Swiss address recommendations to the Board of Directors Code of Obligations. Michael Pieper, owner and President/CEO of Artemis Group, is in regular dialogue with the Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Artemis Holding AG is comof Artemis Holding AG and is the Vice-Chairman of the posed of seven members. The board has three standing Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG. committees: the Audit, the Information Security and the Human Resources committees. The board and the standNo employee representative sits on the Board of Direcing committees held regular meetings in 2016. The Artetors. The employee representatives of the European commis Group Management is composed of four members. panies meet regularly in the context of the Franke Forum For more information about the governance structure of (European Works Council), with a member of the Franke Artemis Group, see Group Management Board. Selected concerns can be ▸ www.artemis-holding.com ▸ About us addressed to the Board of Directors through this channel. 11 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Link between compensation and the organization’s Oversight of sustainability performance by performance the Board of Directors The remuneration of the members of the Board of DirecThe Finance & Audit Committee of the Board of Directors tors is not linked to the performance of the company. of Artemis Holding AG discusses risks and opportunities that are relevant for Franke Group as part of the approvMembers of the Franke Group Management Board as al of the annual risk report. well as other employees are incentivized by a combination of personal and financial objectives. Depending on Evaluation of sustainability performance of the function, personal objectives may be linked to social the Board of Directors and environmental performance. There is no formal process for assessing the perform­ ance of the Board of Directors from a holistic sustainProcesses for the Board of Directors to avoid ability perspective. conflicts of interest The organizational regulations for the Board of Directors Precautionary approach stipulate how conflicts of interests of board members The precautionary principle plays an important role for are avoided. Board members are obligated to refrain Franke Group as both a production and a sales organizafrom any involvement in the handling of matters affecttion. The precautionary principle is reflected in the maning either their personal interests or those of a company agement systems (quality, environment, occupational or person with which they have an affiliation. health and safety) that are implemented at different sites. In operations, the precautionary principle is implemented Qualifications of the Board of Directors with by means of preventive approaches for environmental regard to sustainability protection, occupational health and safety and quality There are no formal procedures for determining the qualifiassurance. Franke Group has a comprehensive system cations of members of the Board of Directors in social and for the control and management of all risks involved in environmental matters. Two members of the Board of Dibusiness activities in place. In accordance with standard rectors of Artemis Holding AG have significant experience ISO 31000, corporate risk management is at the interin strategic and operational sustainability management. section of all management systems. All Franke compa­ nies are required to conduct an annual risk analysis General principles and codes of conduct which identifies the key risks. In addition, all companies Different sustainability topics are addressed in policy must have a clearly defined crisis organization, as well documents and a number of internal guidelines deal with as a business continuity management plan that guarandetails related to sustainability and business ethics: tees a quick and competent response in the event of an Code of Conduct: Legal compliance, health & safety, emergency. Furthermore, an external service provided fundamental labor standards such as child/forced by International SOS acts as a direct help system in any labor and non-discrimination, (sexual) harassment, crisis situation during employee travels. anti-corruption, gifts and entertainment, theft, fraud and dishonesty, disclosure of information. The Code External agreements and initiatives of Conduct was updated and the new version commuFranke Group has been an active member of the UN nicated to all employees in 2013. The Code applies Global Compact since January, 2011. We also participate worldwide and is available on the intranet in 12 lanin the activities of the local Global Compact network in guages. In addition, an integrity line that can be used Switzerland. by all employees as a last resort to report integrity ▸ www.unglobalcompact.org concerns in a confidential and anonymous manner was rolled out in 2013. Through the voluntary application of the Global ReportSupplier Code of Conduct: Minimum requirements ing Initiative’s Guideline for Sustainability Reporting (new regarding employment practices, environmental proGRI Standard), we aim to make a contribution toward tection and business integrity that must be met by all ensuring transparency and comparability in sustainability our suppliers. The Supplier Code was also approved by reporting. the Franke Group Management Board. Group Policy: Equal opportunity and diversity, employMemberships in associations and organizations ee relations, personal safety and emergency planning, Franke Group and its subsidiary companies are active in business travel, information security. a wide range of industry associations and initiatives in Sustainability Principles: Framework for improving various countries. Many of these organizations deal with the economic, environmental and social performance sustainability topics, e. g. define best practice standards of Franke Group. or develop product labels, including but not limited to: UN Global Compact principles in the areas of human U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), an organization rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. committed to a sustainable future through cost-effi12 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT cient and energy-saving buildings. USGBC is the owner Relevant stakeholder groups of the LEED building standard. Franke Group believes the following stakeholder groups ▸ www.usgbc.org to be relevant: European Committee of Domestic Equipment Customers and consumers Manufacturers (CECED), a business association that Employees represents the household appliance industry in Suppliers and business partners Europe. Local communities, media, authorities, regulators öbu, a Swiss association and think tank for sustainable Potential future employees business. O  wner For a list of significant memberships, see: Basis for selecting stakeholders ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Sustainability ▸ Franke Group is aware that its business interacts with Commitment various stakeholder groups. The above stakeholders MOST IMPORTANT STAKEHOLDERS 2016 Customer insights: Structured interviews Consultation with and inclusion with end-consumers as well as online Local of the neighbors of production sites panels and focus groups in various councommunities, in larger construction projects. tries are conducted by external service authorities, media, providers and our customer insights deregulators Outsourcing of work such as partment in order to better understand assembling and packaging of prodthe needs of our customers. ucts to institutions that provide home and work for disabled adults by Customer contacts: Franke service Customers and different Franke companies. technicians working in the field consumers are in day-to-day contact with kitchen studios, architects, restaurant owners, real estate developers, etc. Our key account managers dedicated to large customers in order to better serve Career days: Participation in their needs. recruitment days at universities. Potential future Trade shows: Franke businesses are Presentation of case studies employees present at leading trade shows in many at universities and support of countries in order to display new products university projects. and foster customer relations. Franke Forum: Annual meeting of the employee representatives of the European Suppliers and business partners companies with a member of the Franke initial contact as part of the Suppliers and Group Management Board. supplier pre-screening and evalbusiness partners uation process, mainly on issues Consultation of the various works related to quality and lead time. councils at plant level by the local Human Resources organization Regular discussions between buyers and/or local management. Employees and suppliers, both on site and in the context of audits. Communication through internal channels such as the CEO letter, employee magazine or intranet. Since the owner of Franke Group Employees attend an introductory is the CEO/President of Artemis program when joining the company Owner Group (holding company of Franke Group), he is well-informed Engagement opportunities and employee and consulted on major strategic participation at plant level decisions. 13 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT have been identified as important for systematic stakeOperational Excellence program also contributed to holder dialogue, as they fulfill at least one of two criteria: improving the Group’s cost competitiveness in 2016. Either the stakeholder group exerts a strong influence Major initiatives in the Footprint Optimization workon the economic, environmental or social performance stream included the relocation of certain sink producof Franke, and/or the stakeholder group is strongly tion activities to low-cost locations within the Group. affected by the economic, environmental or social performance of Franke. Essential topics The following essential topics are treated in the following Approaches to stakeholder engagement chapters: To date, dialogue with external stakeholders has been Energy efficiency in production highly decentralized. We plan to formalize interactions Material efficiency in production with representatives of relevant stakeholder groups Water, waste water in the future. The newly established central purchasing R  esource-efficient products department is responsible for coordinating and stanE xecutive staff development dardizing supplier management. Occupational health and safety P  rofitability Response to key topics and concerns of stakeholders Reliability and longevity of the products Sustainability topics are increasingly at the heart of Health & safety impacts of products many discussions with both internal and external stakeP  roduct innovation holders. The key topics and concerns that were raised include: Legal form, company size, and markets Guidance on how products from Franke Group help Franke Group (Franke Holding AG) is a private company meet building standards: We have applied the criteria under Swiss law and is fully owned by Artemis Holding AG of the LEED and Minergie building standards to some (Artemis Group). of our products in order to identify which products are best for complying with these standards. In 2016, Franke Group achieved sales of CHF 2,036.6 milAchieving top performance, social and environmental lion, with 40 subsidiaries and 8,576 emp­loyees (fullstandards through systematic management of opertime positions). Total assets as at the end of 2016 ational safety, reliability, efficiency and overall cost stood at 1,941.3 million Swiss francs. The products of reductions through the Group-wide Operational Excel­ Franke Group are sold to various business customers lence program. A Central Purchasing function was such as restaurant chains, wholesalers, kitchen studios established in 2013 with the aim to better coordinate or real estate developers in more than one hundred and standardize supplier management. As in 2015, the countries. 14 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Environmental 16 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL No production is possible without the consumption of resources or the generation of waste. The utilization of finite resources and the emissions caused by them have an effect on the Earth’s ecosystem, particularly on climate change, and on the provisioning of future generations. Since Franke was established over 100 years ago, many Both the availability and quality of environmental data individual initiatives related to environmental protection have improved since it was first consolidated at Group have been launched, triggered by legislation, stakeholder level in 2011. The monitoring of the environmental concern or efficiency considerations. The environmental data allows checking progress over time and defining impacts of the activities of Franke Group are felt along additional improvement measures. the entire value chain. Furthermore, compliance with environmental laws and regulations must of course be observed as In order to bundle our resources, we concentrate on the minimum requirement for all Franke operations. those segments of the value chain that we can influence the most and in connection with which the greatest ef­ fects are felt. With respect to product development and innovation, we take into account resource efficiency (with ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION a focus on materials, energy, water and waste) and we invest in environmentally friendly production processes. In the long run, however, we intend to also reduce the enIn 2016, Franke implemented measures in the following vironmental footprint of our logistics and transportation. areas for the reduction of environmental impacts in production: Franke Group strives to consistently reduce the environSustainable buildings, for example the installation of mental impact of its operations, taking into account the one of the largest photovoltaic systems in Switzerland commercial viability and the availability of environmenwith an output of 420 kWp and a module area of tally friendly technology. A number of measures ensure 2,588 m2 at its headquarters in Aarburg which relieves that our environmental footprint is reduced: the Swiss electricity mix of almost 190 metric tons of All production companies are required to implement CO2 emissions per year. and certify environmental management systems in Improved lighting in buildings with energy-saving bulbs accordance with the standard ISO 14001. By the end (e. g. LED), partitioning, motion sensors and daylight of 2016, 33 out of all 39 production companies were dimmers. certified according to ISO 14001. Commitment to LEAN management in all 39 Franke Good practices are exchanged across Franke busiproduction sites: Avoidance of all resources, including nesses to learn from examples that have shown good energy, raw materials, and waste. results (e. g. recycling of heat from presses and server Modernization, reduction or downsizing of machinery rooms, or the substitution of materials in production such as presses, pumps, and compressors. processes). Process improvements such as a lower temperature in the washing process. RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE Systematic energy management has been expanded Climate change is a strong driver for energy and water effifurther across various Franke sites. Software for online ciency. The need to use resources more wisely in the future and real time monitoring of energy consumption and will increase demand for products that use less energy and/ the installation of additional metering points increase or water along their lifecycle. At Franke, we set the goal that our innovative products meet the requirements of customers transparency of energy flows and ultimately allow definin this regard. ing additional improvement measures. Based on the annual risk analysis, we believe that the exDirect energy consumption posure of Franke Group to the risks of climate change (e.g. Franke Group generally uses externally purchased energy. natural perils for production plants or transportation) is The direct energy carriers (Scope 1) include extra light moderate. At present there are no special CO2 regulations, e.g. maximum emissions levels, which we are required to obheating oil, natural gas, as well as fuels (i. e. diesel and serve. However, Franke is aware that rising energy prices are gasoline). Natural gas consumption in 2016 was reduced directly linked to production costs. This is why Franke intends by 19.4% to 4,662,160 m³ compared to 5,783,236 m³ to further reduce energy consumption in the future during the previous year. Consumption of extra light heating oil decreased by 19.6%, to 454,594 liters in 2016 17 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL as compared to 565,553 liters in 2015). In 2016, FrankeSources significantly affected by withdrawal owned vehicles consumed 255,730 liters of gasoline of water and 1.85 million liters of diesel. In terms of consumption, The water consumption of our production plants does this represents a reduction of 84.2% for gasoline and not place a significant burden on water sources as de­ an increase of 6.5% for diesel since 2015. Comparison to fined in the GRI guidelines. previous years is, however, limited because Service Solution Group with its many service cars is no longer Total water discharge part of Franke Group. In 2016, 408,540 m³ of waste water (5.9% less than the 434,151 m³ figure for 2015) were discharged into a Direct energy consumption in 2016 totaled – including communal waste water treatment plant. The amount of fuels – 631,662 GJ (compared to 765,970 GJ for 2015). In waste water in relation to net sales (m³ per million Swiss 2016, direct energy consumption in relation to net sales francs) was 7.8% lower in 2016 with 201 than in 2015 (GJ per million Swiss francs) was 19.2% lower than in 2015. with 218. A small quantity of waste water was disposed by professional third-party companies. Unplanned Indirect energy consumption discharge of waste water did not occur at Franke Group Electricity is the most significant form of indirect energy in 2016. (Scope 2) consumed by Franke Group. Three sites in Europe also use district heat. Consumption of electricity fell by 11.9% to 103,605 MWh compared to 117,600 MWh in 2015). The electricity consumption in relation to net MATERIAL EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION sales (MWh per million Swiss francs) was 13.7% lower in 2016 than in 2015. Franke Group uses a wide range of materials of different Greenhouse gas emissions quantity and quality. The most important materials that In absolute terms, greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1 we use in our production are metals (mainly stainless and 2) decreased by 22.8% (64,231 metric tons in 2016 steel) and plastics, as well as semi-finished and finished compared to 83,207 metric tons in 2015). In relation to net products. We have just started to collect data for masales (metric tons of CO2 per million Swiss francs), greenterials and are currently not in a position to report any house gas emissions declined in 2016 by a quarter in comfigures for comparison from previous years. pari­son with 2015. At 48,253 metric tons (around three quarters of total greenhouse gas emissions) electricity Percentage of total raw materials used that consumption was by far the largest source of CO2 in 2016. are recycled raw materials Chrome-nickel stainless steel, the main component of Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions many of our products, is made of roughly 80% recycled Our approach to curbing greenhouse gas emissions is material. Cardboard that we use for packaging mainly twofold: stems from recycled content (estimated 90% of total 1. Save energy and increase energy efficiency. cardboard use). We estimate that the share of recycled 2. Switch to renewable or low-carbon energy sources: material of the total input materials is about 25%. The building standard of Franke Group promotes the use of renewable energy sources, heat pumps, Total weight of waste recycled heat from production processes and district In 2016, 18,011 metric tons of non-hazardous waste inheating on availability. cluding metal scrap and 2,038 metric tons of hazardous waste were generated. Total waste in relation to net sales (metric tons of waste per million Swiss francs) at 9.8 was 11.7% lower in 2016 than in 2015. WATER, WASTE WATER Water consumption RESOURCE-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS Franke Group uses mainly water from the public water system and some water from wells. We have closed water loops at the majority of the worldwide prod­uction The biggest environmental contribution of our prodsites. The consumption of water decreased by 8.7% in ucts lies in the efficient use of energy and (hot) water, 2016 to 470,852 m³ compared to 515,509 m³ in 2015. which indirectly saves both energy and water. We are Water consumption in relation to net sales (m³ per million therefore continuously looking for ways to design our Swiss francs) was 10.5% lower in 2016 at 231 than in products to be more resource-efficient, as can be seen 2015 with 258. in the following examples: 18 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL In 2016, we market-launched the world’s first oven with Franke Group aims to proactively adapt to rising an A++ energy efficiency category rating, the Touch FS customer expectations, regulatory changes, emerging 913 M multifunctional oven (see article on p. 37). product labels or buildings standards. At the same time, At Franke Coffee Systems, we are working since 2016 environmental risks and impacts of our products and on an innovation project for alternative heating systems services – material, energy and water consumption and in order to achieve significant reductions in energy the generation of waste – will be further reduced. consumption. At Franke Aquarotter, we have anchored the assessment Impact of our measure in the area of ecology of environmental relevance in the innovation process and The following reduction of environmental impacts in we systematically evaluate environmental effects and production was able to be achieved by the measures impacts for all product developments and modifications. implemented in the Production Division: Reduction in energy consumption (GJ) by 17.5% and While only a few of our products are required to include of relative energy consumption (GJ/m CHF sales) by specific information regarding sustainability effects 19.2% in comparison with 2015. (e.g. taps, stovetops and ovens in the European Union), Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (t CO ) by 2 Franke focuses on various labels to simplify informed 22.8% and relative greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2/m purchase decisions on behalf of our customers. The list CHF sales) by 26.7% in comparison with 2015. of such labels includes: Reduction in waste volume (t) by 9.9% and of relative EU Energy Label (Energy Efficiency for Kitchen Hoods waste volume (t/m CHF) by 11.7% in comparison with and Ovens) 2015. PEFC Chain of Custody (specification of origin for wood) Reduction of water consumption (m3) by 5.9% and Well, WRAS and EnergieSchweiz (water efficiency of of relative water consumption (m3/m CHF) by 7.8% in taps and shower heads) comparison with 2015. FRANKE’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT Franke is actively involved in “Be there commits to charitable the trees twice a year and take care charitable objectives worldwide. activities and makes Franke known of maintenance and fertilization. In the Philippines, the group to the local population,” explains “Franke Foodservice Systems Philipcomprised of Franke employees Jhoy Paracueles, Executive Assist­ pines wanted to make a contribution “Be there” planted trees. ant & Administrator Franke Foodto the environment in the form of service Systems Philippines. Franke this project,” explains Paracueles. Society and the environment are Foodservice System Philippines “We are convinced that small actions important to Franke. That’s why launched the environmental project can be used to work against climate Franke is actively involved in charit­ in collaboration with the College change – even if only to a small able objectives worldwide. Fully in of Forestry and Natural Resources extent – and to make the world a line with the Franke value of “Act of the University of the Philippines better living environment.” Entrepreneurial”, we challenge what in Los Baños. is already there and seek opportunities to improve. The goal: To learn In 2016, together with other volunsomething new and put things in mo­teers from Franke, “Be there” planttion every day. And Franke accepts ed 400 trees on a half-hectare-sized responsibility. After all, Make It area in Puting Lupa, Calamba City, Wonderful extends beyond kitchen near the Makiling Nature Preserve. systems and customer experiences. The College of Forestry and Natural That is why the “Plant trees and let Resources has certified the success them flourish” project was started of the project. This will now be purin the Philippines in 2013. It is headsued on an ongoing basis until the ed by a group of Franke employees trees are mature. With this in mind, who dub themselves “Be there”. the employees and “Be there” visit 19 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 XXX We regard the improvements made in all areas as an tential for improvement in this area. We are therefore indication of the effectiveness of our measures in the currently gathering more precise data regarding prodProduction Division. uct impacts and regarding the numerous improvement measures at the individual companies in the interest We have also been able to use our activities to design of being able in the future to improve the resource effi­ our products to be more resource-efficient. We are, ciency of our products systematically throughout the however, aware that we still have a great deal of poentire Group. ENERGY CONSUMPTION (ABSOLUTE) UNIT 2016 DIFR 2015/2016 2015 2014 Electricity MWh 103,605 –11.9% 117,600 109,680 Heating oil extra light Liters 454,594 –19.6% 565,553 702,263 Natural gas m3 4,662,160 –19.4% 5,783,236 5,696,956 Subtotal excluding fuel GJ 557,685 –14.5% 652,541 625,787 Gasoline Liters 255,730 –84.2% 1,619,272 1,922,323 Diesel Liters 1,852,987 6.5% 1,740,100 1,755,251 Total GJ 631,662 –17.5% 765,970 749,415 – Comparable to a limited extent with prior year figures, as the Service Solution Group with its numerous service vehicles is no longer part of the Franke Group (gasoline). – Less natural gas following the closing of the site at Hard; no natural gas anymore after conversion of the Aarburg compound to woodchip heating. – The values from 2015 were subsequently corrected. SOLAR ELECTRICITY FOR FRANKE Franke focuses on sustainable the construction of the photovoltaic side will achieve 83% of the energy of building. Thus one of the largest plants for the power required for this the modules with the southerly orienbuilding-integrated solar power project. The first plant on Factory tation. The 315-watt peak, high-perplants in Switzerland has been in Hall H was put into operation in formance modules together supply operation at the Franke comDecember 2016 after a two-month 380,000 kilowatt hours of electricity pound in Aarburg, Switzerland construction period. Franke is using and relieve the Swiss electricity since 2016. the solar energy itself until the resimix of almost 190 metric tons of CO2 dential complex becomes occupied emissions per year. Together with Franke is committed to reducing in 2018. the woodchip incineration plant that the impact of its activities on the en­Franke also operates in Aarburg and vironment. Thus, for example, the Because of the scheduled roof renothe purchase of electricity gener­atcompany has invested in sustainable vation on Factory Hall H, the photoed by hydroelectric power, Franke is building: The photovoltaic system voltaic plant lent itself to sophistiCO2-neutral at the Aarburg site. on the roof of Franke’s Factory Hall cated architectural integration in the H in Aarburg is numbered among roof in ways which are both technithe largest building-integrated solar cally and economically profitable. power plants in Switzerland. Artemis Thus the 1,334 solar modules act Immobilien AG is planning an ecoas a roof cladding and the 2,588 m2 logical prototype housing developsurface is used as a generator field ment on the neighboring lot which for the solar power station. Due is to be supplied with solar energy. to the low gradient of the roof, the Franke Schweiz AG is providing the north side was also equipped with roof surfaces of the factory halls on modules. According to the yield simits adjacent operating premises for ulations, the modules on the north 20 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 XXX ENERGY CONSUMPTION (RELATIVE TO NET SALES) UNIT 2016 DIFR 2015/2016 2015 2014 Electricity MWh/m CHF 50.9 –13.7% 58.9 51.4 Heating oil extra light Liters/m CHF 223.2 –21.2% 283.3 329.1 Natural gas m3/m CHF 2,288.7 –21.0% 2,897.4 2,669.9 Fuel Liters/m CHF 1,035.2 –38.5% 1,683.1 1,723.5 Total GJ/m CHF 310 –19.2% 384 351 – Comparable to a limited extent with prior year figures, as the Service Solution Group with its numerous service vehicles is no longer part of the Franke Group (gasoline). – The values from 2015 were subsequently corrected. ENERGY CONSUMPTION (ABSOLUTE) IN GIGAJOULES (GJ) 800 700 600 500 400 300 Diesel 200 Gasoline Natural gas 100 Heating oil extra light Electricity 0 2014 2015 2016 The values from 2015 were subsequently corrected. CO2 EMISSIONS UNIT 2016 DIFR 2015/2016 2015 2014 Scope 1 (from fuels and combustibles) Metric tons (t) 15,978 –25.4% 21,408 22,345 Scope 2 (from electricity and district heat) Metric tons (t) 48,253 –21.9% 61,800 47,330 Absolute CO2 emissions Metric tons (t) 64,231 –22.8% 83,207 69,675 Relative CO2 emissions Mt/m CHF 32 –26.7% 44 33 WATER AND WASTE WATER UNIT 2016 DIFR 2015/2016 2015 2014 Water consumption m3 470,852 –8.7% 515,509 532,442 Relative water consumption m3/m CHF 231 –10.5% 258 250 Waste water m3 408,540 –5.9% 434,151 491,126 Relative waste water m3/m CHF 201 –7.8% 218 230 21 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL WASTE UNIT 2016 DIFR 2015/2016 2015 2014 Non-hazardous waste Metric tons (t) 18,011 –7.0% 19,357 25,613 Hazardous waste Metric tons (t) 2,038 –29.7% 2,900 1,701 Total waste Metric tons (t) 20,049 –9.9% 22,257 27,314 Relative waste Mt/m CHF 9,8 –11.7% 11,2 12,8 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS UNIT 2016 DIFR 2015/2016 2015 2014 Production companies certified in accordance with ISO 14001 Companies 33 10.3% 29 25 MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT 2016 MATERIALS IN METRIC TONS (t) DATA COMPILATION Stainless Steel 31,948.70 Calculated (purchasing data) Carbon and Galvanized Steel 25,308.70 Calculated (purchasing data) MMA (Methyl Methacrylate), mostly used 1,811 Calculated (purchasing data) for Acrylic Quartz 6,105 Calculated (purchasing data) SMC (Sheet Moulded Compound), mostly used 1,638 Calculated (purchasing data) for fiber-reinforced plastics Plastic 2,200 Calculated (purchasing data) Brass 2,630 Estimation based on own purchases and the amount of third party components delivered Glass 2,000 Estimation based on the amount of third party components delivered 22 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL social responsibility 24 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY With around 8,500 employees in 40 subsidiaries in 66 countries on five continents, our workforce is of special significance with respect to sustainability. Healthy, motivated, and well-trained employees are the key to our success. Our employees are our most valuable asset. We thereHEADCOUNT BY REGION fore support them in their efforts to remain healthy and IN % with the continuous further development of their competences. It is not only that we thereby avoid workplace Europe 60 accidents, we also make an overall contribution to the Americas 16 satisfaction of our employees. However, we also under­ Asia/Oceania 17 stand the term “social responsibility” to mean our duty Africa/Middle East 7 to respect internationally applicable human rights at our locations and in our supply chain. By signing the UN Global Compact in 2011, we committed ourselves HEADCOUNT BY DIVISION to “supporting and respecting the protection of inter­ IN % nationally proclaimed human rights” (principle 1) and to “making sure that we are not complicit in human rights Franke Kitchen Systems 56 abuses” (principle 2). Franke Foodservice Systems 19 Franke Water Systems 15 Responsibility for labor practices at Franke Group lies Franke Coffee Systems 5 with the Chief Human Resources Officer who reports Group functions 5 directly to the CEO of Franke Group. Furthermore, the HR Committee of the Board of Directors supervises HR-related activities. The responsibility for raising aware­ an authori­tative source of guidance on various topics ness and controlling internal human rights issues (e. g. in the area of occupational health and safety. These non-discrimination, equal opportunities and divers­ity, policies, how­ever, also regulate the handling of (sexual) freedom of association and the right to collective bar­ harassment, non-discrimination, equal opportunities gaining) rests with Corporate Compliance and Human and diversity, employee relations, and compliance with Resources for all of Franke Group locations. The purchas­fundamental labor standards. ing functions integrate continuous requirements to the effect that human rights and fundamental labor standards The Franke values of Enable People, Foster Teamwork, must be respected in the supply chain. Act Entrepreneurial, Deliver Solutions, and Be Accountable are lived through the actions of every employee. We We aim to conduct business in line with high ethical expect our leaders to translate their words into deeds, and moral standards. Our Code of Conduct and internal creating an environment where employees feel inspired policies define our business principles and serve as to give their best, and contribute to developing new ideas. WORKFORCE IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2016 2015 % OF TOTAL 2016 DIFFERENCE Europe 5,138 5,189 60% –1.0% Thereof Switzerland 1,083 1,078 13% 0.4% Americas 1,332 1,312 16% 1.5% Asia/Oceania 1,484 1,507 17% –1.5% Africa/Middle East 622 707 7% –12 .0% Total 8,576 8,658 100% –1.0% Permanent employees 7,687 7,741 90% –0.7% Temporary employees 694 708 8% –2.0% Apprentices 195 209 2% –7.0% Total 8,576 8,658 100% –1.0% 25 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Total workforce The Franke Academy is the main driver for employee Franke Group maintained an average of 8,576 full-time development within the company. It is an advanced employees (FTE) during 2016, thus 1.8% less than in training platform focusing on three key areas: Leader2015. The reduction in FTEs is mainly due to restructurship, knowledge, and behavior. It supports all employees ing measures in the Middle East, Germany, Switzerland and executives in obtaining the necessary tools and and South Africa. targeted knowledge, thereby building high-performing teams that are champions in their core disciplines. Employee turnover rate Franke employees’ personal and professional goals are The average employee turnover rate (of permanent supported through regular feedback, learning programs, employees) was 9% in 2016 (11% in 2015). The figures and development opportunities. on page 28 show the number of permanent leaving employees in 2016 and the turnover rate by regions. 2016 saw the completion of the process to set personal and financial targets for 1,050 office employees. This process was launched the previous year. In addition, a new HR pro­cess for talent management and succes­ EXECUTIVE STAFF DEVELOPMENT sion planning (TMSP) was introduced in 2016. As part of this, employees are systematically appraised, talents are identified, and po­tential succession activities are The different human resources (HR) functions support the envisioned. entire employment cycle, from recruiting, performing and developing to succession planning. Employees are trained, Programs for skills management and lifelong learning developed, and promoted from within. Franke has set Franke is a company built on ideas. At Franke, ideas itself the goal of achieving a 70% internal promotion rate. are nurtured right from the start, so that they grow into FRANKE FOSTERS TALENT Franke fosters talent with an phase of the process was carried Learning: For this, the candidates integrated approach, the Talent & out in all divisions and group funcdevelop their skills further by workSuccession Review process, tions in 2016. “Thanks to the new ing on a real, individual project. 16 and the One Franke Talent Proprocess, internal talent will be proemployees completed the program, gram (OFTP). moted in a more targeted fashion, which started in 2016. They underoffering unique career opportunities, went three modules, concluding Franke took a major step in 2016 binding talented individuals to the the program in February 2017 with in Talent Management. First, company”, says Christoph Unterbrink, a presentation before the Managewe introduced “Success Factors”, Head HR for Franke Kitchen Sysment Board. All the participants are the modern HR Talent Management tems and Operations and Head of convinced that, thanks to the OFTP, solution. This makes it possible to Global Network of Excellence for the they have become more successful control such processes as target Identify & Develop Division. In addias management staff and feel more agreement, employee development tion, vacant positions would become closely tied to Franke as a result. or succession planning. Second, more transparent. “This helps us reas of last year, we have also been duce the departure of talent if a po­ focusing on the One Franke strate­ sition is not available in the current gy with the inter-divisional and working environment but who could inter-functional Talent and Succesbe deployed at other locations within sion Review process. As part of Franke Group.” this, the current performance of the individual is assessed, the potential The One Franke Talent Program for development is discussed, and (OFTP) even goes a step further for afterwards potential successors for talented, career-oriented employa position are established. A test ees. It is based on the idea of Action innovative products and services that make the everysitions enables us to inform our employees of career day something special, just like our slogan says – Make opportunities and to increase the rate of internal pro­ It Wonderful. Employees are developed at every level motions. and career stage which allows Franke to advance as a company. Through multi-faceted development programs, we strive to unfold the full potential of our professionals In 2015, a new competency appraisal process was rolled and executives. The initiatives launched under the out that is closely linked to the Franke values and fosters umbrella of the Franke Academy are long-term developen communication and bilateral feedback. Personal opment projects. We intend to pursue the success commitment is honored by rewarding performance and of the executive development efforts with the aid of offering challenging careers with international scope. the worldwide Employee Engagement Survey that we The One Franke Talent Program (OFTP) aims to offer carried out for the first time in 2016. talented, ambitious employees the opportunity to develop their skills under the auspices of a real project and to promote exchanges with one another and with Senior Management. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Employees receive performance and career development reviews Franke places strong emphasis on health & safety. The Franke Group supports the personal and professional goal of the Franke Group Management Board is that development of individual employees. Open dialogues all production companies implement and certify between employee and manager are strongly encouraged an occupational health and safety management system and provide opportunities to give and receive regular (OHSAS 18001). By the end of 2016, 28 out of 39 profeedback. Our global HR tools support us in ensuring our duction companies were certified according to the employees’ employment period is structured in the best standard OHSAS 18001. Furthermore, additional efforts possible way. The results of regular meetings between have been undertaken to centralize data collection and employ­ees and their supervisors – such as in the context to scrutinize it even more closely. of the personal target agreement (Management Investive Plan) or Competency Appraisal – can also be recorded Accidents, injuries, fatalities systematically. The lost day rate (LDR, lost days per 100 employees) was 120 in 2016, down from 159 in 2015. The LDR Furthermore, a process was initiated in 2016 for Talent is calculated as days lost due to occupational accidents Management and Succession Planning. Identifying or diseases (9,134 lost working days in 2016), divided our internal talent and potential successors in key po­ by the working hours (15.2 million hours in 2016), multiDIVERSITY: FEMALE EMPLOYEES IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2016 % OF TOTAL 2016 % OF TOTAL 2015 Franke Group Management Board 0 0% 0% Senior Management 2 3% 1% Employees (mainly office employees) 1,244 38% 31% Total office employees 1,558 35% 31% FULL-TIME POSITIONS WITH TARGET AGREEMENT (WITH MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN) IN % OF TOTAL FEMALE MALE SUM Management Board Franke Group 0 0.1 0.1 Senior Management 0.03 0.8 0.8 Further employees with MIP 4.0 9.4 13.3 Further employees without MIP 21.4 64.3 85.8 Total 25.4 74.6 100 27 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 DIFFERENCE 2015 2014 2016/2015 Lost days due to occupational accidents or diseases 9,134 –20% 11,941 12,859 Lost Day Rate (LDR)* 120 –24.5% 159 174 Number of injuries 200 –1% 202 NA Fatal accidents 0 0% 0 0 Production companies certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001 28 3.7% 27 20 * Lost day rate (LDR) = Days lost due to occupational accidents or diseases, divided by the working hours, multiplied by 200,000 (50 working weeks at 40 hours per 100 employees). By using this factor, the resulting rate is related to the number of employees, not the number of hours. plied by 200,000 (50 working weeks at 40 hours per Human rights aspects in investment agreements 100 employees). The Group-wide absenteeism rate was There are no significant investment agreements or 2.8% in 2016 and was thus the same as the previous contracts which include human rights clauses or which year. No fatal accidents were recorded in 2016 (as was underwent human rights screening. the case in prior years). Employee training courses Thanks to centralized data collection, we have the posIn 2016, at least six training courses on the subject of sibility of assessing occupational health and safety compliance (including human rights) were carried out for data even more rapidly. This means that in the future we employees. Franke employees worldwide have access to shall have the opportunity to compare the data at the the Code of Conduct that is available in 12 languages. The Group level to be able to initiate targeted measures for Code of Conduct has been presented to all employees. minimizing occupational and health risks. Incidents of discrimination The Franke Group Code of Conduct fundamentally forbids discrimination because of gender, age, color, naHUMAN RIGHTS tional origin, race, religion, disability or any other legally protected personal characteristic. However, security rules may restrict certain task areas to specific indi­vid­ In its Code of Conduct, Franke Group commits to reuals. specting and fully complying with all applicable laws and re­gulations and to supporting international human Guarantee of freedom of association and as well as fundamental labor regulations as defined in collective bargaining the International Labor Organization’s Declaration In its Code of Conduct, Franke Group commits to re­ on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Franke specting the rights of its employees to freedom of assoGroup’s Supplier Code requires that all suppliers and ciation and collective bargaining within the boundaries their respective supply chain comply with requirements of the local law. The Supplier Code of Conduct of Franke regarding employment practices, environmental pro­ Group furthermore requires that all suppliers and their tection and business integrity. respective supply chain respect the rights of employees EMPLOYEE TURNOVER: LEAVING PERMANENT EMPLOYEES IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2016 TURNOVER RATE 2015 TURNOVER RATE 2016 2015 Europe 402 9% 360 8% Americas 48 4% 69 6% Asia/Oceania 214 16% 303 20% Africa/Middle East 57 10% 118 19% Total 721 9% 850 11% Definition: The fluctuation rate is calculated as follows: All full-time equivalents who have left the company in the previous 12 months in the course of natural fluctuation (terminations, retirements, etc.). 28 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY to freely associate and bargain collectively, free of any FTES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT BY REGION IN 2016 restrictions or consequences. IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS PERMANENT TEMPORARY Risk of and precautionary measures against child labor and forced labor Europe 4,533 463 In its Code of Conduct, Franke Group commits to Thereof Switzerland 970 27 respect fundamental labor laws. Neither child labor nor Americas 1,199 113 forced labor is tolerated. Asia/Oceania 1,361 93 Africa/Middle East 594 25 The Supplier Code of Conduct of Franke Group requires Total 7,687 694 that all suppliers and their respective supply chain reject forced, bonded, prison, military or compulsory labor or any form of human trafficking. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Compensation and benefits We estimate that around half of the total workforce is Franke Group essentially grants the same benefits to currently covered by collective agreements (e. g. colfull-time and part-time employees. However, employlective labor agreements, wage agreements). In Austria, ees with temporary contracts are not always entitled France, Germany, Italy and Switzerland, over 90% of to the same benefits as permanent employees. Franke employees are governed by a collective labor or wage Group bases its employee benefits on country-specific agreement. There are no collective agreements with standards. employees in the US and China (19% of total workforce). EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING AS THE TOP PRIORITY Satisfied employees are Franke’s ment personnel, solid company form. Thanks to the survey, Franke greatest asset. That’s why, in practices, personal appreciation, now has direction to set up the cor2016, for the first time, the comand fair wages in addition to an rect framework, following the path pany asked its employees across attractive corporate environment. to even more commitment. After the world what they would all, employee well-being is Franke’s improve. Due to the results of the survey, greatest asset. Franke is convinced Franke would like to improve in sevthat commitment is a businessFranke places great importance on eral areas – such as in personal derelevant topic. For this reason, the the opinions of its employees. The velopment opportunities. Employees CEO and the Management Board company would like to know what ought to be aware of opportunities supported the survey from the very motivates and worries employees. for development. With this goal in beginning. That’s why Franke AUSTRITTE 2016 carried out its mind, Franke aims to further foster first Employee Engagement Survey transparency between supervisors, inIN2016. VOLLZEITÄQUIVALENTEN (VZÄ) The goal: Identifying poemployees, and Human Resources. tential for improvement. The survey Another topic is personal recogniEuropa measures employee commitment 402 tion. Open and honest feedback and the underlying factors. Based 48 Nord-/Südamerika should be integrated to a greater on theAsien/Ozeanien results, Franke improves the214 degree in everyday work. This is Afrika/Naher conditions for even Osten more commit57 because it has been demonstrated ment on the part of employees. 721 Total that companies with high employee Studies identify the following driving engagement are more successful. factors: A flawless corporate reputaThey generate higher profits and intion, highly promising opportunities crease customer satisfaction, empfor the future, exemplary manageloyee loyalty, and the ability to per29 FRANKE GRUPPE NACHHALTIGKEITSBERICHT 2016 SOZIALE VERANTWORTUNG 30 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY economy 32 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ECONOMY Healthy profitability and financial stability are the permanent mainstays of our entrepreneurial actions. The Group Management Board and the owner are interested in Franke Groups long-term performance. As part of a global value chain, our performance has an impact not only on our own company but also is a PROFITABILITY central element for the success of our numerous longterm suppliers and partners. Furthermore, at Franke we focus on high ethical standards in the exercise of Taking into account economic performance, the market our business activities; integrity and compliance are situation, and other factors, the strategies at Franke therefore of central importance. At Franke Group, Group and its divisions are reviewed regularly and modi­ economic performance, market presence, and indirect fied as required. In the interest of maintaining profiteconomic impacts fall under the strategic supervision ability, we have implemented not only timely reviews but of the Board of Directors and the operative managealso long-term planning. For the timely reviews, we have ment of Franke Group – the Group Management Board. implemented a monthly review cycle of the course(s) The Management Board of Franke Group supervises of action being pursued by management. The monthly compliance activities. Franke performs permanent results at the division level are consolidated and remonitoring in the context of internal risk management viewed in these cycles in order to be able to initiate conin order to identify business-relevant risks at an trol measures in a prompt manner should signs appear early stage. of a deviation in course away from the annual goals. PREVENTION, IDENTIFICATION, AND CONTROL Compliance is indispensable for Holding monitor compliance. In 2016, duct, applicable laws or sensitive sustainable success. Franke has Franke introduced a Compliance ethical matters. For this reason, they therefore expanded its compliManagement System based on the can contact the SpeakUp@Franke ance activities and introduced a pillars of prevention, identification, integrity line, their direct supervisor, Compliance Management System. and control. specialist departments or the local Compliance Officer – “Identification”, Compliance consists of upholding Prevention through training is the the second pillar. The third pillar, of legal and internal provisions. A first “Prevention” pillar of the new “Control”, focuses on improvement company cannot achieve sustainable compliance culture. Training courses measures, checks and sanctions. success unless it acts in accordance and e-learning courses for comCompliance culture is intended to with regulations. Incorrect behavior pliance risks for raising awareness make the employees’ work easier – leads to damage to company image, were compiled in 2016. We develby informing them about what is perfines, and losses of orders. We thereoped more in-depth programs mitted and what is not. fore strengthen the understanding for executive individuals to address of our employees for compliance with violations of anti-trust law and corthe laws governing corruption, antiruption. In addition, controls and new trust law, product requirements, comlocal points of contact have been mercial copyrights of third part­ies, established. In order to identify data privacy, and trade restrictions. violations in good time, Franke also has a reporting requirement: Severe We introduced our Code of Conduct misconduct must be reported. worldwide in 2013. Not only the This means that employees can file Franke Management Board but also reports when they suspect grave the Audit Committee at Artemis violations of the Franke Code of Con33 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 XXX In the middle-to-long term, we have an annual internal KEY FIGURES planning and budgeting process, each of which con­ IN CHF M 2016 20151 DIFR siders the next three years. In our business strategy for 2020, we have set ourselves a target profitability of 12% EBIT. We would like to achieve this with organic Net sales 2,036.6 1,877.2 8.5% growth, acquisitions, and increases in efficiency in all Organic growth2 10.6% 1.0% 9.6% functions. EBIT 156.8 99.8 40.6% Investments 183.0 63.1 190.1% Franke Group achieved a pleasing annual result in Employees average 8,576 8,736 –1.8% the reporting year. It achieved consolidated net sales of 1 Franke Group restated excluding Blefa 2 Deviation in percentage points CHF 2.0 billion in 2016 in comparison with CHF 1.9 billion in 2015, thereby recording a sales rise of 8.5%. In 2016, Franke increased its adjusted operating result (EBIT) before restructuring by 40.6% to CHF 156.8 million. Offered in 26 languages, the Integrity Line serves as Organic growth was CHF 199.6 million or 10.6%. In com­an important tool and contributes to the upholding of parison with the market, we saw an above-average perhigh compliance standards. formance and exceeded our own targets. Analysis of business units for risks of corruption The Internal Audit department carried out eight on-site audits in 2016 (the same number as in 2015). Yet, these BUSINESS INTEGRITY audits do not particularly focus on risks related to corruption. The Franke Code of Conduct was last updated in 2013. Anti-corruption policies training All Franke employees commit to observing the highest In 2016, the training concept for employees with regard ethical standards of professional and personal conduct to compliance (including anti-corruption policy and in their interactions with customers, colleagues, busiprocedures) was set up and six training courses were ness partners, competitors, regulators and the commuheld. The employees were informed of this via internal nities in which Franke operates. Compliance with laws publications such as OneFranke, the employee magaand regulations is additionally promoted by the Group zine, and the intranet. Franke employees worldwide Compliance Officer of Franke Group, a member of have access to the Code of Conduct that is available in the Group Legal & Compliance department, and located 12 languages. Furthermore, in 2016 we revived comin Switzerland. The Internal Audit department carries munication via the SpeakUp@Franke integrity line for out the compliance processes at the individual sites. In raising employee awareness. addition, the SpeakUp@Franke integrity line established in 2013 can be used by all employees to report integrity Political positions and exercise of influence concerns in a confidential and anonymous manner. In Franke Group issues no political statements and does the event of misconduct, corrective measures are taken. not involve itself in political lobbying. 34 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ECONOMY Product responsibility 36 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The customer pays us for our products and services. This is why we take up the constant challenge of ensuring our products and services represent added value for our customers. The reliability and longevity of our products offer oppor­ ments: Product Development, Quality, Marketing, Risk tu­nities to conserve limited resources and support the Management, and Legal. At the end of 2016, 38 out of perception of our company as a quality provider in the 39 production sites had implemented a quality managemarket. We are able to maintain our leading market posiment system certified in accordance with ISO 9001. Our tion only through ongoing innovation and by upholding quality management systems help to ensure compliance the highest of standards with respect to quality and safewith compulsory technical and other standards. Furtherty. The latter are the basic prerequisites for safe utilizamore it leads to a continuous improvement process. tion of our products. The greatest impacts of product responsibility are consequently to be seen in the utilization phase at the customer location. Not only technical modifications regarding product safety, but also the RELIABILITY AND LONGEVITY topics of innovation, reliability, and longevity have an OF THE PRODUCTS indirect effect on the upstream stages. The longevity of the products in particular supplies an important contri­ We focus on the reliability and longevity of our products. bution to the conservation of resources. At Franke, prod­This means, on the one hand, that we ensure the high uct responsibility is assigned to a variety of departrequirements of our customers with respect to quality SAVING ENERGY WITH A++ Franke furnishes its products with laboratories. The Frames by Franke tions and are therefore particularly state-of-the-art technology. Best Multifunctional oven is the first stanenvironmentally friendly. example: The Frames by Franke dard oven assigned the A++ energy Multifunctional oven with energy efficiency category. That means: The The oven produced by Frames by efficiency category A++. device belongs to the second-highFranke is a next-generation product. est energy efficiency category and Thanks to the A++ energy efficiency Franke not only assumes responsi­ is therefore exceptionally low-concategory, not only is energy conbility in the areas of the environment, sumption. In accordance with the sumption reduced, but the user also society, and the economy. The com­energy label, the energy consumpsaves on energy costs over the long pany also imposes duties on itself tion of the oven is 1.12 kWh per term. at the time of product development. baking process in the conventional The goal: The manufacture of ener­function type, i.e. heating above and gy-efficient products which protect below, and 0.53 kWh per baking the environment as much as possible process in the recirculating function during operation. Franke therefore type. These values reflect the numstrives to equip its products with ber of kilowatt hours required for state-of-the-art technology. A study the items being baked to reach the by the renowned AE Test Institute required core temperature. from Italy documents the energy efficiency of the Frames by Franke Furthermore, the oven is equipped Multifunctional oven Touch FS 913 M. with two particularly energy-conIn its own test, the Institute confirm­ serving operating modes: Slow cooked the energy efficiency tests that ing and hot air consume less elec­ Franke had performed in its own tricity than the other cooking func37 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 XXX while at the same time making a contribution to the incidents of safety insufficiency during the 2016 reportcon­servation of resources. With our products we find ing period. Countermeasures were implemented for ourselves in high-quality segments. Therefore, we have the respective products. We uphold our high standards implemented a wide variety of measures for quality with respect to the health & safety of our products. assurance in Product Development and Production. In the future, we shall also continue to review our new Among other things, we perform Failure Mode and Effect developments and product modifications for impacts on Analyses (FMEA) in order to avoid errors and to enhance health & safety against the precautionary principle. By the technical reliability of our products. Furthermore, centralizing quality management, we have furthermore since 2016, regular exchange has been taking place be­laid the corner stone to ensure the transfer of knowltween production and quality managers at a global level edge throughout the Group and to collect and evaluate in order to streamline the processes and for each to data for the Controlling Department in this division even learn from the respective experiences of the other. Promore systematically. ducts that do not pass our internal tests are either forwarded to a revision process or disassembled in cases of major deficiencies in order to recycle the raw mate­ rials wherever possible. Furthermore, we are able to PRODUCT INNOVATION investigate process quality via the systematic surveying of percentages of rejects. For Franke, innovation is one of the most important The reliability, and in particular the longevity of our prerequisites for future success. The Innovation, Market­ products, is evidenced by the many years of use at the ing and Design Board (IMD) is the driving force behind locations of our customers. Many of our products have innovation at Franke, meeting four times annually. The been in use for decades. In order for us to be able to IMD controls and makes decisions regarding innovation track this, even outside our factory gates, we have begun projects and provides a network of individuals both inside in the last year to collect systematic key figures regardand outside Franke to implement these projects. Thus, for ing assembly defects and service incidents. We are example, we schedule so-called Innovation Days under hoping that these key figures will provide us with better the auspices of the IMD and bring in stakeholders from insights into the effective duration of our products. We other areas such as technical universities or startups in want to derive appropriate further development meaorder to promote the culture of innovation at Franke. sures for our products and production process from this Our standardized innovation process helps us to convert information. We have made it our goal to include these new ideas into innovation projects and to foster these. key figures as indicators of reliability and longevity in our sustainability reports. In addition to product innovation, however, process or production innovation is also an important cornerstone of our success. This is how we promote efficiency enhancement, particularly to save costs and minSAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS imize resource consumption. Robotization and LEAN man­agement are key topic areas for our innovation activities. Our innovation efforts are showing success. Practically all of our products are associated with either Three Franke products were awarded the coveted iF the preparation of food or the utilization of water. They Design Award in 2016. At the end of 2016, we furthermust therefore comply with a multitude of technical and more had 60 innovation projects undergoing developfood safety-specific regulations. Franke is following the ment in various maturity stages, throughout the entire precautionary principle as part of its quality man­age­­ment range of areas of activity within our Group. to ensure that all products comply with health & safety requirements. Consequently, we set high standards for Practices related to customer satisfaction the preparation of food or water. The divisions and companies in Franke Group survey customer satisfaction in different ways. Surveying and As is also the case with reliability and longevity, we securing is a part of quality management and follows rely here on certified quality management systems at clearly defined procedures. While some companies our production sites. Comprehensive data regarding in the Group carry out customer surveys on their own, incidents having health & safety impacts for the entire others rely on standardized surveys provided by third Franke Group does not yet exist. In Kitchen Systems, parties. Performance improvement plans are routinely the largest of our divisions, we recorded four customer developed for those questions with the weakest results. 38 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Appendix 40 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 APPENDIX REPORT PARAMETERS Reporting period Production: Energy efficiency, resource efficiency, This report covers the 2016 fiscal year (January 1 to water, and waste water management December 31, 2016). Information from previous years is Employees: Executive development, occupational included where deemed necessary to give the reader a safety comprehensive picture of Franke’s approach to sustainProducts: Resource efficiency, longevity and reliability, ability and performance. Information not from 2016 is health & safety impacts of products, product innovaclearly marked as such. tion P  rofitability Date of the most recent previous report Franke Group’s 2015 Sustainability Report was published Additional topics which are regarded as important for in August 2016. For reports from previous years, see: Franke and for our stakeholders: Customer service, ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Sustainability sales excellence, risk management, personnel development, and employee participation, supply chain manageReporting cycle ment, and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, Franke Group publishes a sustainability report every which are also briefly touched upon in this report. year. Publication of the next report is planned no later than August 2018. Limits of the report, joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced operations, etc. Process for defining report content This report covers the entire Franke Group. If only part The Core option of the newly introduced GRI-Standards of the company is being referenced (as mentioned was followed for determining report content and for in an example or due to the availability of data), this is defining the priorities for Franke. The basis for our susclearly indicated. This report does not cover outsourced tainability reporting is a materiality analysis to identify operations. Although legally still a part of Franke Group, aspects that are of significance to Franke and our stakeFranke Beverage Systems was calculated out of Franke holders and which have the greatest impact on Franke. Group and has a new reporting line to Artemis Group, The relevant stakeholders and their most important effective as of January 2016. In addition, there were the interests are described on page 13. following two changes in connection with joint ventures, subsidiaries or outsourced operations during the period Franke performed a second materiality analysis as under review: First, Franke acquired 25% of Duravit AG, preparation for this Sustainability Report and in view of Germany, in April 2016. Secondly, in May 2016, the the adoption of the newly introduced GRI-Standards. Franke Group acquired a 55% share in the long-estabThe previous topics were checked with respect to their lished Mamoli Robinetteria S.p.A. company from Milan, completeness and subsequently qualitatively assessed a manufacturer of taps. by a group of internal experts regarding their relevance to Franke’s stakeholders and with respect to their essenData measurement techniques and bases tial economic, ecological, and social impacts. In order for calculations to take into account to a greater extent inclusion of the Franke has been measuring non-financial data for many stakeholders and the consideration of the sustainability years. However, consolidation of non-financial data, context, Franke plans to perform a validation of the according to the GRI indicators at group level, was first material topics and their limits in view of the upcoming conducted for the 2011 fiscal year. sustainability reports. For this report, financial, headcount and environmental The sustainability topics listed below account for data (energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water, material special points of focus in our Sustainability Report and waste sources) was extracted from the COGNOS for 2016: system. Occupational health and safety data was collect­41 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 APPENDIX ed with a Group-wide reporting tool. Specific employee factors provided by the companies. The relative environdata, covering approximately 40% of the total workforce mental and occupational health and safety data at group (mainly office workers), was extracted from the HR tool. level was calculated by dividing the absolute values by Environmental and occupational health and safety data the net sales in Swiss francs. for the 2016 fiscal year was reported by all production, services, and sales companies. The data regarding water Effects of any restatements of information provided and waste water were collected on the basis of the in­ in earlier reports voices of the communal water supply or other suppliers. No restatements exist. The greenhouse gas emissions for fossil energy (heating GRI reference oil, natural gas, diesel and gasoline; Scope 1 as defined This report was created in compliance with the GRI by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) are based on emission Standards: Core Option. factors from the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment. The greenhouse gas emissions for electricity and External assurance for the report district heat (Scope 2) were calculated with the emission No external assurance was obtained for this report. 42 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 APPENDIX GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND REMARK GENERAL DISCLOSURE GRI 102: General Organizational profile Disclosures (2016) 102-1 Name of the organization 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6–7 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 102-4 Location of operations 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form 14 102-6 Markets served 6–7 102-7 Scale of the organization 6 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 25 – 30 1 102-9 Supply chain 8 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 41 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 12 102-12 External initiatives 12 102-13 Membership of associations 12 – 13 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4–5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 12 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 11 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 13 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 29 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13 – 14 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 13 – 14 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 14 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 41 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 41 102-47 List of material topics 41 102-48 Restatements of information 42 102-49 Changes in reporting 41 102-50 Reporting period 41 102-51 Date of most recent report 41 102-52 Reporting cycle 41 43 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 APPENDIX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND REMARK GRI 102: General 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 46 Disclosures (2016) 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 42 102-55 GRI content index 43 – 45 102-56 External assurance 42 MATERIAL TOPICS Energy efficiency in production GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 17 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 17 – 18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 – 20 GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-3 Energy intensity 17 – 18, 20 – 21 GRI 305: Emissions (2016) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 18, 21 Water, waste water GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 17, 18 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 17, 18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 – 20 GRI 303: Water (2016) 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 18, 21 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Waste (2016) 18, 21 2 Material efficiency in production GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 17, 18 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 17, 18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 – 20 GRI 301: Materials (2016) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 22 3 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste (2016) 22 4 Resource-efficient products (energy) GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 17, 19 – 20 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 17, 19 – 20 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 – 20 GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 5 Executive staff development GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 25 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 25 – 27 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26 – 27 GRI 404: Training and 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Education (2016) career development reviews 27 Occupational safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 25, 27 – 28 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 25, 27 – 28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27 – 28 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Health and Safety (2016) lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 27 – 28 6 44 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 APPENDIX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND REMARK Profitability GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 33 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 33 – 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 Own Indicator Operating result (EBIT) 34 Reliability and longevity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 37 – 38 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 37 – 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38 Own Indicator Indicator in development Safety impacts of products GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 37, 38 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 37, 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38 GRI 416: Customer Health 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health & safety and Safety (2016) impacts of products and services 38 7 Product innovation GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 37, 38 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 37, 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38 Own Indicator Number of innovation projects 38 Exclusions and remarks 1 As a result of the current system landscape, some itemizations 5 The data for the assessment of the lowering of the energy recould not yet be implemented. We are working to set up quirements of our products is not yet available. We are working corresponding surveys with the aim of being able to report on to set up corresponding surveys with the objective of being this in 2019. able to report on this in 2020. 2 The data for an itemization according to the disposal method 6 The information regarding the type of injuries and the data is not yet available. We are working to set up corresponding for the calculation of occupational sickness rates and for the surveys with the aim of being able to report on this in 2019. itemization according to gender and region are not yet available. We are working to set up corresponding surveys with the 3 The most important product materials are included, all of which aim of being able to report on this in 2019. originate from non-renewable sources. 7 The reported cases all correspond to criterion iii in accordance 4 The data for an itemization according to the disposal method is with the GRI Standard. not yet available. We are working to set up corresponding surveys with the aim of being able to report on this in 2019. 45 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 APPENDIX CONTACT Should you have any questions concerning sustainability at Franke Group in general, please contact: Bruno Triet Head of Risk, Sustainability & Real Estate Management ▸ bruno.triet@franke.com Kirill Bourovoi Manager Group Sustainability Group Head of Learning & Development ▸ kirill.bourovoi@franke.com 46 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CONTACT Publisher Franke Holding AG Franke-Strasse 2 4663 Aarburg Switzerland Editor Nikolaj Fischer, Josephine Herzog (BSD Consulting) Jessica Erb (Franke) Ingrid Diener, Gérard Moinat, Lara Surber (Swisscontent AG) Image credits istock/Debbi Smirnoff (p. 23) Balz Murer (p. 1, 2, 31) plainpicture/Yvonne Röder (p. 35) Shutterstock (cover, p. 1, 2, 32) Thinkstock (cover, p. 15, 39) Franke Conception/Realization Swisscontent AG, Zurich Print/Lithography Vögeli AG, Langnau i. E. Digicom Digitale Medien AG, Effretikon/Zurich Cradle to Cradle Certified™ is a certification mark licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. Franke Holding AG Franke-Strasse 2 4663 Aarburg Switzerland www.franke.com
