We Care SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Wilmar International Limited About This Design At Wilmar International Limited, we care about sustainability and remain committed to nurturing a liveable future. As a key player in the global palm oil industry, we strive to achieve a strong triple bottom line within a social, environmental and financial accounting framework. Our business practices are aligned with universally acceptable standards, which guides us towards achieving profitability while safeguarding the environment and labour rights. We care enough to lead by example. Wilmar was the first in the industry to launch our No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation (NDPE) Policy (“Policy”) in December 2013. This Policy extends beyond operations to encompass our entire supply chain, including third-party suppliers. Wilmar also invests substantial resources to address deforestation, improve labour practices and strengthen social issues across our supply chain. Our continuous effort to uphold the highest standards and protocols include collaborations with subject matter experts to help us drive positive change across the industry. To this end, Wilmar has partnered with Verité Southeast Asia, an independent global advocate for workers which ensures that people worldwide work under safe, fair and legal working conditions. In all that we do, we do with heart. We believe in building a conducive and cohesive work environment for our people, thereby empowering them to deliver the best in all that they do. The design for this Sustainability Report reinforces our commitment to our people. Be it staff in our corporate offices, workers in the oil palm fields or the children we support through community outreach programmes; we care about making a positive impact by making things right. We are proud of the employees, their families and the local community members who are featured in all the images of people in this report. About This Contents Report 01 About This Report 10 Chairman and CEO's Statement 12 Report Review by Proforest 14 Achievements and Targets 15 About Wilmar 16 Global Presence 18 Vertically Integrated Business Model 20 Financial Highlights Sustainability Report 2016 22 Corporate Governance 23 Palm Oil Operations 26 Our Approach to Sustainability Scope and boundary 28 Sustainability Management and Governance Structure W ilmar International Limited (‘Wilmar’ or ‘the Group’) has 30 Sustainability Certification 31 Supply Chain and Traceability sought to apply the guidance of Global Reporting Index (GRI) Sustainability Standards on the boundary settings, focusing on 37 Engagement and Empowerment 40 Sustainability Governance and Ethics 01 performance data and reporting on aspects that are most significant, as reflected in our No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation Wilmar International Limited (NDPE) Policy. We will report on the implementation progress against our policies with regards to crude palm oil (CPO) and lauric suppliers, 41 Protecting Our Environment as well as fresh fruit bunches (FFB) suppliers. While we now have 41 No Deforestation better insights into the performance of our key suppliers, we have 43 Conservation and Wildlife not included these in our metrics as such information is subject to 45 Promoting Zero Burn Practices confidentiality agreements. 46 Reducing Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions The performance metrics detailed in this report are focused on 49 Safeguarding Water Quality Wilmar’s global palm oil operations in our upstream business. As such, 51 Reducing Chemicals Use we are primarily focused on the performance of our own plantations in Indonesia, Malaysia and Africa, as these are the most scrutinised among our activities and the key concern of our stakeholders. 53 Respecting and Empowering People 53 No Exploitation The performance data disclosed does not cover: 59 Lost Time Incident Rate and Fatality • Operations in which Wilmar has 50% ownership or less, or those 60 Smallholders in which the Group does not have management control. 62 Community Relations and Conflict • The Group’s other upstream and downstream activities outside of Resolution oil palm plantations and mills (in particular suppliers and refineries), including in Indonesia, Malaysia and Africa. • Unplanted areas inside Group plantations for environmental figures, except for conservation areas and fire incidents. 64 Base Data 69 GRI Index Reporting period 77 EY Assurance Statement This report covers performance data for the calendar year 2016, as well 80 Glossary as 5-year historical figures where available. Due to the fast-moving nature of the issues described, we have also included some information on 82 Contact progress in 2017 and have focused on activities planned for 2017–18. About This Report Process for determining report content Identification and Prioritisation S ince our last Sustainability Report 2015, we have retained our focus on the key aspects covered in our NDPE Policy. Through our in-depth engagement in multi-stakeholder We reviewed the major topics discussed in this report in various forums and engagements, and through email correspondence with stakeholders. We have also conducted interviews with initiatives in the palm oil industry and the broader agricultural stakeholders from the finance sector, the non-governmental sector, we believe these aspects reflect the general landscape. organisations (NGO)/technical support sector, as well as from While demands for sustainability performance are increasing, our third-party suppliers. the focus is on ensuring robust implementation of specific Policy commitments (e.g. traceability and no deforestation), In addition, we reviewed the aspects covered by other palmrather than the emergence of new focus areas. We have related initiatives, such as the High Carbon Stock (HCS) therefore chosen to retain our focus and seek to strengthen Approach Steering Group, the Zoological Society of London’s accountability in this report. (ZSL) Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency Initiative (SPOTT), CDP (formerly known as Carbon Disclosure Project), Ceres Reporting Guidance for Responsible Palm and the Fair and Free Labour Principles for Palm Oil Production. We Care We undertook a thorough review of our materiality matrix based on these latest developments. While no major new themes 02 have emerged, the relative impacts on Wilmar’s business and the interest of stakeholders have shifted somewhat over the past 18 months. Our 2016 materiality matrix has therefore been updated to reflect the volume of enquiries we receive Wilmar International Limited on specific issues, as well as the commercial impacts related to these. For example, labour standards have become an increasingly significant topic, while fires and haze, for example, have been less prominent on stakeholders' agendas in 2016. We have also made a minor change to the way we present our materiality matrix. We have eliminated ‘low’ priorities (e.g. philanthropy) and include only those topics that have some level of significance to both stakeholders and our business. Supplier/supply chain monitoring Labour conditions Importance to Wilmar’s external stakeholders Deforestation/High Carbon Stock (HCS) forest/High Conservation Value (HCV) area Pesticides and Transparency and chemical usage accountability Corporate Smallholder inclusiveness Community governance/ethics relations and Sustainability conflict resolution certification Supply chain Greenhouse gas transformation Wildlife (GHG) emissions conservation Fire and haze Water impacts Lost time incident Peat development rate & fatalities Community infrastructure investment Moderate Significant Priority Importance to Wilmar’s business Validation and Review Assurance We validate our material aspects and balance in reporting We have engaged Ernst & Young (EY) to perform assurance through three main processes: work on selected information disclosed in the report. The assurance provided by EY is for the use of the Management • Through the reporting process, continuously monitoring of Wilmar only. Any use or reliance by a third party on the said stakeholder concerns to ensure that these are covered assurance is at the third party’s own risk. Please refer to the by the report. section “EY Assurance Statement” for details. • Through advice from our report consultant, Helikonia, Sustainability Report 2016 based on their in-depth knowledge of the palm oil industry As sustainability reporting is an ongoing process, we chose to and stakeholders. disclose and to discuss some of the most pertinent material • Through reviews and commentary from Neil Judd, the issues for Wilmar and its stakeholders within the boundaries co-founder of Proforest, which is a leading technical of the report. Due to the inherent limitations of the internal support organisation in the sustainable palm oil space. control structure, it is possible that errors or irregularities in the information presented in this report may occur and not be detected. We endeavour to increase our efforts on the reporting process and present information in as complete and accurate manner as possible. We have decided to perform reviews on a limited scope of information disclosed in this Sustainability Report. Our aim 03 is to extend the scope of the assurance work and opinion in future Sustainability Reports. Wilmar International Limited Wilmar International Limited 04 We Care About The Workers We Employ Sijohn Harvester PT Daya Labuhan Indah Plantation, subsidiary of Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2016 I like working at the plantation because of the stable income. Other than the basic income, I also received housing facilities, education for my children, bonuses and more. Growing up, I 05 Wilmar International Limited had a hard life. I couldn’t go to school. I couldn’t pursue my dreams. But it isn’t the case for my children now. I want my children to receive an education so that their lives can be better than mine. I am proud of my daughter Ayu because she has many achievements, receives scholarships regularly and is well-liked by her teachers. I am proud of her. Wilmar International Limited 06 We Care About The Children We Support Julpian Zalukhu Student Wilmar-funded private school within the PT Gersindo Minang Plantation, subsidiary of Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2016 I like living here because I can meet and play with my friends everyday. My favourite subject is National Studies because 07 I want to know more about Indonesian laws. I want to be a Wilmar International Limited policeman because I want to keep Indonesia safe. We Care 08 About The Communities In Our Vicinity Wilmar International Limited Perpetua George General Manager Group Sustainability, Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2016 Workers form the backbone of our company, and we at Wilmar have the responsibility to ensure that we provide them a decent and safe place to live and work. It is important 09 Wilmar International Limited that we create communities in our plantations, to allow our workers to have an opportunity for career advancement, to lead a good quality life, as well as a conducive environment to raise families. Chairman of implementation, enabling companies to monitor and take action in their supply chains in real time. Yet, despite these positive changes, we are still witness to and CEO’s grave levels of deforestation and peatland destruction. And while support for sustainable palm oil is growing in many key markets, the uptake of unsustainable palm oil persists Statement in many parts of the world. From the outset of our sustainability journey we have aimed to set the highest example and contribute solutions to some of the world's most complex environmental and social challenges. While our focus on our own performance has remained undiminished, we have always recognised the need for broad changes across our sector as a whole. Collective action within our industry and along our supply I t gives me great pleasure to introduce Wilmar's Sustainability Report 2016. In the following pages, we present an overview of our activities, performance and challenges. We also set chains is critical for achieving this transformation, as are the support and partnerships we foster with governments, intergovernmental organisations and civil society. out our sustainability priorities and objectives for the future. The need for unity in the fight against deforestation has This, our fifth sustainability report, marks a shift in the never been more urgent. I am consequently discouraged frequency and focus of our sustainability disclosures. From to observe that companies that are taking the lead, that are now on we will publish an annual sustainability report in line setting the bar high, and that are operating transparently and We Care with the requirements of the Singapore Exchange (SGX) to accountably, continue to bear the brunt of attacks from nonensure our stakeholders are up-to-date on our sustainability governmental organisations (NGOs). I believe this situation strategies. We find these requirements timely as they coincide is unfair and unproductive. I also believe it discourages 10 with a louder call for transparency from stakeholders, as well as an unprecedented change of pace in the drive towards underperformers from stepping up their efforts for fear of making themselves a target. sustainability, both in our company and our industry as a whole. Despite this situation, we continue to be an energetic Wilmar International Limited The palm oil industry has changed more in the past 36 player in multi-stakeholder partnerships that are catalysing months than it has in the last 15 years. Within a very short transformation in the agri-business industry. We are a time, the majority of large palm oil and consumer sector longstanding member of the Roundtable on Sustainable companies have adopted No Deforestation, No Peat and Palm Oil and were a first mover in subscribing to the United No Exploitation (NDPE) policies, and many have begun Nations (UN) Global Compact. In recent years, we have implementing these policies in their supply chains. Technology also joined the global Tropical Forest Alliance (TFA 2020), a such as remote sensing is also increasing the speed and reach public-private alliance with a mission to mobilise collective action by financial, government and industry players to secure deforestation-free supply chains by 2020. Such collaborative multi-sector approaches enable us to leverage a wide range of expertise and local knowledge, expedite implementation processes, and offer assurance to civil society stakeholders. In the past year, the greatest success delivered by such an approach has been the convergence of the High Carbon Stock (HCS) Approach methodology. The collaboration between palm oil companies, including Wilmar, and NGOs in agreeing a unified approach to implementing No Deforestation policies is a significant step towards enabling the palm oil industry to meet its commitments. It also demonstrates what can be achieved through constructive discussion and trust. It was a long road, but one illuminated by the expertise, insights and goodwill of a wide range of private sector and civil society partners globally. At a more local level, I am encouraged by the formation of the Fire-Free Alliance, of which Wilmar is a founding member. The fire-free community programme, which seeks to educate, enable and empower villages against the use of fire, reached Kuok Khoon Hong 61 villages around Wilmar’s concessions in South Sumatra Our imperative for the future is therefore to support and engage in collective action across the full spectrum of sustainability. Not one of the UN Sustainable Development Goals will be achieved by a single actor, be that a government, company or civil society. Sustainability Report 2016 11 Wilmar International Limited and Central Kalimantan in 2016. This has contributed to a collective action from experts in the field, regulators, as well 90% reduction in fires in our concessions. as our peers, to ensure that the bar is raised for all workers, and that industry-wide solutions are developed and shared. For many years, sustainable agriculture initiatives were seen as solely a matter for the private sector and civil society. Our imperative for the future is therefore to support and engage However, as our experiences with both deforestation and in collective action across the full spectrum of sustainability. land rights issues have demonstrated, we need the public Not one of the UN Sustainable Development Goals will be sector to join us at the table. I am encouraged to observe that achieved by a single actor, be that a government, company several sub-national governments have actively embraced No or civil society. Deforestation commitments as an opportunity for increased investment and green growth. Starting with Sabah, Central We are willing to step up and do our part, but overall success Kalimantan and South Sumatra, more state governments will depend on agreed visions of sustainability supported by are realising the potential for improved land-use planning public policies, progress on land tenure, and enforcement and tenure clarification, as well as smallholder inclusion and of progressive regulations at national and regional levels. production practices. The need for supportive provincial The transformation towards sustainable palm oil supply regulations to enforce sustainable production practices is chains will require collective action from businesses, civil also becoming more widely recognised. society and governments. This is the only way to ensure that the industry can meet the growing demand for palm One of our greatest challenges in 2016 was the increased oil while contributing its share to national fiscal earnings focus on labour rights by NGOs and media outlets. While and socioeconomic development in production landscapes. working conditions are an important aspect of our NDPE Policy, a series of reports pointed to gaps in our industry. While we acknowledge that shortcomings exist, including in our operations, we also recognise that labour rights in plantations are complex to monitor due to the size and Kuok Khoon Hong remoteness of many workplaces, and in many jurisdictions there is limited oversight and enforcement of labour policies Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and regulations. As such, this is a challenge that also requires Wilmar International Limited Report Review by Proforest T his 2016 Sustainability Report continues Wilmar’s strong track record of transparency, and of evident commitment to a range of sustainability objectives across its palm oil operations. Some of the specific achievements that are reported on include RSPO certification of over 80% of the company’s plantation area in Indonesia, Malaysia and Ghana; set-aside of 12% of plantation land as conservation areas; involvement in a range of biodiversity conservation projects; and the continued development of the Fire-Free Alliance (FFA) community programme. We Care Rather than follow the approach of last year’s external review, which attempted a wide-ranging evaluation of progress across the full range of topics, this review focuses on a smaller number of themes, where opportunities for improvement 12 were identified last year. These key themes are: (1) the scope of the report, and the balance between Wilmar’s own operations and third parties; (2) the specific topics of labour Wilmar International Limited and working conditions, and smallholders; and (3) overall Neil Judd strategy and measurement of progress. Co-founder and Director, Proforest The Sustainability Report applies to the full scope of Wilmar’s Neil Judd is a co-founder and director of Proforest, a palm oil operations and supply base. This includes the company’s unique, non-profit group that supports organisations to own plantations, the company’s palm oil mills and their wider implement their responsible production and sourcing supply base, and third-party mills and their supply base. commitments. Proforest was established in 2000 and However, the emphasis is on Wilmar’s mills and plantations, works across a wide range of forest and agricultural and to a much lesser extent on third-party volumes. While it commodities, including pulp and paper, timber, palm is understandable that there is a focus on the company’s own oil, soy, sugar, rubber, beef and cotton. operations because of the high degree of control, given the proportion of Wilmar’s overall volumes that come from thirdNeil has extensive experience of delivering practical party suppliers it is very important to have a systematic review solutions to sustainability requirements and has over of both challenges and progress with these volumes and the 25 years’ experience of working with environmental implications for overall sustainability. This could be achieved certification and the responsible management of natural by supplementing the materiality matrix to detail the relative resources. Neil specialises in responsible sourcing, levels of risk in the third-party supply base, together with the and leads Proforest’s development and delivery of proportions of volumes being sourced through third parties, responsible sourcing strategy and implementation and then to set out the company’s strategy in relation to the to a range of corporate clients. His experience levels of influence that it is feasible and reasonable for Wilmar also includes managing the largest global forest to exert on these sources and timeframes for doing so. The certification programme and playing a leading role in report does refer to the Aggregator Refinery Transformation the development of sustainable palm oil certification. (ART) programme that applies to third-party mills, and to proactive independent monitoring of supplying companies Proforest has been working with Wilmar since 2010 and training activities for suppliers, which is useful, though in various ways to support the implementation of in future more information on timelines, effectiveness and the company’s sustainability programmes within its progress would add more depth. palm oil operations. Although the reporting of importance to both Wilmar’s business and to external stakeholders. This is mentioned and recognised in the report, again relates only to Wilmar’s which cites various specific examples of direct technical support to independent smallholders. As these programmes own operations, the level develop, more information on the planned level and timelines Sustainability Report 2016 of Wilmar’s proposed interventions to address independent of detail across some of the smallholder livelihood and sustainability challenges, as well as progress being made, would be helpful. key challenges and the clear The wider importance of multistakeholder collaboration, in commitment to address order to address underlying social and environmental impacts and achieve genuine sector transformation, is recognised in identified issues is extremely the report. This is correct and welcome, although the level of Wilmar’s current and potential future contribution to the positive. required efforts is not explored in detail. This applies to labour and smallholder initiatives as already noted, and also to other 13 options for potential involvement such as landscape-level Our review of Wilmar's 2015 performance noted a need for approaches to address deforestation and HCV protection. Wilmar International Limited a more robust approach to labour-related commitments. Although Wilmar has not yet defined specific indicators of Finally, there remains a need to provide a stronger strategic labour performance that it will be systematically reporting framework for the undoubted progress that Wilmar is making, against, this report does provide considerable detail on and reporting on, annually. This would include a more labour issues, including Wilmar’s overall approach to date and comprehensive set of practical key performance indicators detailed position on some issues. This is partly in response (KPIs), as the basis for ongoing monitoring and reporting. to specific grievances raised by stakeholders over the past Stakeholders are looking for clear evidence that the various year in relation to its operations in North Sumatra, but Wilmar activities are effectively building compliance with policy also takes the opportunity to provide a wider context on commitments, and that this is reflected by delivery of the performance in relation to topics such as wages, temporary expected positive impacts on the ground. This was identified workers, child labour, forced labour and safety. Although as desirable in last year’s review, and remains a key priority the reporting again relates only to Wilmar’s own operations, for action. This overarching observation does not reduce the the level of detail across some of the key challenges and the significance of the many impressive achievements to date, clear commitment to address identified issues is extremely but the recommended set of KPIs and roadmap would assist positive. There is a recognition that working conditions and Wilmar in both prioritising actions and in demonstrating the potential abuses are a systemic issue across the sector, and progress of implementation. that Wilmar needs to play a role in pre-competitive efforts to address this. The company is also to be commended for taking the initiative to instigate a multi-stakeholder process on labour rights and working conditions, collaborating initially with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) and Golden Agri-Resources (GAR). Neil Judd Co-founder and Director, Proforest The same review also highlighted the challenge represented by implementing policy commitments in the smallholder supply base. Indeed, Wilmar’s materiality matrix recognises smallholder inclusiveness as a significant issue in terms Achievements and Targets What we achieved in 2016 Completed field Trained 359 Completed nine Supported the Completed Trained 1,980 smallholders assessments on supplier methane capture certification of socialising “Fire in Honduras (suppliers to 24 mills and a participants on facilities at palm 2,700 independent Free Community” Wilmar’s refinery in Europe) representation of environmental oil mills; capable of smallholders to programme to on Wilmar’s No Deforestation, their supply base and social best potentially reducing the standards of 61 villages in No Peat and No Exploitation comprising thirdpractices. the mills’ greenhouse Roundtable on Indonesia Policy, as well as Good party supplier and gas emissions by Sustainable Palm Environmental Practices and own operations. 90%. Oil. Ecosystem Conservation. Our Targets We Care To assess annually at least 32 mills and 14 To complete construction of 15 their supply base methane capture facilities at CPO mills Timeline Progress Status as at Dec 2016 Timeline Progress Status as at Dec 2016 Wilmar International Limited 2017 On track Ongoing Conducted 24 assessments in 2016. Completed nine methane capture The majority of high priority suppliers facilities in 2016 in Wilmar’s six sourcing landscapes had already been assessed in 2014–2015. High priority suppliers are mostly identified through a risk analysis process, known as the Mill Prioritisation Process (MPP), which combines spatial To complete sustainability certification and non-spatial information relating to audits for 10 stand-alone mills1 in environmental and social components Indonesia to identify potential risks within a 50 km radius of a mill. Most of the mills assessed in 2016 are the remaining high Timeline Progress Status as at Dec 2016 priority suppliers identified in the MPP exercise, and this is reflected in the 2017 All stand-alone mills have completed reduced number of mill assessments one audit round2. for the year. From 2017 onwards, the scope of assessments will be broadened to include medium to lower priority suppliers. To halve the 2011–2015 mean average incidents of fires in Indonesia plantations3 and reduce the number of fires occurring in buffer areas 5 km beyond plantation boundaries. To conduct training for 1,000 supplier participants in Indonesia and Malaysia Timeline Progress Status as at Dec 2016 2017 On track Timeline Progress Status as at Dec 2016 2018 On track 359 suppliers attended workshops in 2016 To reduce emissions from palm oil mill effluent (POME) by 275,000 tCO2e against the 2013 baseline.4 1 This refers to independent mills as defined under the scope of the Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) standards requirements. 2 ISPO certification requires two rounds of audits. Timeline Progress Status as at Dec 2016 3 Threshold is 100 fire incidents. 4 Baseline for International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) 2020 On track certified sites only. About Wilmar W ilmar International Limited, founded in 1991 and headquartered in Singapore, is today Asia’s leading agribusiness group. Wilmar is ranked amongst the largest Sustainability Report 2016 listed companies by market capitalisation on the Singapore Exchange. Wilmar’s business activities include oil palm cultivation, oilseed crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, manufacturing of consumer products, specialty fats, oleochemicals, biodiesel and fertilisers as well as flour and rice milling. At the core of Wilmar’s strategy is an integrated agribusiness model that encompasses the entire value chain of the agricultural commodity business, from cultivation, processing, merchandising to manufacturing of a wide range of branded agricultural products. It has over 500 manufacturing plants and an extensive distribution network covering China, India, Indonesia and some 50 other countries. The Group has a multinational workforce of about 90,000 people. 15 Wilmar’s portfolio of high quality processed agricultural products is the preferred Wilmar International Limited choice of consumers and the food manufacturing industry. Its consumer-packed products have a leading share in many Asian and African countries. Through scale, integration and the logistical advantages of its business model, Wilmar is able to extract margins at every step of the value chain, thereby reaping operational synergies and cost efficiencies. Wilmar is a firm advocate of sustainable growth and is committed to its role as a responsible corporate citizen. China Global • Largest edible oils refiner and specialty fats and oleochemicals manufacturer Presence Europe • Leading supplier of quality Russia & Ukraine • Largest manufacturer of consumer pack • Leading oilseed crusher, producer of branded consumer pack oils, rice and flour edible oils and fats margarine, mayonnaise and solid soap in Russia • One of the largest flour and rice • Largest edible oils refiner and specialty fats millers producer in Ukraine Sustainability Report 2016 Germany Russia Netherlands Poland Belgium Ukraine We Care France Italy USA Spain Turkey India Japan 16 Morocco Bangladesh 17 • Leading branded consumer China pack oils and oleochemicals Wilmar International Limited Wilmar International Limited Mexico producer, oilseed crusher and Myanmar edible oils refiner India Vietnam Ivory Coast Thailand • Strategic industrial partner of Djibouti Nigeria the leading sugar company Ethiopia Philippines Sri Lanka Malaysia Ghana Uganda Singapore Kenya Indonesia Tanzania W ilmar is the global leader in processing and merchandising of palm and lauric oils, as well as production Brazil Zambia of oleochemicals, specialty fats, palm Mozambique biodiesel and consumer pack oils. Zimbabwe Mauritius Australia Over Extensive distribution South Africa 500 network covering China, India, Indonesia and some Africa Indonesia & Malaysia Australia New Zealand 50 other manufacturing plants in 15 countries* countries • Leading supplier of edible oils • One of the largest oil palm plantation owners and the largest palm oil refiner, • Largest raw sugar producer and refiner * Subsidiaries only, not including associates • Operates oil palm plantations, refineries palm kernel and copra crusher, specialty and produces consumer pack oils, soaps fats, oleochemicals and biodiesel • Leading consumer brands in and detergents manufacturer sugar and sweetener market Multinational workforce of about • Third largest sugar producer • Largest producer of branded consumer • Top 10 global raw sugar 90,000 staff globally pack oils in Indonesia • producers Owns 50% of Goodman Fielder Australasia’s leading food company Vertically Integrated Business Model Bulk Edible Oils Consumer Pack Edible Oils Raw & Refined Sugar Oilseeds Meal Specialty Fats Rice & Flour A t the core of Wilmar’s strategy is a resilient business Oleochemicals Biodiesel model encompassing the entire value chain of the agricultural commodity business, from processing, to branding, merchandising and distribution. Through scale, integration and the logistical advantages of its business model, we are able to extract margins at every step of the value chain, thereby reaping operational synergies and cost efficiencies. Origination Processing Merchandising & Distribution Customers Sustainability Report 2016 Tropical Oils Oilseeds and Grains Sugar Others We Care Milling, Merchandising, Plantation Manufacturing & Manufacturing Consumer Products Refining & Consumer 18 One of the largest listed Merchandising Leading soybean crusher in World’s largest producer Products 19 palm plantation companies China and one of the largest of consumer pack edible Largest global processor and in the world flour millers globally oils with leading positions Fertiliser merchandiser of palm and lauric Largest raw sugar producer and refiner Wilmar International Limited Wilmar International Limited in many Asian and African oils with distribution network in Australia and leading sugar refiner in countries Shipping in more than 50 countries Indonesia Almost 100% of output is Almost 100% of edible oil is Leading consumer pack sugar manufacturer supplied to Tropical Oils supplied to Consumer Products in Australia and New Zealand (Manufacturing) segment Strong Volumes and Profitability Across All Segments (FY2016) FFB: 3.8 m MT Volume: 23.4 m MT Volume: 24.0 m MT Volume: 5.5 m MT Volume: 13.5 m MT Revenue: US$1.87 b Revenue: US$64.1 m Revenue: US$16.79 b Revenue: US$11.40 b Revenue: US$6.42 b Revenue: US$5.86 b Results: Results: Results: Results: US$689.2m US$251.1m US$125.3m US$100.6m* * Excluding the gains/(losses) from investment securities, profit before tax for Others segment would be US$62.6 million for FY2016 (FY2015: US$46.6 million) Financial Highlights Revenue USD Million 50,000 45,463 44,085 43,085 41,402 40,000 38,777 30,000 We Care 20,000 20 10,000 Wilmar International Limited 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net Profits1 USD Million 2,000 1,600 1,319 1,255 1,200 1,156 1,023 972 800 400 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1 FY2015 figures were restated upon adoption of Amendments to FRS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and FRS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants. FY2012 – FY2014 figures are not adjusted. Revenue by Country / Region USD Million 19,983.0 8,633.4 4,904.0 2,711.2 2,352.4 1,500.8 1,316.8 Sustainability Report 2016 48% 21% 12% 6% 6% 4% 3% 21 People's Southeast Others Europe Africa Australia / India Republic of Asia New Zealand Wilmar International Limited China Employees by Country 43,662 22,982 12,033 4,190 4,019 2,306 49% 26% 13% 5% 4% 3% Indonesia China Malaysia Africa Others Australia (including the European Union and the United States of America) Corporate Governance O ur Board of Directors is the highest governing body of Wilmar and is responsible for the strategic direction of the Group. The Board is made up of Directors with a wide range of skills and qualifications in areas such as accounting, finance and business management, as well as specific experience in relevant industries. As at 31 December 2016, the Board has 11 members, comprising three Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors, of whom four are considered independent. Nine are Singaporeans, one is a Malaysian and one is an American. The Board is led by Mr Kuok Khoon Hong, who is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). A Lead Independent Director, Mr Yeo Teng Yang, has been appointed to ensure adequate accountability and transparency in the decision-making process. The Board is supported by a management team that is responsible for the execution of the Group’s strategy and operations. We Care Sustainability risk management is incorporated into the Group’s risk management structure under the purview of the Board’s Risk Management Committee which reviews sustainability 22 reports and issues on a quarterly basis. For more details on our corporate governance structure and Wilmar International Limited processes, please refer to our Annual Report 2016. Palm Oil Operations Plantations and Mills W e are one of world’s largest oil palm plantation owners with a total planted area of 241,892 hectares (ha) as at 31 December 2016. Around 69% of our total planted area is in Indonesia, 24% in East Malaysia and 7% in Africa. Through joint ventures, we own plantations in Uganda and West Africa totalling approximately 47,000 ha. Wilmar also directly manages 31,284 ha under smallholder schemes in Indonesia and Ghana. We have another 149,000 ha under smallholder Sustainability Report 2016 and outgrower schemes through joint ventures and associates in Africa. We operate 43 mills, including nine independent mills that buy Fresh Fruit Bunches (FFBs) exclusively from third-party suppliers. Of these 43 mills, 26 are currently certified to the standards of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). 7% 14% Africa 20% 0-3 years >18 years 6% 4-6 years 23 24% Plantations Malaysia Plantations Wilmar International Limited Geographic 10% Age Profile Locations 15-18 years as at 31 Dec 2016 as at 31 Dec 2016 69% Indonesia 50% 7-14 years Total Planted Area of Oil Palm Hectares 300 255,648 241,048 238,287 240,956 241,892 250 200 150 100 41,407 41,037 31,666 50 31,428 31,284 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total planted area Scheme smallholders Group Yield and Extraction Rate 25 20.6 21.4 20 18.9 18.8 19.0 15 20.4 20.4 20.6 20.5 20.0 10 We Care 4.8 4.7 4.7 4.9 4.9 5 24 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FFB yield (MT FFB/Ha) Extraction rate of CPO (%) Extraction rate of PK (%) Wilmar International Limited Note: Yields were affected by the El Niño phenomenon, declining 11.6% to 19.0 MT per ha and resulting in a 14.8% decrease in total fresh fruit bunches to 3,817,969 MT for the year. Oil Palm Plantation 12 Management Units 5 1 Sabah Palm Oil Mills Peninsular 1 Indonesia Aceh Malaysia Malaysia 5 2 North Kalimantan North Sarawak Sumatra 2 6 Geographical 2 6 Riau Riau Islands West East Kalimantan Kalimantan location of West Sumatra 5 3 Jambi 9 4 Central Kalimantan our upstream 1 7 9 South South Sumatra 4 3 Kalimantan Bengkulu operations 1 Lampung (plantations and mills) in Indonesia Java and Malaysia Oil Palm Plantation Management Units Palm Oil Mills Ghana Nigeria 1 1 6 1 Geographical location of our Sustainability Report 2016 upstream operations (plantations and mills) in Africa 25 Wilmar International Limited Refineries As at 31 December 2016, the Group has plants located in the following countries: W ilmar is the world’s largest processor and merchandiser of palm and lauric oils, processing Subsidiaries Refinery Oleochemicals Specialty Fats Biodiesel them into refined palm oil, specialty Indonesia 25 4 4 11 fats, oleochemicals and biodiesel. Malaysia 14 3 1 2 The crude palm and lauric oils are China 49 10 6 0 sourced from our own plantations, smallholder schemes and thirdVietnam 3 0 2 0 party suppliers. Europe 0 2 0 0 Africa 2 0 2 0 Others 4 0 1 0 Total no. of plants 97 19 16 13 Total capacity (million MT p.a) 28 2 2 3 Associates India 29 1 5 0 China 8 2 2 0 Russia 4 0 1 0 Ukraine 2 0 1 0 Malaysia 3 0 0 0 Africa 10 0 3 0 Bangladesh 2 0 0 0 Europe 5 1 2 0 Total no. of plants 63 4 14 0 Total capacity (million MT p.a) 11 <1 1 0 Note: Refinery capacity includes palm oil and soft oils A map of Wilmar's supply chain is available at http://www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/supply-chain-map/ Our Approach to Sustainability O ur No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation (NDPE) Policy (“Policy”) sets the overall direction in our journey towards sustainability. It guides our efforts to mitigate deforestation, peat development and exploitation, both in our own operations and in our supply chain. We seek to address our impact and compliance with our NDPE Policy at multiple levels. For Wilmar’s operations and our scheme smallholders, we pursue continuous improvements by strengthening standard operating procedures and participating in relevant certification schemes. In our wider supply chain, we use our refineries as a central point for engaging, assessing and improving supplier performance through our Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) programme, as well as through direct technical support for independent smallholders. The aim of our NDPE Policy has always been to achieve genuine transformation in the palm oil industry towards the mitigation of deforestation, peat development and exploitation. These challenges are bigger than the palm oil industry and need to be We Care addressed holistically through the collaborative effort of governments, civil society organisations, smallholders, suppliers and industry players. We therefore invest significant resources to support multi-stakeholder partnerships and jurisdictional and landscape approaches as part of our sustainability strategies. 26 Wilmar International Limited Building blocks for NDPE Policy compliance • Aggregator Refinery Transformation • Sustainability certifications (e.g. Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Sampling regime (based on ISEAL (RSPO), International Sustainability and recommended group certification Carbon Certification (ISCC), Indonesia sample size) Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) Mill assessments • Wilmar internal audits Mill Prioritisation Process • 2nd-party audits (e.g. BSR and Verité Transformational workshops and Southeast Asia labour assessments) training for wider supply base • Conservation compliance assessmsnets • Capacity building of service providers (HCS, HCV asssessments) • Smallholder support programmes • Internal Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs): peat best management practices, Free Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC), conflict resolution Sustainability Report 2016 SUPPLIER WILMAR INTERNAL COMPLIANCE COMPLIANCE 27 NDPE Wilmar International Limited POLICY PARTNERSHIPS, TRANSPARENCY AND ENGAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY ADVOCACY • GRI Reporting • RSPO Working Groups and Task Forces • Sustainability Dashboard • TFA 2020 • Quarterly sustainability update • World Economic Forum • CDP Forest, Climate Change, Water • Fire-free Alliance and Supply Chain programmes • UN Global Compact • Zoological Society of London (ZSL) • HCS Approach Steering Group Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency Toolkit (SPOTT) • The Forest Trust • RSPO Annual Communications on • Grow Asia Progress • United Nations (UN) Global Compact Communications on Progress • Ongoing stakeholder responses/ engagement Sustainability Management and Governance Structure W ilmar’s Chairman and CEO is responsible for the oversight of our NDPE Policy. The implementation of its sustainability strategies (including the NDPE Policy, To support Policy implementation, we also have a Technical Advisory Group comprising non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and sustainability partners that advises Wilmar on United Nations (UN) Global Compact principles, certifications, specific issues where broader perspectives are needed, stakeholder engagement, corporate governance and reporting) operations teams working on site and at regional levels, and is delegated to the Sustainability Department. This department a communications team. These teams provide input to the is staffed by more than 60 employees globally, combining a Joint Steering Committee to deliberate and decide on the wide range of relevant local and technical expertise across more complex Policy implementation matters. The Committee Malaysia, Indonesia, Europe, Africa and Singapore. handles major strategic issues related to the execution of the Policy. It also evaluates our progress against Policy targets. Sustainability Report 2016 Wilmar’s Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) spearheads the For suppliers who fail to comply with Wilmar’s Policy, a overall strategy of the Group’s global sustainability agenda. suspension committee has been appointed to review the The Group Sustainability General Manager is responsible for trading relationship. Additionally, we have established a team the implementation of these policies and strategies in our in Malaysia and Indonesia to provide support to suppliers to supply chain, as well as reviewing the progress of execution. ensure compliance with our Policy. Sustainability Governance Structure 28 CEO Chief Executive Officer Top Level Oversight CSO Chief Sustainability Officer Wilmar International Limited GM General Manager Chairman & CEO NGO Non Governmental Organisation Suspension Committee Joint Steering Committee (JSC) Chairman & CEO, CSO, Wilmar, The Forest Trust (TFT) Group Sustainability GM, • Resolve policy/implementation major issues Procurement Head Indonesia, • Evaluate progress on Policy commitments Procurement Head Malaysia • Deal with major issues unresolved from • Assess potential suspensions Communications and Operations groups Technical Advisory Group Operations Team Communications Team NGOs, Wilmar, Sustainability • Check on activities, prioritisation, efficiency • Advise on current Partners • Working through technical issues that need and emerging • Provide advice and guidance on closure and can be dealt with at this level communications issues sustainability strategies. • Feed updates to JSC any issue that cannot • Manage Crisis be resolved communications issues • Receive inputs and queries from the JSC • Seek input from the ‘Technical Advisory Group’ Sustainability Department Core Functions GROUP SUSTAINABILITY We Care 29 Wilmar International Limited Wilmar Mills/ Supply Chain Estates & Downstream External Engagement • Certification • Sustainable Supply Chains • Conservation • Third-party Supplier • Smallholder Supply Compliance • Sustainability Policy • Stakeholder Engagement • Sustainability Communications In addition to this formal structure, we have also recently entered into strategic agreements with Proforest and Daemeter of the Consortium of Resource Experts (CORE), as well as Verité Southeast Asia in 2017 to support our ongoing Policy implementation and supply chain compliance work. Sustainability Certification Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and 14% to 9,400 MT and 2,400 MT respectively as some smallholder groups have become independent after repaying A s at 31 December 2016, 26 of our mills and more than their loans and redeeming their land titles. 80% of our planted area across Malaysia, Indonesia and Ghana are RSPO certified, producing 810,000 MT and In our midstream and downstream operations, we have 57 sites 175,000 MT of certified sustainable palm oil and palm kernels certified under the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Scheme. respectively. On the smallholder front, production of certified These can deliver palm products under the Segregation and sustainable palm oil and palm kernels was reduced by 20% Mass Balance supply chain models. Sustainability Report 2016 Timebound Plan – Outstanding Mills Company Name Target Date Central Kalimantan PT Karunia Kencana Permaisejati Certification process initiated West Kalimantan PT Bumi Pratama Khatulistiwa Certification in progress West Kalimantan PT Agro Nusa Investama (Landak) 2018 West Kalimantan PT Agro Palindo Sakti 2 2018 South Sumatra PT Musi Banyuasin Indah 2018 Riau Jambi PT Sinarsiak Dianpermai PT Agrindo Indah Persada 2 2018 2018 30 Wilmar International Limited National Palm Oil Schemes Wilmar supports the Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) certification. The Indonesian Ministry of Agriculture has implemented ISPO certification to improve the competitiveness of Indonesian palm oil in world markets, as well as to help meet Indonesia’s commitment to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and increase focus on environmental issues. As at 31 December 2016, six mills and their supply bases have been certified against ISPO standards. We also started the Malaysian Palm Oil (MSPO) certification programme in our operations in East Malaysia in 2016, and have achieved certification for two mills and their supply base, one in Sabah and the other in Sarawak, at end of the year. Supply Chain and Traceability W e recognise that a large part of our footprint lies beyond our own operations. Our suppliers therefore have a critical role to play in forging the path towards sustainable palm oil production. Since 2014, we have been putting in place a series of measures to ensure that all palm oil physically handled by Wilmar is traceable to the mill where it is processed. In 2016, traceability analyses and summary data continued to be collected across Wilmar’s global operations (see below bar chart). As at 31 December 2016, we achieved about 95% traceability to mills for our operations in Indonesia and Malaysia. We Care 31 Wilmar International Limited Traceability Progress 100 80 60 Traceability % 40 20 0 Indonesia Malaysia India, China China Europe Ghana, Vietnam Ukraine United Bangladesh Specialty Oleochemicals Nigeria, States of and Sri Lanka Fats South Africa, America Ivory Coast & Uganda 2015 2016 There is a drop in traceability rating for India because of increased volumes received from high sea parcels which is accounted untraceable. Defining and Calculating Traceability: Wilmar’s Approach For a mill to be considered traceable, Wilmar requires the following information: 1 2 3 Sustainability Report 2016 Parent Company Mill Name Address Name 32 Wilmar International Limited 4 5 Longitude and Volumes Latitude Co-ordinates Where any part of this information is incomplete, volumes Tracking traceability through a volumetric approach means from that particular supplier will be treated as “untraceable”. that we can more accurately track the physical flows of our “Untraceable” does not mean that we do not know who we oil, and supports a traceable physical supply chain. While we procure from but that it does not fully meet the above criteria. strive to increase traceability from one period to the next, it should be noted that the traceability values may also decrease. The traceability performance of our refineries is calculated Such trends occur predominantly because supplies available in percentages of the total volume received by the refinery. from different sources may vary from one period to another. Refineries can receive supplies from individual mills, refinery transfers, traders, or bulking terminals. W e have focused our attention on traceability to mill, because the mill is a good indicator of the approximate location of its suppliers. responsible practices, such as through the Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) programme. This is mainly because the issues linked to sustainability (or NDPE compliance) will be similar within a mill’s supply base (i.e. within a radius of The palm oil supply chain is multi-tiered. A typical palm oil approximately 50 km). It therefore serves no real purpose to mill could be supplied by hundreds of growers, and also identify the specific source of FFB at this level, as issues within by dealers that may source from many more growers. In the radius will be mapped as part of the mill assessments, turn, a refinery may likely be supplied by thousands of FFB such as extensive peat areas, proximity to national parks and suppliers, as it sources from multiple mills. For mills that do populations of endangered species. As Wilmar's intent is to not have their own integrated plantations, which is typical in transform as much of the supply base as possible, it makes Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia, a mill’s FFB supplier base more sense to invest resources in efforts to raise the floor changes constantly, as farmers move from mill to mill on the for sustainability and good practice for all suppliers and basis of best price. This revolving supply situation is further estates within a mill's supply base. Traceability to plantation intensified where there is an increase of milling capacity in primarily serves the purpose of delivering 100% segregated a given area (e.g. with the addition of new palm oil mills, or sustainable supply – which can mean the exclusion of the the upgrading of existing mills), resulting in a sudden boost most vulnerable producers, such as smallholders. We Care in demand for FFB. However, we have prepared maps of all our own mills in Obtaining traceability information to farm or plantation Malaysia and Indonesia, showing all estate boundaries and level can therefore be highly resource intensive in terms of the location of each smallholder and dealer. We are pursuing 33 man-hours and cost. Traceability information, by itself, does options to help third-party suppliers do likewise. not address environmental and social issues. Moreover, the definition of 'traceable to plantation', or 'fresh fruit bunch For more detail on Wilmar’s traceability efforts and progress, please visit www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/ Wilmar International Limited (FFB) traceability', is also a subject of considerable debate. progress/traceability/ We believe resources are more effectively utilised in supporting the transformation of mills and their supply bases towards Wilmar's Position on Traceability to Plantation Starting in 2011 and continuing through 2015, we have focused our efforts to trace supplies of FFB to our own mills in Malaysia and Indonesia. This mapping exercise was led by an in-house team of full-time, dedicated and experienced Geographical Information Systems (GIS) practitioners, supported by regional FFB procurement teams and the involvement of individual mill operations. The entire process was relatively extensive in terms of cost, time, requiring a skilled workforce specialised in cartography and the use of high precision equipment and software. In addition to Wilmar's own mills, over 800 mills also directly supply to Wilmar's refineries in Indonesia and Malaysia. Having completed the mapping process for our own mills, we recognise that replicating and enforcing this mapping process for all our third-party suppliers is a big challenge. We also recognise that mapping our supply chain on this scale will require the development of a robust information-gathering system which must be easily replicated and implemented, and which must also be both efficient and cost-effective. We will continue to work with our third-party suppliers as well as independent smallholders to develop and build an operative model. We strongly advocate the importance of encouraging transformation throughout the industry, and while traceability is a component of this, it is not an end in itself. Traceability to plantation will only add value in a true sense when larger issues faced by the Sustainability Report 2016 industry are addressed – people and environment. We therefore continue to focus our efforts on driving real change on the ground through a dynamic capacity-building programme known as the Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) model, which has been co-developed with The Forest Trust, and which we are currently implementing across six landscapes. The ART model offers a holistic approach for bringing our suppliers along with us on the sustainability journey. It is a platform for providing active support and training and enables the sharing of best management practices. This empowers suppliers (mills and their supply bases) to identify specific and systemic issues that exists within their operating environments, 34 provides solutions and tools to aid the adoption of good practices, and allows for monitoring. Wilmar International Limited Wilmar believes the ART programme will yield longer-term benefits by bringing suppliers and customers together to accelerate real transformation, and by shaping a traceable, resilient and sustainable supply chain. More information on ART can be found on page 38-39. Overview of Wilmar Supply Chain Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) Crude Palm Oil & Palm Kernel (CPO/PK) Crude/Refined Palm & Lauric Products Sustainability Report 2016 Traded Plantation and Mill Operation Refinery Operation Parcels Wilmar Own/ Third Party Plantations We Care Origin Smallholders Wilmar Own Bulking Trading Office Indonesia/ Wilmar (Singapore) 35 Smallgrowers Mills Terminal Intermediate 36 Malaysia Origin Buyer Supplier FFB Collection Centres Refineries Wilmar International Limited Wilmar International Limited Third Party Plantations Third Party Smallholders Third Party Refineries/ Bulking Smallgrowers Mills Traders Terminal FFB Collection Centres Wilmar Own/ Wilmar Own Traded Third Party Plantations Mills Parcels Wilmar Destination Bulking Destination (Rest of The World) Terminal Processing Plant Third Party Trading Office Mills (Singapore) Engagement and Empowerment Creating Partnerships Globally We continue to play an active role in certification and assessment organisations, such as the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil W e recognise that many of the sustainability challenges (RSPO) and the High Carbon Stock (HCS) Approach Steering confronting the world today are too big for any one Group, where we are involved in numerous working groups company, or any one industry, to tackle alone. Over the last and governance bodies. decade, Wilmar has intensified its involvement in the global food production sector to engage with players throughout We also actively participate in a variety of multi-stakeholder the supply chain, especially in the creation of partnerships platforms that seek to support the production of sustainable that include not only the private sector and civil society, but commodities and eliminate deforestation from commodity also governments and inter-governmental organisations. supply chains. Stakeholder Areas of interest Wilmar’s involvement RSPO Sustainable palm oil production • Member of RSPO’s Sabah Jurisdictional Approach for Sustainable Palm Oil We Care Production Steering Committee • Chair of the RSPO smallholder Support Fund Panel • Co-Chair of: 37 i) the RSPO Smallholder Working Group (SHWG) ii) the Biodiversity and High Conservation Wilmar International Limited Value Working Group (BHCVWG) iii) the FFB Legality & Traceability Task Force • Member of: i) the Human Rights Working Group ii) the Emissions Reduction Working Group iii) the Trade and Traceability Standing Committee High Carbon Stock Approach (HSCA) No deforestation Member of the Executive Committee Steering Group Fire-Free Alliance (FFA) Fire and haze Founding member. Seek to prevent the fires rather than fight or suppress them through community-based initiatives. Tropical Forest Alliance 2020 Responsible growth without depleting Member of the Steering Committee natural capital Grow Asia Sustainable and inclusive agricultural Member of the Grow Asia Business Council development in South-East Asia, focusing on smallholder development and the environmental sustainability of agriculture. Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) and Labour rights and working conditions Collaborative Partner. Helped seek Golden-Agri Resources (GAR) improvement and solutions to existing labour challenges in palm oil industry in Indonesia W hile such engagements are helpful in driving change, we are also conscious that capacity building and engagement on the ground is critical to achieving our Progress on Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) sustainability mission and ensuring that programmes are ART was co-conceived with TFT in 2014 as a landscape effective and realistic. We are therefore involved in more approach to ensuring Policy compliance from our more practical programmes to engage communities in issues that than 1,000 CPO and lauric suppliers, as well as their FFB are locally specific. sources. Through ART, our refineries provide a central point for growers and millers to progress on HCV, HCS and peat Most of this work is done through our day-to-day operations, protection, environmental impact management, labour Sustainability Report 2016 including our community and smallholder projects. These standards, FPIC, and traceability. are covered in relevant sections of this report. However, we are supporting communities throughout our supply chains ART is implemented in strategic areas in Malaysia, Indonesia, as well. In Latin America, for example, we have launched the Latin America and West Africa. At year-end 2016, we have Wilmar Smallholders Support in Honduras (WISHH) initiative conducted 64 assessments in these areas. (see page 61 for more information), while in Africa we have initiated a community outreach programme in Cross River These assessments are compiled into anonymised overarching State, Nigeria (see page 60 for more information). reports by landscape, and each report summarises representative issues that may be prevalent in that landscape. Through Transparency Broad-Level Engagement (BLE) workshops, we socialise We have maintained an online sustainability dashboard the common issues to all suppliers operating in that region 38 and share learnings and recommendations on improvement. on our company website since 2015. To ensure we are Topics include findings from mill assessments, guidance on responsive to stakeholder concerns, the dashboard carries Wilmar International Limited land-use planning, and respecting the rights of workers and updates on grievances, traceability and certification, as well indigenous and local communities. as policies and statements on issues raised by stakeholders or in the media. The dashboard can be accessed at www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/. 2016 We produce a quarterly sustainability update highlighting Malaysia Indonesia our most important initiatives, and submit an Annual Communication of Progress (ACOP) to the RSPO. We also Broad-level engagement 3 1 provide disclosures in support of various benchmarking and workshops ranking initiatives, including the Forest, Climate Change, Mills represented 49 80 Water and Supply Chain programmes by CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). Participants 199 110 Our efforts to increase transparency and accountability have Following up from the assessments, we engage with suppliers been recognised, in particular by the Zoological Society of on details of mill assessment findings and the development of London's (ZSL) Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency Initiative action plans. We have also conducted return visit programmes (SPOTT), where our Group's score has improved from 57% with some of our suppliers who participated in the 2015 in 2014 to 77.5% in the 2017 update. SPOTT ranks palm ART field assessment. The objective of the return visits is to oil companies based on a number of indicators relating to assess suppliers' progress and provide further guidance on Policy scope, certification progress, improvement targets closing identified gaps. and transparency. In addition to mill and grower assessments, we have also For broader audiences, such as our financial stakeholders, we started a series of one-day, region-specific training sessions produce annual reports, quarterly updates, and, until FY2015, open to all our suppliers, as well as to their FFB suppliers. a biennial sustainability report. Based on feedback from our Training sessions are issue-specific and include conservation, stakeholders, as well as new stock exchange regulations, we labour rights, environmental impact management and health have adjusted our reporting timeline, and will from now on and safety. Sessions also provide space for the discussion of produce a sustainability report annually. issues and examples of best practice, and serve as a forum for dialogues with government representatives, such as those from the labour and environment departments. Two training sessions were conducted in Malaysia in 2016 that were attended by 50 participants from 30 supplier mills. We will conduct similar sessions in Indonesia in 2017. Overview of Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) Approach Traceability Mill Prioritisation High Level Engagement Mill Mapping Desktop Based Field Visits to assess against Assessments Wilmar’s sourcing policy An overarching report summarising all findings from We Care the field assessments produced. Issues common to that particular locality would be identified, and recommendations on improvement provided. 39 Knowledge is shared with ALL suppliers from that region. Broad Engagement/ Transformation at Wilmar International Limited Landscape Level Ongoing Monitoring BLE workshop for Wilmar’s suppliers in Pahang, Malaysia. Sustainability Governance and Ethics W e have in place a Code of Conduct that prohibits the giving and receiving of any type of bribe. These include gifts, entertainment or other benefits that may affect Grievances There was a total 30 grievance cases related to our supply our employees’ ability to carry out their duties legally and/ chain in 2016, compared to 20 in 2015. Of the 10 cases or in line with company interests. Any benefits or gifts must registered in 2016, we have put on hold trading with two be declared to a reporting superior. The Code of Conduct suppliers as engagement with them towards resolution is codified in our employee handbook. yielded little results. Our Whistleblowing policy sets out guarantees for confidentiality Nature of grievance New cases in Total cases and freedom from reprisals. It also identifies several contact cases 2016 listed on Sustainability Report 2016 points for reporting fraud, corruption and non-compliance grievance (as with legal requirements and company policies. at December 2016) The policy ensures that a process is in place for independent investigations of alleged improprieties and for appropriate Deforestation 3 17 follow-up actions, including providing assurance that the complainant will be protected from reprisals for whistleblowing Social conflict 1 3 in good faith and without malice. The policy highlights that Human rights violations 2 4 any employee who raises a genuine concern and makes a disclosure in good faith will not be at risk of losing his or her Deforestation/Social 1 2 job, nor suffer adverse treatment or harassment for doing so. conflict 40 Deforestation/Human right 3 4 We strictly adhere to the spirit of this policy, and do not violations/Social conflict penalise employees for raising concerns to ensure that Wilmar’s Wilmar International Limited business conduct meets its policies on compliance, including Total 10 30 when they choose to raise the issues through third parties. Grievances relating to HCS, HCV, peatland and burning issues are classified The implementation of the policy has been communicated as Deforestation; labour issues as Human Rights violations and land disputes with local communities as social conflicts to employees of the Group and the policy is posted on the Group’s website. The policy is also socialised to employees at staff training sessions, as part of the Group’s efforts to More information on these grievance cases can be found promote awareness of fraud control. by navigating to grievance procedure on our sustainability dashboard. Proactive Supply Chain Monitoring Proactive monitoring of non-compliances that could potentially be linked to our supply chain is also undertaken by an international NGO on an on-the-ground basis. We increased the monitoring of palm oil mills and plantation company groups by 50%, from 40 groups in 2015, to 60 in 2016. Protecting Our Environment No Deforestation A major focus for our business over the last three years has been to ensure that neither our own operations, nor those in our supply chain, are contributing to deforestation. Our NDPE Policy commits us to the use of the High Carbon Stock (HCS) Approach and the High Conservation Value (HCV) framework as primary tools to identify areas suitable or unsuitable for planting. We have previously appointed RSPO-approved assessors to identify HCV areas. Since 2015, with the launch of the HCV Assessor Licencing Scheme, we have only appointed licensed HCV assessors to undertake our assessments. Through the HCS and HCV assessments, Wilmar has identified around 30,000 hectares in Indonesia, Malaysia and Africa to be set aside and managed for value conservation. We Care 41 Wilmar International Limited Conservation area in PT Kencana Sawit Indonesia in Sumatra, Indonesia. Conservation Area 2016 TOTAL 29,751 H E C TA R E S 15,088 6,060 3,128 2,036 1,721 1,635 83 Sustainability Report 2016 Central Sabah Sumatra West Sarawak Nigeria Ghana Kalimantan Kalimantan 42 T he HCS Approach was launched in 2013 to categorise forests and define a better landscape-level methodology for preventing deforestation. In 2014, a broad group of Wilmar International Limited stakeholders established the HCS Approach Steering Group (HCSA SG) to strengthen and evolve the methodology, as well as to provide a governance body for its use. In parallel, the Sustainable Palm Oil Manifesto (SPOM), a group consisting of major palm oil growers and scientists undertook to develop an alternative approach focused on addressing socio-economic concerns related to forest set-asides, and on determining a carbon neutral approach towards development. Wilmar took an active role in both groups to ensure that the significant progress made by each could be harnessed. It was therefore a major achievement when, in November 2016, the two initiatives announced that they had reached a convergence agreement through which all actors can now look to a single definition and methodology to reduce deforestation. Setting up a wildlife camera trap in Wilmar's conservation area in Sabah, We are committed to applying this methodology to all new East Malaysia. developments, including extensions of existing plantations. We have to date undertaken one such HCS process in our A group of regional conservation specialists monitor and Nigerian operations. The assessment was completed in 2015, manage our conservation areas overseen by a global Forest and in 2016 we were among the first oil palm companies to Sustainability Manager. Specialists in Sabah, Sarawak, Indonesia submit an assessment to the HCS Approach Peer Review and Africa work in partnership with estate and plantation Process. The full peer review is available here. management to ensure that Conservation Management Plans are implemented throughout our operations and Conservation and wildlife that conservation areas are monitored and protected. We partner with local research bodies to continually improve our Our NDPE Policy places special emphasis on the protection management plans, and employ a combination of manual of endangered species and wildlife conservation. We do not monitoring (such as our ranger programme – see page 44 operate in internationally or nationally designated protected for more information), as well as smart satellite and Global areas, and we have established management plans for Positioning System (GPS)-based monitoring tools. We also reducing illegal activities, including poaching, encroachment train estate workers to identify and report encroachment and logging, in our conservation areas. and other threats to protected areas. Wilmar supports a wide range of initiatives set up to protect iconic wildlife species, both in our set-aside areas as well as in areas adjoining our plantations. Partners Initiative Provincial Government of Central Kalimantan and An ongoing collaboration to safeguard almost 4,000 ha of High Conservation Value (HCV) Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation (BOSF) areas in our PT Mentaya Sawit Mas (MSM) estate in Central Kalimantan. The partnership was initiated in 2011 to ensure that orangutan populations identified in Wilmar’s concession could continue to thrive. In May 2016, the partnership commissioned an external evaluation to review the progress and outcomes of the conservation programme against its initial objectives set five years previously. Three independent conservation experts conducted the evaluation, all of whom have more than 25 years of experience in conservation and orangutan-related work in the palm oil industry. Key findings from the external evaluation include: (i) that the tripartite partnership has succeeded in increasing community awareness and understanding on the importance of orangutans and conservation; (ii) that there is a need for greater coordination among all partners in order to resolve We Care outstanding issues with local communities; and (iii) that there is potential for the programme to contribute significantly to the conservation of orangutan populations in Central Kalimantan, as the HCV area in PT MSM remains connected to a larger forest landscape extending beyond the concession's borders. 43 South East Asia Rainforest Research Partnership A memorandum of understanding (MOU) to advance the knowledge and application of (SEARRP) sustainable plantation practices in Malaysia, Indonesia and the wider tropics through a five-year research and training programme. Wilmar International Limited Both parties commit to support and facilitate research by academics from leading universities, including the UK universities of York, Oxford, Cambridge, Leeds, Nottingham and Aberdeen, and Universiti Malaysia Sabah, with a strong focus on biodiversity conservation and the management of conservation areas within oil palm plantation landscapes. Wilmar and SEARRP will also work together to develop simplified methods for environmental assessment and monitoring. By deepening the partnership between a leading palm oil processor and one of the foremost research programmes in the tropics, Wilmar and SEARRP aim to make a major contribution to science which is critical to underpinning conservation, sustainability and environmental best practices for the palm oil industry. Kalaweit Foundation An NGO collaboration on gibbon rehabilitation We have extended our gibbon programme with the Kalaweit Foundation through a rehabilitation programme for rescued siamangs to be returned to the wild. The programme is now set to continue for an additional five years, ensuring that we can monitor and sustain the achievements so far. University Malaysia Sarawak (UNIMAS), University Bringing together technical experts working in our plantation areas to exchange knowledge Andalas, South East Asia Rainforest Research and findings, and to improve the management of our HCV areas. Partnership (SEARRP), Zoological Society of London (ZSL) and Borneo Orangutan Survival We organised a workshop with our research partners in Sampit, Central Kalimantan. The Foundation (BOSF) workshop was attended by most of our research partners from University Malaysia Sarawak, University Andalas, SEARRP, Zoological Society of London and Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation. The discussions covered findings from the research undertaken by the agencies in Wilmar’s conservation areas in Sumatra, Central Kalimantan, Sabah and Sarawak, as well as the potential for new collaborations. The participants from this workshop identified three areas of future work: (i) continued floral and faunal surveys, (ii) knowledge on ecosystem restoration, and (iii) economic and social research into alternative incomes for communities. The workshop also boosted the capacity of our internal HCV and managerial teams by exploring the latest research findings on HCV management. Unsung Heroes of the Forest To qualify as Honorary Wild Life Rangers, John and his colleagues underwent a three-day training course led by the Sarawak Forest Corporation. They were trained on the relevant skills and knowledge, including the relevant State laws, law enforcement tactics, surveillance methods and procedures for reporting to the authorities. A background check was also conducted by the Malaysian Police Department in Kuala Lumpur to ensure that they would not have any criminal records prior to being appointed as Honorary We often read in the media about brave Wild Life Rangers. police officers arresting dangerous criminals, saving victims from harm and ensuring law According to John Alit, all this effort and work and order in society; or about iconic wildlife is worthwhile. “Since the establishment of facing threats of extinction due to rampant PPBOP’s Honorary Wild Life Ranger Programme Sustainability Report 2016 illegal hunting activities. And yet, little is in Sarawak in March 2015, we have observed mentioned or reported about the valiant forest a reduction in encounters with poachers and rangers and game wardens working beyond people with guns moving into our plantation the boundaries of concrete jungles on the area,” he reports. Asked whether he is concerned frontline of the war with poachers. These are about safety when confronted with armed the unsung heroes from the forest, and John suspects John said, “At times we encounter Anak Alit is one of them. suspicious characters or poachers during our patrolling or road-block duty, who can be quite John Anak Alit is our High Conservation Value aggressive, but we are adequately trained to 44 (HCV) Assistant Manager. Originally from handle such situations.” Sarawak, East Malaysia, he has been working Wilmar International Limited with PPB Oil Palms Bhd (PPBOP), a subsidiary Wilmar is the first plantation company in of Wilmar International Limited, since 2011. Sarawak to have an Honorary Wild Life Ranger Based in Saremas Plantation in Sarawak, Programme, and we currently have 40 Honorary he became an Honorary Wild Life Ranger, Wild Life Ranger appointed. As part of this a voluntary vocation, in 2015. In November programme, PPBOP has also conducted a series 2016 he was presented with the Outstanding of awareness sessions on wildlife with local Honorary Wild Life Ranger award by the Chief indigenous communities in or near conservation Minister of Sarawak. areas. Six headmen have also been enlisted as Honorary Wild Life Ranger in the programme. In states like Sabah and Sarawak, where poaching and illegal logging activities do happen and We have a similar programme in Sabah, which government resources are limited, ranger has 15 Honorary Wildlife Wardens to help volunteers like John Alit and other Wilmar protect iconic species such as orangutans and employees can help to keep illegal activities at Sumatran rhinoceroses. Given our success bay. Despite knowing that the work of a wildlife and track record in the neighbouring state, ranger can be dangerous at times, John sees we are confident these initiatives will help us it as an honour to serve his beloved Sarawak to maintain the integrity of the conservation State by helping to protect its forest reseources. area and contribute meaningfully to Sabah’s and Sarawak’s conservation initiatives. Promoting Zero-Burn Practices W etter weather conditions in 2016 led to fewer fires, and consequently less haze in the Southeast Asian region (particularly in Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia) than in of fires in our Indonesian plantations and reduce the number of fires occurring in the extended buffer zones. previous years. We have continually enforced our zero burn According to the FFA Members Review 2016 report released policy over the past decade, and we continue to monitor and in March 2017, the FFA has rapidly expanded fire prevention control any outbreak of fires within the immediate vicinity outreach to 218 villages in various parts of Indonesia. Of of our operations. these, 77 villages signed up with FFA members for training programmes in 2016. This is a 756% increase in the number of In 2016, Wilmar expanded its fire prevention efforts through participating villages since the FFVP was launched in mid-2015. the Fire-Free Alliance (FFA), which was launched in February 2016. Central to the FFA is the Fire-Free Village Programme (FFVP), a community-based incentives scheme to help reduce the incidents of fires. The founding members are APRIL, Asian Agri, IDH, Musim Mas, PM.Haze and Wilmar. Sime Darby and IOI Group officially joined as members in March 2017. We Care The FFA provides a tool to identify the risk of fires in plantation boundaries. Our adoption of the FFA approach also included the extension of fire monitoring to areas 5 km outside our plantation boundaries. Since February 2016, Wilmar has 45 socialised the FFVP to 61 villages in South Sumatra and Central Kalimantan. Some 1.39 ha of planted area and 82.88 ha of unplanted area were burnt in 2016, representing an overall improvement of approximately 90% on previous years. Our Wilmar International Limited 2017 goal is to halve the 2011–2015 mean average incidents Wilmar's fire-fighting crew in Indonesia. Fire Incidents in Wilmar's Concessions in Indonesia TOTAL NUMBER OF FIRES 114 46 353 414 23# 1,500 1,358.00 1,275.21 1,250 1,000 750 676.00 500 366.84 277.63 318.90 250 114.27 82.88 31.34 1.39 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Planted area (ha) Unplanted area (ha) Note: the fire data in 2016, as reported in Wilmar’s Annual Report 2016, has been restated following EY’s limited assurance procedure. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Reducing Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions R educing our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions remains a top priority within our NDPE Policy, and we are committed to avoiding emissions to the best extent possible. Emission Sources and Sinks Based on the calculated figures, our most significant emissions derive from historical land use change after November 2005 In 2016, using both the latest RSPO PalmGHG calculator and (43%). While we cannot undo these earlier conversions, our the GHG Protocol accounting standard, we continued our commitment to expansion only in low carbon landscapes will emissions mapping exercise with expansion of the reporting ensure that all future developments have a significantly lower scope. The data collected helps us monitor our emissions carbon footprint. footprint and design measures to reduce emissions. 17.2% 0.5% Sustainability Report 2016 Fuel Consumption POME RSPO PalmGHG Calculator (mill) We follow the RSPO PalmGHG calculator to measure the GHG emissions of our RSPO-certified palm oil mills annually, as required by the RSPO standards. We tested the RSPO PalmGHG version 1 calculator in 2013, and used the PalmGHG GHG version 2.1.1 to calculate emissions for 2014 and 2015. Emissions 43.4% For 2016, we have used the latest version, PalmGHG 3.0.1. by Source Historical Land-use There were substantial variations from version 1 to version 2, and further changes have been made for version 3 (major 25.7% Peat change allocation 46 changes have been summarised in the RSPO PalmGHG Oxidation website). Historical data can therefore not be used as a Wilmar International Limited definitive indicator of reductions and/or increases in carbon dioxide emissions year-on-year. 1.5% 3.8% Fuel Consumption 7.9% CO2 Emissions (field) N2O from Fertiliser Emissions Emission Sources and Sinks 2016 tCO2e 3,000,000 2,887,698 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,637,743 1,500,000 968,422 1,000,000 647,223 500,000 298,324 143,267 57,606 19,419 139 0 -118,153 -107,450 -500,000 -1,000,000 -1,500,000 -1,738,834 -2,000,000 Historical Land-use Crop Sequestration CO2 Emissions from N2O Emissions Fuel Consumption Peat Oxidation Sequestration in POME Fuel Consumption Grid Electricity Mill Credit (Sale of PKS, Net Emissions (includes Utilisation change allocation on (field) (mill) Fertiliser Conservation Areas EFB & Electricity) outgrower emissions) Reducing Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions RSPO PalmGHG Calculator 27,929 RSPO PalmGHG Calculator – Carbon Intensity Ghana 259,788 (tCO2e/MT CPO) Malaysia 2016 Sabah 0.56 Sarawak 0.86 Malaysia 0.63 Net Emissions 2,599,972 Sumatra 4.08 by Country Indonesia Central Kalimantan 1.46 MT CO2e We Care West Kalimantan 7.50 Indonesia 3.03 Ghana 1.04 47 Wilmar overall 2.23 Wilmar International Limited CDP and GHG Protocol Emissions GHG emissions achieved through the installation of biogas plants at mills. Additional operations reported in the 2016 W e participate in the annual reporting for CDP Climate scope include our fertiliser and feed ingredients plants, as Change module, and this year’s scope of reporting has well as tank terminals. been expanded to include all of our operations in Indonesia and Malaysia, which covers the various processing units in the supply chain as well as different commodities. The report, which is publicly available, outlines Wilmar’s carbon footprint as per the reporting scope, in accordance with the standards defined by the GHG Protocol. It also presents our assessment of the business risks associated with climate change, as well as details on our emission reduction efforts. There is an increase in 2016 emissions for our Indonesian operations as compared with data from previous years due to the enlarged scope of reporting for downstream operations. Similarly, emissions from our Malaysian operations increased slightly due to the inclusion of other downstream operations not directly related to palm. This offset the decrease of Wilmar's downstream operations in Pelintung, Indonesia. Malaysia Indonesia Plantations Mills Refineries & Others Emissions by country Emissions by business activity/division Scope 1 (tCO2e) 558,277.35 2,992,261.33 337,574.58 1,401,119.19 1,811,844.91 Scope 2 (tCO2e) 188,399.53 385,208.76 7,342.37 666.9 565,599.03 Note: In 2016, we started to trial a new Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) data collation & reporting system (Enablon) and moving forward, this platform will be used to collect our GHG emissions and other relevant environmental performance data. Canvas-covered methane capture lagoon in PT Tania Selatan in Sumatra, Indonesia. Methane recovery to mitigate GHG Emissions Avoiding Peat M ethane from palm oil mill effluent (POME) is our biggest source of avoidable GHG emissions, and has been a major strategic focus for our emissions reduction efforts. Peat oxidation results in significant carbon emissions due to the peat soil being mostly organic. Although peatland makes up a small portion of our planted area, it still accounts for Sustainability Report 2016 Over the past year, we have made tremendous headway in 26% of our total gross emissions. our efforts to reduce POME emissions. As at end 2016, we have 17 operational methane capture plants, which capture In 2012, Wilmar was among the first companies in the palm biogas for either flaring or electricity generation, and eight oil sector to ban new plantings on peat, regardless of depth. more are in various phases of construction. These facilities Our 2013 NDPE Policy expanded this commitment to cover provide alternative sources of electricity for our operations all our suppliers. and help to reduce our overall fossil fuel consumption. Through this initiative, we estimate that we can achieve Around 8% of our planted area is currently on peat, with the an annual emission reduction (from methane gas capture vast majority in our older estates in Sumatra. In these areas, only, excluding the emissions avoided by not using fossil we apply best management practices, such as maintaining fuels for electricity generation) of about 500,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) when all 25 sites are in appropriate water tables and other practices recommended by technical experts and working groups in the RSPO. We 48 full operation. are also sharing best practices with third-party suppliers to ensure that they have access to the latest knowledge and Wilmar International Limited insights on responsible peat management. As crops planted on peat meet the end of their current rotation, we will explore options for the long-term restoration of peatland and peat forest where feasible. Planted and Conserved Peat As at 31 December 2016 15,000 12,193 12,000 9,000 7,854 6,000 3,000 2,318 2,155 43 84 110 24 0 Sabah Sarawak Sumatra Central West Kalimantan Kalimantan Peat area planted (ha) Peat area conserved (ha) Note 1: No peat areas are found in Ghana and Nigeria. Note 2: The classification of soils has evolved steadily over the past years, as research bodies and government agencies have improved the available methodologies. This has resulted in changes to the soil maps we use to calculate our total peat area – as we seek to follow best available science – and consequently incremental increases in planted areas classified as peat. We have not developed new areas containing peat since we adpoted the No Peat policy in 2012. To avoid misunderstandings, we have decided not to report peat figures from previous years, as they are not comparable. Previously reported figures can be found in our 2015 Sustainability Report. Safeguarding Water Quality W e recognise that clean, accessible water is critical for the wellbeing of communities, wildlife and aquatic ecosystems. We continuously monitor our impact on local into local rivers. In the former way, the wastewater provides moisture, nutrients and organic matter which helps to reduce the need for commercial fertiliser. In the latter way, wastewater waterways to ensure that we do not affect water availability is treated before discharge. or quality, and we are seeking to minimise the use of potable water in all our operations. In both cases, we comply with local environmental limits* to minimise the risk of both disturbance to the aquatic Wastewater from FFB processing at mills – POME – is disposed environment and pollution of ground water. All our operations of either through land application as a fertiliser, or by release were in compliance with all relevant local thresholds in 2016. Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) Levels BOD is the amount of oxygen used when organic matter undergoes decomposition by mircoorganisms.Testing for BOD is done to assess the amount of organic matter in water. We Care BOD Levels by Region and Discharge Destination Mills (mg/L) 49 River Discharge Land Application Wilmar International Limited 1,065# 100 1000 928 90 # 83 79 80 800 60 600 52# 40 400 363 32 25# 271# 251# 20 16 17 # 200 169 77 60 0 0 Sumatra West Sabah Sarawak Sumatra Central West Ghana Kalimantan Kalimantan Kalimantan 2015 2016 Note: 1) In Nigeria, there was sufficient pond capacity to contain all effluent without land discharge. 2) The BOD data in 2016, as reported in Wilmar's Annual Report 2016, has been restated following EY's limited assurance procedure. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. * BOD level legal limits of the respective regions for river discharge: • Sabah: 20/50/100 mg/l, depending on the year the mill is built • Sarawak: 50 mg/l • Indonesia: 100mg/l BOD level legal limits of the respective regions for land application: • Indonesia: 5,000mg/l • Ghana: Not applicable Water Usage Our mills account for the majority of our water use, drawing supplies from local waterways and wells in order to process FFB. In addition to mill water, we also draw some water for nursery irrigation and household use. In our mills, we typically use around 1.5 m3 of water per tonne of FFB processed. We believe this is in line with normal industry levels. Water Use per Tonne of FFB Processed Mills (m3/MT FFB) Sustainability Report 2016 2.0 1.68 1.65 1.61 1.63 1.55 1.53 1.55 1.55 1.49 1.5 1.43 1.40 1.33 1.25 50 Wilmar International Limited 1.00 1.0 0.5 0 Sumatra Central West Sabah Sarawak Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan 2015 2016 We ensure that wastewater is treated and the BOD level complies with or is better than the legal limits before discharging back to the natural waterways. Reducing Chemicals Use We Care 51 Wilmar International Limited It is compulsory for workers who handle chemicals to wear PPE on site and shower after each work shift. T he use of chemicals to enhance production and prevent pests and diseases is a critical aspect of good agricultural practice. However, we recognise that such chemicals should and disposed of in accordance with the legal requirements for hazardous waste. be handled and applied in a way that does not risk the safety In 2016, as part of our in-depth review of our operations in of workers and the environment in which we operate. North Sumatra, we identified non-conformances in some sections, including insufficient PPE stock, which resulted To minimise our pesticide use, we have adopted an integrated in workers not being issued replacement PPE in a timely pest management system that applies a combination of manner. These issues have now been addressed, and we natural and mechanical pest reduction strategies, including are following up to ensure that such breaches in standard the introduction of natural predators. We also work to operating procedures do not take place elsewhere in our minimise pesticide usage through precision application. Our operations. R&D laboratory in Indonesia has also identified beneficial microbes that are being used to develop environmentally Chemicals policy friendly approaches to controlling or preventing oil palm diseases. These may also reduce our reliance on synthetic We monitor toxicity and restrict the use of a number of fertilisers and improve plant growth. chemicals of concern in order to minimise the potential hazards of pesticides for workers, communities and ecosystems. We Protecting workers have banned paraquat in our operations since 2011, and pesticides that are categorised as World Health Organization Workers that handle chemicals are required to undergo Class 1A or 1B, or listed by the Stockholm or Rotterdam extensive and ongoing training. It is mandatory that they Conventions, are not used, except in specific urgent situations. wear personal protective equipment (PPE) on site – including protective eyewear, facial masks, gloves and boots – and We monitor our pesticide usage and focus on tracking the use showering is compulsory after each shift. These workers of herbicides as these are applied as part of good agricultural are subject to regular check-ups to detect any presence practice. Fungicides, rodenticides and insecticides are used of residual chemicals. All chemicals are stored in locked only to contain outbreaks and attacks, and year-on-year facilities to which only authorised personnel have access. comparisons would not be meaningful. Containers used for storing chemicals are collected, stored Toxicity Per Hectare by Region 900 800 700 Toxicity units per hectare Sustainability Report 2016 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 52 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Years Wilmar International Limited 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sarawak 542 471 694 718 534 541 Sabah 330 452 508 801 737 647 Sumatra 275 258 219 231 257 317 Central Kalimantan 411 367 318 337 328 253 West Kalimantan 398 327 296 416 464 256 Ghana – – – – – 259 Nigeria – – – – – 629 T he use of herbicides is largely determined by planting cycle, as new plantings and young palms require greater amounts of herbicide. Herbicide usage is also determined our environmental footprint. Although only a few plantation companies disclose toxicity levels – making comparison difficult – we believe that our current range of 200-800 toxicity units by local climatic conditions, such as heavy rainfall, as well as per hectare is largely in line with best practice. agricultural and soil conditions and pest profiles. Tracking toxicity enables us to more accurately assess our performance Information on the types of herbicides currently used in against peers over time, as well as ensure that changes to the Wilmar plantations can be found on page 67. type or volume of herbicides used do not adversely affect Respecting and Empowering People No Exploitation W ilmar is committed to making a positive difference in society. We are not complicit, directly or indirectly, in the exploitation of workers and local communities. We are guided in our commitment by international standards as set out in the UN Global Compact, the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions, and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its covenants. We Care 53 Wilmar International Limited Rights of Workers External due diligence audits also took place in these operations via the RSPO and ISCC certification processes W ith over 51,000 people employed in our oil palm in January and February 2017 respectively. operations, we have a major challenge as well as a great opportunity to provide good livelihoods and development A compilation of all external findings and our action plan has opportunities to all our workers and their families. been published on our grievance list on our sustainability dashboard. Review of Current Practices We are continuing our efforts In Indonesia with BSR and In late 2016, some civil society groups drew attention to concerns Verité Southeast Asia in 2017 to define practical approaches Sustainability Report 2016 about labour practices at our North Sumatra operations, PT to improving labour practices across the sector, focusing on Perkebunan Milano (PM) and PT Daya Labuhan Indah (DLI). four highly complex areas: By the end of 2016, a total of two internal and two external • Presence of children in the workplace assessments were successively undertaken to investigate • Wages the matter. • Fair and equal treatment of workers • Occupational health and safety One of the external reviews was conducted by Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) in December 2016. The assessment Engagements with affected workers are ongoing, and we methodology involved visual observations, interviews, focus are seeking to resolve disputes. group discussions and documentation reviews. More than 100 54 Wilmar employees, almost all non-management workers, were interviewed by BSR, and the findings have been made public. Wilmar International Limited Training workers on the proper use of PPE. Fair Wages and Benefits W e are committed to paying fair wages to all employees, and to ensuring that our lowest wage paid always meets at least the applicable minimum wage. This also applies to workers subject to quotas, such as harvesters, who will never earn below the minimum wage, even if the set quotas are not met. In Indonesia, the legal minimum wage in different provinces and/or districts may vary. This is because minimum wages are determined by the governor of each region using a formula based on the previous year’s minimum wage, inflation and economic growth. Wilmar Lowest Monthly Wage Legal Minimum Wage (Excl. Piece-rate) Indonesia (Rupiah)* 1,605,000 1,605,000** Malaysia*** (Ringgit) 920 920 Nigeria (Naira) 23,400 18,000 Ghana (Cedi)**** 550.26 216.0 We Care * Click here for Indonesia’s 2016 list of legal minimum wages in different provinces. ** This refers to the lowest legal minimum wage listed amongst the provinces in Indonesia. *** For Sabah and Sarawak. **** Ghana’s minimum wage is based on a daily wage of 8 Cedi. To calculate the monthly national minimum wage, we multiply this daily wage by 27 working days. 55 In addition to wages, our permanent workers and their that make up their take-home salary and how these are immediate family also enjoy free housing and other benefits, detailed on payslips. Wilmar International Limited including access to facilities such as playgrounds and day-care facilities for babies, toddlers, and children of pre-school age.# There were also concerns that workers are given high “targets and quotas” to meet. The “targets and quotas” referred We reiterate that all workers are paid at least the legal to are in fact similar to key performance indicators (KPIs). minimum wage or higher. However, due to a lack of details While workers are encouraged to meet the KPIs for the task on payslips, including cash advances made to workers and at hand, the minimum wage will still be paid even if the work rice allowances in some regions, we recognise that workers is not completed within the given timeframe (in this case, a may not have fully understood that they have been paid the seven-hour working day). full minimum wage. In the specific case of KPIs for harvesters, these are set For this reason, we are reviewing the details provided on annually and take into consideration a number of factors, our payslips and will issue them in Bahasa Indonesia instead including terrain, palm maturity, operational practices (e.g. of English. We will also provide guidance to workers to different tools or equipment specifications) and workers ensure greater understanding of the various components of different productivity levels (i.e. high, medium and low # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this statement. Workers' housing complex in Wilmar's plantation. productivity). Following an extensive review and consultation In Central Kalimantan, where there is a lack of workers from with workers’ union representatives, the process is currently the resident population (Central Kalimantan is one of the being improved and updated to also factor in the different least populous provinces in Indonesia), the number of workers age groups when defining productivity levels. The process with temporary status is actually lower than in other regions will now be conducted in the presence of union leaders who precisely because there are not enough workers to do the will sign off on the outcome. plantation work required. Although most of the workers in Central Kalimantan originate from other parts of Indonesia, Following a review with the management in 2017, it has also they tend to reside in company housing in our plantations been found that it is unnecessary to continue communicating and stay longer than the required three-month period. Hence KPIs for spraying and manuring. While spraying and manuring they are categorised as permanent employees. work is integral to plantation management, it is carried out at most twice a year per palm in any given block, and will In other regions, many of our employees are locals who live therefore no longer require the communication of a KPI for in communities near our plantations. Most of these workers productivity. Instead, workers will be assigned to a sevenhave alternative sources of income, such as their own oil palm, hour working day (including one hour for travel, five hours rubber or paddy fields, and prefer to work on a casual basis for work, and one hour for showering and drinking milk). to supplement their regular source of income. Wilmar is now working towards reducing the ratio of temporary Temporary Workers workers in our plantations, by moving them from temporary Sustainability Report 2016 contracts to permanent contracts. Temporary workers are hired to perform seasonal work and to allow for work flexibility for our workers. Employees by Contract Type 2016 (Plantations) 14,000 12,165 56 12,000 Wilmar International Limited 10,000 8,322 8,000 6,000 5,806 4,000 3,258 2,617 2,981 2,325 2,254 2,000 1,447 0 0 432 10 240 0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan Permanent Temporary Non-Discrimination Wilmar has in place non-discrimination and equality policies that are published on our sustainability dashboard, along with other sustainability-related policies. We are committed to providing equal employment opportunities, regardless of gender. However, typically work in agriculture attracts a higher proportion of male workers. The latest available statistics for Indonesian 'labour in agriculture' from the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) shows that the number of male workers exceeded female workers by about 40%*. * FAO’s 2013 employment in agriculture' statistics of Indonesia http://www.fao.org/faostat/en/#data/OE. Indicators selected: 1) employment in agriculture 2) employment in agriculture, males 3) employment in agriculture, females Breakdown of Workers by Gender 14,000 12,000 10,000 9,689 8,543 8,000 6,000 3,923 4,105 4,000 3,649 2,760 2,157 1,560 2,000 1,478 1,057 0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Kalimantan Kalimantan We Care Male Female 57 On the other hand, the proportion of women on temporary work contracts is greater than that of men on temporary school attendance records, found that almost all children were attending school daily, and that the few who were not contracts. This is because many temporary workers are wives accounted for were not likely to be missing school to work of permanent workers who have specifically requested to with their parents. Through our own internal investigation, Wilmar International Limited be employed on a casual basis, with flexible working hours we did find instances where children were not being sent to that allow them to tend to their households. Permanent school. In particular, 36 out of a total of 1,391 children residing work contracts do not allow for flexible working hours. We in PT PM and PT DLI in North Sumatra were of school-going continue to have dialogues with our workers to improve age (up to 18 years old) but did not attend school. The most their contract terms, work conditions and work-life balance. common reason cited was that the children did not want to attend school. Our management team is currently working out potential solutions with parents to resolve this problem. Child Labour Interviews with union representatives conducted by independent We launched our first No Child Labour Policy in 2010, and assessors also indicated that children were not present on the our NDPE Policy includes a strict No Child Labour provision. plantation to help their parents. The interviews also found We do not employ anyone under the age of 18, and workers that the rule that children cannot accompany parents in the are not allowed to bring their children to work with them.# field is well understood by workers. However, in a plantation landscape where there are communities We are committed to keeping children out of plantation working and living in the same spatial environment, we do operations, and we are taking the following actions to that end: have some difficulties in preventing a child being present in the field. We have therefore now made estate managers • Conducting a survey at two estates in North Sumatra to directly responsible if breaches to the rule are found, and identify why children drop out of school, and developing this has a direct impact on their KPIs. a solution based on the findings to encourage their attendance.# Survey will be extended to more estates A number of internal and external assessments found no in Indonesia in 2017. evidence that Wilmar was employing any children. Checks through independent interviews with teachers in the nearby • Developing a pocket book that lists potential hazards for schools, which compared Wilmar’s census data against children in the plantation to raise parents' awareness of the risk.# • Consistently socialising the No Child Labour Policy to all workers by providing written notifications, management instructions and regular reminders during the muster. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this statement. Bonded Labour Employee Engagement and Complaints Mechanisms I n accordance with the RSPO and our NDPE Policy, we do not accept any forced, trafficked or bonded labour, either in our own operations or in our supply chain. Our NDPE Policy and the RSPO Principles & Criteria (P&C) set out clear requirements to ensure that workers have access to a complaints mechanism and a process for settling grievances.# Should we encounter instances of such practices, we will In Indonesia, for example, all employees (including temporary undertake remedial actions to ensure that victims are referred workers) can make complaints verbally or in writing to their to existing services for support and assistance. In the oil palm direct supervisor. # If the complaint concerns the direct sector, the most prominent risk of force or coercion occurs supervisor, the employee may also go to a union representative during the recruitment of workers through employment or make use of on-site feedback boxes to make an anonymous agencies. This is a particular risk in the case of foreign workers. complaint.# If a complaint cannot be settled satisfactorily, the matter may be escalated to the Human Resources (HR) In Malaysia and Indonesia, we recruit all workers for our Department and subsequently to the senior management upstream operations (i.e. plantations and mills) directly and (general manager level).# Should a complaint not be resolved do not pay fees to recruitment agencies. Workers are either in a manner that is satisfactory to the employee, he or she hired directly or referred through friends and relatives. In may seek the assistance of a mediator from the Department some cases we ask team leaders to assist in the recruitment of Manpower, or may ultimately resort to legal action.# Sustainability Report 2016 of local workers and they are paid an incentive to. We do, however, use agents to help with the processing of recruitment Confidentiality and anonymity of the complainant may be documents, such as work permits and passports, as well to requested and will be guaranteed, depending on the degree arrange the transportation of workers to our plantations. of sensitivity of the problem, the scale of the impact if the issue These agents are fully paid by the company and no cost is is made public, and the risk of retaliation to the complainant. charged to the workers. In addition to our general grievance mechanism, complaints In countries like Ghana and Nigeria, we do use agents in the mechanism and workers’ unions, we have in place gender recruitment process, but we do not allow any requirement committees in our plantations to ensure that women can that jobseekers lodge monetary deposits or other collateral access support and raise concerns.# as a condition of employment. 58 The assessment conducted with BSR in Indonesia found Fees or costs must not be charged to job-seekers and workers that workers had a low level of awareness about grievance Wilmar International Limited for services directly related to their recruitment, in either a mechanisms, and that it was unclear whether temporary temporary or permanent job placement, including when they workers were covered by existing mechanisms. We are now use the services of private employment agencies. reviewing ways to ensure that all employees are aware and clear about the complaints options available to them. We also seek to ensure that employees are never subject to the unlawful withholding of wages, identification cards, passports Freedom of Association or other travel documents, or other personal belongings, without their consent. To ensure that all employees have We support the rights of employees to form and join trade access to a secure place to store their personal belongings, unions of their choice and to bargain collectively.# Where the we are now embarking on the installation of lockers for rights to freedom of association and to collective bargaining workers in Sabah and Sarawak. We installed 750 lockers in are restricted under law, parallel means of independent and 2016 and are on target to install a total of 9,640 lockers by free association and bargaining are made available for all the end of 2017. personnel. Unions are a very important partner in ensuring that we understand and appropriately address the concerns and grievances of our employees. In many of our operations in Indonesia, Collective Labour Agreements (CLAs) have been developed jointly with workers’ union representatives to provide clarity and assurance on the rights and responsibilities of both plantations/mills and workers, as well as on workers' benefit entitlements. CLAs are negotiated between the plantation/ mill management and workers, who are represented by the respective labour union, and are valid for workers who are members of the union. CLAs are reviewed every two years. Workers can also use the union as a grievance channel or for collective bargaining purposes, such as to negotiate with the company on issues related to wages and premium incentives. Workers' passport lockers in Wilmar's plantation in East Malaysia. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this statement. Lost Time Incident Rate and Fatalities A s an integral part of our labour assessments, we are strengthening our focus on health and safety at our plantations and mills. This includes better enforcement of and potable water in the field. We have also implemented a triple-rinsing process for empty herbicide containers. existing standard operating procedures, such as appropriate We maintain our focus on safety and are following through use of personal protective equipment (PPE), and improved with our efforts to strengthen our safety culture. Key indicators training for all workers. We are also looking to address that tie employees’ remuneration to their health and safety certain non-work related behaviours that put workers at risk. performance are now being set to instil a behaviour-based For example, to stop workers using herbicide containers for safety culture, support increased safety awareness and storing drinking water, we are providing drinking containers improve safety practices. Lost Time Incident Rate Per 200,000 Working Hours We Care 8 59 6 6.10 5.40 4.18 Wilmar International Limited 4 2.96 2.66 2.15 2 1.18 1.06 1.01 0.67 0.47 0.53 0.16 0 0 Sumatra Central West Sabah Sarawak Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan Plantations Mills Note: In the course of compiling the 2015 Sustainability Report, it was discovered that the methodology for collating incidents differed across our sites. Therefore, historical incident rates for 2015 are not reported. We have resumed LTIR reporting in our 2016 Sustainability Report after setting a more consistent reporting standard across the Group. Fatalities We regret that our oil palm operations recorded one work-related fatality in our plantation in Sabah in 2016 as a result of a tractor accident. The incident was reviewed in collaboration with the Department of Occupational Health and Safety. A range of controls has been put in place, and additional driver training has been carried out to prevent similar accidents. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Nigeria 0 0 0 0 0 Ghana 0 0 0 0 0 Indonesia 5 0 1 3 0 Malaysia 3 1 1 1 1 Total 8 1 2 4 1 Smallholders F acilitating the inclusion of smallholders into the supply chain is a priority for Wilmar. Smallholder inclusion is of critical importance for securing our social license to operate, quality (e.g. harvesting only ripe FFBs, correct cutting of stalks, picking of loose fruits, etc.) – so that they can benefit from better extraction rates and pricing. our future fruit supply and our ongoing good relations with local communities. To address a vast diversity of cultures, traditions, land tenure models and local development needs, the format and focus While certification is an important component in incentivising of our smallholder work is shaped locally and in partnership sustainable practices, we do not believe it is the only solution and dialogue with communities and local government bodies. for smallholders. We believe that smallholders must understand the direct value of sustainable practices, and that “sustainability” Wilmar sources from both scheme and independent smallholders. Sustainability Report 2016 is part of a quality component for FFB. While our formal We are committed to helping our own scheme smallholders programmes with smallholders and external partners have achieve certification under the RSPO Smallholder P&C. Of the so far focused on certification as an end goal, we also want total scheme smallholder planted area in Indonesia and Ghana, farmers to focus on improving yields – primarily through about 90% is RSPO-certified. We aim to have the remaining consistent use of fertiliser and the correct interventions for smallholder planted area certified by 2018. key pests and weeds, and through improving FFB harvested Scheme smallholders as at 31 December 2016: Country Smallholder planted area (ha) RSPO-certified smallholder area (ha) 60 Indonesia (plasma) 29,634 26,054 Wilmar International Limited Ghana 1,650 1,650 Total 31,284 27,704 In addition to scheme smallholders, we are also working to To complement the CBN Anchor-Borrower Programme, grow our independent smallholder base and increase our Biase Plantations and Eyop Industries are working on a pilot direct FFB purchases from them. In 2016, we bought a total outgrower programme to test the functionality of a “Nucleusof 516,038.53 MT of FFB from independent smallholders, of Estate” model within Wilmar’s operations in Cross River State. which about 80% was from Indonesia, about 13% from Malaysia Three farmer cooperatives who fulfil all legal requirements and the remainder from Ghana. with regards to their land, and who share common boundaries with our estates have been identified as suitable. Wilmar will We are also focusing on supporting independent FFB suppliers be entering into an agreement with them to develop their in Nigeria. We have partnered with the Central Bank of Nigeria land as part of the pilot. This model will then be refined for (CBN) to run an outgrower programme known as the CBN replication through the CBN Anchor-Borrower Programme. So Anchor-Borrower Programme. Our Biase Plantation has been far, 140 ha of land neighbouring our Calaro and Ibiae estates selected to anchor the programme in Cross River State, Nigeria. has been identified. We have been working with farmers to As at end 2016, more than 400 farmers in over 40 cooperatives fulfil legal, customary and environmental due process before (representing over 1,000 ha of land) have been identified for the land clearing begins. participation in the programme. The programme is still being fine-tuned before its launch date in 2017. Independent Smallholder FFB Volume Purchased as at 31 December 2016 Country FFB volume purchased (MT) Indonesia 415,316.17 Malaysia 67,590.51 Ghana 33,131.85 Total 516,038.53 Supporting Smallholders Beyond Our Direct Smallholder Supply Base In addition to our direct smallholder supply base, Wilmar also supports the smallholders of our suppliers. The Wilmar Smallholders Support in Honduras (WISSH) was initiated at the beginning of 2016 to empower smallholders’ knowledge and build technical capacities on best agricultural management practices so they can increase productivity and improve their livelihoods, while maintaining responsible We Care sustainable practices. WISSH is a partnership between Wilmar 61 (Europe) and The Industrial Association of Palm Oil Producers in Honduras (AIPAH). A total of 1,980 smallholders were trained on Wilmar International Limited two key topics –Wilmar’s NDPE Policy and good environmental practices and ecosystem conservation – in over 119 sessions. Besides providing training, our implementation partner, NES Naturaleza, also developed a “Monitor & Control” mobile application (app) to facilitate crop management. This app enables record keeping for field activities, such as pesticide application, fossil fuel use and harvesting schedules. Over the course of 2016, three editions of pocket guidebooks featuring information about the training topics and functionalities of the mobile app were published and distributed to participating smallholders. As part of this initiative, we started collecting the GPS-coordinates of associated smallholders to map out the supply base of our supplier mills. At end 2016, we have produced concession maps that capture the supply shed of 1,500 smallholders. Community Relations and Conflict Resolution W ilmar works to obtain the Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) of local communities in all development projects. FPIC is based on good faith negotiation, through which local we are operating in. We diligently strive to ensure that we use land to which we have a legal right, and in which the country’s government recognises us as the rightful communities can give or withhold their consent to relinquishing entity to manage the land in question. their land rights to the company. • If there are land disputes, Wilmar seeks to resolve them In most of the countries where we operate, land use and in an open and consensual manner. In the event of loss land ownership are highly complex, with overlapping or unor damage affecting legal or customary rights, property, delineated land rights in land concessions. Shaped by national resources or livelihoods, we endeavour to undertake all development policies and projects, these can sometimes have measures to help avoid such loss or damage. Sustainability Report 2016 an unintentional impact on local communities and result in conflicts and disagreements. Wilmar pledges to respect and recognise the long-term customary and individual rights of indigenous and local We endeavour to be respectful of local communities communities. We also commit to ensuring legal compliance whenever such conflicts arise. We are committed to longand that international best practices on FPIC are implemented, term relationship building as part of our goal to maintain in accordance with the full scope of our NDPE Policy, prior harmonious relations with all our stakeholders. We engaged to commencing any new operations. with affected communities in an open and consultative manner to bring about a free, prior, informed and consensual solution Our standard practice involves negotiating with individual that benefits all parties. Our NDPE Policy mandates that landowners and local community leaders, or the government, we only develop in areas where we are welcomed by local depending on the country. With respect to compensation, we 62 communities. We will respect the wishes of local occupants strive for a fair compensation to the local community leaders who want to keep their land, and these areas will be delineated for existing crops, with statutory levels of compensation Wilmar International Limited as social enclaves for community use. as a minimum. We also implement progressive community development programmes through employment opportunities Making reference to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization’s and smallholder schemes, making every effort to ensure that Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance of communities are satisfied with the socio-economic benefits Tenure, Wilmar’s policy guidelines are: that development will bring. • Wilmar will respect the resource (e.g. land, forests We continually strive to improve and strengthen our land and fisheries) and tenure rights of local communities. claims resolution system through an inclusive, multi-stakeholder This is done in cognisance of the national obligations, approach, and by working closely with local civil society constitutions, local laws and regulations of the country groups and social experts. Dialogue with local communities in Indonesia. Supporting Community Development children in our local communities, including our employees' children. We also support and contribute to another three Many of our operations are located in remote parts of government schools outside our estates, including through developing countries, and often close to local communities. the provision of new school buildings and routine upgrades Our business activities therefore have a direct impact on and refurbishments, which altogether serve 1,200 children. the quality of life and livelihoods of our employees and our We also provide educational materials, such as computers, neighbours. books and uniforms, and fund the employment of teachers. Our approach is to ensure that we bring meaningful and lasting We have a total of 17 primary schools in our estates in Malaysia benefits to communities, and build open, honest and mutually – 15 in Sabah and two in Sarawak. These benefit a total of beneficial relationships that promote harmony with them. 747# children. As many children are of Indonesian origin or Indonesian nationals, we collaborate with the Indonesian We seek to address local needs and encourage community government to run Community Learning Centres (CLCs). CLCs self-reliance, particularly through our provision of and support provide secondary education to 144# children in Sabah, and for education, healthcare and infrastructure. primary education to 170# children in Sarawak. We Care Access to Schools Access to Healthcare We provide a range of services in our plantations, including All our employees and their families have access to medical childcare, kindergartens and schools, to ensure that all our services, including hospitals, local clinics and mobile aid posts. In addition, clinics are open to local communities to 63 workers’ children have access to day-care and education while their parents are at work. provide them with basic healthcare services. Wilmar has 10 schools in its Indonesian plantations. Together, Our employees are also highly supportive of our healthcare Wilmar International Limited these cover kindergarten, primary and secondary-level programmes. For example, our Malaysian operations organise curricula. We also support the education of more than 5,000# annual blood donation drives to support local hospitals. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Children going to school in Terusan 2 Estate in Sabah, East Malaysia. Base Data Income Statement1 US$ Million FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 Revenue 41,402 38,777 43,085 44,085 45,463 Profit before tax 1,300 1,379 1,538 1,775 1,655 Net Profit 972 1,023 1,156 1,319 1,255 Balance Sheet US$ Million FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 Sustainability Report 2016 Total assets 37,032 36,926 43,558 46,632 41,920 Total liabilities 21,653 21,625 27,147 30,745 26,725 Shareholders' funds 14,435 14,394 15,495 15,005 14,346 Segmental Sales Volume2 MT ‘000 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Tropical oils 3 23,368 23,500 24,607 64 Oilseeds & Grains 29,529 28,706 25,801 Wilmar International Limited Sugar 13,544 13,118 9,714 Segmental Profit Before Tax Breakdown1 US$ Million FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 Tropical Oils 689.2 491.5 969.2 1,125.4 1,182.0 Oilseeds and Grains 251.1 689.8 348.5 451.1 171.3 Sugar 125.3 84.3 134.4 126.6 99.8 Others 100.6 17.4 20.0 -21.3 110.3 Geographical Revenue Breakdown US$ Million FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 Southeast Asia 8,633 7,661 10,024 9,645 11,842 People's Republic of China 19,983 19,371 19,622 22,000 21,222 India 1,317 1,338 1,463 1,245 1,752 Europe 2,711 2,485 3,390 3,479 3,599 Australia/ New Zealand 1,501 1,411 1,724 1,800 1,789 Africa 2,352 2,024 2,036 1,503 1,519 Others 4,904 4,488 4,826 4,413 3,741 1 FY2015 figures were restated upon adoption of Amendments to FRS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and FRS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants. FY2012 – FY2014 figures are not adjusted. 2 Due to the segmental reclassification with effect from FY2015, sales volume information for FY2012 and FY2013 are not available. 3 Excludes plantation volume. Production FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FFB Production (MT) 3,817,969 4,481,022 4,323,960 4,040,785 4,210,490 FFB yield (MT FFB/ha) 19.0 21.4 20.6 18.8 18.9 CPO (MT) 1,740,298 1,995,800 1,909,355 1,848,148 1,909,330 PK (MT) 424,913 472,968 437,776 423,481 449,984 CPO Extraction Rate (%) 20.0 20.5 20.6 20.4 20.4 PK Extraction Rate (%) 4.9 4.9 4.7 4.7 4.8 Conservation area (ha) Hectares FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 Sabah 6,060 6,083 6,083 6,038 6,764 We Care Sarawak 1,721 1,658 1,658 1,658 1,953 Central Kalimantan 15,088 15,088 15,098 15,098 14,714 65 West Kalimantan 2,036 2,033 2,168 3,255 19,110 Sumatra 3,128 3,043 3,325 4,631 7,112 Ghana 83 83 57 Wilmar International Limited Nigeria 1,635 1,635 Total 29,751 29,662 28,416 30,725 49,653 Fire incidents Year Item Central West Sumatra Kalimantan Kalimantan 2012 Planted hectares burnt 97.42 112.52 67.69 Unplanted hectares burnt 318.90 0.00 0.00 Total number of fires 85 8 21 2013 Planted hectares burnt 15.00 7.09 9.25 Unplanted hectares burnt 113.87 0.40 0.00 Total number of fires 33 8 5 2014 Planted hectares burnt 448.10 711.93 115.18 Unplanted hectares burnt 386.74 0.00 2.10 Total number of fires 245 82 26 2015 Planted hectares burnt 504.30 9.11 428.30 Unplanted hectares burnt 1,028.40 2.00 205.10 Total number of fires 323 9 82 2016 Planted hectares burnt 0 1.37 0.02 Unplanted hectares burnt 82.88 0 0 Total number of fires 17 # 5 # 1# # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. BOD levels by region and discharge destination (mg/l) FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 BOD Level – River Discharge Sabah 25# 32 25 24 21 Sarawak 17# 16 13 14 16 West Kalimantan 90# 83 74 63 282 Sumatra 52# 79 57 84 82 Sustainability Report 2016 BOD Level – Land Application Central Kalimantan 271# 363 448 636 1,178 West Kalimantan 251# 169 241 236 301 Sumatra 1,065# 928 898 768 835 Ghana 60 77 93 Water usage 66 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 Wilmar International Limited Water Use (m³) Per Tonne of FFB (Mills) Sabah 1.55 1.68 1.59 1.59 1.46 Sarawak 1.65 1.55 1.13 0.98 1.40 Central Kalimantan 1.33 1.61 1.46 1.68 1.35 West Kalimantan 1.53 1.49 1.50 1.66 1.58 Sumatra 1.55 1.40 1.74 1.47 1.37 Ghana 1.43 1.63 1.52 Nigeria 1.25 1.00 0.97 Herbicide usage FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 Herbicide Usage Toxicity units per ha Sabah 541 534 718 694 471 Sarawak 647 737 801 508 452 Central Kalimantan 317 257 231 219 258 West Kalimantan 253 328 337 318 367 Sumatra 256 464 416 296 327 Ghana 259 Nigeria 629 # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Herbicide types Herbicides currently used in Usage Wilmar plantations Glyphosate (isopropylamine/isopropylammonium) Systemic and non-selective herbicide to control Imperata cylindrical, Paspalum conjugatum and Ottochloa nodosa. Metsulfuron-methyl Systemic herbicide used to control both narrow and broad leaf weeds when mixed with glyphosate isopropylamine. Triclopyr butotyl (triclopyr butoxy ethyl ester) Systemic and selective broad leaf weeds used to control Asystasia intrusa, Mikania micrantha, Clidemia hirta and Melostoma malabathricum. Glufosinate ammonium Used as a general narrow leaf weed control such as Paspalum conjugatum, Ottochloa nodosa, Fimbristylis miliacea and Borreria latifolia. 2,4-D-(dimethylamine/dimethylammonium) 2,4-D(dimethylamine/dimethylammonium) is a systemic and selective herbicide from the group of aryloxyalkanoic acids. This herbicide is used to control Mikania micrantha, Borreria latifolia, Ageratum conyzoides, Paspalum conjagatum, Ottochloa nodosa and Nephrolipis bisserata. We Care Fluroxypyr-meptyl Used to control broad leaf and common weeds such as Asystasia intrusa, Mikania micrantha, Melostoma malabathricum, Ottochloa nodosa, Paspalum conjagatum and Axonopus compressus. 67 Sodium chlorate Non-organic and selective herbicide used for general weeds control, such as Ottochloa nodosa, Paspalum conjagatum, Axonopus compressus, Mikania micrantha and Gingantochloa levi. Wilmar International Limited Clethodim Selective post-emergence herbicide. Systemic, rapidly absorbed and translocated from treated foliage to the root system and growing parts of the plant. Mostly used to control Eleusine indica. Indaziflam A preand post-emergence herbicide. Often mixed with Glyphosate isopropylammonium to prevent or control common and major weeds in plantation such as Paspalum conjagatum, Axonopus compressus, Ottochloa nodosa, Hedyotis verticillata, Asystasia intrusa, Ageratum conyzoides, Cyperus rotundus and Digitaria ciliaris. Diuron A selective systemic herbicide used to control broad leaf weeds and grasses. Lost Time Incident Rate (Plantations) FY2016 FY2015* FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 LTIR – Plantations (per 200,000 working hours) Sabah 1.01 1.37 2.33 2.19 Sarawak 2.96 7.82 8.60 7.09 Central Kalimantan 4.18 5.27 6.56 4.40 West Kalimantan 1.08 0.79 0.09 0.23 Sumatra 6.10 7.06 4.12 4.40 Ghana 0.47 0.26 Nigeria 5.40 * In the course of compiling data for our 2015 Sustainability Report, we discovered that methodology for collating incidents differed across our sites, with some sites using national or regional thresholds for reporting, while some used international Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards. Due to these inconsistencies, we excluded LTIR reporting in our 2015 report. We have resumed LTIR reporting in our 2016 Sustainability Report after setting a more consistent reporting standard across the Group. Lost Time Incident Rate (Mills) FY2016 FY2015* FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 LTIR – Mills (per 200,000 working hours) Sabah 2.66 3.99 3.44 2.96 Sarawak 2.15 0.84 4.01 4.74 Central Kalimantan 1.18 1.01 3.62 1.45 West Kalimantan 0.16 0.51 0.75 0.23 Sumatra 0.67 0.84 0.33 0.74 Sustainability Report 2016 Ghana 0.53 0.18 Nigeria 0.00 * In the course of compiling data for our 2015 Sustainability Report, we discovered that methodology for collating incidents differed across our sites, with some sites using national or regional thresholds for reporting, while some used international Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards. Due to these inconsistencies, we excluded LTIR reporting in our 2015 report. We have resumed LTIR reporting in our 2016 Sustainability Report after setting a more consistent reporting standard across the Group. Fatalities 68 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 Wilmar International Limited Fatalities Plantations Sabah 1 1 1 0 1 Sarawak 0 0 0 1 0 Central Kalimantan 0 1 1 0 0 West Kalimantan 0 0 0 0 0 Sumatra 0 0 0 0 1 Ghana 0 0 0 Nigeria 0 0 Fatalities – Mills Sabah 0 0 0 0 1 Sarawak 0 0 0 0 1 Central Kalimantan 0 0 0 0 03 West Kalimantan 0 0 0 0 0 Sumatra 0 2 0 0 1 Ghana 0 0 0 Nigeria 0 0 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Disclosure Page or reason for omission Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of organisation About Wilmar 15 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About Wilmar 15-19 Annual Report 2016 26-33 102-3 Location of headquarters About Wilmar 15 102-4 Location of operations About Wilmar 16-17 Palm oil operations 24-25 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Wilmar 15 We Care 102-6 Markets served About Wilmar 16-19 Annual Report 2016 26-33 102-7 Scale of the organisation About Wilmar 15-19 69 Palm oil operations 24-25 Annual Report 2016 inside front cover, 8-11 102-8 Information on employees and other workers About Wilmar 15, 21 Wilmar International Limited No exploitation 54-58 102-9 Supply chain Palm oil operations 23-25 Supply chain and traceability 31-36 Smallholders and outgrowers 60-61 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and No major changes in the reporting period its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our approach to sustainability 26-40 Note: The HCS Approach and RSPO requires a precautionary approach 102-12 External initiatives Our approach to sustainability 26-40 Protecting our environment 41-52 102-13 Membership of associations Sustainability certification 30 Engagement and empowerment 37-39 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Chairman and CEO's Statement 10-11 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Scope and boundary 1-3 Our approach to sustainability 26-40 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Sustainability governance and ethics 40 behaviour Our approach to sustainability 26-40 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Sustainability governance and ethics 40 ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance 22 Sustainability management and governance structure 28-29 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability management and governance structure 28-29 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Sustainability management and governance structure 28-29 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Our approach to sustainability 26-40 environmental, and social topics Sustainability Report 2016 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Corporate governance 22 and its committees Annual Report 2016 16-21, 55-72 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate governance 22 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Annual Report 2016 60 governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual Report 2016 55-72 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting Corporate governance 22 purpose, values, and strategy 70 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Annual Report 2016 61 performance Wilmar International Limited 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Annual Report 2016 53-54 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report 2016 62-64 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report 2016 62-64 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability management and governance structure 28-29 Supply chain and traceability 31-36 Engagement and empowerment 37-39 Smallholders and outgrowers 60-61 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Freedom of association 58 Note: Percentage of employees covered not currently available 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Supply chain and traceability 31-36 Engagement and empowerment 37-39 Smallholders and outgrowers 60-61 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Supply chain and traceability 31-36 Engagement and empowerment 37-39 Smallholders and outgrowers 60-61 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Supply chain and traceability 31-36 Engagement and empowerment 37-39 Protecting our environment 41-52 No exploitation 53-62 Smallholders and outgrowers 60-61 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Annual Report 2016 187-189 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Scope and boundary 1-3 102-47 List of material topics Scope and boundary 1-3 102-48 Restatements of information Scope and boundary 1-3 102-49 Changes in reporting Scope and boundary 1-3 102-50 Reporting period Scope and boundary 1-3 102-51 Date of most recent report Scope and boundary 1-3 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Contact 82 We Care report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Scope and boundary 1-3 GRI Standards 71 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 69-76 102-56 External assurance About this report 77-79 Wilmar International Limited Material Topics GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission ECONOMIC Economic Performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its About Wilmar 15-19 Management Boundary Annual Report 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its About Wilmar 15-22 components Annual Report 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach About Wilmar 15-22 Annual Report 2016 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and About Wilmar 15-21 Economic distributed Annual Report 2016 Performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 46-48 opportunities due to climate change CDP submission 2016 Market Presence GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Rights of workers 54-58 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its Rights of workers 54-58 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Rights of workers 54-58 GRI 202: 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Rights of workers 54-58 Market Presence compared to local minimum wage 2016 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Smallholders 60-61 Management Boundary Supporting development 63 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its Smallholders 60-61 components Supporting development 63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Smallholders 60-61 Supporting development 63 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Supporting smallholders beyond our direct smallholder Sustainability Report 2016 Indirect Economic supported supply base 61 Impacts 2016 Supporting community development 63 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Smallholders 60-61 Procurement Practices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Smallholders 60-61 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Smallholders 60-61 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Smallholders 60-61 72 GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Smallholders 60-61 Wilmar International Limited Procurement Practices 2016 Anti-corruption GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Sustainability governance and ethics 40 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its Sustainability governance and ethics 40 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability governance and ethics 40 ENVIRONMENTAL Materials GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its About Wilmar 15-19 Management Boundary Palm oil operations 23-25 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its About Wilmar 15-19 components Palm oil operations 23-25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach About Wilmar 15-19 Palm oil operations 23-25 GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume About Wilmar 15-19 Materials 2016 Palm oil operations 23-25 Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Safeguarding water quality 49-50 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Safeguarding water quality 49-50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safeguarding water quality 49-50 GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Safeguarding water quality 49-50 Water 2016 Biodiversity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Protecting our environment 41-52 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Protecting our environment 41-52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Protecting our environment 41-52 GRI 304: 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, Protecting our environment 41-52 Biodiversity 2016 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and Protecting our environment 41-52 services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Protecting our environment 41-52 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national Refer to Sustainability Report 2011 46 We Care conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Emissions 73 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 46-48 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 46-48 Wilmar International Limited 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 46-48 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Promoting zero burn practices 45 Emissions 2016 Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 46-48 CDP submission 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 46-48 CDP submission 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 46-48 CDP submission 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 46-48 CDP submission 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 46-48 CDP submission 2016 Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Safeguarding water quality 49-50 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Safeguarding water quality 49-50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safeguarding water quality 49-50 GRI 306: 306-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Safeguarding water quality 40-50 Effluents and Boundary Waste 2016 306-2 The management approach and its components Methane recovery to mitigate GHG emissions 48 Safeguarding water quality 49-50 306-3 Evaluation of the management approach No significant spills recorded Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Our approach to sustainability 26-40 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Our approach to sustainability 26-40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our approach to sustainability 26-40 Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Sustainability management and governance structure 28-29 Sustainability Report 2016 Supplier environmental criteria Sustainability certification 30 Environmental Supply chain and traceability 31-36 Assessment 2016 Progress on Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) 38-39 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply Sustainability certification 30 chain and actions taken Progress on Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) 38-39 Sustainability governance and ethics 40 No deforestation 41-42 No exploitation 53-62 Smallholders and outgrowers 60-61 GRI 400 SOCIAL 74 Employment Wilmar International Limited GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Rights of workers 54-58 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Rights of workers 54-58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Rights of workers 54-58 GRI 401: 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Rights of workers 54-58 Employment 2016 are not provided to temporary or part-time Supporting community development 63 employees Labour/Management Relations GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its No exploitation 54-58 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components No exploitation 54-58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation 54-58 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Review of current practices 54 Management Boundary Lost time incident rates and fatalities 59 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Review of current practices 54 Lost time incident rates and fatalities 59 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Review of current practices 54 Lost time incident rates and fatalities 59 GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Reducing chemicals use 51-52 Occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Lost time incident rates and fatalities 59 Health and Safety number of work-related fatalities 2016 Non-discrimination GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Non-discrimination 56-57 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Non-discrimination 56-57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Non-discrimination 56-57 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Freedom of association 58 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Freedom of association 58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Freedom of association 58 Child Labour We Care GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Child labour 57 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Child labour 57 75 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Child labour 57 GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Child labour 57 Wilmar International Limited Child Labour 2016 incidents of child labour Forced or Compulsory Labour GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Bonded labour 58 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Bonded labour 58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Bonded labour 58 GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Bonded labour 58 Forced or incidents of forced or compulsory labour Compulsory Labour 2016 Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Community relations and conflict resolution 62 Management Boundary Supporting community development 63 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Community relations and conflict resolution 62 Supporting community development 63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community relations and conflict resolution 62 Supporting community development 63 Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Rights of workers 53-54 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Rights of workers 53-54 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Rights of workers 53-54 GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human Grievances 40 Human Rights rights reviews or impact assessments Assessment 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Local Communities GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with local community Smallholders 60-61 Local Communities engagement, impact assessments, and Supporting smallholders beyond our direct smallholder 2016 development programs Supply base 61 Supporting community development 63 Community relations and conflict resolution 62 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our approach to sustainability 26-29 Progress on Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) 38-39 76 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Progress on Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) 38-39 Wilmar International Limited 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Progress on Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) 38-39 GRI 414: 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain Grievances 40 Supplier Social and actions taken Proactive supply chain monitoring 40 Assessment 2016 EY Assurance Statement Independent Limited Assurance Statement to the Management of Wilmar International Limited (‘Wilmar’) We have performed limited assurance procedures in relation to Wilmar’s Sustainability Report 2016 (‘the Report’) as detailed in the ‘Subject Matter’ below. The Management’s Responsibility Reporting Criteria Wilmar’s Sustainability Report 2016 has been prepared by As a basis for the assurance engagement, we have used the Management of Wilmar, which is responsible for the the criterion of accuracy in the sustainability reporting collection and presentation of the information it contains guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI and for maintaining adequate records and internal Standards). We consider this reporting criterion to be controls that are designed to support the sustainability relevant and appropriate. reporting process. For the purpose of the Sustainability Report 2016, there are no legally prescribed requirements Assurance Standard Used and relating to the preparation, publication and verification of sustainability reports. Level of Assurance We Care Our limited assurance engagement has been planned and The Auditor’s Responsibility performed in accordance with the ISAE 30001 Assurance Engagement Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Our responsibility in performing our limited assurance 77 activities is to the Management of Wilmar only and in Financial Information. We have also considered the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (‘GRI Standards’) reporting accordance with the terms of reference agreed with them. guidelines in conducting our limited assurance procedures. We do not accept or assume any responsibility for any Wilmar International Limited other purpose or to any other person or organisation. Any A limited assurance engagement consists of making reliance any such third party may place on the Report is enquiries and applying analytical and other limited entirely at their own risk. assurance procedures. Our procedures were designed to provide a limited level of assurance and as such do not Our review was limited to the information on the select provide all the evidence that would be required to provide indicators set out within the Report from 1 January 2016 to a reasonable level of assurance. 31 December 2016 and our responsibility does not include: The procedures performed depend on the assurance • Any work in respect of sustainability information practitioner’s judgement including the risk of material published elsewhere on Wilmar’s annual report, misstatement of the specific activity data, whether due company website, sustainability dashboard, policy to fraud or error. While we considered the effectiveness progress updates and other publications, of Management’s internal controls when determining the • Sustainability information prior to 01 January 2016 and nature and extent of our procedures, our review was not subsequent to 31 December 2016, and designed to provide assurance on internal controls. We • Management’s forward looking statements such as believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and targets, plans and intentions. appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Our multi-disciplinary team has the required competencies and experience to conduct this assurance engagement. Our professionals have experience in both assurance skills and in the applicable subject matter including environmental, social and financial aspects. 1 International Federation of the Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000) Scope of work We have been engaged by the Management of Wilmar to perform limited assurance on the Subject Matter below. Subject Matter The Subject Matter for our limited assurance engagement covers the following: No. Category Subject Matter Sustainability Report 2016 1 Grievance Availability of complaints mechanisms and measures to create awareness of workers on complaints mechanisms 2 Labour practices Types of benefits provided for each group of workers permanent vs. temporary 3 Human rights Policies on workers’ rights to collective bargaining 4 Human rights Measures to prevent child labour 5 Human rights Number of children who attend schools 6 Fire disclosure Total number of fire incidents 78 7 Water quality BOD of water discharge Wilmar International Limited A hash symbol (#) in the Report denotes statements and 2. Undertake multiple visits to: claims on which we have performed limited assurance a. Wilmar’s headquarters in Singapore, and procedures. The above Subject Matter covers Wilmar’s palm b. Wilmar’s selected plantations and mills in West oil plantations and mills in Indonesia and Malaysia only. Sumatra. What we did to form our conclusions 3. Interviews with employees and Management in Singapore, Indonesia and Malaysia (e.g. Sustainability The procedures performed aim to verify the plausibility of team, Geographical Information Systems (GIS) team, information. We designed our procedures in order to state Human Resources, estate managers, fire coordinators) whether anything has come to our attention to suggest to understand key sustainability issues related to the that the Subject Matter detailed above has not been selected indicators, collection processes and accuracy reported in accordance with the reporting criterion cited of reporting. earlier. In order to form our conclusions we undertook the steps below: 4. Conduct process walk-through of systems and processes for data aggregation and reporting, with 1. Inquiries with Wilmar’s Sustainability team to: relevant personnel to understand the quality of checks a. Understand principal business operations, and control mechanisms, assessing and testing the b. Appreciate key sustainability issues and controls in relation to the concerned subject matters. developments, c. Map out information flow for sustainability reporting 5. Obtain documentation through sampling methods and the relevant controls, to verify assumptions, estimations and computations d. Identify data providers with their responsibilities, made by Management in relation to the concerned and subject matters. e. Recognise the likelihood of fraud on the sustainability information. 6. Conduct general media research (including reports from reputable NGOs) on the concerned subject matters. 7. Checking that data and statements had been correctly transcribed from corporate systems and / or supporting evidence, in relation to concerned subject matters. Our independence EY has provided independent assurance services in relation to Wilmar’s Sustainability Report 2016. In conducting our assurance engagement, we have met the independence requirements of the Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants and Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities. Our EY independence policies prohibit any financial interests in our clients that would or might be seen to impair independence. Each year, partners and staff are required to confirm their compliance with the firm’s policies. We Care Observations and areas for improvement Our observations and areas for improvement will be raised in an internal report to Wilmar’s Management. These 79 observations do not affect our conclusions on the Report set out below. Conclusion Wilmar International Limited Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter was not presented fairly, and calculated in all material respects in accordance with the criterion detailed above. Other Matter The Subject Matter No. 7 for the years ended 31 December 2012 to 2015 were not audited and our opinion does not relate to this Subject Matter for that year. The Subject Matter No. 6 for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2013, were audited by another auditor who expressed an unmodified opinion on this Subject Matter on 26 August 2014. Ernst & Young LLP Signed for Ernst & Young LLP by K Sadashiv Managing Director, Climate Change and Sustainability Services Singapore, 17 August 2017 Glossary Biodiversity The diversity (number and variety of species) of plant and animal life. Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) The amount of oxygen used when organic matter undergoes decomposition by micro-organisms. Testing for BOD is done to assess the amount of organic matter in water. CO2 Equivalents Carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2eq) provide a universal standard of measurement against which the impacts of releasing (or avoiding the release of) different greenhouse gases can be evaluated. Sustainability Report 2016 Effluents Water discharged from one source into a separate body of water, such as mill process water. Extraction rate The amount of oil extracted from oil palm fruit at a mill. Crude palm oil (CPO) is extracted from the flesh; palm kernel oil (PKO) from the nut. Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) FPIC the principle that a community has the right to give or withhold its consent to proposed projects that may affect the lands they customarily own, occupy or otherwise use. 80 Fresh fruit bunch (FFB) Wilmar International Limited Bunch harvested from the oil palm tree. The weight of the fruit bunch ranges between 10 kg to 40 kg depends on the size and age. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) A multi-stakeholder standard for sustainability reporting, providing guidance on determining report content and indicators. High Conservation Values (HCVs) HCVs are biological, ecological, social or cultural values which are considered outstandingly significant or critically important, at the national, regional or global level. High Carbon Stock approach The HCS Approach is a methodology to avoid deforestation in land development, initially developed in a partnership between Greenpeace, TFT and Golden Agri-Resources. The approach stratifies the vegetation on an area of land into different classes using analyses of satellite images and field plot measurements. Each vegetation class is validated through calibrating it with carbon stock estimates in the above-ground tree biomass. Independent Director According to the Listing Manual of SGX, an independent director is one who has no relationship with the company, its related corporations (i.e. a corporation that is the company’s holding company, subsidiary or fellow subsidiary), its 10% shareholders or its officers that could interfere, or be reasonably perceived to interfere, with the exercise of the director’s independent business judgement with a view to the best interests of the company. Independent smallholder Small growers with less than 50 hectares, which are self-financed, managed, and equipped and are not bound to any one mill. They may deal directly with local mill operators of their choice or process their own palm oil using personal or community manual palm oil presses (more common in Africa) Integrated Pest Management (IPM) IPM is the careful consideration of all available pest control techniques and subsequent integration of appropriate measures that discourage the development of pest populations and keep pesticides and other interventions to levels that are economically justified and reduce or minimise risks to human health and the environment. IPM emphasises the growth of a healthy crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. International Labour Organization (ILO) Is a tripartite world body representative of labour, management and government, and is an agency of the United Nations. It disseminates labour information and sets minimum international labour standards called “conventions”, offered to member nations for adoption. Mass Balance The Mass Balance system allows for mixing of RSPO certified and noncertified palm oil at any stage in the supply chain provided that overall company quantities are controlled. The mass balance model is constructed in such a way that volumes of RSPO certified product shipped will never exceed volumes received by the end-user We Care Non-executive director A board director who does not currently hold other employment with the company. Unlike an independent director, a nonexecutive can have significant financial interests or close personal ties to the company. 81 Non-governmental organisation (NGO) Is used in this report to refer to grassroots and campaigning organisations focused on environmental or social issues. Wilmar International Limited Palm oil mill effluent (POME) By-product of processed fresh fruit bunch (FFB). Peat and Peatland Peat is an accumulation of partially decayed vegetation matter. Peat forms in wetlands or peat lands, variously called bogs, moors, muskegs, pocosins, mires, and peat swamp forests. Land with soil having more than 65% organic matter is considered peatland. Plasma schemes A programme initiated by the Indonesian government to encourage the development of smallholders’ plantations with the assistance and cooperation of plantation companies (the nucleus) which assist and support the surrounding community plantations (the plasma). Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) A multi-stakeholder organisation based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The organisation has developed a certification scheme for sustainable palm oil. Segregation The Segregation supply chain model assures that RSPO-certified palm oil and its derivatives delivered to the end-user come only from RSPO certified sources. It permits the mixing of RSPO-certified palm oil from a variety of sources. Stakeholders Any group or individual who are affected by or can affect a company’s operations. Sustainability A term expressing a long-term balance between social, economic and environmental objectives. Often linked to sustainable development, which is defined as “development that meets the need of current generations without compromising the needs of future generations”. Contact We welcome suggestions on improvements to ensure that we remain cognisant responsive and inclusive. If you have any comments or questions on the contents of this report or on our sustainability performance, we would welcome your contribution. Please contact us here: by email: csr@wilmar.com.sg Sustainability Report 2016 by post: Wilmar International Limited 56 Neil Road, Singapore 088830 Attention to: Sustainability Department To report a grievance or complaint regarding our sustainability commitments, please refer to 82 http://www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/grievanceWilmar International Limited procedure/ WILMAR INTERNATIONAL LIMITED Co. Reg. No. 199904785Z 56 Neil Road Singapore 088830 t. (65) 6216 0244 www.wilmar-international.com
