2016 Ipsen UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Since 2012, Ipsen adheres to the Global Compact program of the United Nations. Ipsen is a global specialty-care pharmaceutical Ipsen which has the ambition of becoming a leader in specialty healthcare solutions for targeted debilitating diseases in oncology, neurosciences and adult and pediatric endocrinology. Ipsen also has a significant presence in primary care. Ipsen's R&D is focused on its innovative and differentiated technological platforms, peptides and toxins, located in the heart of the leading biotechnological and life sciences hubs (Les Ulis, France; Slough/Oxford, UK; Cambridge, US). Our focus fosters deep engagement with medical specialists and we make it our business to listen closely to their needs so that together we can advance patient care. We combine this strategic focus with a diversified approach that enables us to follow our research and development into new specialty areas where unmet needs are significant. In partnership with the medical community, we bring scientific excellence and rigor to deliver leading products that improve patient outcomes. And, we go above and beyond this to provide education and information, with the highest level of integrity, which h elps patients to fully understand the choices available to them and make well-informed treatment decisions with their doctors. We know we are successful when doctors and patients place their trust in our products and our company, when our employees excel and when our efforts make a meaningful difference in the lives of the patients and communities we serve. For almost 90 years, Ipsen has been committed to the health, safety, and well-being of the people who put their trust in our products. Every day, we strive to better people's lives in a wide range of ways — from developing new treatments for complex and disabling medical conditions to offering science-based medical over the counter solutions. Our determination to make a positive contribution extends to not only the people who benefit from our products, but also to our employees and to the global community in which we live and work. It remains our goal to ensure that our contribution to science reflects our commitment to a safe, healthy workplace, strong communities and responsible, ethical business practices in everything we do, from research and development to sales and marketing. Ipsen remains focused on sustainable business practices including:  Offering needed products that have environmental, health and safety design considerations,  Managing climate change through energy efficiency and carbon footprint reduction,  Continuing to improve operational efficiency, reducing waste and increasing recycling,  Providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees,  Working with our supply chains to improve corporate responsibility performance, and  Enhancing positive community interaction. As an example, Ipsen has received the Green arrow award for system design and innovation regarding the product Somatuline Depot by the California Product Stewardship Council. In this introduction, I am highlighting some of our key achievements and challenges relating to our corporate social responsibility. More information about these and other areas of our commitment is provided throughout our website. You can also read more about our business environment, strategy, goals and performance in our Annual Report. Moreover, the philanthropic mission of the Fondation Ipsen is to contribute to the development and dissemination of scientific knowledge and to foster interactions between researchers and clinical practitioners. Its ambition is to initiate a reflection about the major scientific issues of the forthcoming years. Sustainability is the balance between the competing priorities of economic, social and environmental responsibilit ies. Ipsen has and will continue to commit resources and measure performance to ensuring that the highest ethical standards are applied within the whole organization. Thus Ipsen confirms its will to include UN Global Compact fundamental principles in its sphere of influence. In conclusion, Ipsen has had a long commitment to sustainable business values. We work to keep these core values in mind in all aspects of our business so that we can maintain the excellent reputation and respect that we enjoy with our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. David Meek Chief Executive Officer Ipsen UN Global Compact Commitments and Performance The following narrative and links will demonstrate how Ipsen is addressing each of these Principles and plans for improving performance in each of these areas. Principle 1 Protection of Human Rights Ipsen approaches the Protection of Human Rights as it does any other personal freedom and has articulated this support through its Code of Ethical Conduct. The Code of Ethical Conduct applies to all Ipsen employees and in all of Ipsen’s business dealings. The Code of Ethical Conduct requires, among other things, that employees respect human rights and do not discriminate against anyone based on characteristics protected by law. Harassment is not tolerated in any form. Violence or threats of violence in the workplace are not tolerated. The Code of Ethical Conduct applies to persons or entities representing or working on behalf of Ipsen as well. In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based o n the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as human rights. Principle 2 Complicity in Human Rights Abuses Ipsen will not be complicit in Human Rights abuses as stated in its Code of Ethical Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, Ipsen plans to work w ith Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as human rights. Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Ipsen approaches the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining as it does any other personal freedom and has articulated this support through its Code of Ethical Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based o n the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as freedom of association and collective bargaining. Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labor Ipsen will not be complicit in forced or compulsory labor per Ipsen’s Code of Ethical Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Child Labor Ipsen will not be complicit in the use of child labor per Ipsen’s Code of Ethical Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process In 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as child labor. Principle 6 Discrimination Ipsen approaches discrimination as it does any other personal freedom and has articulated this support through its Code of Ethical Conduct. The Code of Ethics applies to all Ipsen employees and in all of Ipsen’s business dealings. The Code of Ethics requires that employees respect human rights and do not discriminate against anyone based on characteristics protected by law. Harassment is not tolerated in any form. Violence or threats of violence in the workplace are not tolerated. The Code of Ethical Conduct applies to persons or entities representing or working on behalf of Ipsen, as well. In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based o n the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as discrimination. Principle 7 Precautionary Approach Ipsen has adopted the Precautionary Approach in all its business dealings and articulates this in its Annual Registration Document. Ipsen has always practiced the precautionary principle with regard to its products and operations. The inherent nature of researching and developing drug products for human use demonstrates the precautionary principle in action. Ipsen considers the impacts of actions undertaken through a rigorous risk assessment process with multiple gates through which the company proceeds when the multitude of risks are determined to be acceptable to Ipsen and the various stakeholders in the process including patients, physicians, employees, government officials, investors, and others. Principle 8 Environmental Responsibility Ipsen has a very strong stand on environmental responsibility as indicated by its EHS policy, programs and various performance reports (see pages 19-20 and 69-93). Ultimately, Ipsen has been reducing energy and water consumption at its facilities and has goals to continue improving this performance. In 2016, Ipsen is considering participating in the CEO Water Mandate and the Caring for Climate C4C Ipsen. In 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as human rights. Principle 9 Environmentally Friendly Technologies Ipsen has made its approaches and technologies used to achieve the results captured in Principle 8 available to the public through the Ipsen website, and various trade associations and partnerships. In 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In addition in 2015, Ipsen began to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as environment, health and safety management systems and resource conservation. Principle 10 Corruption Ipsen has established positions against corruption including bribery in its Code of Ethical Conduct In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as corruption prevention. Conclusion Ipsen will continue to enhance support of the UN Global Compact Principles. Ipsen will collaborate with the UN Global Compact on methods and means to improve its performance and the performance of all entities regarding these Principles.
