THE VOLVO GROUP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DRIVING PROSPERITY THROUGH TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS CONTENT A GLOBAL GROUP OVERVIEW This is Volvo Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 CEO comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 OUR MISSION IS TO DRIVE PROSPERITY STRATEGY The Volvo Group journey continues . . . . . . . . . . .8 THROUGH TRANSPORT Mission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 SOLUTIONS. Vision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Aspirations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Values . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Global context and overall trends . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Financial targets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Materiality issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 OUR VISION IS TO BE BUSINESS MODEL THE MOST DESIRED AND Value chain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 SUCCESSFUL Customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 TRANSPORT SOLUTION Product development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 PROVIDER IN THE Purchasing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 WORLD. Production & Logistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 Retail & Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 Reuse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 Our people behind it . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Our role in society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 OUR ASPIRATIONS Global strength . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 ARE THE GUIDE ON Signiﬁcant events published in quarterly reports . . . 78 Financial performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 OUR JOURNEY. Financial position . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83 Cash ﬂow statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86 Trucks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88 Construction Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92 Buses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95 Volvo Penta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97 Financial Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99 BUILDING A PERFORFinancial management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .101 MANCE CULTURE. Changes in consolidated shareholders’ equity . . . 102 OUR COMPANY CULTURE The share. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103 IS HOW WE INTERACT Risks and uncertainties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 WITH EACH OTHER, WITH OUR CUSTOMERS NOTES Notes to ﬁnancial statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112 AND WITH SOCIETY Parent Company AB Volvo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160 AS A WHOLE. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report 2016 . . . . . . . . 170 Board of Directors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178 Group Executive Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 184 OTHER INFORMATION Proposed Remuneration Policy . . . . . . . . . . . 188 Proposed Disposition of Unappropriated Earnings. 189 Audit report for AB Volvo (publ) . . . . . . . . . . . 190 Eleven-year Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193 Explanation to adjusted operating income. . . . . . 202 Deﬁnitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204 Annual General Meeting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205 Preliminary publication dates . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205 The Volvo Group’s formal ﬁnancial reports are presented on pages 76–169, 188–189 and 202–203 in the printed version and have been audited by the company’s auditors. A GLOBAL GROUP OVERVIEW 2 016 I N B R I E F Improved underlying performance on lower volumes JLower net sales in the Americas partly offset by JImplementation of brand-based organization with growth in Europe and Asia. In total net sales declined clearer commercial accountability for the Group’s truck by 3% to SEK 302 billion. brands. JCost reductions and productivity gains combined with JNew Mission – Driving prosperity through transport a favorable product and market mix offset the impact solutions. New Vision – the Volvo Group is to be the from lower volumes. The adjusted operating margin most desired and successful transport solution rose to 7.0% (6.5). provider in the world. JOperating cash ﬂow in the Industrial Operations of JNew Aspirations: SEK 3.5 billion despite being negatively impacted by 1. Have leading customer satisfaction for all brands in SEK 6.5 billion from EU antitrust investigation and a their segments. negative market mix. 2. Be the most admired employer in our industry. 3. Have industry-leading proﬁtability. JStrong ﬁnancial position with a net ﬁnancial debt to equity in the Industrial Operations of 1.3%, excluding provisions for post-employment beneﬁts. 302 21.1 20.8 3.5 NET SALES, SEK bn ADJUSTED OPERATING OPERATING OPERATING CASH INCOME1, SEK bn INCOME, SEK bn FLOW, INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS, SEK bn 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 1,5 6,4 18,3 3,5 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 19.4 9.2 11.6 20.2 21.1 300 273 283 313 302 17.6 7.1 5.8 23.3 20.8 −4,9 KEY RATIOS 2016 2015 KEY RATIOS 2016 2015 Net sales, SEK M 301,914 312,515 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 14.9 18.4 Adjusted operating income1, SEK M 21,094 20,235 Total number of employees 94,914 99,501 Adjusted operating margin, % 7.0 6.5 Share of women, % 17 18 Operating income, SEK M 20,826 23,318 Share of women, presidents and other senior executives, % 24 22 Operating margin, % 6.9 7.5 Employee Engagement Index, % 72 71 Income after ﬁnancial items, SEK M 19,230 20,418 Energy consumption, MWh/SEK M 7.1 6.8 Income for the period, SEK M 13,223 15,099 Total CO2 emissions, tons/SEK M (scope 1&2) 1.4 1.4 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 6.47 7.41 Water consumption, m3/SEK M 15.2 16.2 Dividend per share, SEK 3.25 3.00 Share of direct material purchasing Operating cash ﬂow, spend from suppliers having made a Industrial Operations, SEK bn 3.5 18.3 CSR self-assessment, % 88 87 1 For more information on adjusted operating income, please see page 202. 1 A GLOBL GROUP OVERVIEW OVERVIEW Our customers make societies function The Volvo Group’s products and services contribute to much of what we all expect of a well-functioning society. Our trucks, buses, engines, construction equipment and ﬁnancial services are involved in many of the functions that most of us rely on every day. The majority of the Volvo Group’s customers are companies within the transportation or infrastructure industries. The reliability and productivity of the products are important and in many cases crucial to our customers’ success and proﬁtability. Strong positions globally Thanks to competitive product programs, strong market. Based on sales volumes the Group is number dealers and increasingly more complete offerings 2 in heavy-duty trucks, number 3 in construction including services such as ﬁnancing, insurance, equipment, number 2 in buses for target segments leasing, various service contracts, accessories and and markets, number 2 in heavy-duty diesel engines spare parts that support the core products, the Volvo and number 1 in diesel engines for leisure boats. Group has established leading positions on a global #2 #3 in heavyin construction #2 duty equipment trucks in heavy-duty diesel engines #2 #1 in buses for in diesel engines target segments for leisure boats and markets SHARE OF NET SALES BY MARKET 2016 SHARE OF NET SALES BY BUSINESS AREA 2016 Trucks, 66% Europe Construction Equipment, 17% 44% Buses, 8% North America Volvo Penta, 3% 27% Asia Financial Services, 4% 18% Other, 2% 5% 6% South America Africa and Oceania 2 A GLOBL GROUP OVERVIEW Strong brands The Volvo Group’s brand portfolio consists of Volvo, Volvo Penta, UD, Terex Trucks, Renault Trucks, Prevost, Nova Bus and Mack. We partner in alliances and joint ventures with the SDLG, Eicher and Dongfeng brands. By offering products and services under different brands, the Group addresses many different customer and market segments in mature as well as growth markets. 4% 74% SHARE OF NET SALES 22% VEHICLES SERVICES Competitive products FINANCIAL SERVICES All of the Volvo Group’s products have been developed to contribute to efﬁcient transport and infrastructure solutions. Sales of new vehicles, machines and engines as well as used vehicles and machines, trailers, superstructures and special vehicles accounted for 74% of the Group’s net sales in 2016. Sales of vehicles and machines build a population of products that drives spare parts sales and service revenue. First class services In addition to vehicles and machines, the Volvo Group’s offering includes various types of services such as insurance, rental services, spare parts, preventive maintenance, service agreements, assistance services and IT services. The range and ﬂexibility of the offering means that the solutions can be customized for each customer. The service business contributes to balancing the ﬂuctuations in the sales of new products and is an area of priority. Sales of services accounted for 22% of Group net sales in 2016. The Volvo Group also offers ﬁnancing for customers and dealers. In 2016 Financial Services revenue accounted for 4% of Group net sales. 3 A GLOBAL GROUP CEO COMMENTS CEO COMMENTS A year of traveling In my ﬁrst full year at the Volvo Group, I spent a lot of time traveling, meeting with customers, dealers and business partners as well as Group colleagues in all corners of the world. These trips conﬁrmed that we have many skilled and knowledgeable employees in all our businesses as well as committed and engaged dealers looking after our customers. A passion for supporting customers The trips also reinforced my understanding that the Group is has responsibility for its own commercial development and proﬁtwell-invested with new and competitive products as well as ability. Moving more responsibility into the regions is something attractive service offerings. We are truly at the forefront of new we will continue to drive within our ten business areas – the goal technology that brings beneﬁts to both our customers and society is to have as much of the daily decision-making as close to the as a whole. customer as possible. With the substantial restructuring activities now being Decentralization and focus on continuous improvement completed and after major product renewals in recent years, we For some time now we have focused on continuous improveare currently intensifying efforts to increase productivity and ments, but I think we can develop this further. We have identiﬁed product quality through continuous improvements and continuous improvement areas such as speeding up decision-making and introductions of new features into our products. strengthening our agility to adapt to market volatility. Our tools for We have also reinforced our focus on growing the service busiachieving this include decentralizing decisions and accountability. ness, which can reduce the impact on our earnings from cyclical One step in this direction was the implementation of a branddrops in vehicle sales volumes. And more importantly, growing based organization for our truck business. Each of the brands now and continuously developing our services help keeping the vehicles and machines running and earning money for our customers. New strategic direction – Mission, Vision, Values, Aspirations and Strategic Priorities Our mission is to drive prosperity through transport solutions. Modern logistics is a prerequisite for economic welfare since transports help combat poverty. Prosperity in a country or society depends on many complex factors, and having the right transport solutions and developing effective transport systems are one • CUSTOMER FOCUS element for economic competitiveness and social well-being. The new vision is for the Volvo Group to be the most desired and • DECENTRALIZED DECISION-MAKING successful transport solution provider in the world. That is a bold • CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS statement and there is only one way to succeed. That is to listen to our thousands of customers and understand their particular • ORGANIC GROWTH needs. Customers have a choice and that is a good thing, since competition inspires creativity and innovation. A passion for customer success is at the very heart of our strategy. 4 A GLOBAL GROUP CEO COMMENTS 5 A GLOBAL GROUP CEO COMMENTS Productivity and cost reductions making impact on Strengthened competitiveness for Volvo CE improved performance of the Group The construction equipment business has been impacted by a In 2016 volumes were down in all markets except Europe, global downturn. Volvo CE’s markets were by and large weak durwhere activity remained high. Global sales decreased by 3% to ing the year, with global demand roughly ﬂat compared to a weak SEK 302 billion. Despite the lower sales, the adjusted operating 2015. There are, however, some signs that demand is improving. income improved to SEK 21.1 billion compared with SEK 20.2 Another positive development was that Volvo CE continued to gain billion in 2015. This corresponds to an adjusted operating margin market share in its stronghold segments – excavators, wheel loadof 7.0%. We stand ﬁnancially strong, with almost no net ﬁnancial ers and articulated haulers. As a result of hard internal work to debt in our industrial operations, pension liabilities excluded. reduce costs, the adjusted operating margin improved somewhat to 4.4%, despite the ﬂat volumes and an unfavorable product mix. Improved performance in Trucks The ongoing work to strengthen Volvo CE’s competitiveness is Deliveries of trucks decreased by 8% mainly due to weaker yielding results, but we have further steps to take. A new and demand in North America and continued low demand in South more efﬁcient R&D organization will be implemented, and we America as well as other emerging markets. The lower net sales have also decided that Volvo CE will ﬁt the Group’s in-house 8had a negative impact on earnings, but proﬁtability improved liter engine into mid-size excavators and wheel loaders, replacing nonetheless due to our ability to reduce costs and improve proexternally sourced engines. Another step is the move of Volvo ductivity. The Group also demonstrated good volume ﬂexibility in CE’s headquarters to Gothenburg, Sweden to facilitate closer the manufacturing operations, which balanced a signiﬁcant rampcooperation with the Group’s other business areas and operdown in North America and ramp-up in Europe. The truck busiations. We look forward to welcoming Volvo CE in Gothenburg. ness had an adjusted operating margin of 8.7% which was a step We will continue to implement the performance plan and focus up from 7.6% in 2015. on Volvo CE’s strongholds. Volvo CE has a competitive and proﬁtDuring the year we strengthened our product portfolio. Among able core business, which is a strong foundation for building a the highlights were the launches of several new integrated powermore proﬁtable business. trains in North America for both Mack and Volvo, offering In order for the Board of Directors of AB Volvo to be more efﬁincreased fuel efﬁciency, productivity and reliability. We continue cient in following up and supporting the positive development of to invest in future technologies and participated in the EU truck Volvo CE, while at the same time keeping full focus on the develplatooning challenge when three Volvo trucks drove closely opment of the Group’s truck operation, the Board in January 2017 behind one another, using wireless communication, in a platoon decided to establish a Volvo CE Committee. To create further simfrom Gothenburg, Sweden to Rotterdam, the Netherlands. We plicity, transparency and ﬂexibility, the intention is to increase supported this challenge as a way of underlining the changes Volvo CE’s structural independence within the Volvo Group. required in European transportation legislation in order to introDuring the year Volvo CE displayed a range of innovations, such duce platooning and the positive consequences of reduced fuel as a hybrid wheel loader with the potential to improve fuel efﬁconsumption and emissions that platooning can bring. ciency by up to 50%, as well as autonomous wheel loader and We also demonstrated a fully autonomous truck as part of our hauler prototypes. Volvo CE also launched a giant 60-ton articuefforts to create understanding for and a dialogue around future lated hauler, Volvo CE’s largest ever, as well as a new 90-ton technology. The autonomous truck operates in a mine deep excavator. These new products offer signiﬁcant productivity gains underground and is part of a research and development project for customers and facilitate entry into new market segments. involving autonomous vehicles that can substantially improve safety, fuel efﬁciency and productivity, initially for customers in More achievements – Volvo Buses and electriﬁcation the mining industry. Volvo Buses is blazing the trail for the Volvo Group in electromobility, and since the launch of the ﬁrst hybrid bus in 2010 more than 3,000 units have been sold. Volvo Buses’ strong position in this area was most recently demonstrated by an order for the ﬁrst series-produced fully electric buses combined with charging stations for an operator in Luxembourg. The Volvo 7900 Electric reduces energy consumption by 80% compared to a conventional diesel bus. GROWING AND CONTINUOUSLY In 2016 the European bus market continued to improve and North America was stable on a good level. In total Volvo Buses’ DEVELOPING OUR SERVICES deliveries increased by 8%. Proﬁtability was somewhat lower than HELP KEEPING THE VEHICLES in 2015, with an adjusted operating margin of 3.4%, positively impacted by volumes and internal efﬁciency measures and negaAND MACHINES RUNNING AND tively by unfavorable currency development. EARNING MONEY FOR OUR CUSTOMERS. Volvo Penta and VFS Volvo Penta continued to improve its performance with an operating margin of 12.8%. This is largely due to a good development in Europe and innovative products, giving Volvo Penta a competitive 6 A GLOBAL GROUP CEO COMMENTS edge in the market. In addition to its industry-leading marine engines, What makes our jobs so gratifying is the fact that we are in an Volvo Penta continues to leverage on Group engine technology to industry of the future. Due to demographic and economic trends, attract new customers in the industrial engine segment. demand for transport and infrastructure rises. Transport is a Volvo Financial Services (VFS) is reinforcing activities to deliver means of connecting people to the jobs, schools, or homes they bundled solutions to our customers, which is of importance to need to go to, a means of connecting communities, and goods to further leverage VFS’ contribution to the growth of the Group’s markets, as well as a crucial factor in facilitating trade and develservice business. The credit portfolio continued to perform well opment in general. The products and services we develop to help and VFS delivered close to SEK 2.1 billion in operating income our customers in driving these developments must be sustainable, and had a return on equity of 13.7%. safe and well integrated with other transport modes. In this Annual and Sustainability Report you can read more A comment on divestments about automation, connectivity, electriﬁcation, alternative fuels We regularly evaluate our businesses in order to identify ways and other developments that will no doubt bring beneﬁts to to simplify operations and focus our investments on the core customers, society and the environment. business. In April 2016 we concluded the sale of our external IT operation and the outsourcing of the IT infrastructure. This move will in the long term give us sustained cost savings, while at the same time provide us with the infrastructure we need for the future. We also announced our intention to divest our Governmental Sales business. We believe that a new owner will be better positioned to take the business to the next level. Furthermore, we Martin Lundstedt divested non-core real estate in Gothenburg. President and CEO Back to the future It is thanks to the accomplishments and professionalism of employees in teams across the Volvo Group that we can contribute to customer success and greater proﬁtability for the Group. Our employees are key in the Group’s future development. 7 STRATEGY A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY The Volvo Group journey continues Following more than a decade of an active acquisition strategy to build the scale needed to be competitive in commercial vehicles, the Volvo Group is in a phase focused on organic growth, improved efﬁciency, increased proﬁtability and getting closer to customers. During 1999 to 2011 the Volvo Group’s strategy was primarily The streamlining to commercial vehicles has also involved the targeted at growth, not least through acquisitions, while at the divestment of non-core operations such as Volvo Aero, Volvo same time focusing the business on commercial vehicles. On the Rents and real estate. truck side, acquisitions include Renault Trucks, Mack and Nissan During 2012 to 2015 the Volvo Group underwent a transformDiesel (now UD Trucks), the joint venture with Eicher Motors in ation program aimed at reorganizing the company to take out India and, in 2015, the strategic alliance with a 45% ownership in overlaps, reduce structural costs and increase efﬁciency and Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles in China. Volvo Construction proﬁtability after the period of acquisition-driven growth. Among Equipment bought a 70% ownership in the Chinese wheel loader the activities in the program to reduce the Group’s structural cost manufacturer Lingong (SDLG), Ingersoll Rand Road Development levels, which were launched at the end of 2013 and implemented and the hauler business from Terex. in 2014 and 2015, were substantial reductions of white-collar The acquisitions along with organic growth have enabled the employees and consultants, a reduction in research and developVolvo Group to reach the position as the world’s second largest ment expenses, optimization of the sales and service channel and manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks, one of the world’s largest the industrial footprint as well as a consolidation and optimization manufacturers of construction equipment, buses and heavy-duty of the spare parts distribution worldwide. diesel engines as well as a leading supplier of marine and indusNow the Group has entered the next phase with a focus on trial engines. These positions provide for economies of scale in organic growth and improved performance. product development, production, purchasing and ﬁnancial services. 1999–2011 2012–2015 2016 > AcquisitionTransformation Improved driven growth to close the gap performance Scale, synergies and Product renewal, restructuring Customer focus, simplicity, geographical expansion. and cost efﬁciency. speed, continuous improvements and organic growth. 8 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY NEW MISSION NEW VISION During 2016 a new mission and strategy NEW ASPIRATIONS was launched NEW VALUES 9 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY MISSION MISSION “Driving prosperity through transport solutions” We have a new mission statement that expresses a broad ambition – to drive prosperity. Modern logistics is a prerequisite for our economic welfare: transport helps combat poverty. Transport is not an end in itself, but rather a means allowing people to access what they need, economically and socially. On the road In the city Our products help ensure that people have food on Our products are part of the daily life. They take people the table, can travel to their destination and roads to work, distribute goods and collect rubbish. to drive on. Volvo Group is developing tomorrow’s public transport solutions. At the site At sea We contribute to the Our products and extraction of some services are with you, of the world’s most regardless of whether important raw materials. you are at work on a ship, Volvo Group’s engines, machines on holiday in your pleasure boat and vehicles can be found at mining and or need urgent help from the sea rescue construction sites and in the middle of forests. services. 10 A GLOBAL A GLOBAL 2016 AVSNITT GROUPSTRATEGY GROUP MISSION MAKING A DIFFERENCE AS A COMPANY T he Volvo Group’s new mission is “Driving prosperity through transport solutions”, but what does that really mean? Reef Larsson, Director of Strategic Research & Studies at Volvo Group, explains how the Volvo Group’s new mission statement reﬂects the social and economic environment we live in. “Many people associate the word prosperity with material wealth, but the meaning is broader than that,” says Reef Larsson. “It also means access to the things we need to sustain wellbeing and quality of life. On a societal level, that includes, for example, education, health care, good infrastructure and safe transportation, and of course caring for the environment.” Around the world, Volvo Group’s customers contribute to the prosperity of societies by transporting people and goods, constructing buildings and infrastructure and providing many services needed in daily life. The Volvo Group enables this work through its products and services. Making an impact is also about developing solutions that are accessible. Reef Larsson believes that the Volvo Group, with its research capacity and global reach, can drive innovations in fast-growing ﬁelds such as automation, connectivity and alternative drivelines. These areas can contribute to safety and productivity gains, as well as environmental sustainability. Ultimately, using a broad term like prosperity in a mission statement can create more possibilities to motivate and empower people: “The ways the Volvo Group can fulﬁll the mission may evolve as we grow and change as a company, and as transport solutions are adapted to our ever-changing world,” says Reef Larsson. 11 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY VISION VISION Be the most desired and successful transport solution provider in the world In 2016, we updated our vision: To be the most desired and successful transport provider in the world. This is what we mean. We are in a people business. We operate in a business-to-business market, but people make the decisions. Trust and relations are as important as the total offer. We have competitive products and services and it is with these and our people that we build lasting relations with our customers. In the end, by bringing together the best of everything from the offer to the relationship, we will become the customers’ preferred choice. S ustainability is an important piece of the puzzle to drive prosperity. Transports drive growth, growth drives our customers’ business and our customers’ business drives our business. For the Volvo Group it is important to inﬂuence growth that contributes towards sustainable development, taking the three dimensions – economic, social and environmental – into account. We create economic value by delivering technologically advanced, clean, efﬁcient and safe transport and infrastructure solutions. We invest in new technologies that drive efﬁciency, safety and emission reductions for the beneﬁt of our customers and society. We invest in people, support sustainable growth and societal development while minimizing environmental impacts. 12 A GLOBAL A GLOBAL 2016 AVSNITT GROUP STRATEGY GROUP VISION Building societies around the world O ur products, including trucks and construction equipment, help build and sustain key infrastructure: roads, railways, bridges, hospitals and schools. 13 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY ASPIRATIONS A S P I R AT I O N S The guides on our journey Our vision describes where we want to be in the future. The aspirations are there to guide us on our journey. Working towards them ensures that we are on the right track. 1 Have leading customer satisfaction for all brands in their segments Read more about how we measure customer satisfaction The only true measure of success is and why the Volvo FH came customer satisfaction. on top in the prestigious Fehrenkötter test on page 35. Be the most admired 2 employer in our industry On page 58 you can read more about By being the most admired employer we the many ways in which attract and retain the best people. the Volvo Group works to attract and retain talent and to create a culture of highly engaged employees. 3 Have industry leading The Volvo Group’s proﬁtability ﬁnancial targets comprise growth and proﬁt ability Through strong performance we are for the Group’s various operaable to invest in products, services and tions measured and b benchd bench nd hmarked against competitors. etitors people – and own our own destiny. More information is available on page 23. 14 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY VALUES VA L U E S Building a performance culture Our company culture is how we interact with each other, with our customers and with society as a whole to achieve our business objectives. It is rooted in our history and is critical to our company’s long term success. It is the foundation on which everything else is built. The wanted Volvo Group culture is described by a set of ﬁve carefully chosen values. They serve as a guide to our day to day behavior, they drive our decisions at all levels of the organization. We have a culture of high performance created through employee engagement. Customer success • CUSTOMER • We truly understand our customers’ business. SUCCESS • We listen to and talk with our customers about their needs, desires • TRUST and challenges. • PASSION • We focus on transport solutions that make customers successful and create value for society. • CHANGE • We deliver on our promises. • PERFORMANCE Trust • We are transparent and have respect for the individual. • We trust other teams to do their best and we respect the decisions made. • We collaborate easily and create excellent results through teamwork and open dialogue. • We are empowered and have the courage to act. Passion • We are proud of the work and business we do. • We are engaged and committed to meet our goals. • We see how diversity strengthens us and try to bring out the best in everyone. • We admit mistakes, ﬁx them and learn from them. • We are proud of our achievements, have fun and celebrate our successes. Change • We are curious about the world around us. • We are innovative and ﬁnd smart ways to create new solutions and business. • We see change and transformation as a source of inspiration and energy. • We are open-minded and share our knowledge. Performance • We have a strong business instinct. • We have the skills, knowledge and intuition to do the right thing. • We expect a lot from ourselves and others, and walk the extra mile to do a great job. • We see the big picture and know when to let go of an idea, a project or a plan. 15 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY GLOBAL CONTEXT GLOBAL CONTE XT Leveraging on trends and challenges in the world around us We are a global business. As part of our business and sustainability strategies, we continually analyze global mega trends and challenges, as well as regional variations, and work to assess the impact of such developments on the Volvo Group and its customers. This helps us identify new business opportunities and position ourselves and our partners to meet the transport needs of the future. FUELEFFICIENCY AND LOWER 1 CARBON ALTERNATIVES Environmental threats and resource scarcity The burning of fossil fuels, including oil and diesel, is a major fuels, infrastructure, political will, and incentives. Longer term, source of CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions, which cause governments and multi-stakeholder partnerships will further focus pollution and climate change. Governments, business, and other on and incentivize renewable energy and lowering emissions. stakeholders striving for sustainable transport are responding by We strive to manage resource scarcity by ﬁnding better ways improving fuel efﬁciency and moving towards lower carbon alterto utilize transport and to recycle, remanufacture, and refurbish natives, as well as new business models for using resources more products and components. efﬁciently. Environmental concerns drive interest and opportunities in electromobility, as well as alternative and renewable fuels. Developments across regions and at city levels vary in speed and direction, depending on the availability of natural resources and DIVERSE SOLUTIONS 2 FOR CITIES Urbanization Today around 7.5 billion people live on the planet. The United structure industry must continue to build sustainable models for Nations Population Fund expects there will be eight billion people providing safer, cleaner, and more efﬁcient solutions for all types by 2025, and over nine billion in 2050. Half the world’s population of urban development, whether small or medium sized cities or already lives in cities, but the levels of urbanization vary widely by mega cities. The growth in emerging markets is accompanied by region. In the next decade, we will see a much greater shift from the development of larger middle classes, and citizens with rising rural to urban areas in Asia and Africa in particular. As urban popdisposable incomes will spend more on consumption and housing. ulations grow, so do mobility demands. Cities face increasing These are also important factors for the increased demand for social as well as environmental challenges, including congestion, transport and infrastructure solutions in these parts of the world. pollution, noise, and trafﬁc accidents. The transport and infra16 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY GLOBAL CONTEXT 550 THOUSAND 3 CONNECTED VEHICLES Digital and Technological Transformation Today we live in a hyperconnected world with multiple technolochange. Today the Volvo Group has over 550,000 connected rungies, the internet of things (IoT) and the cloud – all facilitating new ning vehicles in more than 50 countries. Our industry is monitoring customer experiences. In 1995 about 1% of the world’s population and analyzing vehicle data and using it to continuously enhance had an internet connection – today around 40% of the population customer value through increased productivity and uptime, better is connected. Estimates of the number of IoT connected devices in fuel efﬁciency and new safety solutions. Productivity gains in logis2020 range from 25-30 billion to 200 billion or more. The expantics and better utilization of infrastructure will gradually beneﬁt our sion of the IoT will continue with increasing numbers of sensors in customers and society on the whole. Based on data insights we all sorts of devices. Digitization is sparking transformation across are working to provide new services for our customers as part of businesses and industries. While creating opportunities for busiour total offering and to further engage our customers by providing nesses and customers, advances in digitization also create uncerhigh quality, differentiating and compelling experiences. tainty and a steady challenge to fully leverage the value of the AUTO4 NOMOUS VEHICLES Automation and safety developments Steady advances are being made in terms of automation for comt provide will also allow the industry to t safety, id greater f t fuel f l savings, i mercial vehicles and other machinery. We expect this development and transport efﬁciency. With advances in industrial robotics and to intensify, and we also expect further automation in manufacturincreased sophistication in automation in manufacturing, we will ing. Some of the key drivers are the need to improve trafﬁc safety also see quality gains and new possibilities for smarter product and the challenge to improve transport efﬁciency and reduce the development. Automated driving technologies, including the autoenvironmental load of transport. Every year there are more than mated operation of some construction machines, should be seen 1.2 million fatalities and 50 million people injured in trafﬁc accidents. as a complement to the abilities and skills of the human driver/ Greater trafﬁc safety education and better planning of roadways operator. Fully automated driving is not a general solution for all is part of the solution. The growing automation in transportation transport or machine operations, but can be suitable for some and infrastructure solutions through the use of self-driving vehicles applications such as mines and other conﬁned areas. 5 Evolving trade and regulatory environment Our transport and infrastructure solutions are in demand in diverse markets across the globe. Trade legislation, transport related regulations, customer requirements, and competitive dynamics vary both between markets and within individual markets. Our industry is challenged to meet shifting economic and regulatory conditions, to access and develop human capital around the world, and continually work to improve sustainability, effectiveness, and safety and security in the supply chain. As mentioned above, we see the enormous potential for customer value connected to digitization, yet at the same time, governments, businesses, and other stakeholders must adapt rapidly to comply with evolving data protection legislation and CHANGING secure data integrity in diverse market environments. CONDITIONS AROUND THE GLOBE 17 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES MOVING FORWARD 18 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY S T R AT E G Y Focused on creating value for our customers To be successful the key is to create value for our customers by supporting their proﬁtability. By understanding our customer’s priorities and challenges, we are able to provide products and services that grow customers’ revenues and decrease customers’ costs. This is the basis for our strategic direction. Reinforce Volvo as a global premium heavyduty truck brand and regain position and market shares of Renault Trucks, Mack and UD as regional high-end truck brands. Capture growth in Asia through having the joint ventures DFCV in China and VECV in India as well as the Group’s value truck range in a separate eparate value chain – and leveraging it in n other emerging markets. 19 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY Create the most desirable heavy-duty product and service portfolio tailored to selected markets and segments. Customers have different cost structures and therefore want different propositions depending on their location and the type of transport work they carry out. Creating customer value by improving our customers’ proﬁtability therefore means offering trucks tailor-made for each application. DISTRIBUTION, FRANCE MINING, INDONESIA CONSTRUCTION, US LONG-HAULAGE, EUROPE Cost items: Fuel Driver Vechicle Repair & maintenance Administration Secure robust proﬁtability through leading R&D, quality, purchasing and manufacturing operations using Volvo Production System, which is the Group concept for driving continuous improvement in product development, production, sales and administration. 20 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY Have brand speciﬁc sales operations with a focus on retail excellence and a growing service business where decisions are made more quickly and closer to the customer. Each brand has an expanded mandate to develop its own businesses with an explicit responsibility for proﬁtability. 21 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY Leverage Group assets in the non-truck Business Areas, creating additional proﬁts, synergies and technology leadership. Many of the Volvo Group’s products have a common architecture and shared technology (CAST) based on a modularized concept and standard interfaces. At the center of this strategy are the Group’s engine platforms, which together with electronics and transmissions, Renault Trucks Mack are Group resources for the Business Areas to draw from. IS ANSM SIONS TR Volvo CTRONICS UD ELE IN ENG ES Volvo CE Buses Volvo Penta Revitalize the Volvo Group culture with a focus on Customer Success, Trust, Passion, Change and Performance. We believe that a strong culture leads to engaged people. This in turn drives business performance. 22 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY FINANCIAL TARGETS F I N A N C I A L TA R G E T S Improved outcome compared to 2015 Since 2012 the ﬁnancial targets for the Volvo Group have been comprised of growth and proﬁtability of the Group’s various operations measured and benchmarked annually against competitors. This creates a clear picture of how Group operations are developing compared to the industry. Information on how the comparison with competitors made is available online in the Investors section of www.volvogroup.com. I N D U S T R I A L O P E R AT I O N S TRUCKS AND BUSES TARGET COMPARISON GROUP PRELIMINARY OUTCOME* The annual organic sales growth for the truck Daimler, Iveco, MAN, Navistar, Paccar, Scania The organic sales decreased by 5.0% for the and bus operations shall be equal to or exceed and Sinotruk.* Volvo Group’s truck and bus operations which a weighted-average for comparable competitors. was less than the weighted average of a decrease of 7.3% for the competitors. Each year, the operating margin for the truck and * Navistar’s and Scania’s ﬁgures are based on rolling four bus operations shall be ranked among the top two quarters as of the third quarter of 2016. MAN’s and SinotThe operating margin of 7.4% for the Group’s companies when benchmarked against relevant ruk’s ﬁgures are based on rolling four quarters as of the sectruck and bus operations was ranked number competitors. ond quarter of 2016. one in comparison with the competitors. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT AND VOLVO PENTA TARGET COMPARISON GROUP PRELIMINARY OUTCOME* The annual organic sales growth for the Brunswick, Caterpillar, CNH Industrial, Cummins, The organic sales increased by 0.9% for the construction equipment operations and Volvo Deere, Hitachi and Komatsu.* Volvo Group’s construction equipment operaPenta, shall be equal to or exceed a weightedtions and Volvo Penta which was more than the average for comparable competitors. weighted average of a decrease of 13.6% for the competitors. Each year, the operating margin for the * Deere’s ﬁgures are based on rolling four quarters as of the construction equipment operations and Volvo Penta, third quarter of 2016. As of 2016, Terex former ConstrucThe operating margin of 5.0% for the Volvo shall be ranked among the top two companies when tion segment has been dissolved as a result of new manGroup’s construction equipment operations benchmarked against relevant competitors. agement reporting structure and business activities. Hence, and Volvo Penta was ranked number four in Terex has been excluded from the comparison group. comparison with the competitors. INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS TARGET AND OUTCOME On January 1, 2013, new accounting rules for Net ﬁnancial debt as a percentage The Industrial Operations’ net ﬁnancial debt, employee beneﬁts came into effect. As a conseof shareholders’ equity, % excluding pension obligations, shall be below 35% quence, AB Volvo’s Board of Directors decided of shareholders’ equity under normal conditions. to exclude pension obligations from the target. 80 Target At the end of 2016, the ﬁnancial net debt position The target of 35% corresponds to the previous 60 below: 40% Net cash Net debt was 1.3% of shareholders’ equity compared with a ﬁnancial target of 40% in which pension obliga40 35% ﬁnancial net cash position of 0.5% at the end of tions were included. 20 2015. 0 –20 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 29.3 29.0 14.2 –0.5 1.3 FINANCIAL SERVICES TARGET AND OUTCOME Return on shareholders’ equity, % The target for Financial Services is a return on shareholders’ equity of 12–15% and an equity ratio not Target: 12−15% less than 8%. The return on shareholders’ equity for 2016 amounted to 13.7% (13.4). At year end 2016 15 the equity ratio was 8.0% (8.0). 10 5 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12.5 12.1 12.5 13.4 13.7 23 A GLOBAL GROUP 2016 AVSNITT MAKING THE RENAULT TRUCKS BRAND STRONGER As a key link between the customer and the brand, the salesperson forms relationships with customers based on attentiveness and trust. Here is an example from Renault Trucks. EMILIE RUIZ works with the Renault Trucks “But what really makes the difference is the qualheavy-duty range in Corbas, close to Lyon in France. ity of service, attentiveness to my needs and the “Our customers are looking for very specialized responsiveness of the teams.” advice and expect a high level of professionalism from In this case, BFT required a rental vehicle. “The us,” says Emilie Ruiz. vehicle had to be as versatile as possible, but we She has been a heavy-duty range salesperson found a compromise that included the maximum since 2014, after eight years as a salesperson for number of options while keeping costs as low as the light commercial vehicles range. possible,” says Patrick Folléas. “There are fewer heavy-duty customers and they To convince the customer, Emilie Ruiz loaned him are much more sought after, so it’s crucial to build a vehicle to test it. trust with them if we want to be consulted when they “I am also the captain of a racing team,” says Patrenew their ﬂeets.” rick Folléas. Her goal is to be consulted in 100% of renewal “I had the chance to drive a T model in which I cases in her sector. In reaching her goal, she has an transported my Renault Trucks racing truck all the advantage: the strength of the Renault Trucks brand, way to the 24 Hours of Le Mans Race.” which with its French origin is recognized as a mark According to both the customer and the salesperof quality. son, the real work starts once a sale is completed. “But this is not enough. The advisory role of the “It’s now up to us to demonstrate our ability to salesperson is key, both at the technical level in guarantee the expected level of service, especially order to recommend the right vehicle for the task when it comes to the implementation of the mainteand in terms of ensuring service, maintenance, nance contract signed by BFT,” says Emilie Ruiz. extension of warranties and ﬁnancing,” says Emilie Here, the salesperson serves as the business Ruiz. co-ordinator and link. “Representatives of the workThat is a positioning that helps win deals. Emilie shop, as well as salespersons working with both Ruiz sold a Renault Trucks T to one of her prospects ligh-duty and heavy-duty vehicles, meet every Monwho, until then, had mostly been afﬁliated with day morning.” Mercedes. Patrick Folléas, CEO of BFT Transport, The goal of these meetings is to exchange inforruns a family business comprising 45 people that mation and to talk about issues and opportunities in offers transport and rental services. order to be able to speak to the customer with a “I have a special connection to the Renault Trucks common voice. brand because I started my career driving an R390,” “Through consistency and transparency, we aim he says. to provide the highest level of long-term satisfacPatrick Folléas is also convinced of the reliability tion. Nothing can ever be taken for granted,” says of trucks from Renault Trucks, especially since the Emilie Ruiz. launch of the new Euro 6 range. 24 A GLOBAL GROUP 2016 AVSNITT OUR CUSTOMERS ARE LOOKING FOR VERY SPECIALIZED ADVICE AND EXPECT A HIGH LEVEL OF PROFESSIONALISM FROM US. Emilie Ruiz, heavy-duty trucks sales PATRICK FOLLÉAS, CEO of BFT Transport, at Renault Trucks. chose a Renault Trucks T after being impressed by the level of service he received. EMILIE RUIZ has worked at the Renault Trucks Grand Lyon dealership in Corbas for 10 years. She has been in heavy-duty trucks sales since 2014 after eight years as a light commercial vehicles salesperson. 25 A GLOBAL GROUP OUR MATERIAL ISSUES M AT E R I A L I S S U E S Considering impact on the business and importance to stakeholders Our materiality approach determines the relevant economic, social and environmental aspects to address and report on. We consider their impact on the business and importance to stakeholders’ decisions. Materiality process them engaging with the Volvo Group using feedback from recent The materiality concept is important for reporting both ﬁnancial stakeholder dialogue to qualify the quantitative data gathered and non-ﬁnancial data and it is used in all major frameworks. previously from stakeholders across key groups, segments and Similar to previous years, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 geographies. Combining internal and external analysis, we were reporting principles have been taken into account for this report. able to prioritize 17 topics. Through our materiality process, we address the economic, Members from Group Management approved that the material social and environmental issues of most importance to the topics accurately reﬂect the organization’s material sustainability Group’s business and its stakeholders. This year, we identiﬁed the issues and validated nine priority areas to be reported with added most material issues for the business from a sustainability perdetail in this report. spective in an internal workshop. Thereafter, colleagues repreThere are no signiﬁcant changes compared to 2015. Product senting a majority of Group functions, segments, brands and safety and security was ranked slightly higher in 2016, on an overall geographies used a web survey to evaluate each topic in terms of level, and supply chain was ranked slightly lower. its impact on business success and likelihood of an issue occurring. For further information about the materiality process, including The Volvo Group’s key stakeholder groups are customers, stakeholder engagement and deﬁnitions of all topics, please refer employees and investors as well as society, suppliers and other to the GRI (G4) Index, available at volvogroup.com. business partners. We identiﬁed the most important factors for OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS IDENTIFY PRIORITIZE VALIDATE REPORT 17 material topics Business and Group management Annual & Sustainability stakeholders Report, GRI (G4) Index DEFINITIONS OF KEY ASPECTS (ALPHABETICAL ORDER) A D M I R E D E M P L OY E R – being the most admired employer in L E G A L C O M P L I A N C E – working to ensure compliance with all our industry. Leading and embracing change. Attracting people with applicable laws, regulations, directives, international standards and a strong business instinct and developing a skilled and agile workwidely-recognized initiatives. Continuous development of our corpoforce with the optimal knowledge and competencies at all levels. rate governance, policies and practices to ensure adherence. Trusting and empowering colleagues to use their intuition and make the right decisions. C U S T O M E R S U C C E S S – engaging with customers to truly understand their business challenges, needs and ambitions. Creating B U S I N E S S E T H I C S A N D I N T E G R I T Y – creating, leading and value for customers by delivering transport solutions that increase maintaining a responsible culture built on the business ethics, proﬁtability through lower running costs and higher revenues, thanks human rights, social and environmental principles set out in our to improved uptime, fuel efﬁciency and productivity. Code of Conduct, including principles on anti-corruption, taxation and political involvement. Reﬂecting the values of customer success, trust, passion, change and performance. 26 A GLOBAL GROUP OUR MATERIAL ISSUES OUR MATERIAL ISSUES Business ethics and integrity Human rights Legal compliance Customer success Emissions (products) VERY HIGH Energy efﬁciency (products) Importance to stakeholders Product safety and security Operational impacts (environmental) Financial health Intelligent technology HIGH Supply chain Admired employer Societal engagement Health, safety and wellbeing M O D E R AT E Product use and lifecycle Industry leadership and partnership Diversity and inclusion Impact on the business E M I S S I O N S ( P R O D U C T S) – developing cleaner transport soluI N T E L L I G E N T T E C H N O L O G Y – investing in pioneering research tions designed to reduce consumption of fossil fuels and lower and development for innovative technology, transport and service emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2 ), nitrogen oxide (NOx), particulate solutions to contribute to efﬁcient transport systems. Investing matters and noise. in connectivity, automation, safety, data protection and security. Adapting products and services to reduce congestion and improve E N E R G Y E F F I C I E N C Y ( P R O D U C T S) – developing innovative the economic, social and environmental dimensions of mobility, product and service solutions designed to reduce energy consumpdistribution and infrastructure. tion, operational costs and environmental impacts. P R O D U C T S A F E T Y A N D S EC U R I T Y – researching and develF I N A N C I A L H E A LT H – managing economic and ﬁnancial risks oping product, technology and training solutions designed to enhance and developing resilience to market volatility. Focusing on our new driver and operator safety, trafﬁc and site safety, and goods’ security. strategic priorities to reinforce and regain market share; grow by meeting customer needs in speciﬁc segments; and secure industryleading proﬁt ability. Generating and distributing economic value to various stakeholders. 27 A GLOBAL GROUP 2016 AVSNITT LAUNCHED NEW FLAGSHIPS Emphasizing its long-term commitment to the market, Volvo Construction Equipment unveiled several new ﬂagship products and intelligent machine services in 2016 – including the largest articulated hauler and excavator the company has ever introduced. LARGEST ARTICULATED HAULER TO DATE Volvo Construction Equipment developed Volvo CE launched the Volvo A60H, its the concept of the articulated hauler, also largest ever 6x6-conﬁguration articulated known as dumper. Around the globe, Volvo hauler. The Volvo A60H offers an impressive CE is still the undisputed leader of articu40% higher payload than the company’s prelated hauling in the most demanding condivious largest articulated hauler, the A40G. tions, terrain and applications. In 2016 28 BIGGER IS BETTER WITH VOLVO’S EC950E CRAWLER EXCAVATOR Bigger jobs are done better, more powerfully and faster with Volvo’s new 90-ton weight class EC950E crawler excavator. The machine offers the perfect combination of power and stability to handle high capacity duties in the toughest applications. For Volvo’s largest crawler excavator no task is too tough. The crawler excavator delivers more tons per hour due to its high bucket capacity, powerful performance and high durability. The EC950E offers superior digging force, particularly when working with hard and heavy materials. VOLVO CO-PILOT WINS HUMANMACHINE INTERFACE AWARD Volvo CE also launched the in-house develthere is no need to repeatedly get out of the oped Volvo Co-Pilot system, which beat cab and physically check grades or levels. international innovations and wowed a panel Load Assist delivers real time accurate load of judges to win ‘most innovative HMI feainformation to the operator. Preventing ture’ in the Car HMI Awards 2016 (which, underor over-loading, the system allows despite the name, are not just for cars). Volvo wheel loaders to work to their maximum Co-Pilot is designed for use on machines as efﬁciencies. Compact Assist offers two diverse as excavators to pavers. It uses a tabmodule options – Intelligent Compaction let computer to deliver a new generation of and Intelligent Compaction with Density intelligent machine services, such as Load Direct. Intelligent Compaction records and Assist, Dig Assist, Compact Assist and Pave displays a pass counter and thermal mapAssist. Volvo Co-Pilot and the assist-funcping, while Density Direct calculates 100% tionalities help operators to produce higher of the surface density. Pave Assist is a quality outcomes, in less time and with less family of modules and applications that will effort. automate many of the paving parameters Dig Assist allows excavator operators to that currently have to be recorded manually complete digging tasks to greater accuracy in order to meet stringent road authority in less time. Safety is also improved, as reporting requirements. 29 VALUE CHAIN A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL VALUE CHAIN VA L U E C H A I N Placing the customer at the center of value creation The Volvo Group is developing long-term competitiveness by maximizing value creation in every part of our value chain through increased efﬁciency, quality and performance and by acting responsibly towards business partners, employees and the world around us. INVESTMENTS A signiﬁcant portion of CUSTOMERS generated capital is normally The customer is at the center of everything transferred back into the we do and the customer’s voice is present in every operation. The capital is part of the value chain. By delivering customer used for investments that will value we will deliver value for ourselves. strengthen competitiveness and create long-term value for the Group and its REUSE PRODUCT stakeholders. Working with lean methodologies DEVELOPMENT enables us to use less material Fulﬁlling our customers’ and energy, incorporate more needs and improving their recycled materials, recover heat long-term proﬁtability forms the and reduce waste. basis of our product and service development. The Volvo Group’s income RETAIL & PURCHASING for the year SERVICE Long-term cooperation amounted to SEK with suppliers drives 13,223 M. Our extensive network of dealers and service efﬁciency, quality and centers staffed by responsible behavior competent and servicethroughout the value oriented personnel are key chain. factors for customer satisfaction and success. PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS Our well invested global industrial and logistics system efﬁciently meets the demands of our organization. SHAREHOLDERS AB Volvo’s shareholders normally receive a certain portion of the retained earnings in the form of a dividend, after consideration has been given to the Group’s need for capital for continued development according to its strategies. The Board of Directors has proposed a dividend of SEK 3.25 per share, corresponding to a total of SEK 6,603 M for 2016. 30 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL VALUE CHAIN CUSTOMERS PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS • More than 2 million trucks and 100,000 buses, which the • At the end of 2016 the Group had 84,039 (88,464) regular Group manufactured in the past 10 years, operate on roads employees and 10,875 (11,037) temporary employees and conworldwide. sultants, of which 40,798 (47,368) regular employees and 4,946 • According to our estimates 15% of food in Europe is (4,341) temporary employees and consultants were blue collar. delivered by our trucks and more than 10 million people • The Volvo Group has factories in 18 countries. worldwide can be transported daily on our buses and • 55% of Volvo Group employees are located in Europe, 17% coaches. in North America, 6% in South America, 19% in Asia and 3% • Our construction machines are present in other parts of the world. at construction sites all over the world. We have • In 2016, the Volvo Group’s wholly-owned truck operations delivered around 500,000 units of construction truction delivered 190,424 (207,475) trucks. The Group also delivered equipment in the last 10 years. 9,553 (8,825) buses, 44,306 (44,718) units of construction • Our support services keep thousands off equipment, 18,016 (17,413) marine engines and 19,251 customers’ ﬂeets on the road, contributingg (15,295) industrial engines. to productivity and growth. Today, • All the Volvo Group’s wholly-owned production facilities have approximately 550,000 Volvo Group third-party audited quality certiﬁcates and 98% have environvehicles are connected via different mental certiﬁcates. telematics solutions. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT RETAIL & SERVICE • Investments in research and development amounted to • During 2016, our service business represented approximately SEK 14.6 (15.4) billion for 2016, corresponding to 4.8% (4.9) 22% (21) of the Volvo Group’s net sales. of Group net sales. • The Volvo Group’s products are sold and distributed to • Product development is based on the needs of customers, customers through wholly-owned and independent legislation, changes in society and new technologies. dealerships. • Around 98% of the environmental impact from a truck occurs • Our service network supports customers and maximizes during use. Consequently, sustainable transport solutions is their product’s uptime. one important area for product development. • All Volvo Group-owned dealers are covered by the Volvo • Our main areas of focus are improved performance of current Group’s Code of Conduct and adhere to ethical, social and omation, connectivity, products and services as well as automation, environmental requirements. 90% of our distribution centers electromobility and alternative fuels. are certiﬁed according to ISO 14001. • The Volvo Group’s cooperation with external research partners and participation in public research programs increases knowledge both for us and the societies we operate in. PURCHASING REUSE • In 2016, the Group made purchases of goods and services • In 2016, the total sale of remanufactured components totalling SEK 205.9 (210.6) billion. amounted to SEK 9 billion, an increase of almost 8% • We have around 41,000 Tier 1 suppliers, of which about compared to 2015. 7,000 supply automotive product components. • The Volvo Group has eight remanufacturing centers world• We strive to have long-term relationships with suppliers of wide handling used components from our whole range of technologically advanced components. brands. • The Volvo Group applies the principles in its Code of Conduct • Resource efﬁciency and recycling potential is designed into to assess suppliers as a part of the purchasing process. our products during product development. • During 2016, 88% (87) of the value bought from automotive • Remanufactured components are important to our offering in product suppliers underwent Corporate Social Responsibility order to reduce customers’ ownership and operating costs. (CSR) assessment. Of the suppliers that underwent the • Remanufacturing is more labor intensive than production of assessment 83% (80) of the value passed. new products and requires high-skilled labor. • Around 73% of the Volvo Group spending on automotive products comes from suppliers certiﬁed in accordance with ISO 14001 or its equivalent. 31 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS Everything starts with the customer Our customers’ success is our success. By understanding the customers’ businesses and their needs, desires and challenges, Volvo Group can offer transport solutions that make customers successful and create value for society. Therefore customer focus is integrated in every part of our value chain. Looking at our value chain through a customer lens supports our work towards our strategic objectives. To succeed, customer focus needs to be part of every decision. Creating value for In product development this means developing the right products and services at the right time. In production the focus is on a customers cost efﬁcient process with high product and service quality. For our purchasing people, customer focus translates into securing supplies through long-term relationships and a selection process based on quality, price and responsible behavior. For our distribuFuel efﬁciency tion and service networks, availability and customer uptime need to be prioritized and secured. Uptime Strategic customer focus The clear customer focus in the new Volvo Group strategy transProductivity lates into the development and growth of our service business, the increase of speed in decision making and even closer cooperation with our customers. At the same time the strategy emphaing the payload. It is also introducing Optivision, a predictive cruise sizes the utilization of group synergies in powertrain and major control system with GPS. components as well as common technology platforms in key Other ways to increase fuel efﬁciency and reduce CO2 emisareas e.g. automation, connectivity, electromobility and alternative sions include driver training and fuel management systems. fuels to increase cost efﬁciency. From interviews with customers, a number of customer satisUptime through connectivity and availability faction surveys and our materiality analysis, we can conclude that To secure uptime, vehicles developed within the Volvo Group are our customers most value fuel efﬁciency, uptime and productivity. equipped with connected devices to prevent un-planned stops; to schedule planned stops and to offer quick and easy support through Fuel efﬁciency availability and the right skills. You can read more about our retail Volvo Trucks’ latest generation of Euro 6 engines and the inteand services on page 54. grated intelligent Volvo I-Shift transmission improve performance By the end of 2016, more than 550,000 Volvo Group vehicles while cutting fuel consumption. The level of fuel savings depends were connected via different telematics solutions and the number on the truck’s speciﬁcation and application but for a Volvo FH on continues to increase. long haul operations, it can be improved substantially. For heavy For Volvo Group, the data from connected devices gives infortransportation, such as timber haulage, the saving may be even mation on how to improve uptime for our customers. Volvo Group higher if the engine is combined with Volvo Trucks’ recently introTelematics enable commercial vehicles to perform services such duced I-Shift with crawler gears and Tandem Axle Lift, the unique as calling for help in case of an accident, tracking and even immodriven liftable rear axle. bilizing stolen vehicles, monitoring In North America, both Mack Trucks and Volvo Trucks, recently CONNECTED VEHICLES driver times, connecting and manlaunched 2017 engines that will power productivity and increase aging ﬂeets, supporting fuel saving, fuel efﬁciency while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Mack 550,000 and preheating the vehicle in the Trucks introduced several upgrades and enhancements, boostwinter. ing fuel efﬁciency from around 2% to almost 9% compared with Volvo Group Telematics solutions now exist in our own and previous engine models. Volvo Trucks incorporated multiple other products in the automotive industry in Europe, Asia, the US engine improvements to extend fuel efﬁciency beneﬁts and and South America under the names of Volvo Dynaﬂeet, Volvo compared with previous generation engines, Volvo’s 2017 North Vehicle Remote Diagnostics, Renault Trucks OptiFleet, UD TeleAmerican engines deliver between 2% and almost 7% better matics and the Volvo CE CareTrack. Another example is the Mack fuel efﬁciency. Trucks’ GuardDog Connect, which is now active in nearly 50,000 The 2016 version of the Renault Trucks T beneﬁts from trucks. These services deliver a reduction in both diagnostic and improvements to the chassis and driveline, enabling it to reduce repair time, leading to increased vehicle uptime. its consumption by a further 2%, while at the same time increas32 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL CUSTOMERS VALUE CO-CREATION TO BE SUCCESSFUL the key is to CUSTOMER VALUE VOLVO GROUP VALUE create value for our customers by improving their bottom line proﬁtability. By understanding our customers’ prior• Customer productivity • Excellent products & services ities and challenges, we are able to • Asset uptime • Closeness to customers provide products and services that • Fuel efﬁciency • Efﬁcient way of operating grow customers’ revenues and decrease customers’ cost. Key areas to create value for our customers are offers that • Increase customer revenue • Increase Volvo Group revenue increase our customers’ productivity, • Decrease customer costs • Decrease Volvo Group costs ensure that vehicles and machines are running as they should and increase fuel efﬁciency. By delivering customer value, and doing so efﬁciently we will • Grow customer proﬁtability • Grow Volvo Group proﬁtability also deliver value for ourselves and our owners. Turning productivity into proﬁtability based on a stabilization system, reduces the risk of work-related In many markets there is a lack of, or ﬁerce competition for the injuries for bus and truck drivers through increased safety and best, drivers and operators. Therefore we strive to understand comfort. In 2016, one year after its introduction, more than half of drivers’ and operators’ conditions to give them the best support Volvo’s long-distance buses sold in Europe are ﬁtted with VDS. and work environment to turn productivity into proﬁtability for our customers. A good example is the Brazilian campaign below. Driver and operator safety training Another example of a recent productivity The Volvo Group runs trafﬁc and site safety programs for drivers CRAWLER GEARS improvement is the Volvo Co-Pilot on-board and operators all over the world: services display designed for use on Volvo • Driver training programs run jointly with Eicher in India trained CE machines as diverse as excavators to more than 30,000 drivers during 2016. This adds up to more pavers. See more information on page 29. than 196,000 drivers since the start of the program. A third example is Volvo Trucks I-shift • Operator training run by Volvo Construction Equipment in with crawler gears. The system is unique for India trained close to 1,300 operators in 2016 and the total series-produced heavy trucks and provides exceptional startability trained since the start 2007 is above 11,600. for trucks carrying heavy loads in demanding situations. For haulage ﬁrms carrying out heavy transport operations on demanding sur• The TransFORM program has been running since 2008 in faces as well as regular highway driving, crawler gears also offer Brazil and since 2009 in Peru. In total close to 3,300 drivers considerable ﬂexibility and the possibility of improved fuel economy. have been trained. A scientiﬁc study recently conﬁrmed the positive ergonomic • Volvo Driver Academy is a demo training project initiated in effects of the Volvo Dynamic Steering (VDS). The steering aid China for drivers to drive more safely and efﬁciently. Continued Driver engagement V olvo Trucks Brazil collected opinions from more than 3,000 Brazilian truck drivers to increase understanding of their situation. The initiative was part of a campaign where Jairo Cesar won the rafﬂe for a week’s trip to Sweden. The results from the survey will be used to determine relevant actions to emphasize the importance of the profession. 33 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL CUSTOMERS Measuring Customer success For the Volvo Group, the only true measure of success is customer satisfaction. The Volvo Group vision of being the most desired and successful transport solution provider in the world summarizes the direction going forward and links to our aspiration of having leading customer satisfaction for all brands in their segments, and to our customer success value. Each brand organization within the Volvo Group tracks customer satisfaction and brand image perception through surveys worldwide. Performance is integrated in our key performance indicators reporting and is used to increase our understanding of our customers’ needs. Research and studies are done by leading international organizations and interviews are carried out with decision makers among customers and non-customers. As outlined on page 33, for us, customer success means OVERALL WINNER creating value for customers by delivering transport solutions that increase proﬁtability through lower running costs and higher revenues. We strive towards customer success through enhanced customer relationships, long-term brand loyalty and business partnerships. Follow-up on main brands in main markets The Volvo brand occupies a strong position for both trucks and construction equipment, according to the latest customer satisLOWEST faction and benchmark surveys focusing on fuel efﬁciency, uptime, productivity and customer loyalty and carried out for our main brands in our main markets over the past three years. For Volvo Construction Equipment (Volvo CE) the customer TOTAL COST OF satisfaction indices in Asia Paciﬁc (APAC), Europe, North America and Brazil are stable and our customers agree that our machines offer good productivity with Volvo providing good uptime support. Customer loyalty to the Volvo brand is high in these markets. In China, where overall market conditions are difﬁcult for the entire industry, we see a negative trend in customer satisfaction. However, Volvo CE’s position is stable relative to the competition. The OWNERSHIP overall perception of Volvo in terms of providing low fuel consumption is very strong among customers and non-customers. For Volvo Trucks, in the main European markets, customer satisfaction indices indicate that customers agree that Volvo delivers good fuel efﬁciency; they are satisﬁed with the uptime and productivity delivered and overall customer care in service and sales. In North America, customer satisfaction surveys indicate very BEST FUEL high scores for fuel efﬁciency, uptime, productivity and overall customer care, compared to its competitive set as well as the overall market. In Brazil, survey results remain stable at a good level for selected attributes. For uptime, there is a substantial improvement in the area of reliability but a decrease in fuel efﬁciency scores from last year’s survey. Productivity remains at a very good level. The overall score for customer care in Brazil remains on CONSUMPTION a good level with further room for improvement within the complaints handling area. In major South East Asian markets results are on a moderate level for uptime and fuel efﬁciency. In a mature Asian market like Korea the Volvo Trucks scores are signiﬁcantly stronger, especially when it comes to fuel efﬁciency and driver productivity. 34 Volvo FH F on top in Fehrenkötter test I AA is Eur Europe’s leading trade show for transport and logistics. At the 2016 show in Hannover, Germany, the Volvo FH was awarded ﬁrst position in the prestigious Fehrenkötter test, against seven new Euro 6 trucks from the major European brands. In addition to winning the overall e evaluation, which focuses on total cost of ownership, the Volvo FH wawas also best for fuel economy. The multi-brand test stretc stretches over 2.5 years in real-life customer operations and sho shows a leading position for Volvo FH in Euro 6 execution. 35 SUPPORT IN ZULU 24/7 In South Africa, there are 11 ofﬁcial languages. The team at the Uptime Solutions Centre in Johannesburg speak them all to meet the needs of customers in every region of the country. TODAY AY AY THE T VOLVOO GR GROUP ROUP OUP’S ’S S UPPT PTIME I SOOLUTION LUT UTION ONS S CENTER RS PRO V E SUPP VID PROVID SUPP U ORT TO VO OLVO TRU UCKS CKS,, VOLV OL O V LVO PE BUSES, VO NT NTA , MACK PE NTA PEN MACK TRUCKS S, RENA NAULT ULT TRUCK UCKS KS AN N D UD TRRUCK UCKS UCKS IN LOC CATIA ONSS AR AROUN OUNND TH THE T GLOBE. BE 36 A GLOBAL COMPANY is also a multilingual company. Meeting customers in their own language and communicating clearly in a global world is a competitive advantage. In South Africa, there are 11 ofﬁcial languages. The team at the Uptime Solutions Centre in Johannesburg speak them all to meet the needs of customers in every region of the country. Jabulani Mkhwebane is the transport manager for SMP CUB Logistics, a medium-sized haulage company based in Johannesburg. The company has a ﬂeet of 116 trucks, mostly Volvo, which operate throughout the region, mostly transporting coal. When something goes wrong, he has contact with the Uptime Solutions Call Centre, which is primarily responsible for South East Africa: South Africa, Namibia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana and Mozambique. It now also handles Angola, Somalia, Sudan and Ethiopia and also assists a number of other African countries. Every minute that one of SMP CUB Logistics’ 116 trucks is stationary it costs the company a great deal of money. Finding parts and service technicians is not always easy, so the support received from Uptime Solutions is decisive. Jabulani Mkhwebane thinks it is good to get help in his native Zulu. “The problems can be both large and small. The drivers call me and I then handle the contact with Uptime Solutions. Even if I speak English, it’s nice to be able to discuss matters in my mother tongue, Zulu, when the questions get complicated,” he says. JOHANNESBURG What Jabulani Mkhwebane appreciates most is that the Uptime Solutions’ staff do not SOUTH merely solve his problems, they also AFRICA keep him informed every step of the way. “They work quickly and I constantly receive updates so that I can inform the driver and make alternative plans when necessary. 11ofﬁcial This really helps our operations,” he says. languages Uptime Solution ofﬁce for Southern Africa is located in the Volvo Group facility in a Johannesburg suburb. A total of 11 coordinators work in shifts around the clock, 365 days a year. Almost all communication takes place in one of the four most common languages in South Africa: English, Afrikaans, Xhosa and Zulu. The team speaks all 11 ofﬁcial languages in South Africa, plus some of the languages that are used in neighboring countries. 37 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT For and with our customers We base our development of products and services on legal requirements and on the needs and expectations of our customers. Therefore we closely follow the development in legislation and we listen to our customers. Some of our customers are involved in our development process. Our strategic priority to secure robust proﬁtability and our aspiration of having the industry’s leading proﬁtability are dependent on leading research and development. Three key areas Value creation and customer engagement Value creation in the product development process is determined by skilled people with the right information about products and Automation services that will meet market demand. Our customers play a central role in the development process Connectivity as their demands decide what we develop. In practice, this means supporting incremental product and service developments by Electromobility continuous improvements as well as game-changing innovation in new markets, technology areas or value chains to secure a & alternative fuels successful product offer. Each stage of our product development process has different objectives e.g. ﬁnancial, quality and reliability, that need to be met before proceeding to the next stage. As part of our work with There are however challenges with this kind of technology and continuous improvement we are currently further strengthening some of them relate to cyber security, liabilities, standards and our quality management. regulations. Customers and drivers participate in various ways in product Volvo Group is encouraging progress to secure data privacy development. At different phases of the process, they are invited and supports the development of safe and reliable communicato look at parts or features of the vehicle or machine and are tion standards and protocols. asked for their opinion. At the end of the process customers are The ideal automation level is determined by its added value for invited to drive our new products in ﬁeld tests before they are customers and society, see graph on page 40. Volvo Group will launched. introduce automated applications gradually over time. One example of close collaboration in the development process Read more about the very ﬁrst self-driving Volvo FMX truck in is the Electric Site project launched in September 2016 in Sweden. an underground mine on page 40 and the Volvo Trucks’ participaIn this project, Volvo Construction Equipment joined forces with tion in the European Truck Platooning Challenge on page 46. several partners to develop technology to reduce customers’ production costs (cost per tonne) by up to 25% and at the same Connectivity opens up new opportunities time reduce carbon emissions by up to 95% using carbon-neutral Connectivity, the Internet of Things and the possibility to analyze electricity. For further details about this pilot project, see page 45. a much wider range of data are all leading to new services and products, and opening up new opportunities. Adapting to changes around us Connectivity is a key enabler for ﬂeet management, uptime As described in the customer section, fuel efﬁciency, uptime and services and advanced vehicle services such as driver assistance productivity are key aspects in our development process as they and fuel economy. Connected services, such as data analytics, greatly impact customers’ proﬁtability. Other areas relate to have huge potential for increasing customer productivity. Currently safety, driver environment and how products and services contribwe are developing and evaluating different services and solutions ute to complete transport solutions. For future transport solutions in close collaboration with key customers through a number of we prioritize automation, connectivity, electromobility and alternapilot programmes. Read more on page 32 about the offers from tive fuels as key enablers since we believe they will change our different brands on integrated transport systems based on today’s transport industry. wireless communication technology. Automation beneﬁts to customers and society Progressing electromobility The Volvo Group believes that automation will redeﬁne the comElectric and hybrid vehicles contribute to increased energy efﬁmercial transport solutions that most of us rely on every day. It will ciency and reduced emissions and noise pollution. create beneﬁts for both our customers and society in terms of uptime, productivity, safety, energy and fuel efﬁciency. 38 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Urban Lab to save fuel R enault Truck’s Urban Lab 2 is a laboratory distribution vehicle developed with partners in the Efﬁcient Distribution Truck project. By combining innovative technologies in aerodynamics, hybridization of the engine, tires and vehicle-infrastructure communication, the objective is to achieve 13% improved fuel consumption. The aim is to offer accessible innovation by 2020. More and more cities are investing in electric public transport Volvo Trucks has advanced its offer of alternative fuels for vehisystems as the city bus market moves away from diesel-powered cles, such as methane and hydrogenated vegetable oils (HVO) vehicles. As far back as 2012, Volvo Buses took the decision to and is testing DME in order to reduce the impact on environment only offer complete, low-ﬂoor city buses as hybrids on the Euroand meet market demand. A new highly efﬁcient gas-powered pean market. Volvo truck for Euro 6 will be introduced in Europe. The CO2 emisVolvo Buses now offers the entire range of electriﬁed city sions from this truck are about 20% lower than for a correspondbuses including hybrids, electric hybrids and all-electric buses. In ing diesel-powered truck. 2016 Volvo Buses surpassed 3,000 (2,300) hybrid buses sold in In North America, Volvo Trucks and Mack Trucks were the ﬁrst 22 (20) countries since the start in 2010. During the year, Volvo original equipment manufacturers to approve the use of advanced hybrids were introduced in Mumbai, India. hydrocarbon renewable diesel fuel in all of their products. The Further research is needed to ensure that electric energy can biggest challenge of renewable diesel is not compatibility or be efﬁciently and reliably applied to medium-weight trucks. As emissions, but rather the lack of sufﬁcient supply. Volvo Trucks part of this research, our customers Nestlé in Switzerland and and Mack Trucks also offer trucks equipped with 9and 12-liter Guerlain in France are testing fully electric Renault Trucks D range. natural gas engines as does Nova Bus. These vehicles offer the In the long run, the Group believes a dynamic supply of electricbeneﬁt of a fuel that is produced domestically and reduces ity from the road could power long-haul trucks and is therefore emissions. developing practical knowledge through our participation in Electric Road Systems concept studies. Taking a life cycle approach Off-road equipment can also use electric power and Volvo CE The Volvo Group performs life cycle assessments for our main is currently developing a hybrid wheel loader that is being tested products, taking environmental impacts from production, operin landﬁll applications in California, the US. ation and scrapping into consideration. Information about resources used and emissions created during the product life cycle, are Alternative fuels positioning to meet demand collected, summarized and associated with environmental impacts, Volvo Group acknowledges that there is no single fuel to meet all e.g. climate change and measured as global warming potential. needs. Conventional diesel fuel, with increasing renewable or The result shows that the majority (98%) of the global warming synthetic content, will most certainly remain the dominant fuel for potential is related to the operation of the truck based on calculaall types of commercial transport for many years. The Volvo Group tions for a Volvo FH with a life time driving distance of 1,000,000 position on alternative fuels prioritizes our research and developkm, fuelled with conventional diesel. ment on the following applications: • Long distance: liquid methane (LNG) and dimethylether (DME) Safety as a prerequisite are our main alternatives. Dynamic electric charging is an addThe Volvo Group’s ambition is for zero accidents involving our itional long term alternative. vehicles and equipment. Road trafﬁc and work site safety are global challenges and material areas for the Volvo Group. Safety • Medium distance: compressed methane (CNG) and DME are is about reducing the risk of accidents and mitigating the conseour main alternatives. Dynamic electric charging is an additional quences of any incidents that occur. Therefore, safety is an intelong term alternative. gral part of product development. • Urban: electricity, CNG and DME. The Volvo Group’s in-house Accident Research Team has In 2016 the Renault Trucks D Wide compressed natural gas (CNG) investigated heavy truck accidents for close to 50 years. Combinwas launched on the Spanish market. The truck is an option for cusing accident data analysis with the Group’s own research and test tomers searching for solutions with a reduced environmental impact. programs provides solid insights into the causes of accidents and Continued on page 42 39 SELF-DRIVING TRUCK IN A MINE Volvo’s fully autonomous truck is being tested in operations deep underground in the Kristineberg Mine. The self-driving truck is part of a development project aimed at improving the transport ﬂow and safety in the mine. The truck covers a distance of 7 kilometers, reaching 1,320 meters underground in the narrow mine tunnels. DIFFERENT LEVELS OF AUTOMATION INTRODUCED IN PARALLEL Driver Automation Driver only Advanced Adaptive Assisted Emergency Braking Cruise Control Partial automation Platooning Conditional automation High automation Highway auto pilot Autonomous FMX Autonomous Full automation truck for mining electric hauler Various solutions will be required depending on the degree of automation that is sought and the complexity of the situation where the transport solution is to operate. Driver: Driver is fully engaged all the time. Driver Assistance: Driver is fully engaged and can take over instantaneously. Driver may be “feet off” e.g. when using cruise control. Partial Automation: Driver may be both “feet off” and “hands off”, but must have eyes on the road and be able to take over instantaneously. Conditional Automation: Driver may be “feet off”, “hands off” and “eyes off”, but must be able to resume control quickly. High Automation: Automated in certain conditions. Driver is not expected to monitor road and has no responsibility during automated mode. Full Automation: Driver does not have to be present in vehicle and has no responsibility during driving. 40 A GLOBAL GROUP 2016 AVSNITT VOLVO GROUP HAS taken yet another important step in the development of autonomous vehicles. A self-driving Volvo FMX truck is currently in regular operations in the Boliden mine in Kristineberg, Sweden. The aim is to examine how this technology can contribute to safe and productive transport in tough geographically limited application areas. It is part of a research and development project to evaluate whether self-driving trucks may contribute signiﬁcantly to increased transport efﬁciency and productivity. In particular in mines, ports and other geographically limited and well-controlled environments with a large proportion of repetitive driving. The Boliden mine is where the very ﬁrst self-driving Volvo FMX truck is operational. The operation will gradually add another three Volvo FMX trucks equipped with new functionality. Among other things, the vehicles include a system incorporating radar/laser-based sensors. This system is initially used to monitor the mine’s geometry and to generate a map of the route that the truck has to traverse. The information collected is then used to regulate the vehicle’s steering, gear changes and speed. On every new trip, the sensors are used to continuously scan the area around the truck and further optimize both the operation and the route. The technology used makes it possible to optimize logistics in the mine in an entirely different way than at present. The truck can operate continuously, and thanks to precise route planning and steady speed there is no congestion and it is possible to cut loading and unloading times. During blasting operations, drivers must usually wait until the mine gallery has been ventilated before the ore can be loaded, but with self-driving trucks there are no such restrictions. This means that each truck can carry out more transport assignments per shift and the vehicles become an integrated part of the mine’s overall production Through our cooperation with system. Smoother transport ﬂow and steadier speeds are Boliden, the development of accompanied by lower fuel consumption and less wear and tear. autonomous vehicles is entering an exciting new phase. The results will provide valuable input into our Safety gets top priority ongoing mission to transform techAn autonomous truck must be at least as safe and reliable as nical breakthroughs into practical a manually-driven truck. If an obstacle appears near the truck customer beneﬁts, explains Claes Nilsson, President Volvo Trucks. the vehicle stops automatically and the transport management center is alerted. Of the six sensors included in the system, there are always two that monitor the same part of the truck’s surroundings. If a fault occurs with the truck, it can be remotely operated from the transport management center. 41 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Safety technology for unprotected road users P edestrian and Cyclist Detection will be introduced on Volvo’s city buses in 2017. The system notiﬁes nearby road users that the bus is approaching by transmitting an artiﬁcial background sound. If there is a risk of an incident, the bus horn is activated and the driver is alerted by both audible and visual signals. injuries. This is important input to develop even safer products for TRANSPORT TECHNOLOGIES IN CONTEXT our customers. Volvo Group has pioneered a variety of driver assistance systems, including Driver Alert Support and Lane Changing Support, which enhance awareness and alert the driver before a situation 4 MISSION Efﬁciency turns critical. The Collision Warning with Emergency Brake system is another sophisticated system, which offers market leading 3 TRAFFIC Efﬁciency emergency braking capabilities. 2 COMPLETE Efﬁciency cy VEHICLE Driver comfort for improved overall experience Improving the driver’s working conditions and overall experience results in more relaxed, safer and healthier driving. 1 DRIVETRAIN Efﬁciency A publication from the Swedish Work Environment Authority states that truck drivers are over-represented in occupational injury statistics. Over the years Volvo Group has developed a number of features to support the driver’s comfort and driving experience. The Volvo Group is presently active in several programs A recent introduction is the battery-powered parking cooler for addressing smart technology, integrated transport systems, Volvo Trucks North America sleeper models. The cooler allows advanced engineering, and pioneering vehicle combinations. drivers to keep the cab and sleeper comfortable without idling One example is the charging station for electric buses, in the engine, providing the most environmentally enhanced and Gothenburg, Sweden. The solution is based on the common efﬁcient solution for maintaining comfort while parked. OppCharge interface, part of the joint reference project between Volvo Buses and ABB. With OppCharge, electriﬁed buses and Complete and sustainable transport solutions charging stations from different manufacturers can be used As well as offering single products and services, we deliver together. The aim is to facilitate the introduction of electric bus complete transport and site solutions. The transport technologies systems in cities all over the world. in the context image to the right, shows how our work must The ElectriCity project is an example of a sustainable solution include all parts in the development, from the driveline and vehicle and collaborative, cross-functional cooperation with partners to the desired outcome. The goal is to enhance customer producfrom industry, the academic world and civil society. A bus line in tivity and concentrate on efﬁcient delivery of the task. We can Gothenburg is operated by three all-electric concept buses and reduce customer downtime with intelligent, connected systems seven electric hybrids from Volvo. The aim is to make use of elecfor efﬁcient trafﬁc and freight scheduling. This is supported by tric buses and new connected services and products to create vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure technology that attractive public transport solutions and urban developments. To reduces accidents and congestion and improves trafﬁc ﬂows enable ElectriCity to function as a modern test and demo arena while satisfying the customer’s overall needs. The same mindset for innovative development projects, a digital innovation platform is applied when developing truck, bus and construction equipwas created for information sharing and communication. ment solutions. 42 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT In June 2016, after one year of operation, it was clear that is a service that enables compliance with restrictions in various the expectations had been surpassed by a wide margin. The sensitive areas. By setting map boundaries and using real-time buses and bus stops received a high rating by both passengers GPS tracking of the vehicle’s position, the system automatically and drivers alike, and the technology worked very dependably. regulates the speed of the vehicle and the fuel source. Between June 2015 and June 2016, the service carried about Volvo Penta’s enhanced Glass Cockpit system is designed for 1.2 million passengers. customers for whom ‘smart’ technology is a way of life. The new Volvo Buses is also a leading supplier of buses for high capacity generation Glass Cockpit further develops the all-in-one system transport systems, Bus Rapid Transit (BRT). that enables customers to monitor and control every aspect of Other examples from Volvo Buses are the City Mobility program boating, from the propulsion system to navigation monitoring, and and Zone Management. The City Mobility program develops and the cabin environment. The system increases performance, safety implements integrated and innovative sustainable transport pilot and comfort through an ergonomically designed interface to projects that are suited to each individual city. Zone Management make boating even easier. 43 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Cooperating on emissions and energy efﬁciency Volvo Group was the world’s ﬁrst automotive manufacturer to be approved by World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to participate in its Climate Savers program. The current agreement, covering the period between 2015 and 2020, includes the following commitments: • A cumulative reduction of CO2 emissions from products and production by at least 40 million tons by 2020 compared to 2013 • Improving energy efﬁciency in production to save 150 GWh/year. This corresponds to 8% of the energy use in Volvo Group’s production sites compared to 2013. • Reducing CO2 emissions per produced unit from the Volvo Group’s freight transport by 20%. Follow-up on results The results are audited by independent experts. The agreed tar• Developing truck prototypes with substantially lower fuel get should challenge us to be more progressive than business as consumption compared with a corresponding truck today. usual and it must also signify that we are leading our sector in the • Volvo CE will develop and demonstrate technologies with reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. considerable efﬁciency improvements. The results for activities undertaken in 2016 show 9 Mton CO2 • Starting up the City Mobility concept in at least ﬁve cities. reduction in lifetime emissions from products. • Hosting the Construction Climate Challenge (CCC) that aims During 2015 and 2016 about 400 energy saving activities have to create a dialogue with construction industry representabeen implemented, resulting in 71 GWh/year in energy savings. tives, academia and politicians and address mutual projects for improvement. VOLVO GRAN ARTIC Largest bus in the world Late 2016, the world’s largest bus chassis, the Gran Artic corridors, leading to an increased average speed of the 300, was launched. The bus is 30 meters long and can system as well as reduced emissions. Volvo Buses supply carry up to 300 passengers, replacing three standard products and services to more than 30 BRT systems vehicles. The Gran Artic 300 has been developed in Brazil globally, including Colombia, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, India, especially for Bus Rapid Transit (BRT). The high-capacity South Africa and Sweden. buses reduce the number of vehicles operating in the bus 44 FROM ELEPHANTS TO ANTS … Award-winning prototype The prototype HX1 autonomous, electric-battery load carrier won the Swedish Institute for Quality’s (SIQ) Quality Innovation of the Year Award in 2016 as well as the International Quality Innovation Award and the Innovation of Innovations Award in the beginning of 2017. The awards highlighted the concept as a totally new and revolutionary approach to transportation systems, introducing a shift to smaller and autonomous electriﬁed vehicles. The concept is groundbreaking in the industry and gives a glimpse of how the future may look. MANY SITE INEFFICIENCIES can be traced • the new concept autonomous, electric-battery load bigger articulated hauler, the smaller machine is back to using only a few very large machines to carrier, part of the Electric Site project designed to work on fairly level sites on repetitive reduce the costs of employing operators for several • a prototype autonomous wheel loader working jobs. Loaded by a wheel loader, several hauler small machines. Relying on large machines, howtogether with an articulated hauler. machines, like a colony of ants, can do the job of a ever, limits opportunities for adjusting production As part of ongoing research projects, these innovlarger one, like an elephant. The automation makes capacity. Small autonomous machines offer a ations are not commercially available at this stage, it more efﬁcient while the electricity makes it cleaner. cost-effective solution for increased site efﬁciency. but they could become the equipment of the future. Several Volvo Construction Equipment (Volvo CE) innovations for sustainably driving change were Cleaner, leaner and smarter unveiled to customers, members of the international Volvo CE’s electric site project aims to transform the press, government representatives and academia at quarry and aggregates industry by reducing carbon the Xploration Forum in Eskilstuna, Sweden. Among emissions by up to 95% and the total cost of ownerthe highlights were: ship by up to 25%. All innovations have been devel• a prototype hybrid wheel loader with the potential oped in close customer cooperation. to improve fuel efﬁciency by up to 50% Automation and electriﬁcation make the simpliﬁed cab-less, driverless hauler possible. Unlike the 45 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION In April 2016, three Volvo trucks drove closely behind one another using wireless communication, in a platoon, from Gothenburg, Sweden to Rotterdam in the Netherlands. THE VOLVO GROUP’S JOURNEY through Europe Platooning involves trucks driving closely behind and participation in the EU Truck Platooning Challenge each other while communicating wirelessly. The was a great success, with very positive reactions from vehicles’ fuel economy is improved as a result of the decision-makers, politicians and the general public. reduction in drag. Drag accounts for up to 25% of “We drove in a convoy for over 1,500 km on public a truck’s total fuel consumption, and the closer the roads and gained a lot of great experience, not just trucks drive to each other, the greater the fuel-saving about the technology but also about trafﬁc environpotential. By communicating with each other wirement. Everything went according to plan, which is a lessly, the trucks automatically match each other’s great feeling,” says Anders Kellström, Project Manspeed and braking. This means that the brake ager for the Volvo Group’s participation. response times are close to zero when braking, The purpose of the journey was to discuss and leading to improved safety with no “accordion effect” highlight the changes required in European transporinﬂuencing trafﬁc congestion. tation legislation that would facilitate the introduction of platooning. 46 CUT FUEL CONSUMPTION In September Volvo Trucks North America unveiled an innovative SuperTruck demonstrator whose combination of advanced aerodynamics, vehicle and powertrain technologies boosted fuel efﬁciency by 70% – exceeding the 50% improvement goal set by the US Department of Energy (DOE) program. FROM THE TOP-OF-CAB solar panels powering its In Europe, Volvo Group engineers developed the Volvo battery and interior lights, to its ultra-light aluminum frame Concept Truck with support from the Swedish Energy and highly advanced 425 horsepower 11-liter proprietary Agency. It was the result of a ﬁve year long research engine, the SuperTruck concept vehicle allowed Volvo project aimed at creating more energy efﬁcient vehicles. Group engineers to push the boundaries of heavy truck The concept truck reduces fuel consumption by more efﬁciency. than 30%. One of the key factors behind the low fuel The SuperTruck program was a ﬁve-year DOE research consumption is a massive improvement in aerodynamic and development initiative to improve freight efﬁciency, efﬁciency on both the tractor and trailer. meaning more payload carried while burning less fuel. Work on the Volvo Concept Truck began in 2011. The DOE has now selected the Volvo Group to particiThe aim was to improve the efﬁciency for long-haul truck pate in DOE’s SuperTruck II program. While not every transportation. The concept vehicle was part of a technology demonstrated in the Volvo SuperTruck will be research project and will not be available on the market. commercialized, two engine advancements developed However, some of its aerodynamic features have already through SuperTruck research – the wave piston and been implemented on series-produced vehicles, and turbo compounding system – are already featured in more of its solutions may be ﬁtted in the future. Volvo Trucks’ and Mack Trucks’ 2017 engine line-up. Likewise a number of SuperTruck-derived aerodynamic improvements can be found on today’s Volvo VNL tractors. Super Truck I Volvo Concept Truck 47 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PURCHASING PURCHASING Strategic partnerships for a leading position Building long-term partnerships with our suppliers supports cost efﬁciency, high quality and secures delivery of our products and services. Volvo Group expects its suppliers to be competitive and responsible all the way from project planning to production and delivery to our plants as well as supporting our service offer for the complete product life cycle. In 2016, the Volvo Group bought goods and services at a total value CSR SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT of SEK 205.9 billion from suppliers. Generally we source from suppliers close to our production sites to ensure an efﬁcient ﬂow of % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 supplies. This means that the majority of suppliers is located in AP* suppliers Europe and North America while the Group’s expansion in Asia has CSR assessed 66 72 80 87 88 led to an increased number of suppliers located there. The strategic of which passed priority of capturing Asia growth will further increase the focus on the assessment 53 62 72 80 83 securing a responsible supply chain in that part of the world. AP* suppliers in high-risk countries 13 15 12 9 9 CSR assessed 84 80 92 92 94 Responsible purchasing of which passed Being a trustworthy business partner results in high productivity the assessment 51 63 75 79 87 and stable long-term relationships. This is mutual and the Volvo Group needs to respond to suppliers’ expectations. Our suppliers * Automotive Product. highly value compliance, responsibility and fairness in business Numbers based on spend/value. relations as well as environmental, safety and quality considerations. A continuous focus on these areas is essential to further develop long-term commitments. When it comes to the Volvo Group’s expectations on suppliers the principles and minimum standards of responsible behavior are set out in our Code of Conduct. Since 1996, our responsible purchasing program has consistently increased supplier requirements related to In 2016 the Group started a pilot to gain further insight on environmental issues, business ethics and human rights. social audit process in one of our high-risk countries. Based on Our suppliers of automotive components are required to have the results a process will be set up to audit suppliers with a focus a third-party certiﬁed environmental and quality management on high-risk countries. system. Around 73% of the Volvo Group spending on automotive During the year, we continued the work aiming to ensure that products comes from suppliers that are certiﬁed in accordance potential conﬂict minerals in one of our Volvo Penta engines with ISO 14001 or its equivalent. originated from approved smelters. This can now be conﬁrmed. Both Volvo Group and its suppliers must comply with the EU The process is designed to meet both the demands from the US requirements on chemicals and harmful substances, REACH Dodd-Frank Act and the European regulation. (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) Within legal limits, Volvo Group works in favor of industry initialegislation. Suppliers must also meet additional requirements on tives to increase harmonization and facilitate a more sustainable chemicals from the Volvo Group. supply chain in the automotive industry. As a member of the EuroAround 70% of purchasers and quality engineers have had pean Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain Sustainability, training on business ethics, human rights and environmental issues Volvo Group continued this work during 2016. related to the purchasing process. Following CSR training based on our Code of Conduct for Outcome of assessment suppliers in Turkey, Poland and India during previous years, we During 2016, 88% of the value bought from automotive product extended the training to China in 2016. suppliers was assessed from a CSR perspective compared to 87% in 2015. The equivalent of 83% (80) of these suppliers Continuous development passed the assessment. The Volvo Group uses a self-assessment approach to evaluate In 2016, 9% (9) of the value of supplies was bought from autopotential and current suppliers’ performance and compliance with motive product suppliers located in high-risk countries. Of this, our Code of Conduct requirements. This is in line with general 94% (92) of the value was CSR assessed. We also assess our automotive industry practice. Our Supplier Evaluation Model requires non-automotive suppliers, from a risk segment perspective core suppliers and speciﬁcally those in high-risk countries or including suppliers of indirect parts and services such as IT and segments to update their assessments in our supplier system logistics. In 2016, around 400 of these suppliers operating in before new contracts are signed. For more on how we rank counhigh-risk segments, were CSR assessed and 80% (70) passed tries from a risk perspective, see page 54. the assessment. 48 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PURCHASING RECOGNIZING SUPPLIERS In 2016, Volvo Group recognized 11 companies who received the Volvo Group Purchasing Supplier Award for their commitment to performance excellence and continuous improvement. The top suppliers were recognized across six different categories: Cost, Fuel Efﬁciency & Innovation, Project Execution, Delivery, Aftermarket and Total Value Management. The award recognizes the importance of ensuring that we and our suppliers are at the forefront of research and development and innovation for all our product ranges, taking cost and proﬁtability in all aspects into consideration. Plan for non-compliant suppliers The Code of Conduct assessment includes a requirement for an action plan if a supplier does not fulﬁll critical aspects. Among the most common causes for not passing are a lack of adequate compliance processes and systems to enforce the Volvo Group’s requirements down to the supplier’s own subcontractors. We expect non-compliant suppliers to resolve the issues and ensure that our requirements are met. 49 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS Continuous improvements To secure robust proﬁtability the Volvo Group has developed a mindset of continuous improvement as well as tools, processes and production systems that contribute to cost efﬁciency. Our industrial and logistics system is well invested with modern consisting of UD Quester as well as the cooperations with DFCV production equipment and adequate technical capacity. To meet and VECV. Having product development, manufacturing and sales customer expectations the Volvo Group focuses on quality, lead in its own system and better leveraging the possibilities created times and delivery precision while ensuring health, safety and by the joint ventures, provides the conditions necessary to offer wellbeing at work for its employees. The Group has factories in 18 the right products at the right cost. countries around the world. In addition to our production sites, our industrial operations worldwide include several product developEnvironmental performance ment centers, and a large number of parts distribution centers In 2016, we had 14 licensed facilities in Sweden. The permits and logistics centers. cover general conditions, such as allowed production volumes and environmental performance measures. All permits have Factories and assembly plants to meet demand speciﬁc site requirements related to impact on neighbors and the Our industrial system for trucks consists of capital-intensive comlocal environment. We estimate that no environmental permits ponent factories as well as labor-intensive assembly plants. The need to be renewed due to regulatory or authorities requirements component factories supply the Group’s needs on a global basis in 2017. There were no major environmental incidents in Sweden whereas assembly plants in most cases are located close to during 2016. end-markets to cater for different local needs and speciﬁcations The Volvo Group has reported environmental data since 1991. and shorter delivery time. The latest quantitative data is presented in the graphs on page 52 All the Volvo Group’s wholly-owned production facilities and distriand in the 11-year summary on page 200. Please see the GRI bution centers are third-party audited. We hold certiﬁcates as follows: (G4) Index at volvogroup.com for further information related to • ISO 9001 Quality management system: 100% of production chemical and harmful substances and waste and water. facilities and 90% of distribution centers Measuring emissions • ISO 14001 Environmental management system: 98% The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol is developed by the World of production facilities and 90% of distribution centers Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council on • ISO 50001 Energy management system: Lehigh Valley, Sustainable Development (WBCSD). It sets the global standard Hagerstown and New River Valley plants in the US. for how to measure, manage, and report greenhouse gas emissions. According to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard a company’s Large restructuring programs completed GHG emissions are classiﬁed into three scopes. Scope 1 emissions To enhance our manufacturing efﬁciency and strengthen comare direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 petitiveness in Europe, we have spent the past couple of years emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purrestructuring our European truck assembly. We have achieved the chased energy. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions, not right balance and size and from now on, changes will be driven by included in scope 2, that occur in the value chain of the reporting continuous improvement and adaptation to external factors. company. Across all areas of production and logistics, continued standardization and process harmonization will contribute to improved Continued on page 52 productivity. In Asia, the Volvo Group has its own industrial structure as well as established sales and distribution channels with UD Trucks, Volvo Trucks, Volvo CE and SDLG. The Group Trucks Asia & JV’s business area is responsible for the Group’s proprietary heavy-duty truck UD Quester, and for the joint ventures VE Commercial Vehicles (VECV) in India and Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles (DFCV) in China. VECV, of which Volvo Group owns 45.6%, operates within the truck and bus industry in India. DFCV, where our ownership amounts to 45%, operates within commercial vehicles in China. One of the strategic priorities presented at the beginning of 2016 is to capture growth in Asia through a separate value chain 50 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS GLOBAL INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE Regular employees 2016 46,190 55% 14,245 17% 16,469 19% 4,762 6% 2,373 3% Share of employees MAJOR PRODUCTION FACILITIES NORTH SOUTH AFRICA AND AMERICA AMERICA EUROPE ASIA OCEANIA Blainville (FR), Göteborg, Umeå (Cabs, SE), Bangalore (IN), Brisbane (AU), Volvo Trucks New River Valley (US) Curitiba (BR) Gent (BE), Kaluga (RU) Bangkok (TH) Durban (ZA) UD Trucks Ageo (JP), Bangkok (TH) Pretoria (ZA) Renault Trucks Blainville, Bourg-en-Bresse (FR) Mack Trucks Lehigh Valley(US) Brisbane (AU) Eicher* Pithampur* (IN) Dongfeng Trucks* Shiyan* (CN) Engines and transmissions Hagerstown (US) Curitiba (BR) Köping, Skövde (SE), Vénissieux (FR) Ageo (JP), Pithampur* (IN) Arvika, Braås, Eskilstuna, Hallsberg (SE), Changwon (KR), Construction Equipment Shippensburg (US) Pederneiras (BR) Konz-Könen, Hameln (DE), Belley (FR), Shanghai, Linyi* (CN), Motherwell (UK) Bangalore (IN) St Claire, St Eustache Buses (CA), Mexico City (MX), Curitiba (BR) Borås, Wroclaw (PL) Bangalore (IN), Plattsburgh (US) Volvo Penta Lexington (US) Göteborg, Vara (SE) Shanghai (CN) * Ownership ≥ 45% 51 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS Carbon emissions from production ENERGY USE In 2016, the Volvo Group’s total CO2 emissions from production facilities, including scope 1 direct emissions and scope 2 indirect GWh emissions, decreased by 1% from 412,000 tons to 407,000 tons. About 40% of our total energy use came from low-carbon renewable sources, including hydropower electricity and biomass heating. The Volvo Group has carbon-neutral facilities in Ghent, Belgium, 12 13 14 15 16 2,483 2,320 2,168 2,077 2,076 as well as Vara, Tuve and Braås in Sweden. SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2 EMISSIONS ENERGY USE BY MAIN REGIONS 2016 Kton CO2 Sweden, 40% The US, 19% 12 13 14 15 16 Asia, 12% 260 243 218 192 196 Total scope 2 Rest of the world, 29% 273 255 231 220 211 Total scope 1 SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2 EMISSIONS PER REGION 2016 One example of an energy saving activity is our cab plant in Umeå, Sweden, where improvement activities have saved 10 GWh Sweden, 18% per year compared to 2013. This is equivalent to every 10th cab The US, 31% being produced without using any energy at all. Asia, 23% Through its membership in the Department of Energy’s Better Rest of world, 28% Buildings Better Plants program, Volvo Group North America met its 25% energy reduction goal in 5 years instead of 10. This was done through greater engagement of employees in the drive to reduce energy use and collaboration both internally and externally to learn and apply best practices. The plants in New River Valley, Lehigh Valley and Hagerstown, which together account for approxiENERGY SOURCES GWh mately 85% of the Volvo Group’s energy consumption in the US Electricity 953 are all in the Department of Energy’s Top 10 plants for energy District heating 188 consumption savings. Natural gas 556 Diesel 191 Value chain measurements Other 188 Volvo Group also measures the 15 factors in scope 3 of the Total 2,076 GHG protocol standard. The use of our products represents 98% of the Volvo Group’s total carbon footprint. Therefore we focus on reducing our products’ emissions. In our commitment to World Energy efﬁciency in operations Wildlife Fund (WWF) Climate Savers we have a target to reduce The Group’s 2016 total energy use amounted to 2,076 GWh, simiproduct life time emissions by 40 Mton CO2 between 2015–2020, lar to the 2,077 GWh that was used 2015. compared to 2013. For 2015–2016, the savings were 9 Mton CO2. Our energy efﬁciency index, which compares energy use with As part of scope 3 reporting, we also focus on carbon emissions net sales, was 7.1 MWh/SEK M. For the last ﬁve years, energy from freight transport involved in the supply of materials and delivefﬁciency index has increased by 16%. eries to customers. The size of these emissions is similar to the CO2 The long-term goal is to implement energy saving projects that emissions from our production plants. Therefore this is a prioritized together save 150 GWh per year. The target should be fulﬁlled by area and our long-term goal is to reduce CO2 emissions from Volvo 2020. Since 2015, approximately 400 energy saving projects Group freight transport per produced unit by 20% by 2020. have been implemented resulting in a yearly saving of 71 GWh. Carbon emissions for the total volume transported in our This saving should be viewed in a longer turn perspective as the manufacturing supply chain were calculated to 409,000 tons for turning of the saving effects not fully corresponds to calender 2016 compared to 435,000 in 2015. Since the base year 2013, a year. By reducing energy, we both reduce costs and lower emisreduction of 11% CO2 per produced unit has been achieved. sions. Between 2006 and 2016, the Volvo Group’s energy use During 2016, we initiated a project to optimize full truck loads from from its own production processes decreased by 20% in absolute material suppliers to Volvo Trucks and Renault Trucks production terms. This means that the corresponding energy cost has decreased plants within Europe. This resulted in an annual CO2 saving of approxby more than SEK 300 M comparing 2016 to 2006. The accumuimately 380 tons – equivalent to the CO2 emissions of 800 round trip lated saving is signiﬁcantly larger. ﬂights between Gothenburg in Sweden and Lyon in France. 52 A GLOBAL GROUP 2016 AVSNITT BETTER EVERY DAY The secret to improving is to keep your eyes open and CONTINUOUS improvement has always been of importance within the Volvo constantly re-evaluate ways Group. Over the years the progress and maturity level has constantly increased. of working. Working with Volvo Production System (VPS) secures a systematic and sustainable approach for continuous improvement. This supports us to produce the best products on the market by focusing on reduced reduce costs, improved quality and shorter le lead times. In 2016 a new VPS system was wa implemented to grasp the full potential forf the Volvo Group. The new system is aan evolution of previous systems. IIt is designed to be ﬂexible allowing it to be adapted to any kind of work environment like ssales, product development and administration to name just a few. ad VPS aims to create a culture where we continuously improve to wher be the best in our business, by increasing customer value and removing increasin waste through thro everyone’s involvement. At our p production units, we have safety delegates, quality and environmental coordinators and we measure and monitor to continuously improve. A good example of continuous improvement is the Group’s assembly plant in Bourg-en-Bresse, France, where the reasons for the gap between the production process and the delivery process were identiﬁed. An action plan was drawn up, and the plant improved its performance from 80% on-time deliveries to 95%. 53 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL RETAIL & SERVICE R E TA I L & S E R V I C E Supporting customers around the globe Customers are loyal to brands, and our brands are built by our service and retail personnel. One of our strategic priorities is to establish brand-speciﬁc sales operations with a focus on retail excellence and a growing service business. The respective brand organizations within the Volvo Group support Encouraging best practice customers through efﬁcient workshops, service and maintenance To encourage the sharing of best practice and increase knowagreements. Our global network of skilled service technicians ledge and skills, the Volvo Group runs local, regional and global maximizes uptime and reduces the risk of unplanned stops for our competitions for our service personnel. customers. With our service contracts, customers know when In June 2016, Team Harju from Finland, won the Volvo Intertheir vehicle or machine is due for service and what the cost will national Service Training Award (VISTA). VISTA is the world’s largbe for maintenance and repairs. Roadside assistance services are est competition for service personnel and it is open for Volvo available, in their own language, whenever customers need support. Trucks and Volvo Buses service networks. Its primary goal is to develop and improve the participants’ knowhow, skills and ability Customer loyalty starts in retail to cooperate – factors that ultimately improve customer service During 2016, the spare parts and services in total represented and increase customer satisfaction. approximately 22% of the Volvo Group’s net sales, compared to The Gemba challenge is UD Trucks service competition and 21% in 2015. As services are needed on a continuous basis while experience-sharing platform for employees in Asia and Africa. The our products are in use, they help to balance out the ﬂuctuations competition tests service teams on their knowledge, skills and in our business cycle. team collaboration effectiveness. In 2016, the UD Truck’s South Clear and transparent product, marketing and sales information is African team won out of 186 teams in total. important for customers to make an informed decision about our The next Road to Excellence Championship, Renault Trucks’ products and services. Therefore, customers receive environmental European service challenge, will take place in 2017. The competiproduct information for many of our products, based on lifecycle tion highlights the Renault Trucks network’s expertise in cusassessment. For more details, please see the GRI (G4) Index at tomer service quality. volvogroup.com. Every two years, the Volvo Construction Equipment Global Masters competition gathers the best technical people from Certiﬁed uptime centers Volvo CE’s dealer network worldwide. The competition recognizes In 2016 both Volvo Trucks and Mack Trucks in North America the technical skills of mechanics and spare parts personnel. The started to implement certiﬁed UpTime centers. The certiﬁcation 2015/2016 competition was won by Rudd Equipment from the evaluates dealer service locations on a number of process eleUS and recorded the greatest level of engagement in the 12 ments, ranging from shop organization to implementation of diagtimes the event has run. nostic tools. Through the certiﬁed UpTime centers, offering standardized workﬂows and service processes, as well as redesigned Customer risk assessment service bays, the service experience for customers is faster and In 2016 our risk analysis tool covering business ethics, social and more efﬁcient. The results from pilots show an immediate increase environmental factors for customer ﬁnancing was further develin the number of trucks being fully repaired during a 24-hour oped. A pilot was initiated to evaluate a new database as a search period, as well as positive customer feedback. Read more on our tool and the geographical scope was extended. During the year, UpTime centers on page 36. the number of assessments performed was 46 for the truck brands, 34 for Volvo Construction Equipment and 7 for Volvo Buses. Risks were identiﬁed in 11% of the cases and these were followed by mitigation activities. The project was initiated following the Swedish Government’s introduction of requirements on the Swedish Export Credit Agency, EKN, to include human rights in their credit assessments of customers. The tool is used on customers in high-risk segments and extreme and high-risk countries, as deﬁned in our CSR Country Risk Atlas. The atlas is tailor made for the Volvo Group using risk indices from a global risk analytics company based on the principles in our Code of Conduct. 54 EVERYWITH MORE AND MORE operators using Volvo Penta industrial engines WHERE around the world, Volvo Penta’s industrial dealer network is constantly under development as we adapt and expand our – geographical presence to meet customer ANY needs – wherever they work. The Volvo Penta industrial dealer network, with around 750 authorized dealers worldwide, TIME offers service and support to help customers maximize productivity throughout the engine’s lifecycle. Volvo Penta’s Industrial dealers are trained in the latest technology and repair The local Volvo Penta dealer processes and are required to comply with Volvo Penta’s industrial dealer operating knows their customers’ standard. The standard is designed to engines better than anyone ensure consistent high-quality service and support. Aligned with Volvo Penta’s core and offers service and support values of quality, safety and environmental care, the dealer operating standard that can be tailored to their focuses on: speciﬁc needs, enabling • Technical competence, including advanced diagnostics customers to focus on their • 24/7 accessibility • On-site support core business. • Excellent parts availability • Speedy repairs and quick response to customer questions To secure the best possible service and support, Volvo Penta provides its industrial dealers with continuous product training, as well as regular competence assessments to secure the local expertise necessary to keep customers’ businesses going, wherever they operate. UTI TILIZ LIZING ING THTHEE WID WIDE RA RANGE NGE OF VOL VOLVOVO PENTATA SER SERVIC VICE E AND SU SUPPO PPORTRT HEL HELPSPS CUSTOM CUS TOMERSERS TO MAMAXIM XIMIZIZE PRO PRODUC DUCTIV TIVITY AND THE VALUE OF THEIR R INVESTMENT. 55 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL REUSE REUSE Great potential for circularity Increasing circularity means better business. Efﬁcient use of resources, lower energy consumption and reduced emissions contribute to lower costs for the company, improved cost of ownership for the customer and less impact on the environment for society. Increasing the options to repair, renovate, reuse and recycle components and parts reduces costs, which is especially important in the value segment. It also promotes circularity, which is desirable IN 2016, TOTAL VOLVO within the premium segment. Our remanufacturing business is GROUP SALES OF increasing in importance every year and to take further advantage of the opportunities, it is already considered as part of product REMANUFACTURED development. COMPONENTS INCREASED In 2016, total Volvo Group sales of remanufactured components BY CLOSE TO 8% amounted to SEK 9 billion, an increase of close to 8% compared COMPARED WITH 2015. with 2015. In the last 7 years, sales from the Volvo Group’s remanufacturing business have increased by a yearly average of 10%. With increased demands from our customers and our customers’ customers on resource efﬁciency and lower environmental footprints we see great potential for this business. ing a new component. Also, as these basic gearboxes are delivThe ﬁrst Volvo Group remanufacturing center opened in 1960 ered without several electronic features, they are less expensive in Flen, Sweden. Other centers are located in France, Japan, Brazil, to produce and have a lower retail price than ‘complete’ versions US, China and India. of the remanufactured gearboxes. This will allow Volvo Trucks and Renault Trucks to extend the exchange business beyond the curLower costs for customers rent target group and attract customers with even older vehicles. Remanufactured components are offered to Volvo Group customers worldwide. The exchange system works by customers receiving Financial and environmental beneﬁts and installing a factory remanufactured component and returning A truck produced by the Volvo Group is largely recyclable, since the replaced component to the dealer. Through exchange, engines, almost 85% of its weight consists of metal – mostly iron, steel and gearboxes, exhaust ﬁlters and rear axle transmissions can be aluminium. The additional materials are mainly plastic, rubber and renovated to the same condition as new parts. Customers beneﬁt material from electronics components. same quality and a full warranty, from the sam The Volvo Group works consistently with lean methodologies to delivered at a lower price. use less material as well as processes to integrate more recycled In 2016 Volvo Penta expanded its materials, reduce waste and energy, recover heat, and assess our offer o of factory remanufactured water footprint. As well as extending the life time of our products exchange components for marine exchang and reducing costs for our customers, remanufacturing ensures products with drives and compothat potentially dangerous residuals inside worn components are nents for the th Inboard Performance Sysdealt with correctly. With a guarantee of providing tem (IPS). W the same ququality, reliability and performPromoting circularity ance as new genuine Volvo anc Volvo Construction Equipment initiated the Climate Construction Penta parts, the Volvo Penta Challenge (CCC) to bring together key players in the construction VOLVO PENTA IPS Exchange system enables sector. The aim is to reduce its carbon footprint and promote customers to have composustainability, life cycle and resource-efﬁcient thinking throughnents replaced more quickly and out the value chain. As part of its work program, CCC has supoffers a cost-effective alternative altern to repair and overhaul. ported research projects in circular business models and resource Today, Volvo Penta offers more than 600 components in the and energy efﬁciency. Exchange system. In Sweden, lithium-ion batteries from Volvo Buses electriﬁed Volvo Trucks and Renault Trucks brands have launched new, buses on line 55 in Gothenburg will get a second life in a building more basic versions of the brands’ exchange Automated Manual project, Positive Footprint Housing. Second life batteries will be Transmission (AMT) gearboxes. The new products offer a more used together with solar panels for local energy storage and prosustainable and cost-effective solution for customers with ageing duction. The purpose is to study energy management and value vehicles. Firstly, the new gearboxes are produced through remanuover time. The energy storage in the building is being developed facturing, which uses 80% less energy and material than produccollaboratively between the energy sector, building sector, and 56 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL REUSE Taking advantage of opportunities USE E C TUR U FA AN M & N G SI DE ROC E S SI N G MAINTAIN CE P UR O ES R MATERIAL REUSE RECYCLE ENERGY THE ABILITY TO reuse, recycle, renovate END OF LIFE WASTE and repair parts and components is considered as part of product development. It supports a growing remanufacturing business, less waste and reduced environmental impact. vehicle sector to demonstrate and research future energy solutions. Batteries for storing solar energy already exist on the market but the aim of this project is to prolong the lives of batteries built to recharge quickly at bus stops and to see if their lives may be extended by 10 to 15 years if used in buildings with less load. Considering the great potential of electriﬁed vehicles and machines, reuse and extended life is positive both from a total cost of ownerership perspective for the bus operator and from an environmental perspective. LITHIUM-ION BATTERIES 57 EMPLOYEES A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR PEOPLE BEHIND IT EMPLOYEES Our people behind it The Volvo Group’s aspiration to be the most admired employer in our industry is a key factor for reaching our vision of being the most desired and succesful transport solution provider in the world. To succeed it is important to attract the right talent and create a culture of highly engaged employees. ADMIRED EMPLOYER Today’s organizations act in greater uncertainty and can rely less on experience and established processes. Values will increasingly guide people and organizations in how they act and make decisions. Progress in employee Working for a responsible company that contributes to society is becoming more important for current and potential employees. engagement With the launch of our strategy in early 2016, work on revitalizThe 2016 results show an improvement from 71% ing our culture and building a more values-driven organization 2015 to 72% 2016. began. Our values – customer success, trust, passion, change and performance – guide our day-to-day behavior and create the basis for a high performing culture. The work to build an even stronger culture is driven by employees and leaders at all levels via training, seminars and workshops. A global employer % employee engagement The Volvo Group is a global company and as such we need to be 12 13 14 15 16 aware of the various challenges to attract and retain talent around 76 76 72 71 72 the globe. We put a great deal of effort into balancing the needs of diverse professional groups and nationalities as well as bridging generational knowledge and skills gaps. There are many ways to attract and retain the right skills and Engagement and performance become the most admired employer in our industry. The Volvo Group Employee engagement is the driving force behind high performuses talent management, student and graduate programs, personal ing organizations and Volvo Group has a long tradition of working business plans and a broad offer of training programs in our on engagement and measuring it annually through the Volvo in-house Volvo Group University. Other important factors include Group Attitude Survey (VGAS). personal development, compensation and employee engagement In 2016, 93% of all employees responded. After three years of as well as being known for fair and responsible business practice. a declining Employee Engagement index there was an increase Campus Lundby – the new home for Volvo Group in Gothenburg Within a 10 year period, the majority of the Group’s ofﬁce staff in Gothenburg, Sweden, will be brought together in the Lundby area. Lundby is historical ground for Volvo Group and the site where it all started back in 1927. Today, operations, sales, technology and Volvo Penta are located in the area. By relocating physically closer to one another, it will become easier to cooperate, bounce ideas off each other and beneﬁt from all the know-how among colleagues throughout the organisation. With Campus Lundby, Volvo Group wants to be a positive driving force in the city’s development while increasing engagement among employees. 58 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR PEOPLE BEHIND IT WHAT DO YOU VALUE IN AN EMPLOYER? ANNA BODIN GROUP MANAGER , GROUP TRUCKS TECHNOLOGY, GOTHENBURG, SWEDEN: GIACOMO MONDINI “ I truly value the possibility to work with SALES MANAGER, VOLVO PENTA, sharp people, exciting products and MILANO, ITALY: world class truck technologies while still being able to balance my family life. “ The biggest value is the way of The trust and respect the Volvo Group managing people, businesses and shows by offering ﬂexible work conditions problems with many different leadership makes me a better person both at work skills and the ability to ﬁnd continuous and at home.” ways to engage people in their everyday work. Other values are transparency, integrity and honest attitude towards people and their way of thinking.” THILAK BALUCHAMY UD PRODUCT QUALITY MANAGER, GROUP TRUCKS ASIA & JVS, SINGAPORE; ROSANGELA PEREIRA DA SILVA “ The employer should recognize my efforts ASSEMBLY WORKER, GROUP TRUCKS and provide advice when needed. The comOPERATIONS, CURITIBA, BRAZIL: pany should back me up and treat all my peers with impartiality. Remuneration is also “ It’s about quality of life. The company important, but after a certain stage in your must respect the employees and estabcareer it is secondary. I value an employer lish a relationship of trust. In my view, that develops and sustains a strong, incluthe Volvo Group can achieve its goal of sive and understanding leadership.” becoming the most admired employer in the industry by encouraging personal and professional development for all employees.” from 71% engaged employees in 2015 to 72% in 2016. Even target groups of students through study visits and internships at though the results were over the global norm, we did not reach our Volvo Group and on-campus company activities. target: to be amongst the world’s top 25% of companies in the Our 12-month Volvo Group International Graduate Program comparison database of approximately 15 million employees from aims to support the Group’s continued development by recruiting more than 400 companies. the best global graduates and strengthen Volvo Group employer To continue the upward trend we have a strong focus on combrand attractiveness. municating our vision of the future, connecting it to each team Our Academic Partner Program (APP) is a highly exclusive proand employee and encouraging open and honest communication gram for selected universities performing research, education and between leaders and employees. Other important areas are competence development in areas of importance for the Volvo increased collaboration and dialogue about our values. Group’s future business needs. The program consists of 12 preferred partners in Sweden, France, the US, China, India and Japan. Attracting talent around the globe To complement the existing elements of research and talent, a third The Volvo Group cooperates with top engineering and business element was added to the APP in 2016. The learning partnerships universities worldwide. We maintain a close dialogue with selected will focus on competence development and ensure that the best-in59 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR PEOPLE BEHIND IT class pedagogic methodologies developed by the academic world Volvo Group University supports business are shared with our in-house Volvo Group University. Every year around half a million training days are completed by our A major initiative in Sweden is the Volvo Step program. The employees and retail organizations worldwide. The Volvo Group program brings young people out of unemployment and safeUniversity is established as the center of further education proguards future competencies for the Group. Read more about this viding learning solutions in all our major competence areas. The and our vocational schools in Africa in the Societal Engagement academies are governed by the business and the university section on page 72. enhances consistency and quality to ensure that training outcomes support business operations. Strategic leader development First line managers and the engineering community have been In the Volvo Group, we view talent as a strategic asset, and our identiﬁed as important target groups for value creation and busipeople as the greatest creator of value. The toolbox for talent ness success. reviews is a structured and formalized review of performance and In 2016, 2,000 persons in total participated in different leaderpotential across the pool of leaders. It includes succession planship programs. Competencies addressed include coaching and ning for our leadership teams to make sure we meet future needs. developing direct reports. Efforts prioritized for the engineering Our leadership programs and other learning offers target leaders community support improved quality and reduced lead time in globally and at various development stages in their careers. product development. Personal business plan to successfully do the right things Harmonized salary setting tools Employees are expected to have a personal business plan that Volvo Group has developed a global compensation approach translates our corporate strategic objectives into individual which has been implemented in our 15 major countries. This objectives and contributions. It includes business-related and global approach focuses on fair pay in relation to performance competence development targets, and provides essential feedwhile ensuring market alignment. During 2017 and 2018, the back for both shortand long-term individual development. approach will be rolled out to more countries. During the same Employees review their plan annually with their manager to ensure period, the Group will also work on designing an overall compenmutual understanding of roles, performance, competence develsation and beneﬁts approach that supports the attraction and opment and expectations. retention of our future workforce. L A B O R R E L AT I O N S – C O O P E R AT I N G F O R P E R F O R M A N C E For us, maintaining good relationships with unions and worksSupporting freedom of association councils is vital for long-term business success. The Volvo Group As stated in our Code of Conduct, all employees are free to join Code of Conduct includes labor relations topics, covering all an association to represent their interests as employees, to employees. Our employees are represented in several dialogue organize and to bargain collectively or individually. An employee’s platforms to contribute with their views: right to refrain from joining a union is equally respected. • In the AB Volvo Board of Directors, there are three ordinary The Group reports on collective bargaining agreements in 22 members of employee representatives and two deputies (22) countries. The latest mapping covered nearly 95% of all regappointed by employee organizations. ular employees. Overall, 72% (71) of employees in these countries • Volvo European Works Council (EWC) meets twice a year were covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we estifocusing on European issues and sharing best practice. In mate that more than 41% (43) of employees were members of an 2016 there were eight formal information and consultation independent trade union. meetings. During 2016, approximately 0.33% (0.25) of available working days were lost through lockouts or strikes within the Volvo Group. • Volvo Global Works Council (GWC) members include union These strikes were mainly related to salary negotiations in a representatives from the existing EWC and from wholly-owned downturn environment in Brazil and a national protest against the Volvo Group companies with more than 500 regular employees Belgium government in which Volvo Group employees particioutside of Europe. In 2016, over 50 representatives reprepated. All issues were resolved through close dialogue and partsented 25 different countries. nership with our employee representatives. • Volvo Global Dialogue (VGD) gives employee representatives from the GWC a yearly opportunity to meet with Volvo Group Collaborating to ﬁnd solutions Executive Board and Group Management. The 2016 VGD gathDuring 2016 total Volvo Group employees decreased by about ered 46 representatives from 20 different countries and focused 3,000 (3,400) due to economic conditions and sales volumes. on the Volvo Group’s new mission, vision, aspirations and values. Compulsory redundancies accounted for less than 3.5% (4.0) of 60 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR PEOPLE BEHIND IT the total regular headcount. In addition, about 2,800 people were The Volvo Group enters into consultation and negotiations with part of an outsourcing project in 2016 with the IT partner, HCL trade unions and/or works councils about changes that affect their Technologies, driving the delivery of infrastructure and operations members. During 2016, 61 (105) consultations were held with trade services. unions and 84 (126) consultations with works councils over organIn accordance with the Volvo Group’s Code of Conduct and legal izational changes (e.g. restructuring, outsourcing, layoffs). requirements, employees’ representatives and relevant government In the spirit of the Volvo Group culture and our Code of Conduct, authorities are notiﬁed about major changes in our organization. we work to ﬁnd reasonable solutions for employees who are laid off. Labor organizations are informed via formal forums. This includes for example internal mobility forums, which support the establishment of new enterprises, and outplacement support. W O R K I N G A C T I V E LY W I T H H E A LT H , S A F E T Y A N D W E L L B E I N G Investing in a good working environment is not only good for the health and wellbeing of the individual employee, it also contributes HEALTH & SAFETY* to the bottom line by making it easier to recruit and retain employees. On top of that it increases engagement and productivity. Volvo Lost time Group works actively to create safe and healthy workplaces for accident rate Number of employees, visitors, suppliers and customers and is committed to fatal accidents helping employees meet daily challenges for staying healthy and feeling well. Mental health is part of this work and we have a global plan to increase awareness and work more proactively in this area. Our Health and Safety Policy is based on the belief that acci12 13 14 15 16 1.34 1.97 1.59 1.38 1.06 dents, near misses and work-related illnesses can be prevented. 0 1 3 0 0 The policy sets out where minimum standards, training, aware*The scope of employees included in the numbers have increased ness and upstream integration in product and working processes substantially over the past ﬁve years and in 2016 it covers 100%. should be applied. Providing a workplace where physical and psychological hazards are minimized is essential for ensuring the wellbeing of our employees and people we work with in our premises. Health, safety and wellbeing award Increased sites with zero accidents For 10 years Volvo Group has internally run best practice health and In 2016, our Lost Time Accident Rate was 1.06 (1.38) covering safety awards. In 2016, 34 initiatives from 16 different countries 100% (91) of employees. This was an improvement of 23% comcompeted, representing a wide range of innovations and improvepared to 2015. For the second year in a row there were no fatal ments in the area. The Volvo Group Health & Safety Award 2016 accidents. was given to an aftersales team at Volvo Buses in North America Volvo Group works with workplace health and safety in many for their work to prevent accidents when working alone. The soludifferent ways. It is critical that we deﬁne minimum requirements tion included a policy and a smartphone app for employees workthrough policies, procedures and/or practices and secure outing alone at customers’ premises or on the road. come at our locations through OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation, Volvo Production System and health and safety audits. In 2016 over 30 (29) of the production sites were OHSAS 18001certiﬁed. In 2016 we achieved zero accidents at 16 plants compared to 13 in 2015. 61 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR PEOPLE BEHIND IT D I V E R S I T Y A N D I N C L U S I O N A C O M P E T I T I V E A DVA N TAG E Our long-term target is that the Group’s employee and manageMeasuring progress ment pool reﬂects the diversity of the regions where we do busiWhile diversity is considered to be a global competitive force, it still ness. As our customers and other stakeholders have different must be handled in a local way since diversity challenges can be backgrounds we need employees with different backgrounds to different in different places. Therefore, in order to maximize the facilitate understanding. Recognizing each individual’s abilities positive results of diversity, it is expected that there are many difand understanding how diversity strengthens us are key factors to ferent local and business speciﬁc diversity goals and action plans. develop our products and services and meet our goals. Globally we use two key performance indicators to measure diversity: Diversity and Inclusive Leadership training • The Balanced Team Indicator is a quantitative measure covering For the third year, Volvo Group celebrated Diversity and Inclusion nationality, gender, age and experience across different Volvo Week in September 2016. The focus was on the strong connecGroup entities. The results for 2016 show improvement in terms tion between diversity and inclusion and our values. of diversity especially in the Group Executive Board with regards All our values – customer success, trust, passion, change and to nationality. In the level below the Executive Board, average performance – connect to diversity and inclusion. Inclusion is built diversity scores were stable. on trust and an inclusive mindset, which opens up to new ideas, • The Inclusiveness Index is based on how employees judge challenges the way we do things and creates positive change. their workplace to be inclusive. The Inclusiveness Index The leaders of each division and business unit are responsible showed mixed results in 2016 with improvements in terms of for making diversity and inclusive leadership, part of business as respect from leaders and employee relationships compared usual. By the end of 2016, over 2,600 leaders were trained. 62 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR PEOPLE BEHIND IT Diversity and inclusion everyday T he leaders of each division and business unit are responsible for making Diversity and Inclusive Leadership part of business as usual. to the previous year. Ongoing revitalization work on our culture and values should have a positive impact in the coming year. GENDER DIVERSITY OF THE VOLVO GROUP WORKFORCE We also measure gender balance in total and at senior management level as described in the gender diversity table: % 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Share of women 17 18 17 17 17 • The Gender Balance Indicator shows that women accounted for Share of women, 17% of the Volvo Group’s global workforce, at the end of 2016. presidents and • The share of women among presidents and senior executives other senior was 24%. executives 24 22 21 19 20 In 2016 a group of high leadership potentials participated in the external pilot Women Up mentoring program as a way to develop our female pipeline and help our male mentors better understand the cultural changes needed to be even more inclusive. Participants will also mentor future women leaders internally, creating a cascade effect on our pipeline. For more information about diversity in the Volvo Group and a detailed breakdown of data, see the GRI (G4) Index at www.volvogroup.com. 63 OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY Creating value for our business, our stakeholders and society The Volvo Group’s approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability focuses on conducting business in a responsible manner, creating value for our stakeholders and society, and contributing to the business, sustainable transport solutions and sustainable development at large. Driving prosperity through transport solutions requires us to create tegic priorities. Our response both aligns with and leverages our value for the Volvo Group, our stakeholders and society at large. business strategy and strengths to provide solutions with mulSome of our 2016 contributions are shown in the table below. ti-stakeholder beneﬁts. The CSR and sustainability approach is To be economically, environmentally and socially sustainable, divided into three parts: value creation must be executed responsibly. Business ethics and 1. Our value chain activities – taking a life cycle approach to integrity, tax and legal compliance and human rights are therefore developing and delivering products and services responsibly integral components of this work. It provides us with a solid foundaand sustainably. See examples in the value chain section of this tion on which to build our societal engagement activities and report. demonstrate industry leadership towards sustainable development. 2. Towards sustainable transport – transforming business and society through products and services that advance susNew model approach tainable economic, social and environmental development. As a signatory of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, partLeading the transition towards a more sustainable transport ner in the WWF Climate Savers program, and supporter of the UN system by focusing on policy and regulatory issues aligned with 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we consider global business priorities as well as engaging in strategic partnertrends and challenges, international norms of responsible busiships. See examples of sustainable transport solutions in the ness behavior and stakeholder expectations when developing our value chain section of this report and the Volvo Group deﬁnition work. See more information on stakeholder engagement in the on the opposite page. GRI (G4) Index at volvogroup.com. 3. Our role in society – by addressing societal challenges In 2016, we reviewed and updated our CSR and sustainability related to our industry we contribute to a prosperous and resilient approach and activities to ensure we focus on areas that support society. See further details of this work on the following pages. the Volvo Group’s new mission, vision, aspirations, values and straSTRATEGIC DELIVERY OF GOALS VALUE BY STAKEHOLDER GROUP, SEK M 2016 2015 To suppliers – Purchases of goods and services 205,910 210,598 To employees – Salaries and remuneration1 39,069 40,458 To society – Social costs1 8,228 8,995 To society – Pension costs1 3,884 4,340 MISSION To society – Income taxes paid 4,219 3,110 To creditors – Interest paid 1,584 1,683 VISION To the Volvo Group – Investments in tangible assets 6,643 6,561 ASPIRATIONS To shareholders – Dividend 6,6032 6,093 1 For further information, please see note 27 to the consolidated VALUES ﬁnancial statements. 2 According to the Board’s proposal. A NEW CSR AND SUSTAINABILITY PLAN was developed in 2016 to ensure that we focus on areas supporting the Volvo Group’s new mission, vision, aspirations, values and strategic priorities. The UN Sustainable Development Goals are both prerequisites for and objectives of this work. 64 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY By linking each of the three areas we build resilience and mitigate SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS risk through embedding CSR and sustainability into daily work. We clarify accountability by assigning responsibility to the Group CSR and Sustainability function to develop the strategic model for the The right work while responsibility of delivery lies within the business area or product or service entity closest to the objective. in order to contribute Under our new approach, the business deﬁnes priorities and to a highly productive, efﬁcient and resilient sets goals and KPIs for the focus areas to secure both business transport system value creation and integration with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Innovation, technology and enhanced modern logistics services will form the basis of the Volvo Group’s contribution to all SDGs. Energy efﬁcient Safe, secure, accessible and transport solutions affordable Sustainable transport solutions contribution with very low transport systems Our value chain activities are described in the value chain section emissions of CO2 , for people and PM, NOx and noise in this report and our role in society will be further elaborated on goods the following pages. Examples of sustainable transport solutions can also be found in the value chain section but to understand the complete approach to how CSR and sustainability contribute to business value creation we need to understand how the Volvo Economic Environmental Social Group deﬁnes sustainable transport solutions. The Group uses dimension dimension dimension the deﬁnition recommended by the UN General Secretary’s Highlevel Advisory Group on Sustainable Transport, which the Volvo Group chaired for three years. Sustainable transport services and infrastructure move people and goods – advancing economic and social development to beneﬁt today’s and future generations – in a manner that is safe, affordable, accessible, efﬁcient, and resilient, Responding to the Sustainable Development Goals while minimizing carbon and other emissions and environmental On 1 January 2016, the 17 SDGs of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainimpacts. This is shown in the illustration to the right. For further able Development ofﬁcially came into force. The 2030 Agenda details of the Volvo Group’s involvement in the Advisory Group, for Sustainable Development is a plan of action for people, planet please see page 73. and prosperity adopted by UN General Assembly and supported UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Good health and wellbeing Halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road trafﬁc accidents by 2020. 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Adopted by United Nations General Assembly in September 2015. Climate action Industry, innovation and infrastructure Take urgent action to Build resilient infrastructure, promote Sustainable cities and communities combat climate change inclusive and sustainable industrialization Make cities and human settlements inclusive, and its impacts. and foster innovation. safe, resilient and sustainable. 65 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY by the SDGs. The SDGs are not legally binding but governments segment, see pages 28, 29, 32 and onwards are expected to take ownership and establish national frame• Investments in innovative technologies such as automation, electroworks for the achievement of the Goals. They encourage and promobility and connectivity for construction sites, pages 38 to 45 mote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships • Vocational schools in Africa, page 72. in order to succeed. Our ambition is to contribute to all SDGs in our activities, but to focus on those most relevant for our business UN SDG 11 – Sustainable cities and communities and the target to where we can contribute the most. For the Volvo Group, this provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transmeans focusing on: port systems for all, by 2020, notably by expanding public transport. Examples of our activities: UN SDG 3 – Good health and wellbeing and especially the target • ElectriCity and sales of hybrid buses, pages 39 and 42 to halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road trafﬁc • Supplies to Bus Rapid Transport systems and zone manageaccidents by 2020. ment systems, pages 42 to 44. Examples of our activities: • Safety focus in product development, pages 39 and 42 UN SDG 13 – Climate action and taking urgent action to combat • Safety features in our vehicles and machines, pages 33 and 41 climate change and its impacts. • Safety training for drivers and operators, page 33 Examples of our activities: • Safety campaigns for school children, cyclists and other road • Fuel efﬁciency and alternative fuel focus in product development, users, page 72. pages 32, 33 and 39 • Activities to lower energy consumption and reduce emissions UN SDG 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure with particufrom operations, pages 50 and 52 lar emphasis on the targets to develop quality, reliable, sustaina• First automotive industry manufacturer to be approved for WWF ble and resilient infrastructure including development in developClimate Savers program, page 44 ing countries through enhanced ﬁnancial, technological and • Host of the Construction Climate Challenge, page 44. technical support to African countries. Examples of our activities: • Efﬁcient and reliable trucks and machines in the construction CONSIDERING ETHICS AND INTEGRIT Y For the Volvo Group, our Code of Conduct sets the framework for everything we do. In today’s digital society the effects of not behavETHICS & INTEGRITY ing ethically or with integrity will not only affect the way the Volvo Group is perceived, they may also have an impact on our bottom line. % employees completed CoC training For us, business ethics and integrity involve risk awareness and Number of cases transparency regarding our work on anti-corruption, competition received by corporate law, tax strategies, political neutrality and the risk of human rights Audit violations. Code of Conduct (CoC) 12 13 14 15 16 The Volvo Group Code of Conduct is a mandatory Group-wide 22* 47 47 48 73 41 82 52 55 56 policy for appropriate ethical business behavior and responsibility towards our stakeholders. Its content is based on international *Low value due to launch of CoC training in November 2012. norms, including the United Nation’s (UN) Global Compact and the OECD’s guidelines for multinational companies. The Code is publicly available on www.volvogroup.com. The Volvo Our three year target is for 90% of all white-collar employees Group Code of Conduct is complemented by around 20 other polto complete the Game of Conduct. In 2016, nearly 73% comicies that describe in more detail how we address the code’s minpleted the training. This was an improvement compared to a 48% imum standards. completion of the e-learning between 2012 and 2015. In 2016, close to 4,000 team managers performed discussions on ethical Great improvement with the Game of Conduct dilemmas. To increase awareness and knowledge about responIn 2016, the Game of Conduct was launched in order to increase sible behavior outside the Group, the Game is available externally awareness and knowledge of responsible behavior in the Group. at www.volvogroup.com/gameofconduct. The Game replaces the former e-learning tool. It is available in 14 languages and it is followed up by team discussions on ethical Monitoring adherence dilemmas. An improvement compared to the old e-learning is that Adherence to the Code of Conduct is monitored through manit is possible for employees to play the Game of Conduct on agement control systems, internal controls, audits and the annual mobile devices. employee survey. All employees are expected and encouraged to 66 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY early 2017. The tool will be available for all employees, contractors, consultants and other third parties to report violations or suspected The Global Compact violations of laws, regulations or other areas in the Code of Conduct. In 2001, the Volvo Group signed the Global Compact, the UN’s initiative on responsible Most frequent business ethical questions business practices. Over the course of 2016 the most common business ethics questions from stakeholders were: “Our Code of Conduct is based on international charters, including • The settlement with the European Commission regarding an the UN Global Compact. Upholding its norms is something we antitrust investigation. The settlement resulted in a ﬁne of SEK ﬁrmly believe in.” Martin Lundstedt, President and CEO. 6.5 billion. The Volvo Group’s full cooperation with the Commission resulted in a very substantial reduction in the ﬁne. For more information see note 21 and 24 on pages 146 and 150. report suspected violations to their managers. If reporting to • Business connected with complex markets like Israel, Palestine, superiors is not feasible or possible, a whistleblower procedure is Burma/Myanmar, Saudi Arabia and Iran. The Volvo Group available, which gives employees the possibility of reporting susbelieves that trade is something good that generally contributes pected violations to the Head of Corporate Audit and the opporpositively to a country’s or a region’s development. We comply tunity to remain anonymous where permitted by law. The Volvo with the laws and regulations of each country where we operGroup does not tolerate retaliation against a person for making ate. In countries with weak commitment to business ethics, complaints in good faith of violations or suspected violations human rights, environmental protection or legal enforcement against the Code of Conduct. In total, 56 (55) reports were logged the business activities are expected to be performed in accordby Corporate Audit in 2016 including 27 (22) incident reports sent ance with the principles in our Code of Conduct. by management. All cases were addressed, investigated and • Governmental Sales and the use of the vehicles sold by the reported to the Audit Committee of the AB Volvo Board of Directors. business area. In November 2016 it was announced that Volvo In total 4 (2) whistleblower cases and 8 (8) management reports Group has conducted a strategic review of the Governmental were substantiated. The most commonly reported categories were Sales business area and intends to initiate a process to divest conﬂicts of interest and personnel management. this business. The Volvo Group’s sales of defense material, as deﬁned in the Swedish Military Equipment Ordinance Enhanced whistleblower intake process (1992:1303) section A, amounted to 0.26% (0.32) of net In 2016 a secure on-line reporting mechanism called the Volvo sales in 2016. Group Whistle was designed and approved for implementation in R E S P O N S I B L E TA X P R AC T I C E S The Volvo Group’s new mission to drive prosperity through transport solutions involves contributing to society in many different TAXES ways. Given the role of taxes as a way to fund public welfare we regard corporate tax compliance as a matter of responsible busi*In 2014 the tax rate was ness behavior. The Volvo Group shall comply with the tax laws and affected by non-deductible regulations of each country where we operate. We do not engage provision for EU Commission in any aggressive tax planning activities through structures in tax antitrust investigation. havens or otherwise. Where tax laws do not give clear guidance, prudence and transparency shall be the guiding principles. A fundamental objective of our tax policy is to ensure compliance with 12 13 14 15 16 these principles throughout the Group, and at the same time 27% 20% 56%* 26% 31% ensure tax efﬁciency through tax-conscious management of our operations. Reporting in accordance with new regulations As part of the OECD project on Base Erosion and Proﬁt Shifting The average corporate tax rate of the Volvo Group for the last (BEPS), new international standards for reporting corporate ﬁve years is approximately 30%, whereof SEK 7 billion or 43% of income tax on a Country-by-Country basis (CBCR) have been current taxes relates to developing and emerging markets as developed. The Volvo Group will report in full compliance with deﬁned by the IMF. these new standards and is well advanced in developing reporting tools to accommodate these new requirements as they are currently being implemented into local legislation. 67 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY C O M P LY I N G W I T H L E G A L Emissions regulations R E G U L AT I O N S In recent decades, regulators in Europe, the US, and Japan have progressively implemented stricter emissions standards Legal compliance forms the basis for everything we do in the Volvo Group. It covers many different areas and involves a variety for new heavy-duty engines for trucks and buses. of employees with expertise and knowledge across the Group In spite of great progress, particularly related to lower such as our work related to complying with emissions regulations, levels of nitrogen oxide (NOX) and particulate matters described next. (PM), air pollution and climate problems remain. A comTwo examples from the Code of Conduct are our commitments mon focus for regulators going forward is the actual to comply with antitrust (competition) and anti-corruption laws in all jurisdictions where we conduct business. Our Code of Conduct engine performance in-use instead of a generic engine states that we shall compete in a fair manner and with integrity model in a test cell. The Volvo Group actively follows and not participate in or endorse any corrupt practices. These developments to ensure adherence by developing engines principles of compliance are implemented through the Volvo that meet all legal requirements. Group Compliance Policy and dedicated compliance programs. Awareness of compliance Europe Across the Group we have programs consisting of a number of In 2016 a new regulation, Stage V, was published for nonelements, including policies and guidelines, a comprehensive road engines in EU. The main changes compared to Stage range of e-learning and tailored face-to-face training, counselling IV relate to particulates. The new requirements, valid from and support, as well as auditing and review. The Volvo Group 2018/2019 are set at a performance level currently whistleblower procedures also apply to our compliance programs. The process for anti-corruption due diligence assessments of expected to be achieved with particle ﬁlters. business partners aims to enhance the existing processes The emissions regulation for on-road vehicles was also designed to prevent bribery by third parties carrying out business updated with a Euro VI step D entering into force on behalf of the Volvo Group. The system includes the use of 2018/2019. The main updates concern the in-service external tools, and applies to existing and new business partners. conformity testing with portable emissions measurement Measuring compliance training systems (PEMS) where the limits regarding payload and Compliance training in the form of e-learning and face-to-face power have been changed to include low load duty cycles training is provided on a rolling basis with different focus areas in a better way. each year. In 2015 and 2016, the focus has been on face-to-face A regulation for certiﬁed declaration of carbon dioxide training and during this period, more than 13,800 (10,200) (CO2) emissions and fuel consumption, including reporting employees received face-to-face training in compliance. In addition, our competition law e-learning was completed by more than and monitoring, is being developed by the EU Commission 42,900 (42,100) employees during the same period. This reprewith broad support from the Volvo Group and the industry sents around 90% of all white-collar employees. via the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA). The certiﬁed declaration, planned to start in the beginning of 2019, will be the most advanced in the world and is based on certiﬁed measurements of components and calculation of complete vehicle CO2 emissions. The system will give customers a possibility to, on an equal and fair basis, compare CO2 emissions of different product E-LEARNING COURSES* offerings and speciﬁcations. This will even further strengthen and support the market forces regarding CO2 and fuel consumption. The declaration will be followed by a reporting and monitoring regulation, allowing the EU Commission to follow the progress and implement further actions if needed. 13 14 15 16 37,277 39,689 41,046 47,177 Anti-corruption 26,880 30,896 42,138 42,908 Competition law *Number of accumulated, completed e-learning courses between 2013 and 2016. The numbers may include former employees. 68 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY EMISSIONS REGULATIONS FOR HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLES Russia Europe Euro 4-5 US, Euro 6 Canada US 2010 China China 4-5 Japan PNLT South Africa India Euro 2 BS 3-4 Brazil US 1998 Euro 5 Australia Euro 5* US 2007 Particulates, g/kWh NOx g/kWh THE EMISSIONS LEGISLATION varies for different regions. In some regions the implementation of stricter 0.16 Europe USA 8 rules is hindered by insufﬁcient availability of good fuel 0.12 6 quality and low sulfur content. In many parts of the world, the emissions legislation is based on EU and US legisla0.08 4 tion. In 2010, US 2010 was implemented in North America 0.04 2 and at the end of 2013 Euro 6 was introduced in the EU. With the implementation of US 2010, emissions levels for 0 0 particulates and nitrogen oxides (NOx) have decreased 2002 2006 2009 2014 2002 2007 2010 substantially. Euro 6 entails that emissions of nitrogen Euro 3 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 US US US 2002 2007 2010 oxides and particulate matter are reduced by more than 95% compared to a truck from the early 1990s. Particulates, g/kWh NOx, g/kWh * In addition to Euro 5 and US 2007, there is also NLT in Australia. USA Regarding criteria pollutants, California Air Resources In the US, the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) and Board (CARB) has adopted optional low NOx certiﬁcation NHTSA (National Highway Trafﬁc Safety Administration) standards for on-road heavy-duty engines. The emissions published the US Greenhouse Gas (GHG) regulation levels are reduced by up to 90% compared to the current phase II ﬁnal rule. As before, it includes separate regulafederal NOx levels. tions for engines and vehicles but also a new separate trailer regulation starting in 2018. One main difference Local initiatives from the current regulation is that the vehicle regulation On top of these regulations there are other local initiatives includes the actual engine performance of the vehicle where cities around the world set more stringent regulainstead of a generic engine model. All limit values for tions to improve air quality in cities. One example is the engines and vehicles have been updated with new values. commitment from Paris, Mexico City, Madrid and Athens The level of stringency will according to EPA increase by made at the C40 Mayors Summit* to remove diesel vehicles up to 27% between year 2017 and 2027. from their cities by 2025. * C40 is a network of the world’s megacities committed to addressing climate change. 69 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY H U M A N R I G H T S – PA R T O F B U S I N E S S Our products are built by people, used by people, and serve people Working with human rights due diligence with goods and services. That is why human rights are important to Our human rights due diligence work is primarily based on the the Volvo Group. People are at the core of what we do and managprinciples in the Code of Conduct. It is a continuous journey, similar ing human capital responsibly, including respecting human rights, to our work with other compliance-related areas. is important for long-term business success. During 2016 we developed a due diligence process tailored for Volvo Group operations. The aim is to help us identify, assess, Social sustainability part of prosperity mitigate and remedy potential human rights violations. A pilot was Sustainable transport solutions are a prerequisite for the Volvo initiated in one country and will be ﬁnalized in the ﬁrst quarter of Group’s mission of contributing to prosperity. Sustainable trans2017. A second pilot in another country will start in the ﬁrst half of port solutions advance both social and economic development 2017 to gain additional knowledge. while reducing environmental impacts. On page 48 there is more information on our Responsible As a global company, we have operations, suppliers, customers Purchasing Program, including the pilot of a social audit process and other business partners all over the world, including countries performed in late 2016. with higher risks of human rights violations. All countries have During 2016, two private assembly business partners carried their own laws, cultural norms, social and economic challenges out Code of Conduct self-assessments, which include human and varying degrees of protection and respect for human rights. rights. In 2017, we plan to continue with self-assessments at private assembly partners in countries deﬁned as high risk. Guidance through Code of Conduct The Volvo Group manufactures commercial products used to The human rights management work is integrated into our overall build and maintain communities around the world. We follow all work on responsible and ethical business behavior and is inspired legal and export control regulations, and the products are sold by the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and openly and without restrictions. We have limited possibilities to Human Rights. Speciﬁc steering documents, such as the Code of inﬂuence how the products will be used. Conduct, Health and Safety Policy and Responsible Purchasing The Group’s risk analysis tool considering business ethics, Management Directive, guide the work. social and environmental factors for customer ﬁnancing is one way The Code of Conduct clearly states that the Volvo Group shall of identifying and mitigating such risks, read more on page 54. support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights and For Governmental Sales, we have an additional directive for that we shall make sure that the Group is not complicit in human military sales to certain destinations, including human rights rights abuses. We also encourage all our business partners to considerations. respect human rights. Read more about the Code of Conduct on During the ﬁrst half of 2017, we will publish Modern Slavery page 66. Statements for relevant companies within the Volvo Group. For more information, please see our GRI (G4) Index at volvogroup.com. 70 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY 71 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY S O C I E TA L E N G AG E M E N T Volvo Group’s approach to societal engagement consists of shared CREATING JOBS value activities, disaster relief, donations and community support. It involves driving Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, The track-record of our establishing strategic partnerships and encouraging employee vocational school in Ethiopia participation in volunteering opportunities. In addition to our global is excellent. At year-end efforts, we take a country-based approach to CSR. 2016, 100% of its Moving from sharing created value to creating shared value graduates had a job. Our ‘Creating Shared Value’ principle is described in the diagram below. To maximize the shared value creation, the approach is connected to Volvo Group’s mission, business and expert capabilities. The highest potential for mutual beneﬁt is where our business signiﬁcantly interacts with society. Therefore, our selected focus areas are: speciﬁc training kits. Since the launch in 2015 we have reached out education and skills development, trafﬁc and worksite safety and to more than 60,000 children. environmental sustainability. In 2016 the number of CSR activities linked to the focus areas was 38% compared to 45% 2015. See and Be Seen Similar to Stop Look Wave, the Volvo Truck’s See and Be Seen SHARED VALUE programme aims to improve understanding of how unprotected road users and trucks can interact in trafﬁc. The initiative was For the Volvo Group, launched in 2016 and focuses speciﬁcally on cyclists and schoolcreating shared value involves moving both children from the age of 12 years, but it is also suitable for trafﬁcSocietal Business our business and safety organizations working with adults. With the fast pace of challenges opportunities today’s trafﬁc, it is vital that as many people as possible are aware society forward. We Shared enhance our comof the risks in order to avoid accidents. value petitiveness while simultaneously Educating the public on highway safety advancing the ecoIn 2016, Mack Trucks and Volvo Trucks announced their continVolvo Group’s nomic, environmental and ued support for the American Trucking Associations’ Share the unique assets and social conditions of the socieexpertise Road and America’s Road Team outreach programs. Share the ties in which we operate. Road, sponsored by Mack, is a safety program that sends millionmile accident free professional truck drivers across the US to teach the public how to share the road with large trucks. America’s Excellent track-record on vocational training Road Team, sponsored by Volvo Trucks, represents 3.1 million Our long-term plan to develop vocational training schools for professional truck drivers in the US and promotes the trucking mechanics, drivers and operators of trucks, buses and construcindustry’s message of safety, essentiality and professionalism to tion equipment, mainly in Africa and South East Asia continues. audiences around the country. At year-end 2016, 289 students were participating in vocational training programs in Ethiopia, Zambia and Morocco. In Partnering with the UN World Food Programme Zambia and Morocco, the ﬁrst students will graduate early 2017. As a partner of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), Of the 43 students that have graduated in Ethiopia, all have jobs. Renault Trucks uses a mobile unit to train local WFP teams in Africa Late 2016, a decision was taken by the Volvo Group to also on truck maintenance and ﬂeet and workshop management. After establish a vocational driver school in Ethiopia. the success of the ﬁrst partnership in 2012 and growing demand In total, training will be provided for around 4,500 young people from WFP for additional training, Renault Trucks extended its comenabling them to be employed within the transport industry and mitment to 2017. Over ﬁve years, program volunteers have trained facilitate Volvo Group customers in ﬁnding skilled drivers, opera190 WFP staff in ten countries. tors and aftermarket personnel. Environment prize Industrial production training Since 1990, the Volvo Group Environment Prize has rewarded scienIn Sweden, Volvo Group’s initiative, the Volvo Step, continues as tists for outstanding innovations or scientiﬁc discoveries, within the part of our business operations. It aims to secure long-term access broad environmental ﬁeld. 2016’s laureate was professor Carlos to skilled employees and improve young peoples’ chances in the Nobre, a pioneer in efforts to understand and protect the Amazon, labor market. The one-year program is offered to 100 young peoone of Earth’s most important ecosystems. ple and takes place at 11 Volvo sites in Sweden. A survey from 2016 shows that 80% of participants certiﬁed between 2012 and Disaster relief and donations 2015 have a job and 12% have continued onto further studies. Volvo Group has a disaster relief fund that is approved by AB Volvo Board of Directors. This fund is used to support efforts in Stop, Look, Wave response to global natural disasters or catastrophes by providing Volvo Group runs a variety of trafﬁc safety programs in a majority products or funds to assist the responding relief organizations. of the countries where we operate. Our trafﬁc safety campaign During 2016 for example, Volvo Group made donations to Japan Stop, Look, Wave focuses on professional drivers, school children and Ecuador to support in the immediate aftermath of earthand local communities. The program promotes safety awareness quakes. Volvo Group’s seasonal charitable gift of SEK 10 M was for children in their immediate environment, with the help of distributed on behalf of our employees to 14 local social projects 72 in different countries. A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY Volvo Group delivers recommendations on sustainable transport solutions I n October 2016, Volvo Group CEO Martin Lundstedt, in his role as chair of the High-Level Advisory Group on Technology to drive progress The report concludes that technology will drive progress Sustainable Transport, submitted a report to United and that all types of transport should be made as Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon. The Mobiefﬁcient as possible in the areas where they are most lizing Sustainable Transport for Development effective. The report highlights a number of sustainable report contains ten recommendations on how sustaintransport solutions, including ElectriCity, the Volvo able transport can advance sustainable development. Group’s full-electric bus route in the city of GothenIt calls for increased international development fundburg, Sweden. It is described as an innovative collaboing, supportive legislation and incentives to promote ration in the ﬁeld of new, clean public transport. new transport technologies. The transport sector is large, diverse and complex, and infrastructure decisions and investments have an especially long lifespan. This makes the choices today critically important for tomorrow. Therefore bold choices are needed to seize the moment, engage the public and private sectors and take advantage of new approaches in planning and policy development, new technology, and the drive to fulﬁl the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Climate Agreement. As one of two chairs, the Volvo Group led the work of the advisory group, which included leaders from the public and private sectors representing all modes of transport. 73 CONTRIBUTING TO PROSPERITY IN INDIA Eicher in the lead Eicher branded trucks account for about one third of the lightand medium-duty truck market in India. Its market share in the heavy-duty truck segment has grown in recent years and was 4.8% during 2016. Eicher branded buses make up approximately 15% of the market. The Eicher truck and bus business is part of VE Commercial Vehicles, a joint venture between Volvo Group and Eicher Motors Limited in which Volvo holds 45.6%. 74 With effective transport and new technology to meet future challenges, the Volvo Group wants to help raise prosperity. In Mumbai Volvo buses and equipment are making life easier for city residents. TO ACCOMMODATE an urban population that is expected to reach 600 million by around 2030, billions of dollars will be invested in India in the coming decades. With its broad portfolio that stretches from solutions for infrastructure development to transport, Volvo Group is well placed to participate in this historic shift. There are proﬁts at stake as well as an opportunity to help improve the quality of life in a country of more than 1.2 billion people. “As the pace of urbanization in India increases, ﬁnding sustainable solutions has become a national priority. At Volvo Group we have the potential to create real value on this road to progress,” says Kamal Bali, Managing Director of Volvo Group India. “Whether that is about developing infrastructure or motivating citizens to leave their cars behind and take public transport, our solutions with buses, construction equipment, trucks or engines are there to help create change for the better.” Volvo Group is already making its mark on cities like Mumbai. Volvo Construction Equipment (Volvo CE) loaders were used in building the approach to Mumbai’s Bandra-Worli Sea Link, a suspension bridge that reduces the north-south commute by an hour at peak times. Volvo CE equipment demolished the old airport, clearing the way for a new facility. Volvo buses are becoming the preferred choice for commuters. Anrullah Husaini travels by bus to Navi Mumbai, a newer city of more than 1 million people to the east of Mumbai. There are some other premium bus brands on the route as well, but locals know the service only as the ‘Volvo bus’. “On any other transport, when you reach the destination you are tired. On the Volvo bus, you don’t feel tired,” he says. Neha Dulera and Prajakta Diwan travel regularly on air-conditioned Volvo buses from Mumbai to Belapur, the Central Business District in Navi Mumbai. They prefer travelling by bus. Since it is relatively quiet, they can spend their time relaxing and chatting with each other. 75 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 GLOBAL STRENGTH GLOBAL STRENGTH In a changing world Since the streamlining towards commercial vehicles was initiated more than twenty years ago, the Volvo Group has grown into the world’s second largest manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks and one of the largest manufacturers of buses, coaches and construction equipment and is today also a leading manufacturer of heavy-duty diesel engines and marine and industrial engines. In 2016, market conditions varied around the world. NORTH AMERICA • Net sales: SEK 80,701 M (101,952) THE GROUP’S LARGEST MARKETS 5 • • • • Share of net sales: 27% (33) Number of employees: 14,245 (15,534) Share of Group employees: 17% (18) Largest markets: The US, Canada and Mexico. • UNITED STATES • FRANCE • UNITED KINGDOM • The heavy-duty truck market declined by 19% • JAPAN impacted by reduced replacement demand • GERMANY and large inventories of new and used trucks. • Mack Trucks gained market et share while Volvo Trucks lost some share due e to a weakness in demand in the highway segment. gment. • Continued success for the e Group’s captive engines and gearboxes, with ith record share AFRICA AND OCEANIA of both for Volvo Trucks ass well as Mack. • The construction equipment nt market • Net sales: 19,137 M (19,955) declined somewhat, with growth for com• Share of net sales: 6% (6) pact machines while demand and for larger • Number of employees: 2,373 (2,430) machines declined. • Share of Group employees: 3% (3) • Largest markets: Australia, South Africa, Algeria, Morocco and New Zealand. SOUTH AMERICA • Demand for trucks in Australia increased. • Net sales: SEK 14,863 M (16,725) • Northern Africa saw some stabilization in • Share of net sales: 5% (5) demand, particularly in Algeria and Morocco. • Number of employees: 4,762 (5,380) • Demand in South Africa declined as a conse• Share of Group employees: 6% (6) quence of a weak economic development. • Largest markets: Brazil, Peru, Chile and Argentina. • Demand in the important Brazilian truck market declined, mainly as a consequence of the weak economy. • Demand in other South American markets held up better, with a slight decline in Chile but growth in Peru and AArgentina. • The Brazilian Brazilia construction equipment market continued tto be negatively affected by continued economic e uncertainty and low business cconﬁdence. 76 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 GLOBAL STRENGTH Distribution of net sales by market 2016 Europe, 44% North America, 27% South America, 5% Asia, 18% Africa and Oceania, 6% EUROPE • Net sales: SEK 131,712 M (120,413) Market development, heavy-duty trucks, • Share of net sales: 44% (39) Thousands • Number of employees: 46,190 (48,074) 1,000 • Share of Group employees: 55% (54) • Largest markets: France, the UK, Germany, 800 Sweden and Spain. China 600 400 • Registrations of heavy-duty trucks in Europe Europe 30 28 (EU minus the UK and Bulgaria plus lus N. America 200 India Norway and Switzerland) increased by 14%. Japan ucks • Market share slightly up for Volvo Trucks Brazil and down for Renault Trucks. 12 13 14 15 16 • The construction equipment market 222 240 228 270 300 Europe 30 grew, mainly driven by a strong recovery very 250 236 270 302 243 N. America in the French market and considerable ble 87 104 93 42 30 Brazil 32 34 42 44 47 Japan growth in Germany and Italy. 195 132 155 210 220 India 636 774 744 551 733 China Market development, construction equipment, Thousands 400 ASIA • Net sales: SEK 55,501 M (53,470) 300 • Share of net sales: 18% (17) • Number of employees: 16,469 (17,046) 200 • Share of Group employees: 19% (19) • Largest markets: Japan, China, South Korea, 100 India and Turkey. 12 13 14 15 16 123 118 127 120 131 Europe • The Chinese market for construction equip164 167 186 188 185 N. America ment grew by 6% after a weak start rt to the year 45 47 39 25 17 S. America and recovery in demand in the second cond half. 201 202 198 194 184 Asia (excl. China) 253 261 215 112 119 China • The Group’s main truck markets in n Japan, 37 38 38 33 32 Africa & Oceania China and India all grew. • Good development in VECV in India dia and turnaround in proﬁtability for DFCV in China. 77 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS SIGNIFICANT EVENTS PUBLISHED I N Q U A R T E R LY R E P O R T S During 2016 2016 was characterized by mixed market conditions, a further streamlining of the Group with a focus on the core business and improved proﬁtability as an effect of lower costs and improved efﬁciency. New truck organization On January 27, it was announced that the Volvo Group had decided to introduce a brand-based organization with clearer VOLVO GROUP INTRODUCED commercial accountability for the Group’s various truck brands. A BRAND-BASED TRUCK Five separate units were to be created: Volvo Trucks, UD Trucks, Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks, and Group Trucks Asia & JVs, each ORGANIZATION WITH with proﬁt and loss responsibility for their respective business. CLEARER COMMERCIAL The new organization came into effect on March 1, 2016. ThereACCOUNTABILITY. after, the Volvo Group comprises ten business areas: Volvo Trucks, UD Trucks, Mack Trucks, Renault Trucks, Group Trucks Asia & JVs, Volvo Construction Equipment, Volvo Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and Volvo Financial Services. Volvo completed sale of IT operation On March 31, the Volvo Group completed the sale of its external and Lars Westerberg were reelected as members of the Board. IT operation and related assets and the outsourcing of its IT infraMartin Lundstedt, Håkan Samuelsson and Helena Stjernholm structure to HCL Technologies. The transaction gave a capital were elected as new members of the Board. Carl-Henric Svanberg gain of SEK 885 M, which had a positive impact on the operating was reelected as Chairman of the Board. income in the ﬁrst quarter of 2016. Bengt Kjell, representing AB Industrivärden, Lars Förberg, representing Cevian Capital, Yngve Slyngstad, representing Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo Norges Bank Investment Management, Pär Boman, representing The Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo held on April 6, 2016, Handelsbanken, SHB Pension Fund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB approved the Board of Directors’ motions that a dividend of SEK Pensionskassa and Oktogonen, and the Chairman of the Board 3.00 per share be paid to the company’s shareholders. were elected members of the Election Committee. Matti Alahuhta, Eckhard Cordes, James W. Grifﬁth, Kathryn V. A remuneration policy for senior executives was adopted in Marinello, Martina Merz, Hanne de Mora, Carl-Henric Svanberg accordance with the Board of Directors’ motion. VOLVO GROUP PRESS RELEASES 2016 THE FIRST QUARTER THE SECOND QUARTER 1/22/2016 Invitation to press and analyst conference in Stockholm 1/27/2016 4/1/2016 Volvo has completed sale of IT operation 4/6/2016 Lars Stenqvist Changes to Volvo’s Group Executive Board and truck organization with clearer joins Volvo Group management 4/6/2016 Electric bus wins Volvo Technology commercial accountability 2/1/2016 Volvo Penta Action Service goes global Award 4/6/2016 Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo 4/8/2016 Invitation to 2/5/2016 Volvo Group – the fourth quarter and full year 2015 2/16/2016 press and analyst conference in Stockholm 4/8/2016 Successful journey for Volvo has signed ﬁnal agreement for sale of IT operation 2/26/2016 Volvo Volvo’s truck convoy through Europe 4/20/2016 Two young researchers will scholarship for the people behind the crash test dummy 2/29/2016 AB Volvo share the Assar Gabrielsson Award for their research into leukaemia and screenpublishes 2015 Annual and Sustainability Report 3/2/2016 Annual General ing for prostate cancer 4/22/2016 Volvo Group – the ﬁrst quarter 2016 Meeting of AB Volvo 3/17/2016 Johanna Flanke awarded with a Special 4/26/2016 Small worlds demonstrate the greatness of Volvo in a new ﬁlm Employer Branding prize 3/18/2016 Trucks on a European tour for platooning 4/28/2016 Annual Report of Volvo Treasury AB (publ) 5/4/2016 The future of 3/30/2016 Save the date for Volvo Group management update automation is happening now at Volvo 5/16/2016 Invitation to Volvo Group Investor Update 5/20/2016 Jan Ohlsson appointed member of Volvo’s Group Executive Board 5/27/2016 100,000 children all over the world have done the Volvo Trucks trafﬁc safety course 5/31/2016 Volvo Trucks’ new concept truck cuts fuel consumption by more than 30% 6/1/2016 Andrea Fuder appointed new member of Volvo’s Group Executive Board 6/25/2016 Volvo makes additional provision in connection with EU competition investigation 78 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS See and Be Seen V olvo Trucks’ “See and be seen” initiative focuses on awareness in trafﬁc. Most accidents are due to human factors such as lack of attention, poor understanding and misjudgement. “See and be seen” features activities that demonstrate how to improve safety in the interaction between cyclists and truck drivers. Additional provision for EU competition investigation debt was positively impacted in the amounts of SEK 2.6 billion On June 25, 2016 the Volvo Group announced an additional and SEK 2.3 billion, respectively. provision of EUR 250 M (SEK 2.3 billion) in connection with the investigation in which the EU Commission’s preliminary standInitiation of process to divest Governmental Sales point was that Volvo and other companies in the truck industry On November 4, 2016 the Volvo Group announced its intent to may have violated EU antitrust laws prior to January 18, 2011. The initiate a process in order to divest its Governmental Sales busiprovision impacted operating income in the second quarter 2016. ness area, which sales correspond to approximately 1.5% of the Group’s total sales. The business, which has about 1,300 employVolvo reached settlement with the European Commission ees, most of whom are in France, manufactures and sells speOn July 19, 2016 the Volvo Group announced that it had reached cially designed vehicles to governments, the defense industry, a settlement with the European Commission putting an end to a peacekeeping forces and aid organizations. long-running EU antitrust investigation. As part of the settlement Volvo in October paid a ﬁne of EUR 670 M corresponding to SEK EVENTS AFTER BALANCE SHEET DATE 6.5 billion. The amount was mainly covered by provisions made in 2014 and 2016, in total EUR 650 M (SEK 6.1 billion). An addVolvo CE to move headquarters to Gothenburg, Sweden itional provision had a negative impact of EUR 20 M (SEK 190 M) On January 12, 2017 Volvo Construction Equipment announced on the operating income in the third quarter of 2016. that its global headquarters will move from Brussels, Belgium to Gothenburg, Sweden. The relocation will facilitate closer cooperVolvo divested properties in Gothenburg ation with the Group’s other business areas and allow for better On October 21, 2016 the Volvo Group signed an agreement with usage of competence and resources of the whole Group. Platzer Fastigheter regarding the sale of properties in Arendal, Torslanda and Säve in Gothenburg, Sweden. The transaction was completed on December 15. The sales price amounted to SEK 2.7 billion on a debt free basis and the divestment resulted in a capital gain of SEK 1,371 M, which impacted operating income in the fourth quarter 2016. Operating cash ﬂow and ﬁnancial net THE THIRD QUARTER THE FOURTH QUARTER 7/5/2016 Invitation to press and analyst conference in Stockholm 7/19/2016 10/7/2016 Invitation to press and analyst conference in Stockholm Volvo Group – the second quarter 2016 7/19/2016 Volvo reaches settlement 10/14/2016 Volvo Group wins the Gold Dolphin at Cannes 10/21/2016 Volvo with the European Commission 7/29/2016 New number of votes in AB Volvo Group – the third quarter 2016 10/21/2016 Volvo divests properties in Gothen8/31/2016 New number of votes in AB Volvo 8/31/2016 Volvo Group burg 10/24/2016 Guardian of the Amazon receives the Volvo Environment Selected to Participate in DOE’s SuperTruck II Program 9/5/2016 Volvo Prize 10/31/2016 New number of votes in AB Volvo 10/31/2016 Volvo Group Dynamic Steering reduces the risk of work-related injuries for bus drivers delivers recommendations on sustainable transport to UN Secretary-General 9/7/2016 Volvo ﬁrst in the world with self-driving truck in underground mine 11/4/2016 Volvo Group intends to initiate a process to divest Governmental 9/30/2016 New number of votes in AB Volvo Sales 11/11/2016 Save the date for Volvo Group Capital Market Day 2017 11/30/2016 New number of votes in AB Volvo 12/15/2016 Volvo’s divestment of properties in Gothenburg completed 12/30/2015 New number of votes in AB Volvo 79 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Improved underlying proﬁtability For the Volvo Group 2016 was a year with improved underlying proﬁtability despite lower volumes. I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T S V O LV O G R O U P Industrial Operations Financial Services Eliminations Volvo Group SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note Net sales 6, 7 291,459 303,582 11,242 11,199 –787 –2,265 301,914 312,515 Cost of sales –225,797 –236,311 –6,591 –6,607 787 2,265 –231,602 –240,653 Gross income 65,662 67,271 4,651 4,591 – – 70,312 71,862 Research and development expenses –14,631 –15,368 – – – – –14,631 –15,368 Selling expenses –24,946 –25,857 –1,920 –1,837 – – –26,867 –27,694 Administrative expenses –5,081 –5,728 –40 –41 – – –5,121 –5,769 Other operating income and expenses Note 8 –2,531 –3,473 –605 –706 – – –3,135 –4,179 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies Note 5, 6 156 –143 – – – – 156 –143 Income/loss from other investments Note 5 112 4,610 – –2 – – 112 4,609 Operating income 18,740 21,312 2,086 2,006 – – 20,826 23,318 Interest income and similar credits 240 257 – – – – 240 257 Interest expenses and similar charges –1,847 –2,366 – – – – –1,847 –2,366 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses Note 9 11 –792 – – – – 11 –792 Income after ﬁnancial items 17,144 18,411 2,086 2,006 – – 19,230 20,418 Income taxes Note 10 –5,377 –4,687 –631 –633 – – –6,008 –5,320 Income for the period 11,767 13,725 1,455 1,373 – – 13,223 15,099 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 13,147 15,058 Minority interests Note 11 75 41 13,223 15,099 Basic earnings per share, SEK Note 19 6.47 7.42 Diluted earnings per share, SEK Note 19 6.47 7.41 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK M 2016 2015 Income for the period 13,223 15,099 Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to income statement: Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans –304 2,783 Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to income statement: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 5,585 –2,481 Share of OCI related to joint ventures and associated companies –97 24 Accumulated translation difference reversed to income –48 45 Available-for-sale investments –57 –3,837 Change in cash ﬂow hedge reserve Note 19 68 –32 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes 5,147 –3,498 Total comprehensive income for the period 18,370 11,601 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 18,249 11,527 Minority interests 121 74 18,370 11,601 80 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE V O LV O G R O U P Net sales offset by increased sales in Europe. Both Buses and Volvo Penta Net sales decreased by 3% to SEK 302 billion. Adjusted for curincreased their sales due to increased volumes for Buses and rency movements and acquired and divested operations, the improved volumes and product mix for Volvo Penta. decrease was still 3%. The decrease is primarily an effect of lower Total service sales were slightly positive, of 2%, with increases demand for vehicles in North America partly offset by increased in all regions except for Africa and Oceania. service sales. Sales of heavy-duty trucks were affected by lower demand and Operating income dealers focusing on reducing their inventory of new trucks in Despite lower volumes and a negative currency effect of SEK 0.4 North America and for South America market reﬂected the ecobillion, the adjusted operating income increased by SEK 0.9 billion nomic recession in Brazil with reduced volumes. This was partly to SEK 21 billion (20). The proﬁtability improved with an adjusted offset by increased sales in Europe where high capacity utilization operating margin of 7.0% (6.5) for the full year 2016, which for truck ﬂeets and good customer proﬁtability due to good reﬂects the Group’s ability to manage volume changes in different demand for transportation, gave increasing volumes. Sales in regions as well as continued cost reductions and productivity Construction Equipment were almost ﬂat due to a decrease in the improvements. Middle East as well as North and South America being partly The Volvo Group gross income was negatively impacted by the overall volume drop, which had a negative impact on the industrial system whereas decreased material and lower logistic cost had a Net sales by operating segment, positive impact. The positive geographical mix within Trucks, SEK M 2016 2015 % better volumes in Buses and a positive product mix in Volvo Penta Trucks 200,650 213,978 –6 were partly offset by the lower volumes in Trucks and ConstrucConstruction Equipment 50,731 51,008 –1 tion Equipment. The lower research and development expenses, Buses 25,386 23,580 8 as a result of higher capitalization on truck projects as well as Volvo Penta 9,893 9,406 5 lower expense levels, had a positive impact on the operating Group Functions & Other 7,754 8,346 –7 income of SEK 0.7 billion. The underlying reduction in selling Eliminations –2,955 –2,736 – and administrative expenses managed to offset the negative Industrial Operations1 291,459 303,582 –4 currency impact leading to a net cost reduction of SEK 1.4 billion. Financial Services 11,242 11,199 0 Reclassiﬁcations and eliminations –787 –2,265 – Operating margin, % 2016 2015 Volvo Group 301,914 312,515 –3 Trucks 7.5 9.1 Construction Equipment 4.4 4.0 1 Adjusted for changes in currency rates and acquired and divested units, net sales decreased by 3%. Buses 3.6 3.6 Volvo Penta 12.8 11.5 Operating income/loss by operating Industrial Operations 6.4 7.0 segment, SEK M 2016 2015 Volvo Group 6.9 7.5 Trucks 15,020 19,517 Construction Equipment 2,246 2,044 Buses 911 860 Change in operating income, SEK bn Change Volvo Penta 1,269 1,086 (excluding curCurrency Group Functions & Other –679 –2,189 rency) impact Total Eliminations –28 –6 Operating income 2015 23.3 Industrial Operations 18,740 21,312 Change in gross income Industrial Operations –1.3 –0.3 –1.6 Financial Services 2,086 2,006 Change in gross income Financial Services 0.1 0.1 Volvo Group 20,826 23,318 Lower credit losses 0.3 0.3 Change in Group structure 0.1 0.1 Higher capitalization of development cost 0.5 0.1 0.6 NET SALES, SEK BN OPERATING INCOME, SEK M Lower research and development expenditures 0.2 –0.1 0.1 Lower selling and administrative expenses 1.5 –0.1 1.4 Sale of shares in Eicher Motors Limited 2015 –4.6 –4.6 2015 2016 Favorable outcome in arbitration case 2015 –0.8 –0.8 Provision related to EU antitrust investigation –2.5 –2.5 Divestment of external IT operations 0.9 0.9 Sale of properties in Gothenburg, Sweden 1.4 1.4 Restructuring and efﬁciency program 1.9 1.9 Other 0.2 0.2 12 13 14 15 16 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Operating income 2016 –2.1 –0.4 20.8 300 273 283 313 302 6,837 7,317 4,653 4,511 5,344 3,796 4,656 7,031 81 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Reported operating income amounted to SEK 20.8 billion. The Income for the period and earnings per share difference compared to the adjusted operating income is a net of: In 2016 the income for the period amounted to SEK 13,223 M divestment of external IT operation, SEK +0.9 billion, provision (15,099), corresponding to diluted earnings per share of SEK related to EU antitrust investigation, SEK –2.5 billion and sales of 6.47 (7.41). The return on shareholders’ equity was 14.9% properties in Gothenburg, SEK +1.4 billion. Signiﬁcant amounts (18.4%). effecting 2015 were sales of shares in Eicher Motors Ltd. SEK +4.6 billion, favorable outcome in arbitration case SEK +0.8 bilImpact of exchange rates on operating income lion and restructuring cost SEK –1,9 billion. Operating income for 2016 in the Industrial Operations was negatively impacted by approximately SEK 0.4 billion from changes in Net ﬁnancial items exchange rates in foreign currency. The negative impact was Compared to previous year, net interest expense decreased due mainly related to net ﬂows in foreign currency by SEK 1.2 billion, to lower outstanding debt. Net interest expense for the Volvo offset by a positive impact from revaluation of receivables and Group amounted to SEK 1.6 billion (2.1). liabilities in foreign currency of SEK 0.5 billion. Other ﬁnancial income and expense were positively impacted The net ﬂows in foreign currency were negatively impacted by by an amount of SEK 0.4 billion from realized result and unrealized the depreciation of GBP and ZAR offset by positive impact from revaluation of derivatives related to hedging compared to a negathe appreciation of EUR and USD. tive impact of SEK 0.5 billion in the previous year. Read more in Note 9 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses. TRANSACTION EXPOSURE FROM OPERATING NET FLOWS1 Income taxes SEK bn The tax expense for the year amounted to SEK 6.0 billion (5.3) 20 corresponding to an effective tax rate of 31% (26). The tax rate 10 was mainly impacted by an additional non-deductible cost of SEK 2.5 billion related to the EU antitrust investigation. 0 –10 –20 Key operating ratios, % –30 Industrial Operations 2016 2015 –40 Gross margin 22.5 22.2 USD GBP EUR NOK ZAR CAD AUD KRW SEK Other Research and development expenses 11 8 5 4 3 3 3 –6 –35 4 as percentage of net sales 5.0 5.1 19 9 –2 4 4 5 5 –8 –39 6 Selling expenses as percentage of net sales 8.6 8.5 Currency ﬂow 2016 Currency ﬂow 2015 Administrative expenses as percentage of net sales 1.7 1.9 1 The graph above represents the transaction exposure from commercial operOperating margin 6.4 7.0 ating net cash ﬂows in foreign currency in Industrial Operations, expressed as net surpluses or deﬁcits in key currencies. The deﬁcit in SEK and KRW is mainly an effect of expenses for manufacturing plants in Sweden and Korea, Net sales by market area, SEK M 2016 2015 % but limited external revenues in those currencies. The surplus in USD is Europe 127,352 117,346 9 mainly generated from external sales to the US and emerging markets. North America 76,500 97,971 –22 Read more in Note 4 Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management South America 13,628 15,611 –13 regarding Industrial Operations transaction exposure from operating Asia 55,056 52,923 4 net ﬂows as well as currency effects on sales and operating income. Africa and Oceania 18,924 19,731 –4 Total Industrial Operations 291,459 303,582 –4 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES Of which: Vehicles 223,996 237,430 –6 Services 67,463 66,152 2 Research and development expenses, SEK bn Impact of exchange rates on operating income Compared with preceding year, SEK M Research and Industrial Operations development expenses, Net sales1 –91 % of Industrial Cost of sales –169 Operations’ net sales Research and development expenses –30 12 13 14 15 16 Selling and administrative expenses –107 14.6 15.1 16.7 15.4 14.6 Other –45 5.0 5.7 6.0 5.1 5.0 Total effect of changes in exchange rates on operating income –443 1 The Volvo Group sales are reported at monthly average rates. 82 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL POSITION FINANCIAL POSITION Maintained ﬁnancial position Net ﬁnancial debt in the Volvo Group’s Industrial Operations increased by SEK 2.4 billion during 2016 and equals to 18.1% of shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2016. At the end of 2016 net ﬁnancial debt, excluding provisions for The Volvo Group’s Tangible assets increased by SEK 4.4 billion post-employment beneﬁts in the Industrial Operations amounted during 2016. This was to a large extent due to currency translato SEK 1.2 billion, an increase of SEK 1.5 billion and equal to tion effects from revaluation of assets. The increase was partly 1.3% of shareholders’ equity. Including provisions for postoffset by divestment of properties in Gothenburg, Sweden. The employment beneﬁts, the Industrial Operations net ﬁnancial debt value of inventories increased by SEK 3.9 billion mainly related to amounted to SEK 15.7 billion which was equal to 18.1% of shareﬁnished products in Trucks and Construction Equipment. During holders’ equity. The change during the year was mainly driven by the year the Volvo Group completed the sale of the external IT a positive operating cash ﬂow of SEK 3.5 billion, disposal of exteroperations and outsourced the IT infrastructure. The discontinued nal IT operations by SEK 1.1 billion, reduced by dividend paid to sales process of Arrow Trucks Sales, together with sale of IT the AB Volvo shareholders by SEK 6.1 billion and remeasureoperations, reduced the assets and liabilities held for sale. ments of deﬁned beneﬁt pensions obligations by SEK 0.4 billion. During 2016 currency ﬂuctuations increased net ﬁnancial debt by Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in SEK 2.7 billion. subsidiaries. Read more in Note 3 regarding Volvo Group’s acquisitions and The net value of assets and liabilities related to pensions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries. similar obligations amounted to SEK 14.6 billion as of December 31, 2016, an increase of SEK 1.0 billion compared to year-end Read more in Note 20 Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts. 2015. In 2016 the Volvo Group recognized a negative remeasurement effect impacting the pension obligation amounting to The Volvo Group’s Marketable securities and Liquid funds SEK 2.4 billion, mainly driven by lower discount rates in Sweden amounted to SEK 25.2 billion at December 31, 2016. In addition, and in Great Britain. On the asset side a positive remeasurement granted but unutilized credit facilities amounted to SEK 42.5 effect amounting to SEK 2.0 billion was recognized. In total the billion. Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2016 remeasurement amounted to SEK 0.4 billion mainly recognized include SEK 0.8 (0.8) billion that is not available to use by the through other comprehensive income. Volvo Group and SEK 6.0 (5.4) billion where other limitations exist. Read more in Note 20 Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts. Read more in Note 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds. As of December 31, 2016 the shareholders’ equity for the Volvo Read more in Note 22 Liabilities regarding the maturity structure on Group amounted to SEK 97.8 billion compared to SEK 85.6 billion Volvo Group’s credit facilities. at year-end 2015. The equity ratio was 24.5% compared to 22.9% on December 31, 2015. At the same date the equity ratio in the Total assets in the Volvo Group amounted to SEK 398.9 billion Industrial operations amounted to 30.9% (28.6). as of December 31, 2016, an increase of SEK 24.8 billion since December 31, 2015, whereof SEK 23.9 billion was related to currency effects from revaluation of assets in foreign subsidiaries. The Volvo Group’s Intangible assets amounted to SEK 37.9 billion as of December 31, 2016. Investments in research and development amounted to SEK 2.9 billion (2.3), resulting in a net value of capitalized development cost of SEK 12.2 billion at the end of the year. Compared to prior year capitalization increased, while the amortization corresponded to 2015 years’ level. The Volvo Group’s total goodwill amounted to SEK 23.4 billion as of December 31, 2016. This was an increase of SEK 1.3 billion compared to the previous year, mainly related to currency effects from revaluation of assets. The goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis. Read more in Note 12 Intangible assets, regarding the impairment test on goodwill. 83 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL POSITION B A L A N C E S H E E T V O LV O G R O U P – A S S E T S Industrial Operations Financial Services Eliminations Volvo Group Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets Note 12 37,768 36,314 149 102 – – 37,916 36,416 Tangible assets Note 13 Property, plant and equipment 55,778 53,271 64 64 – – 55,841 53,335 Investment property 34 283 – – – – 34 283 Assets under operating leases 22,752 20,616 19,556 18,253 –7,615 –6,338 34,693 32,531 Financial assets Investments in joint ventures and associated companies Note 5 11,643 11,148 – – – – 11,643 11,148 Other shares and participations Note 5 766 893 11 8 – – 776 902 Non-current customerﬁnancing receivables Note 15 965 3 57,830 52,163 –968 –1,204 57,827 50,962 Prepaid pensions Note 20 79 34 – – – – 79 34 Non-current interest-bearing receivables Note 16 2,481 1,138 – 500 –1,222 –487 1,258 1,150 Other non-current receivables Note 16 4,083 3,271 211 140 –147 –143 4,148 3,268 Deferred tax assets Note 10 13,332 12,582 1,068 868 – – 14,399 13,450 Total non-current assets 149,679 139,552 78,888 72,098 –9,953 –8,172 218,615 203,478 Current assets Inventories Note 17 48,080 44,194 206 196 – – 48,287 44,390 Current receivables Customer-ﬁnancing receivables Note 15 733 9 53,082 52,404 –821 –792 52,994 51,621 Tax assets 1,166 1,537 193 624 – – 1,359 2,161 Interest-bearing receivables Note 16 1,935 2,600 191 14 –991 –827 1,135 1,788 Internal funding1 7,503 7,963 – – –7,503 –7,963 – – Accounts receivable Note 16 33,593 28,577 826 525 – – 34,419 29,101 Other receivables Note 16 16,003 14,259 1,348 1,327 –940 –1,667 16,410 13,920 Non interest-bearing assets held for sale Note 3 525 3,314 – – – – 525 3,314 Marketable securities Note 18 1,223 3,344 – – – – 1,223 3,344 Cash and cash equivalents Note 18 19,653 17,866 5,175 3,651 –879 –469 23,949 21,048 Total current assets 130,414 123,664 61,021 58,741 –11,134 –11,717 180,301 170,687 Total assets 280,093 263,216 139,910 130,839 –21,087 –19,890 398,916 374,165 1 Internal funding is internal lending from Industrial Operations to Financial Services NET FINANCIAL POSITION, INDUSTRIAL Change in net ﬁnancial position, OPERATIONS, SEK BN Industrial Operations, SEK bn 2016 2015 Net ﬁnancial position at beginning of period –13,2 –26.4 2015 2016 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 9,9 26.7 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Investments in ﬁxed assets –9,6 –9.1 –37.4 –26.1 –29.8 –13.2 –24.2 –26.6 –26.4 –15.7 Disposals 3,2 0.7 Operating cash ﬂow 3,5 18.3 Investments and divestments of shares, net 0,2 –2.0 Acquired and divested operations, net 1,4 0.4 Capital injections to/from Financial Services 2,1 0.1 Currency effect –2,7 0.4 Dividend paid to AB Volvo shareholders –6,1 –6.1 Dividend paid to minority shareholders –0,2 0,0 Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans –0,4 3.5 Pension payments and costs, net 0,3 –0.6 Other changes –0,6 –0.9 Total change –2,4 13.1 Net ﬁnancial position at end of period –15,7 –13.2 84 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL POSITION B A L A N C E S H E E T V O LV O G R O U P – S H A R E H O L D E R S ’ E Q U I T Y A N D L I A B I L I T I E S Industrial Operations Financial Services Eliminations Volvo Group Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to the equity holder of the Parent Company Note 19 84,876 73,350 11,185 10,460 – – 96,061 83,810 Minority interests Note 11 1,703 1,801 – – – – 1,703 1,801 Total equity 86,579 75,151 11,185 10,460 – – 97,764 85,610 Non-current provisions Provisions for postemployment beneﬁts Note 20 14,608 13,621 61 53 – – 14,669 13,673 Provisions for deferred taxes Note 10 1,842 546 3,429 2,949 – – 5,270 3,495 Other provisions Note 21 9,540 9,286 252 214 13 35 9,804 9,536 Total non-current provisions 25,989 23,453 3,742 3,216 13 35 29,744 26,704 Non-current liabilities Note 22 Bond loans 60,653 47,776 – – – – 60,653 47,776 Other loans 13,578 17,123 11,287 11,581 –968 –1,204 23,898 27,500 Internal funding1 –52,487 –42,442 48,071 42,712 4,415 –270 – – Other liabilities 24,631 20,359 934 733 –5,243 –4,554 20,322 16,538 Total non-current liabilities 46,376 42,816 60,293 55,026 –1,795 –6,028 104,873 91,814 Current provisions Note 21 11,164 14,104 82 67 87 6 11,333 14,176 Current liabilities Note 22 Loans 47,976 50,339 10,165 8,480 –1,644 –1,488 56,497 57,331 Internal funding1 –35,777 –40,234 49,964 49,013 –14,187 –8,780 – – Non interest-bearing liabilities held for sale Note 3 148 573 – – – – 148 573 Trade payables 54,790 55,250 474 398 – – 55,264 55,648 Tax liabilities 544 1,113 141 209 – – 685 1,322 Other liabilities Note 22 42,305 40,652 3,864 3,970 –3,560 –3,635 42,608 40,986 Total current liabilities 109,985 107,693 64,609 62,071 –19,391 –13,902 155,202 155,860 Total equity and liabilities 280,093 263,216 139,910 130,839 –21,087 –19,890 398,916 374,165 1 Internal funding is internal lending from Industrial Operations to Financial Services. Net ﬁnancial position, SEK M Industrial Operations Volvo Group Dec 31 2016 Dec 31 2015 Dec 31 2016 Dec 31 2015 Non-current interest-bearing assets Non-current customer-ﬁnancing receivables – – 57,827 50,962 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 2,481 1,138 1,258 1,150 Current interest-bearing assets Customer-ﬁnancing receivables – – 52,994 51,621 Interest-bearing receivables 1,935 2,600 1,135 1,788 Internal funding 7,503 7,963 – – Marketable securities 1,223 3,344 1,223 3,344 Cash and cash equivalents 19,653 17,866 23,949 21,048 Total interest-bearing ﬁnancial assets 32,793 32,911 138,386 129,913 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Bond loans –60,653 –47,776 –60,653 –47,776 Other loans –13,578 –17,123 –23,898 –27,500 Internal funding 52,487 42,442 – – Current interest-bearing liabilities Loans –47,976 –50,339 –56,497 –57,331 Internal funding 35,777 40,234 – – Total interest-bearing ﬁnancial liabilities –33,944 –32,562 –141,048 –132,607 Net ﬁnancial position excl. postemployment beneﬁts –1,151 349 –2,662 –2,693 Provision for post-employment beneﬁts, net –14,529 –13,586 –14,590 –13,639 Net ﬁnancial position incl. postemployment beneﬁts –15,679 –13,237 –17,252 –16,332 85 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 CASH FLOW STATEMENT C A S H F L O W S TAT E M E N T The operating cash ﬂow affected by an increase in working capital During 2016 operating cash ﬂow in the Industrial Operations amounted to a positive SEK 3.5 billion (18.3). The cash ﬂow was negatively impacted by the payment of SEK 6.5 Investments and divestments of shares billion related to the EU antitrust investigation. This was partly offDuring the year the Volvo Group reduced its ownership in the joint set by the sale of real estate impacting cash ﬂow positively by SEK venture Shanghai Sunwin Bus Corp., China from 50% to 19.5%, 2.6 billion. Adjusted for these items, operating cash ﬂow amounted and discontinued the equity method accounting, after a unilateral to SEK 7.4 billion. The lower cash ﬂow is primarily an effect of an capital increase by the Joint venture partner. The remaining holdincrease in working capital, mainly related to an increase in ing of shares in Shanghai Sunwin Bus Corp., China are recogaccounts receivables and other working capital. The increase in nized as Other shares and participations. The share of ownership accounts receivables is due to changed geographical mix with in the joint venture DONGVO Truck Co., Ltd. (DVT) China was higher sales in Europe, where payment terms are longer, and lower divested during 2016. sales in North America, where payment terms are shorter. In total, investments and divestments of shares, net in 2016 Financial items and paid income taxes had a SEK 5.7 billion had a positive effect on cash ﬂow of SEK 0.2 billion (neg 2.0). negative effect on the operating cash ﬂow in Industrial Operations, mainly through payments of interests and income tax. The Read more in Note 5 Investments in joint venture, associated comhigher payment of income taxes is mainly related to Sweden. panies and other shares and participations. Operating cash ﬂow within Financial Services was positive in an amount of SEK 2.8 billion (neg 5.9), mainly due to that cusAcquired and divested operations tomer ﬁnance receivables were on a stable level this year, whereas The Volvo Group completed the sale of its external IT operation last year the customer ﬁnance receivables increased. and related assets and the outsourcing of its IT infrastructure during 2016. The divestment resulted in a positive effect on Read more in Note 10 regarding Income taxes. operating income and net ﬁnancial debt of SEK 885 M. The Volvo Group has not made any other acquisitions or divestments during Investments and disposals 2016, which solely or jointly have had a signiﬁcant impact on the The disposal of properties in Gothenburg, Sweden was completed Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial statements. during 2016 and impacted the Industrial Operations operating In total acquired and divested operations in 2016 had a positive cash ﬂow positively by SEK 2.6 billion. impact on cash ﬂow of SEK 1.4 billion (0.4). The Industrial Operations’ investments in ﬁxed assets and capitalized research and development during 2016 amounted to SEK Read more in Note 3 regarding Acquisitions and divestments of shares 9.5 billion (8.8). in subsidiaries. Group Trucks investments in ﬁxed assets and capitalized research and development amounted to SEK 7.0 billion (6.3). The major Financing and dividend investments related to industrial efﬁciency measures in our plants Net borrowings decreased cash and cash equivalents by SEK 2.2 continued, with rationalizations and upgrades in our US plants as billion during 2016. In 2015 the corresponding item decreased well as replacement of the E-coat process in Umeå, Sweden. cash and cash equivalents by SEK 13.2 billion. Investments in Köping, Sweden have continued in order to increase Read more in Note 29 Cash ﬂow regarding movements during the capacity for the Volvo Group’s automated transmission. Capital year on the net borrowings. expenditures were also related to investments to comply with new emission regulations in US and Japan, with both product developDuring the year dividend of SEK 6.1 billion, corresponding to SEK ment activities and required adaptations in the plants. 3.00 per share, was paid to the shareholders of AB Volvo. The investments in dealer networks and workshops were mainly done in Europe and Japan but also US, primarily for Change in cash and cash equivalents upgrade and replacements. The Volvo Group’s cash and cash equivalents increased by SEK Investments in Construction Equipment amounted to SEK 0.9 2.9 billion during the year and amounted to SEK 23.9 billion at billion (1.1). The major investments in the plants were related to December 31, 2016. product renewals and required adaptation mainly in Europe and Asia. The product related investments during the year were mainly Read more in Note 29 Cash ﬂow regarding principles for preparing related to tooling and required adaptations in the plants for the the cash ﬂow statement. new articulated hauler and excavator. The investments in Buses were SEK 0.3 billion (0.3), and in Read more in Note 18 regarding the accounting policy for Marketable Volvo Penta SEK 0.2 billion (0.3). securities and liquid funds. The investment level for property, plant and equipment during 2016 was in line with previous years. During 2017, investments in property, plant and equipment are expected to be on the same level as in 2016. The optimization of the industrial and logistic footprint, dealer investments and product related tooling will continue to be the main areas as well as the development of Campus Lundby, 86 Gothenburg, Sweden. GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 CASH FLOW STATEMENT C O N S O L I DAT E D C A S H F LO W S TAT E M E N T S Industrial Operations Financial Services Eliminations Volvo Group Total SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Operating activities Operating income 1 18,740 21,313 2,086 2,006 – 2 20,826 23,321 Depreciation tangible assets Note 13 6,327 6,431 13 13 – – 6,339 6,443 Amortization intangible assets Note 12 3,398 3,314 33 31 – – 3,431 3,344 Depreciation leasing vehicles Note 13 2,907 2,830 4,087 4,190 0 0 6,994 7,020 Other non-cash items 2 3 Note 29 –1,116 –1,083 733 796 –47 –165 –431 –452 Total change in working capital whereof –14,688 –1,979 892 –7,485 –97 315 –13,893 –9,149 Change in accounts receivable –3,747 642 –296 –126 0 –2 –4,043 514 Change in customer-ﬁnancing receivables 266 140 1,003 –8,346 –207 –108 1,062 –8,313 Change in inventories –1,601 –2,234 33 –90 0 0 –1,568 –2,324 Change in trade payables –2,973 –1,210 50 114 0 –2 –2,923 –1,098 Other changes in working capital 1 –6,633 683 102 963 111 427 –6,420 2,073 Interest and similar items received 300 374 – – 46 1 346 375 Interest and similar items paid –1,586 –1,665 – – 2 –18 –1,584 –1,683 Other ﬁnancial items –253 –252 – – – – –253 –252 Income taxes paid –4,095 –2,573 –124 –531 0 –5 –4,219 –3,110 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 9,934 26,709 7,720 –981 –97 129 17,559 25,858 Investing activities Investments in tangible assets –6,619 –6,539 –24 –22 – – –6,643 –6,561 Investments in intangible assets –2,829 –2,241 –53 –16 – – –2,882 –2,257 Investment in leasing vehicles –125 –328 –10,692 –10,201 0 – –10,817 –10,529 Disposals of ﬁxed assets and leasing vehicles 2 3,170 668 5,865 5,356 – –4 9,035 6,020 Operating cash ﬂow 3,531 18,270 2,816 –5,865 –97 126 6,251 12,531 Investments and divestments of shares, net Note 5, 29 224 –1,984 Acquired and divested operations, net 3 Note 29 1,425 408 Interest-bearing receivables incl marketable securities 2,531 3,552 Cash ﬂow after net investments 10,431 14,507 Financing activities Change in loans, net Note 29 –2,245 –13,247 Dividend to AB Volvo’s shareholders –6,093 –6,090 Dividend to minority shareholders –206 0 Other -9 14 Change in cash and cash equivalents excl. translation differences 1,878 –4,815 Translation difference on cash and cash equivalents 1,023 –378 Change in cash and cash equivalents 2,901 –5,194 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year Note 18 21,048 26,242 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year Note 18 23,949 21,048 1 The payment of the settlement of the EU antitrust investi2 The gain on sale of real estate of SEK 1.4 bn has been 3 The gain on sale of IT operations of SEK 0.9 bn has been gation has impacted Operating income by SEK 2.6 bn reclassiﬁed from Other non-cash items to Disposals of reclassiﬁed from Other non-cash items to Acquired and related to provisions recognized in 2016 and Other ﬁxed assets and leasing vehicles. The total positive operdivested operations, net. The total positive cash ﬂow changes in working capital has been impacted from proating cash ﬂow impact from the sale amounted to SEK impact from the sale amounted to SEK 1.1 bn. visions recognized in 2014 by SEK 3.9 bn. 2.6 bn. OPERATING CASH FLOW, INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES, SELF-FINANCING RATIO, OPERATIONS, SEK BN INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS % 2015 2016 Capitalized development costs, SEK bn Property, plant and equipment, SEK bn Capital expenditures, % of net sales 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 72 112 180 316 155 5.1 3.7 1.4 2.2 2.8 9.5 8.5 7.2 6.5 6.6 Cash-ﬂow from operating activities 4.9 4.6 3.1 2.9 3.2 divided by net investments in ﬁxed Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 assets and leasing assets. –1.7 8.6 –3.3 14.7 –10.4 6.9 2.1 4.8 87 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 TRUCKS TRUCKS Improved underlying proﬁtability on lower volumes During 2016 market conditions varied signiﬁcantly between different parts of the world. Volvo Group’s total deliveries of trucks decreased by 8% compared to 2015. Still the truck operations managed to continue to increase the proﬁtability during the year. The truck operation’s product offer stretches from heavy-duty trucks for long-haulage and construction work to light-duty trucks for distribution. The offering also includes maintenance and 66% repair services, ﬁnancing and leasing. Position on world market Volvo Group is the world’s second largest manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks. Brands Volvo, UD, Renault Trucks, Mack, Eicher and Dongfeng Trucks. Number of regular employees 52,154 (54,668). Share of Group net sales Lower truck deliveries were mainly driven by the market correcIn India registrations of heavy-duty trucks rose by 5% in 2016, tion and a reduction of elevated dealer inventories in the highway driven by good economic activity and good business conﬁdence. segment in North America. The European market continued at The positive development was dampened towards the end of the strong levels, whereas South America’s largest market, Brazil, year, primarily as a consequence of the demonetization in India. saw continuous low demand. The Chinese truck market turned Chinese heavy-duty truck registrations increased by 33% and and started growing after a couple of years of decline. In total, medium-duty trucks registrations increased by 14% in 2016. The global truck deliveries declined by 8% compared with 2015. increase in demand for heavy-duty trucks during the second half of 2016 was partly driven by new legislation on maximum load for Varied market conditions commercial vehicles. The truck market in Europe was strong in 2016 with around In Japan demand grew from already high levels by around 5% 300,000 registrations of new heavy duty trucks, compared to in 2016 for both heavy-duty and medium-duty trucks. 270,000 registrations in 2015. Demand for transport continued In general the Volvo Group maintained its strong positions in to be good, resulting in high capacity utilization for truck ﬂeets and the main markets even though market shares decreased somegood customer proﬁtability. Demand for new trucks was also what in certain markets. In Europe (EU28) the combined market driven by some customers renewing their ﬂeets. share for heavy-duty trucks increased to 25.0% (24.3) primarily The North American heavy-duty truck industry was in a correcas a result of growth for Volvo Trucks. In North America the tion mode in 2016 with low production in response to reduced Group’s market share declined to 17.7% (19.6), with the decrease demand and a reduction of elevated dealer inventories of new related to Volvo Trucks as a result of a bigger market decline in trucks. While decent economic conditions prevailed, retail deliverVolvo’s core segment than in other segments. Mack gained maries were down 19% in 2016 compared to the exceptionally strong ket share somewhat due to continued healthy demand for vocamarket in 2015. Virtually the entire decline was registered in the tional trucks. In Brazil the market share in heavy-duty trucks highway tractor segment. At the end of 2016, new truck inventoamounted to 18.9% (20.1) while it was 17.5% (18.9) in Japan. In ries had come down to much healthier levels. However, there is India the market share for Eicher amounted to 33.0% (33.3) in still a used truck overhang which is expected to continue to the medium-duty segment and to 4.8% (3.7) in the heavy-duty dampen demand for new heavy-duty trucks in 2017. segment. In China Dongfeng Trucks had a market share of 12.8% Registrations of heavy-duty trucks in Brazil declined by 29% in (13.8) in the heavy-duty segment and 15.2% (18.9) in the me2016 due to the weak economic conditions in the country. The dium-duty segment. market seems however to have bottomed out. 88 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 TRUCKS NET SALES AND OPERATING INCOME SEK M 2016 2015 Europe 91,468 83,767 North America 51,849 73,017 South America 10,613 11,624 Asia 33,464 31,589 Africa and Oceania 13,256 13,982 Total net sales 200,650 213,978 Of which Vehicles 150,911 165,029 Services 49,739 48,949 Adjusted operating income1 17,472 16,170 Adjustments1 −2,453 3,347 Volvo I-Shift with Operating income 15,020 19,517 crawler gears Adjusted operating margin, % 8.7 7.6 Operating margin, % 7.5 9.1 I n the spring of 2016, Volvo Trucks launched a new transmission, Volvo I-Shift with crawler gears, 1 For more information on adjusted operating income, please see page 202. DELIVERIES BY MARKET ideal for applications requiring a slow speed and Number of trucks 2016 2015 maneuverability and with the ability to start off Europe 97,909 86,448 North America 39,193 64,507 from standstill with up to 325 tons of cargo. South America 9,442 11,069 Asia 31,502 31,979 Africa and Oceania 12,378 13,472 Total deliveries 190,424 207,475 Heavy duty (>16 tons) 158,025 176,589 Orders and deliveries Medium duty (7–16 tons) 15,691 14,749 In 2016, a total of 190,424 trucks where delivered from the Light duty (<7 tons) 16,708 16,137 Group’s wholly-owned operations, a decrease of 8% compared Total deliveries 190,424 207,475 with 207,475 trucks in 2015. Deliveries increased in Europe, but Volvo 102,857 113,066 decreased in North America and South America. UD 20,738 20,025 Order intake to the Group’s wholly-owned operations declined Renault Trucks 47,983 46,973 by 5% to 188,898 (198,057) trucks with an increase in Europe, Mack 18,846 27,411 but a decrease in North America. Total deliveries 190,424 207,475 Improved underlying proﬁtability Non-consolidated operations In 2016 net sales in the truck operations decreased by 6% to SEK VE Commercial Vehicles (Eicher) 42,929 35,751 200,650 M (213,978). Adjusted for currency movements, net Dongfeng Commercial Vehicle Company sales decreased by 7%. Adjusted for currency movements, vehi(Dongfeng Trucks) 128,501 113,931 cle sales declined by 9% while service sales increased by 1%. Adjusted operating income increased to SEK 17,472 M (16,170) corresponding to an operating margin of 8.7% (7.6). For informaTruck highlights during 2016 tion on adjusted operating income, please see page 202. The Among the 2016 highlights for the truck operations were the increase in earnings was mainly a result of lower operating launches of several new integrated powertrain solutions in North expenses, lower material costs and a positive market mix with higher America for both Mack and Volvo Trucks, offering increased fuel earnings in Europe, partly offset by lower capacity utilization in efﬁciency, productivity, reliability and more efﬁcient chassis packNorth America and negative currency movements. Operating aging. Volvo Trucks also launched a new transmission globally, income also had a minor positive impact from improved earnings Volvo I-shift with crawler gears, with the ability to start off from in the Group’s joint ventures and associated companies, primarily standstill with up to 325 tons of cargo, ideal for applications in DFCV. For more information, please see Note 5. requiring a slow speed and maneuverability. Reported operating income amounted to SEK 15,020 M Volvo Group participated in the EU truck platooning challenge (19,517). Currency movements had a negative impact of SEK 260 when three Volvo trucks drove closely behind one another, using M compared with 2015. wireless communication, in a platoon from Gothenburg, Sweden 89 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 TRUCKS to Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Platooning is one way to reduce NET SALES, SEK BN fuel consumption and emissions. At the IAA trade fair in Hannover in September, the Volvo FH 200.7 was appointed winner of the prestigious Fehrenkötter test after a more than 30 months long real-life customer operations test. The Volvo FH won the overall evaluation based on lowest cost of ownership and also had the best fuel economy. Since September 2016, a fully autonomous Volvo FMX truck has been tested in operations deep underground in the 12 13 14 15 16 189.2 178.5 190.9 214.0 200.7 Kristineberg Mine, Sweden. The self-driving truck is part of a development project aimed at improving the transport ﬂow and safety in the mine. Renault Trucks started a collaboration project with BSF Souakri Industrial Group for a new assembly factory in Algeria, Renault ADJUSTED OPERATING INCOME* AND ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN Truck’s second biggest market. The plant’s capacity will gradually be built up to 2,000 trucks. Focus on continuous improvements 17,472 In 2016 the truck operations saw the full ﬁnancial effect from the activities implemented in recent years’ restructuring program. The operations are now fully focused on driving efﬁciency through continuous improvements to further improve productivity after the 12 13 14 15 16 period of substantial restructuring activities. The decentralized 12,219 6,798 5,558 16,170 17,472 SEK M brand-driven truck organization will focus on, among other things, 6.5 3.8 2.9 7.6 8.7 % capturing the service potential in the markets to serve the cus* For more information on adjusted operating income, please see page 202. tomers even better. MARKET SHARES, HEAVY-DUTY TRUCKS, % Europe China* Medium-duty Japan North America trucks 12.2 9.9 7.4 7.8 15.8 16.9 8.5 8.1 13.8 12.8 18.9 15.2 18.3 17.0 0.6 0.5 Brazil Medium-duty trucks India* 20.1 18.9 South Africa Australia 3.7 4.8 33.3 30.0 15 16 12.2 14.0 9.4 8.7 14.9 16.1 9.3 9.4 2.1 2.0 * Volvo Group holds 45.6% in VECV, which produces Eicher trucks, and 45% in DFCV, which produces Dongfeng trucks. 90 Renault Trucks 24/7 roadside assistance A t Renault Trucks 24/7, a network of experts answers customers in 16 languages to provide assistance and breakdown recovery operations and guarantee service quality. Renault Trucks 24/7 is available for immediate roadside assistance 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. An operator keeps a case ﬁle continuously updated and customers can check on the status of the repairs over the internet. 91 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT Focus on proﬁtable products and segments Demand in many of Volvo Construction Equipment’s (Volvo CE) markets continued to decline in 2016. Volvo CE managed to offset most of this through market share gains for the larger machines. Machine deliveries declined by 1%. Founded in 1832 in Eskilstuna, Sweden Volvo Construction Equipment has grown to become one of the leaders in the development of products and services for the construction, extraction, waste 17% % processing, forestry and materials handling sectors. Position on world market Volvo CE is the world’s leading manufacturer of articulated haulers and one of the world’s leading manufacturers of wheel loaders, excavators, road construction machines and compact equipment. Brands Volvo, SDLG (Lingong) and Terex Trucks. Share of Group net sales Number of regular employees 13,397 (13,889). Products include excavator wheel loaders and haulers, as well as low levels in 2015. The North American market was slightly below road machinery and a wide range of services. Marketed under the 2015 with a decline for larger machines. However, the market for Volvo, SDLG and Terex Trucks brands, the company’s products and compact equipment was still positive with growth driven mainly by services are sold and supported via a global network of Volvoan increase in demand for compact excavators. The decline in owned and independent dealers. South America continued throughout 2016 with the Brazilian market declining sharply. The Asian market (excluding China) was Margins stable despite weak markets and less favorable slightly lower than in 2015, mainly driven by Japan while India product mix continued to grow strongly. The Chinese market grew somewhat The European market grew, mainly driven by a recovery in France in 2016 after several years of decline. The excavator market and considerable growth in Germany and Italy, while the market in started to recover in June and the wheel loader market in October. the UK slowed down. The Russian market started to recover from Supporting customers globally V olvo CE’s responsive staff is committed to keeping customers’ businesses running without costly delays, because they know what a difference this makes to customer proﬁtability. Volvo CE customers also get access to an extensive range of services for improved fuel efﬁciency, uptime, productivity and safety. They include everything from specialized software and advanced training to complete service agreements and ﬁnancial services developed by people with knowledge of customers’ business. 92 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT Developed for uptime V olvo CE puts a strong focus on machine reliability – products are designed and built for reduced wear and long service intervals. When machines need service Volvo customers can manage service plans and wear parts via the CareTrack telematics system. An important part of Volvo CE’s vision for the future is zero unplanned stops: a world without machine breakdowns, where machines predict and plan their own maintenance – making unexpected repairs a thing of the past. 93 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT In total, deliveries were on a similar level to the previous year. NET SALES, SEK BN Higher deliveries in Europe were offset by lower volumes in Asia and the Americas. Net sales declined by 1% to SEK 50,731 M. However, adjusted 50.7 for currency movements sales increased by 1%, of which machine sales increased by 1% and service sales were ﬂat. Adjusted operating income amounted to SEK 2,246 M (2,090), corresponding to an operating margin of 4.4% (4.1). There were 12 13 14 15 16 no adjustments in 2016. For information on adjustments in 2015, 63.6 53.4 52.9 51.0 50.7 please see page 202. Earnings were favorably impacted by price realization, lower material costs and lower provisions for credit losses in China. Reported operating income amounted to SEK ADJUSTED OPERATING INCOME* 2,246 M (2,044). Currency movements had a negative impact of AND ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN SEK 44 M compared to 2015. Important product launches in 2016 2016 saw a number of important new product introductions. At the Bauma exhibition in Germany, Volvo CE unveiled several new excavators, wheel loaders and haulers – including the A60H artic2,246 ulated hauler and the EC950E excavator – by far the largest machines of these types the company has ever introduced. The 12 13 14 15 16 5,667 2,592 1,232 2,090 2,246 SEK M launch of the largest articulated hauler on the market coincided 8.9 4.9 2.3 4.1 4.4 % with Volvo CE celebrating 50 years of articulated hauler manufac* For more information on adjusted turing, a market it created and continues to pioneer today. operating income, please see page 202. Also launched were the 75 ton EC750E crawler excavator and a number of wheeled excavators and compact excavators. New wheel loaders were also introduced as were new road machinery, NET SALES BY MARKET in the form of a series of drum rollers and a new paver. The comSEK M 2016 2015 pany also introduced its revolutionary Co-Pilot secondary Europe 19,739 17,732 on-board services display, and advanced ‘Assist’ machine control North America 10,724 11,843 systems – including Dig Assist, Load Assist and Compact Assist. South America 1,414 2,207 Terex Trucks launched the ﬁrst of its new ‘Generation 10’ articuAsia 15,765 16,424 lated haulers and SDLG launched new wheel loaders for the Africa and Oceania 3,088 2,802 Chinese domestic as well as other emerging markets. Total net sales 50,731 51,008 Implementation of performance plan Of which: Volvo CE’s strategic priorities are to focus on core products, segConstruction Equipment 41,279 41,420 ments and markets and an effective use of a multi brand strategy. Services 9,452 9,588 Volvo CE has adapted its business to the overall market decline, Adjusted operating income1 2,246 2,090 particularly the sharp slowdown in demand in China in recent years. Adjustments1 – –46 Elements of the performance plan include product portfolio optimiOperating income 2,246 2,044 zation, reduced spending, headcount reduction, initiatives to focus on market share growth and improved capacity utilization in the Adjusted operating margin, % 4.4 4.1 industrial system. The company’s focus remains on organic growth. Operating margin, % 4.4 4.0 In the ongoing work to strengthen Volvo CE’s competitiveness 1 For more information on adjusted operating income, please see page 202. a series of measures were decided that will lower costs in the long term and improve efﬁciency. The technology function will be reorganized in order to bring R&D spending in line with revenues and DELIVERIES BY MARKET improve customer and product focus. Number of machines 2016 2015 Volvo CE has also decided to move the global headquarters Europe 14,700 12,539 from its current location in Brussels, Belgium to Gothenburg, North America 5,105 5,710 Sweden. The relocation will facilitate closer cooperation with the South America 1,175 2,036 Group’s other business areas and allow better access to the comAsia 21,072 22,339 petencies and resources of the wider business. Africa and Oceania 2,254 2,094 In order to better utilize existing Volvo Group assets, it has been Total deliveries 44,306 44,718 decided that excavators and wheel loaders currently ﬁtted with 7 and 8 liter engines sourced from Deutz will, in the future, be ﬁtted Of which: with the Volvo Group’s in-house 8 liter engine. The transition Volvo 30,473 30,296 period will begin in 2020 and be completed in 2023. SDLG 13,681 14,267 Of which in China 10,744 11,311 94 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 BUSES BUSES Higher deliveries and sales – earnings ﬂat Volvo Buses operates in two business segments: city buses and coaches. In city buses, Volvo Buses is one of the leaders in the technology shift to electromobility. In the coach segment, the company focus is on safe and fuel efﬁcient vehicles. Vo Buses is a leader in the development of sustainable Volvo transport solutions for public transport and is one of the tra world’s largest manufacturers of buses, coaches and bus wo chassis. The product range includes city buses, intercity cha buses and coaches as well as complete transport systems, bu ﬁnancial services and services for vehicle and trafﬁc ﬁn 8% 8% information. Volvo Buses has sales in 85 countries and a inf global service network, with more than 1,500 dealerships glo and workshops. Production facilities are found in Europe, an North America, South America and Asia. No Position on world market Volvo Buses is one of the Po world’s largest producers of buses and coaches in the wo premium segment. pre Share of Group roup net sales Brands Volvo, Prevost, Nova Bus and UD Bus. Br Number of regular employees 7,353 (7,270). Nu The strategic priorities are to focus on increased competitiveness Sales of hybrid buses under the Volvo brand showed a continand proﬁtability by improving quality and reducing product cost, ued positive development. In total, more than 3,000 units have combined with selective proﬁtable growth including growth of the been sold since the start in 2010, of which 529 during 2016. In service business through increased cooperation with Volvo Trucks. June, the ﬁrst two hybrid buses from Volvo were brought into service in Mumbai, India. Increased investment in electriﬁed buses Volvo Buses continues to invest in turnkey system solutions for Improved driver environment electriﬁed buses. The customer offering includes vehicles, chargIn September, the Pedestrian and Cyclist Detection System was ing infrastructure, batteries and repair and maintenance services. announced, which increases safety for unprotected road users at The product range includes hybrid buses (Volvo 7900 Hybrid), bus stops and pedestrian crossings. The system can scan the electric hybrid buses (Volvo 7900 Electric Hybrid) and fully elecsurroundings with the help of cameras and alerts the surrounding triﬁed buses (Volvo 7900 Electric). In North America, the product area that the bus is approaching by sending out an artiﬁcial range includes hybrid buses (Nova LFS HEV). Charging stations sound. If there is a risk of an incident, the buses’ horn is activated, are being developed in cooperation with ABB and Siemens, at the same time as the driver is warned by sounds and light signals. OppCharge, which have an open interface to enable use of electric The system will be introduced in Volvo’s city buses during 2017. buses and charging infrastructure independent of manufacturer. Volvo’s driving system, Volvo Dynamic Steering (VDS) is hugely In September 2016, the ﬁrst complete system with four comsuccessful. A year after the launch, over half of all Volvo’s coaches mercially manufactured electric buses, Volvo 7900 Electric, was sold in Europe are equipped with VDS. During autumn 2017, the sold to Differdange in Luxembourg. During the year, the equivasystem will also be introduced in Volvo’s city and intercity buses. lent system with electric hybrid buses was sold to customers in Read more about VDS on the next page. Belgium, Luxembourg and Sweden. Three electric concept Volvo buses and seven electric hybrid buses have been operating a regProduct introductions ular timetabled service in Gothenburg, Sweden since June 2015, Volvo 8600, a new complete bus, was introduced in France and as part of the ElectriCity partnership. Buses and charging staSpain. The bus enhances Volvo’s offering within intercity and school tions have been running with very high reliability. The buses’ envitrafﬁc. ronmental qualities, lower noise and comfort are appreciated by Volvo launched the world’s largest bus chassis, the Gran Artic passengers. Pilot projects with electric hybrids are ongoing in 300, which is developed for high capacity BRT systems in Latin Stockholm, Sweden and Hamburg, Germany. America. The bus is 30 m long and can carry up to 300 passengers. Read more about the Gran Artic 300 on page 44. 95 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 BUSES NET SALES, SEK BN VOLVO DYNAMIC 25.4 STEERING REDUCES THE RISK of work-related injuries for bus drivers. Spending many hours behind the wheel every day, bus drivers often suffer strain in the shoulders, neck and arms. In order to reduce 12 13 14 15 16 the risk of work-related injuries, Volvo Buses in 2015 intro19.6 16.7 18.6 23.6 25.4 duced Volvo Dynamic Steering (VDS), which makes maneuvering a bus considerably easier. In 2016 a scientiﬁc study was published that conﬁrmed the system’s positive effects. In the ADJUSTED OPERATING INCOME* tests, activity in the various muscle groups was measured in AND OPERATING MARGIN left turns, right turns, while negotiating a roundabout and when driving straight ahead. The results reveal that on average, VDS cuts muscular strain by 20 to 30%, and for certain maneuvers 870 by up to 70%. With its complete and commercial range of buses and systems 12 13 14 15 16 147 –190 98 845 870 SEK M for electriﬁed public transport, Volvo Buses has consolidated its 0.8 –1.1 0.5 3.6 3.4 % leading position in sustainable transport solutions. Volvo Buses * For more information on adjusted operating has grown its market shares in Europe and also has a greater income, please see page 202. presence in the Middle East and North Africa. As a result of the ongoing efﬁciency program, productivity has been further increased and production costs have been lowered. The service NET SALES AND OPERATING INCOME business has also shown positive results. The service offering has SEK M 2016 2015 been enhanced in Europe and collaboration has increased with Europe 7,861 7,284 Volvo Trucks’ service network. North America 11,345 10,635 South America 1,363 1,425 A positive result despite unsteady market development Asia 3.067 2,557 The global demand for larger buses increased during 2016. However, after a strong ﬁrst six months, demand decreased in Europe, Africa and Oceania 1,749 1,678 North America and many Asian markets during the second half of Total net sales 25,386 23,580 the year. Demand remained low in Brazil and India. Of which: In total, Volvo Buses delivered 9,553 buses and bus chassis Vehicles 21,295 19,569 (8,825). Services 4,091 4,011 Net sales increased by 8% to SEK 25,386 M. When adjusted for currency movements the increase was 10%, of which sales of Adjusted operating income 1 870 845 buses increased by 11% and service sales increased by 4%. Adjustments 1 41 15 Adjusted operating income amounted to SEK 870 M (845) corOperating income 911 860 responding to an operating margin of 3.4% (3.6). For information Adjusted operating margin, % 3.4 3.6 on adjustments please see page 202. Earnings were positively Operating margin, % 3.6 3.6 impacted by higher sales volumes, higher service sales and further improvements within the internal efﬁciency program. At the same 1 For more information on adjusted operating income, please see page 202. time, earnings were negatively impacted by unfavorable currency movements and a negative market mix. Reported operating DELIVERIES BY MARKET income amounted to SEK 911 M (860). Currency movements had Number of buses 2016 2015 a negative impact of SEK 257 M compared to 2015. Europe 2,676 2,431 North America 2,659 2,398 South America 1,149 1,415 Asia 1,849 1,656 Other markets 1,220 925 Total deliveries 9,553 8,825 Non-consolidated operations VE Commercial Vehicles 13,883 11,717 Dongfeng Commercial Vehicle Company 4,540 4,618 During 2106 the share of ownership in the joint venture Shanghai Sunwin Bus Co decreased to less than 20% and thus there deliveries are no longer reported. 96 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 VOLVO PENTA V O LV O P E N TA Increased sales and good proﬁtability Volvo Penta’s engine deliveries declined by 2% in 2016, however net sales improved due to a favorable product mix and growth in the service business. Volvo Penta aims to be the most forward thinking and customer focused supplier of sustainable power solutions. Volvo Penta provides engines and power systems for leisure and commercial boats, as well as 3% for industrial applications such as power generation and container trucks. Position on world market Volvo Penta is the world’s largest producer of diesel engines for leisure boats and a leading, independent producer of industrial engines. Brands Volvo Penta Share of Group net sales Number of regular employees 1,530 (1,470). Volvo Penta operates in two businesses: Marine (leisure and comMarket development and engine shipments mercial) and Industrial (off-road and power generation). In the The overall marine leisure market remained ﬂat, with signs of a marine segments, Volvo Penta aims to lead the industry, continuslight increase. The gasoline segment continued on low levels, but ing to develop its own innovative products and solutions. In the Volvo Penta gained market share. Industrial segments, Volvo Penta will seek maximum leverage of The marine commercial market was impacted by low demand Volvo Group assets in its total offer, and add value for customers in from customers in the oil and gas industry, while demand for its application and integration expertise. industrial off-road engines increased somewhat due to an improvement in demand in the construction segment. Volvo Penta strategy The market for industrial power generation engines showed a The challenge is to grow proﬁtably, while further increasing the capslight increase in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and the exportability of the business to consistently deliver an excellent total cusoriented European market. The domestic European and North tomer experience. To succeed overall, it is essential to excel at the American markets were stable on low levels. following aspects of business, all of which work together. 1. CustomIn total, Volvo Penta’s engine deliveries declined by 2% to 37,267 ers: Volvo Penta’s business is all about its customers and how well engines. their needs are served, including the ability to deliver in line with the company’s brand promise and core values. 2. Total Solutions: Positive sales trend Providing total solutions is about what Volvo Penta offers its cusVolvo Penta’s net sales increased by 5% to SEK 9,893 M comtomers, including products, but also delivering end-to-end solupared with SEK 9,406 M in 2015. Adjusted for currency movetions to enhance the entire customer experience. 3. People: ments, net sales still increased by 5%, of which engine sales Engaged, motivated, and high-performing employees working increased by 3% and service sales increased by 10%. together are keys to success. Volvo Penta aims to increase diverAdjusted operating income amounted to SEK 1,269 M (1,102), sity and inclusiveness and nurture an environment of work with corresponding to an operating margin of 12.8% (11.7). No adjustcontinuous improvements. 4. Growth: Secure growth ambitions, ments were made during 2016. For information on adjustments in through new business opportunities, plans by both segments and 2015 please see page 202. parts & service sales. 5. Proﬁtability: Ensure the business is run in Earnings were positively impacted by strong service sales, favoran efﬁcient and effective manner, minimizing wasted resources, able currency and a good product mix partly off-set by higher costs while maintaining the ability to deliver innovative and competitive for research and development. Reported operating income products and services. amounted to SEK 1,269 M (1,086). Changes in currency movements had a positive impact in an amount of SEK 51 M. 97 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 VOLVO PENTA NET SALES, SEK BN 9.8 12 13 14 15 16 7.6 7.6 7.8 9.4 9.8 VOLVO PENTA collaborated with global equipment manufacturer Sandvik Mining & Construction to develop a new engine suitable for heavy-duty mining applications. The engine was launched in April 2016 at the Bauma construcADJUSTED OPERATING INCOME* tion & mining exhibition in Munich, Germany. In May 2016, AND OPERATING MARGIN Sandvik revealed that the latest 16-liter engine from Volvo Penta is being used in its TH663 underground mining trucks. 1,269 Further strengthened customer offer During the year, Volvo Penta acquired the innovative marine technology company Humphree, as a step towards becoming a full marine 12 13 14 15 16 system supplier. New marine products were also successfully 549 626 729 1,102 1,269 SEK M launched, including a 8-liter engine and IPS drive, a joystick for 7.2 8.3 9.4 11.7 12.8 % inboard shaft applications, an updated Glass Cockpit System and * For more information on adjusted operating income, please see page 202. a new Battery Management System. During 2016 Volvo Penta secured increased business with new and existing customers in the industrial off-road and power generation segments. New industrial off-road products were NET SALES AND OPERATING INCOME launched, including a 16-liter, Stage II diesel engine, a Stage IV SEK M 2016 2015 open power unit solution and an upgraded start/stop feature. Europe 4,973 4,462 Volvo Penta’s engines were also approved for use of hydrogenNorth America 2,191 2,161 ated vegetable oil (HVO). In the parts and services area, work continued with the develSouth America 291 365 opment of a competitive offer per segment, as well as to increase Asia 1,891 1,855 penetration of service agreements. Africa and Oceania 546 562 In September, Volvo Penta was awarded engine & propulsion Total net sales 9,893 9,406 system of the year by Yachts France Magazine at the World Of which: Yachts Trophies 2016 ceremony, highlighting Volvo Penta IPS as Engines 7,078 6,836 an innovation for the yacht segment. Services 2,815 2,570 In October, Volvo Penta received an IBEX innovation award for the patent-pending Easy Drain, which is the ﬁrst gasoline sterndrive raw Adjusted operating income1 1,269 1,102 water engine-draining system that can be activated with a single Adjustments1 – –16 knob, whether the boat is in or out of the water. Operating income 1,269 1,086 Adjusted operating margin, % 12.8 11.7 Operating margin, % 12.8 11.5 1 For more information on adjusted operating income, please see page 202 DELIVERIES PER SEGMENT Number of units 2016 2015 Marine engines1 18,016 19,503 Industrial engines 19,251 18,635 Total deliveries 37,267 38,138 1 Excluding outboard engines. 98 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 VOLVO FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL SERVICES Continued proﬁtability improvement In 2016, Volvo Financial Services (VFS) continued to 4% grow the credit portfolio and improve proﬁtability. Return on equity reached 13.7%. Share of Group net sales VFS offers competitive ﬁnancial solutions which strengthen long term relationships with Volvo Group customers and dealers. As the number one provider of ﬁnancial solutions for Volvo Group product sales, VFS delivers value to customers and builds loyalty to the Group brands through ease of doing business, speed to market, and knowledge and expertise of the industry. VFS conducts customer ﬁnancing in 44 countries around the world. Position on world market VFS operates exclusively to support the sales of vehicles and equipment which are produced by the Volvo Group. In doing so, VFS enhances the competitiveness of Volvo Group products and helps secure loyalty to the Volvo Group brands. Number of regular employees 1,328 (1,340). VFS ﬁnancial solutions are offered with the sales of Volvo Group PENETRATION RATE*, % vehicles and equipment, and are available with other services such as repair and maintenance contracts and insurance, etc. through seamless integration at the point-of-sale with Volvo Group dealers. This approach delivers a convenient one stop-shopping experience for the customer. Five focus areas 28 30 19 19 20 23 22 16 41 39 10 9 VFS’ mission is to be the best captive in the industry. To ensure Volvo Renault Mack Buses Volvo UD Trucks Trucks Trucks CE Trucks successful business execution and achievement of the mission, 15 16 * Share of unit sales ﬁnanced by Volvo Financial VFS executed on activities in ﬁve focus areas: 1. Employee EngageServices in relation to total number of units sold ment, 2. Customer Focus, 3. Operational Excellence, 4. Sustainby the Volvo Group in markets where ﬁnancial able Proﬁtability, and 5. Business Cycle Management. services are offered. Employee Engagement activities drove a productive and innovative workforce, enabling VFS to achieve high employee engagement while managing a global organization. One example is a talent Operational Excellence activities and investments focused on development program that was rolled out in all VFS markets in driving ease of doing business and speed for customers and dealers order to support career development for VFS employees and to by closing operational gaps while also introducing new technologies. prepare for future business needs. Customer Focus activities conEurope for example, made strong productivity and operating leverage tinued with the aim of increasing integration with the Volvo Group gains in 2016, while introducing new technologies to support cusproduct companies in order to optimize the total offer at the point tomers and dealers with fast and easy to use mobile applications. of sale, develop and expand products to drive services revenues for Sustainable proﬁtability was achieved through activities aimed the Volvo Group, and expand VFS’ market coverage. In the UK and at balancing price realization, risk appetite and volume in every Brazil for example, VFS achieved strong penetration through its market where VFS does business. In an unusually competitive joint sales programs, insurance offers and total delivery approach environment, VFS was able to maintain its margins, credit with the product companies. Best practices from both markets discipline and market share. were rolled out to other markets during the year, in coordination Business Cycle Management activities focused on upcycle and with the other Volvo Group business areas. VFS also devoted downcycle management. Brazil, China and Russia, were strong resources to large market opportunities such as South Africa. examples of successful downturn management. Each of these 99 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 VOLVO FINANCIAL SERVICES markets, for different reasons, experienced extraordinary downTotal new ﬁnancing volume in 2016 amounted to SEK 54.6 billion turns which continued into 2016. Risk mitigation, commercial (54.8), which was an increase of 0.5% compared to 2015, when support and customer care were all success factors that enabled adjusted for currency movements. each market to continue to mitigate the impact of incredibly difﬁFinancing penetration was also stable in served markets. cult circumstances. In total, 49,809 new Volvo Group vehicles and machines (49,038) were ﬁnanced during the year. In the markets where ﬁnancing is Strong portfolio performance offered, the average penetration rate was 26% (25). During 2016, overall customer overdues, repossessions, inventoThe net credit portfolio of SEK 130,241 M (122,606) was relaries and write off levels remained low and supported good proﬁttively stable on a currency adjusted basis when compared to ability. North America continued to produce good proﬁtability and 2015. The funding of the credit portfolio is matched in terms of commercial results, despite signs that the market is softening maturity, interest rates and currencies in accordance with Volvo somewhat to a more “normalized” level. Brazil remained in recesGroup policy. For further information, see Note 4 to the consolision. However, downturn management activities have mitigated dated ﬁnancial statements. the impact on the business. India began to yield beneﬁts as Operating income amounted to SEK 2,086 M compared to operations moved from start up to execution mode. Europe as a SEK 2,006 M in the previous year and the return on shareholders’ whole performed well, with good growth and portfolio perforequity was 13.7% (13.4). The equity ratio at the end of the year mance. China continued to decline but showed improvements in was 8.0% (8.0). Proﬁtable growth and good portfolio perforcustomer overdues towards the end of the year. mance were the drivers of the overall increase in proﬁtability. During the year, credit provision expenses amounted to SEK Good proﬁtability 677 M (817) while write-offs of SEK 627 M (491) were recorded. Financial Services recorded strong levels of new business volume The write-off ratio for 2016 was 0.49% (0.39). At the end of during the year despite continued weak demand in Brazil, Russia December 31, 2016, credit reserves were 1.43% (1.41) of the and China and increased competition in many mature markets. credit portfolio. ADJUSTED OPERATING RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ DISTRIBUTION OF CREDIT INCOME*, SEK M EQUITY, % PORTFOLIO 2,086 13.7 Volvo Trucks, 49% 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 Volvo CE, 20% 1,496 1,522 1,716 2,006 2,086 12.5 12.1 12.5 13.4 13.7 Renault Trucks, 10% * For more information on adjusted Mack Trucks, 14% operating income, please see Buses, 5% page 202. UD Trucks, 2% KEY RATIOS, FINANCIAL SERVICES INCOME STATEMENT FINANCIAL SERVICES, SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Number of ﬁnanced units 49,809 49,038 Finance and lease income 11,242 11,199 Total penetration rate1, % 26 25 Finance and lease expenses –6,591 –6,607 New ﬁnancing volume, SEK billion 54.6 54.8 Gross income 4,651 4,591 Credit portfolio net, SEK billion 130 123 Selling and administrative expenses –1,960 –1,878 Credit provision expenses, SEK M 677 817 Credit provision expenses –677 –817 Operating income, SEK M 2,086 2,006 Other operating income and expenses 72 109 Credit reserves, % of credit portfolio 1.43 1.41 Operating income 2,086 2,006 Return on shareholders’ equity, rolling 12 months, % 13.7 13.4 Income taxes –631 –633 1 Share of unit sales ﬁnanced by Volvo Financial Services in relation to the total numIncome for the period 1,455 1,373 ber of units sold by the Volvo Group in markets where ﬁnancial services are offered. Return on Equity, % 13.7 13.4 100 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT Balancing the requirements of different stakeholders The objectives of the ﬁnancial management in the Volvo Group is to assure shareholders long-term attractive and stable total return and debt providers the ﬁnancial strength and ﬂexibility to secure proceeds and repayment. A long-term competitive business requires access to capital to be VOLVO GROUP LIQUIDITY POSITION, able to invest. Financial management ensures that the capital is DECEMBER 31, 2016 used in the best possible way through well-deﬁned ratios and SEK bn objectives for the Industrial Operations as well as for the cus80 tomer ﬁnance operations in Financial Services. The objectives on 67.7 net sales growth and operating margins for the Industrial Opera60 tions and return on equity for Financial Services are intended to 42.5 40 secure the return requirements from shareholders. The restrictions on net debt to equity for the Industrial Operations and the 20 25.2 equity ratio for Financial Services are there to secure ﬁnancial 0 stability and ﬂexibility for debt providers. Cash and cash equivalents Revolving credit and marketable securities facilities Steering principles to ensure ﬁnancial ﬂexibility over the business cycle To ensure ﬁnancial stability and ﬂexibility throughout the business cycle the Volvo Group holds a strong liquidity position. Besides GEOGRAPHICALLY DIVERSIFIED cash and marketable securities the liquidity position is built up of MARKET PROGRAMS committed credit facilities. The funding and lending is in local currency and the Financial Services portfolio is matched both from CAD SEK an interest and a liquidity risk perspective, in accordance with the CNY Volvo Group policy. For further information, please see Note 4 to USD EUR JPY the Consolidated ﬁnancial statements. INR CNH Diversiﬁed funding sources give ﬂexibility and support the global presence BRL AUD The Volvo Group has centralized the portfolio management of all ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, funding operations and cash management through the internal bank, Volvo Treasury. The liability portfolio is separated into two portfolios, one for Industrial Operations and one for Financial Services, to correspond to the needs of the different operations. CREDIT RATING, MARCH 6, 2017 Volvo Treasury is increasing the possibility to access capital Short-term Long-term markets at all times through diversiﬁed funding sources. FurtherMoody’s (Corporate Rating) P-2 Baa2, stable more, the Volvo Group’s global presence is supported by bond programs on all major debt capital markets in the world. Besides S&P (Corporate Rating) A2 BBB, positive the access to capital markets around the world, the Volvo Group DBRS (Canada) – BBB, (high) uses different instruments, such as bilateral bank funding, corporR&I (Japan) a-1 A, stable ate bonds and certiﬁcates, hybrid bonds, agency funding as well as securitization of assets in the portfolio. An increasingly important part of the treasury work is also to manage increased funding on the ability to attract and ﬁnance customers’ purchases of the needs in new growth markets for the Group. Group’s products and on the trust from suppliers. It also gives access to more funding sources and lower cost of funds. A strong and stable credit rating is important The Volvo Group has contractual relations with two global Being a large issuer with a growing customer ﬁnancing business, Credit Rating Agencies (CRA’s) for solicited credit ratings; Standit is critical to have a strong and stable credit rating. The level of ard & Poors’ Rating Services (S&P) and Moody’s Investors Service the credit rating is not only important for debt investors but also (Moody’s). S&P changed its outlook from stable to positive during for a number of other stakeholders when it comes to creating 2016. S&P’s long-term credit rating is BBB, positive and Moody’s long-term relationships. A strong credit rating has a positive effect rating is Baa2, stable. 101 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 CHANGES IN CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY C H A N G E S I N C O N S O L I DAT E D SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUIT Y Shareholders’ equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company Share Other Translation Retained Minority Total SEK M capital reserves 1 reserve earnings Total interests equity Balance at December 31, 2014 2,554 4,128 1,537 70,106 78,325 1,723 80,048 Income for the period – – – 15,058 15,058 41 15,099 Other comprehensive income Translation differences on foreign operations – – –2,515 – –2,515 33 –2,481 Share of Other comprehensive income related to Joint Ventures and associated companies – – – 24 24 – 24 Accumulated translation differences reversed to income – – 45 – 45 – 45 Available-for-sale investments: Note 5, 19 Gains/losses at valuation to fair value – –3,837 – – –3,837 – –3,837 Change in cash ﬂow hedge reserve Note 19 – –32 – – –32 – –32 Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans Note 20 – – – 2,783 2,783 – 2,783 Other comprehensive income for the period – –3,869 –2,470 2,807 –3,533 33 –3,498 Total income for the period – –3,869 –2,470 17,865 11,527 74 11,601 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to shareholders – – – –6,090 –6,090 – –6,090 Transactions with minority interests – – – – – – – Share based payments Note 27 – – – 65 65 – 65 Changes in minority interests – – – – – – – Other changes – – – –17 –17 4 –14 Transactions with shareholders – – – –6,041 –6,041 4 –6,037 Balance at December 31, 2015 2,554 259 –933 81,930 83,810 1,801 85,610 Income for the period – – – 13,147 13,147 75 13,223 Other comprehensive income Translation differences on foreign operations – – 5,540 – 5,540 45 5,585 Share of Other comprehensive income related to Joint Ventures and associated companies – – – –97 –97 – –97 Accumulated translation differences reversed to income – – –48 – –48 – –48 Available-for-sale investments: Note 5, 19 Gains/losses at valuation to fair value – –57 – – –57 – –57 Change in cash ﬂow hedge reserve Note 19 – 68 – – 68 – 68 Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans Note 20 – – – –304 –304 – –304 Other comprehensive income for the period – 11 5,492 –401 5,102 45 5,147 Total income for the period – 11 5,492 12,746 18,250 120 18,370 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to shareholders – – – –6,093 –6,093 –206 –6,299 Transactions with minority interests – – – – Share based payments Note 27 – – – 58 58 – 58 Changes in minority interests – – – – Other changes – – – 37 37 –12 25 Transactions with shareholders – – – –5,998 –5,998 -218 –6,216 Balance at December 31, 2016 2,554 270 4,559 88,678 96,061 1,703 97,764 1 For speciﬁcation of other reserves, refer to Note 19. 102 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 THE SHARE THE SHARE Sharp rise in the share price in 2016 After a weak start to the year many of the world’s leading stock markets had a positive development in the second half and ended the year higher than they started. The price of the Volvo B share increased by 35% during the year. WHY INVEST IN VOLVO? The Volvo share is listed on the stock exchange Nasdaq Stockholm, Sweden. One A share carries one vote at Annual General • Competitive products and services Meetings and one B share carries one tenth of a vote. Dividends • Strong market positions globally are the same for both classes of shares. The Volvo share is included in a large number of indexes that • Well-invested industrial system are compiled by Dow Jones, FTSE, S&P and Nasdaq Nordic. • Lowered structural cost-level after restructuring program • Improved proﬁtability and cash ﬂow in recent years The Volvo share price increased • Improved ﬁnancial position In general, the leading stock exchanges rose during 2016. On • Good dividend yield Nasdaq Stockholm, the broad OMXSPI index rose by 9% (7). On Nasdaq Stockholm the share price for the Volvo A share rose by 32%, and at year-end the price for the Volvo A share was SEK 107.20 (80.95). The lowest price paid was SEK 72.50 on Dividend January 20, and the highest price paid was SEK 109.70 on The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 3.25 per share for the December 23. ﬁnancial year of 2016, which would mean that a total of SEK The share price for the Volvo B share rose by 35% and at year6,603 M would be transferred to AB Volvo’s shareholders. For the end the price was SEK 106.40 (79.10). The lowest price paid was preceding year a dividend of SEK 3.00 per share was paid out. SEK 71.30 on January 7 and the highest price paid was SEK 109.90 on December 15. Communication with shareholders In 2016, a total of 1.7 billion (2.1) Volvo shares at a value of SEK Dialogue with the shareholders is important for Volvo. In addition to 158 billion (203) were traded on Nasdaq Stockholm, corresponding the Annual General Meeting and a number of larger activities to a daily average of 6.9 million shares (8.4). The Volvo share was the aimed at professional investors, private shareholders and stock sixth most traded share on Nasdaq Stockholm in 2016. At year-end, market analysts, the relationship between Volvo and the stock marVolvo’s market capitalization totalled SEK 227 billion (169). ket is maintained through such events as press and telephone conAccording to Fidessa, the trading on Nasdaq Stockholm ferences in conjunction with the publication of interim reports, accounted for 38% of all the trading in the Volvo B share. Bats meetings with retail shareholders’ associations, investor meetings Europe accounted for 22%, LSE Group for 15%, BOTC for 11% and visits, as well as road shows in Europe, North America and Asia. and BOAT for 8%. On www.volvogroup.com it is possible to access ﬁnancial reports, search for information concerning the share and statistics for truck Share conversion option deliveries. It is also possible to access information concerning the In accordance with a resolution on the AGM on April 6, 2011, the Group’s governance, including information about the Annual General Articles of Association have been amended to include a converMeeting, the Board of Directors, Group Management and other sion clause, stipulating that series A shares may be converted into areas that are regulated in the “Swedish Code of Corporate Governseries B shares, after a request sent to the Board. ance.” The website also offers the possibility to subscribe to informaDuring 2016 a total of 12,956,739 A shares were converted to tion from Volvo. B shares, representing 2.6% of the A shares that were outstanding at the end of 2015. EARNINGS AND DIVIDEND PER SHARE, DIVIDEND YIELD Further information on the procedure is available on the Volvo Group’s web site: www.volvogroup.com Ownership changes 1 Proposed by the During the year Industrivärden decreased its holding of B shares Board of Directors and increased the holding of A shares. Cevian Capital increased 12 13 14 15 16 its holding of both A and B shares. At year end, Industrivärden was 5.61 1.76 1.03 7.41 6.47 the largest owner followed by Cevian Capital, Norges Bank 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.251 Investment Management, SHB and Alecta, when measured as 3.4 3.6 3.5 3.8 3.1 share of voting rights. Diluted earnings Dividend Dividend per share, SEK per share, SEK yield, % 103 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 THE SHARE PRICE TREND, VOLVO SERIES B SHARES, 2012–2016, SEK The largest shareholders in 150 AB Volvo, December 31, 20161 Voting Capital, rights, % % Industrivärden 22.6 7.0 Cevian Capital 15.3 8.4 Norges Bank 120 Investment Management 6.1 4.8 SHB 5.1 1.6 Alecta 4.6 4.1 1 Adjusted for shares owned by AB Volvo, which carry no voting rights at the AGM. 90 AB Volvo held 20,728,135 class A shares and 76,250,400 class B shares comprising in total 4.6% of the number of registered shares on December 31, 2016. Source: SIX Share capital, December 31, 2016 60 12 13 14 15 16 Registered number Volvo B OMX Stockholm PI Index OMX Stockholm Industrial Goods & Services of shares1 2,128,420,220 of which, Series A shares2 492,525,221 of which, Series B PRICE TREND, VOLVO SERIES B SHARES, shares3 1,635,894,999 2016, SEK Quota value, SEK 1.20 110 Share capital, SEK M 2,554 Number of shareholders 237,654 100 Private persons 223,445 Legal entities 14,209 For further details on the Volvo share, see 90 Note 19. 1 The number of outstanding shares was 2,031,441,685 on December 31, 2016. 80 2 Series A shares carry one vote each. 3 Series B shares carry one tenth of a vote each. 70 Source: SIX 60 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Volvo B OMX Stockholm PI Index OMX Stockholm Industrial Goods & Services OWNERSHIP BY COUNTRY1 OWNERSHIP CATEGORIES1 Sweden 60% More details on the The US 13% Volvo share and Volvo’s Non-Swedish owners 40% Malta 8% holding of treasury The UK 7% Other Swedish insitutions 33% shares are provided in Luxembourg 4% Swedish private shareholders 11% Note 19 to the ﬁnancial Belgium 1% Swedish mutual funds 16% statements and in the Others 7% Eleven-year summary. 1 Share of capital, registered shares. 1 Share of capital, registered shares. The employees’ ownership of shares in Volvo through pension foundations is insigniﬁcant. 104 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 THE SHARE FTSE GROUP CONFIRMS that Volvo Volvo Group did not qualify for the Group has been independently assessed Dow Jones Sustainability Index in 2016. according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has One of the main reasons was the satisﬁed the requirements to become a concompetition investigation made by the stituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. European Commission of Volvo Group Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series and a number of other companies in the have met stringent environmental, social and truck industry. governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the beneﬁts of responsible business practice. SHAREHOLDER VALUE – LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION The Volvo Group strives to create long-term value for its shareSEK 1,000 invested in Volvo B shares on December 30, holders. 1982, was worth SEK 81,870 at the end of 2016. The Volvo Group’s origins can be traced to 1927, when the ﬁrst serial produced Volvo car rolled out of the factory in SEK 1,000 Göteborg, Sweden. The ﬁrst serial produced truck saw the light of day in 1928 and was an immediate success. In 1935, 1982 SEK 81,870 AB Volvo was listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. The graph shows the total return for the Volvo B share, measured as the share price development with all dividends re-invested, since December 30, 1982, which is as far back as the comparison index, SIX Return Index, stretches. SIX Return Index measures the total return for the Stockholm Stock Exchange as whole. The graph shows that SEK 1,000 invested in the Volvo B-share in 1982 had grown to SEK 81,870 at the end of 2016 2016, under the condition that all dividends have been reinvested in Volvo B shares. ACCUMULATED TOTAL RETURN OF THE VOLVO B SHARE % 9,000 7,500 6,000 +8,087% 4,500 3,000 1,500 0 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2016 Volvo B Total return (including reinvested dividends) SIX Return Index (including reinvested dividends) Source: SIX 105 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES R I S K S A N D U N C E R TA I N T I E S Managed risk-taking All business operations involve risks – managed risk-taking is a condition of maintaining a sustained favorable proﬁtability. Uncertainties may be due to events in the world and can affect The Volvo Group’s risk management industries and markets and thus have an impact on the Volvo Volvo Group is working with enterprise risk management (ERM), Group’s aspirations, vision and mission. These uncertainties may which is a systematic and structured process to assess, report, anaprovide opportunities that the Volvo Group tries to capture in its lyze, mitigate and follow-up the risks that might impact the Group’s strategy. In some cases, the Group can inﬂuence the likelihood values, aspirations, vision and mission. The objective of ERM is to and impact that a risk-related event will occur. In other cases, improve business performance and optimize the cost of managing when such events are beyond the Group’s control, the Group risks; i.e. creating, enhancing and protecting the Group’s enterprise strives to minimize the impact. A number of the risks that the Volvo value as well as enhancing and protecting the Group’s assets. Group is facing are presented on the following pages. DEFINITIONS MANAGEMENT RISK DRIVERS STRATEGIC Strategic risks may affect our Strategic risks are managed • Governance RISKS ability to create value, the longthrough strategic business • Strategy & Strategic Create value term development of the busidecisions by executive plans, including Product Long-term ness and our possibility to reach management teams throughplans our vision and aspirations. out Volvo Group. • Mergers, Acquisitions & Divestments • Communication & Investor Relations OPERATIONAL Operational risks may affect our Operational risks are • Product Development RISKS ability to enhance value and are managed through tactical • Service Development Enhance value important for the daily business and operational businesses • End Customer Finance while delivering our mission and decisions as well as in Development living up to our aspirations. operations in all businesses • Sales & Marketing throughout Volvo Group on • Production all levels, by all employees. • Procurement • HR & Culture • Information Technology • Force Majeure • Property assets Shortand COMPLIANCE Compliance risks may affect our Compliance risks are man• Laws & Regulations mediumRISKS ability to protect value through aged through tactical and • Steering documents term Protect value threats posed to our organizaoperational business deci• Business ethics tion’s ﬁnancial, organizational, sions and operations regardor reputational standing. They ing compliance to rules and may affect Volvo Group’s ability regulations in all business to live by our values. throughout Volvo Group on all levels, by all employees. FINANCIAL Financial risks may affect our Financial risks are managed • Financial markets RISKS ability to enhance and protect through tactical and opera• Liquidity and Credit Enhance & values from potential effects on tional business decisions • Accounting & Reporting the Group’s ﬁnancial position. in all business throughout • Tax protect value They may affect the Volvo Volvo Group on all levels, • Capital Structure Group’s ability to live by our valby all employees. • Estimate ues or to fulﬁll our aspirations. 106 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Assess & Report Enterprise Integrated in ERM there are several risk management processes Follow-up Risk Analyze Management active within Volvo Group to cover speciﬁc topics such as pro(ERM) jects, suppliers, environment and Business Continuity. These processes report on a materiality level to ERM via the Business Areas, Truck Divisions and Group Functions. ERM compiles all relevant data and analyzes where there are systematic risks or Mitigate gaps in risk mitigation. Ownership of risk mitigation resides within ERM responsibility the business while ERM follow-up on the progress. Business responsibility R I S K M A N A G E M E N T I N V O LV O G R O U P GOVERNANCE MODEL AB Volvo Board of Directors Audit Committee Executive Board Corporate Audit Audit plans are based on Internal Control a common Quality & Environment Audit risk picture Risk analysis ERM Committee and follow-up Mitigate risk drivers on • S&OP meeting Group Trucks • Quality Board level • Product Board Mitigate risk drivers Truck Divisions Volvo Group Functions on Truck Division/ Business Area Business Review Meetings Management Teams Management Team Business Area/ Group Function level Assess, Volvo manage and Group Trucks Technology Volvo Trucks Renault Trucks Mack Trucks Group Functions report risks Group Trucks Volvo Construction Group Trucks Operations UD Trucks Asia & JV:s Equipment Group Trucks Purchasing Volvo Penta Volvo Buses Governmental Sales Volvo Financial Services Strategic risks Operational risks Compliance risks Financial risks 107 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES S T R AT E G I C R I S K S Intense competition Continued consolidation in the industry is expected to create For a large global company such as Volvo Group, navigating through fewer but stronger competitors. The major global competitors are the political, economic and societal trends is important and crucial Daimler, Volkswagen (Scania and MAN), Paccar (Kenworth, DAF to deﬁne our place in the global context of markets and competiand Peterbuilt), Caterpillar and Komatsu. There are also strong tors. From a Volvo Group perspective, there are a number of trends local brands, for example in China, India and Russia, active in their and challenges driving our work to develop and deliver sustainable domestic markets, which are expected to increase their presence transport and infrastructure solutions today and tomorrow. in other parts of the world. Strategic risks may affect our ability to create value, long-term Further, overcapacity within the industry can occur if there is a development of the business and our possibility to reach our lack of demand, potentially leading to increased price pressure. vision and aspirations. Proactive risk management is important to anticipate and protect Volvo Group’s brands’ market positions. Together across the Group, Cyclical commercial vehicles industry bundling attractive market offers directed to our customers creThe Volvo Group’s customers operate all over the world, some ates long-term customer success. within a single state, and others across borders. A multitude of global and regional economic, regulatory, digital, technological and Extensive government regulation environmental factors create strategic as well as operational chalRegulations regarding exhaust emission levels, noise, safety and lenges for the industry. Like many capital industries, the commerlevels of pollutants from production plants are extensive within the cial vehicle industry generally has been cyclical, with a strong corindustry. relation to GDP, aging of vehicles and machines, and laws and Most of the regulatory challenges regarding products relate to regulations. Given the continued shift in focus in the commercial reduced engine emissions. The Volvo Group is a leading company vehicle industry from product to service, the cyclicality remains in the commercial vehicle industry and one of the world’s largest while the volatility in sales and proﬁtability may become more difﬁproducers of heavy-duty diesel engines. The product developcult to predict. The changing business landscape as well as the ment capacity within the Volvo Group is well consolidated to be divergence between emerging and developed markets, inﬂuences able to focus resources for research and development to meet demand for our customers’ services and our customers’ success. tougher emission regulations. Future product regulations are The ﬂuctuating demand for the Group’s products and services known and the product development strategy is tuned to the makes the ﬁnancial result of the operations dependent on the introduction of new regulations. Group’s ability to react quickly to market changes. In particular, the Local protectionism leading to changes to local content requireVolvo Group strives to continually balance production levels and ments can put the Volvo Group at a disadvantage compared to operating expenses, as well as enhance business agility in fulﬁlling local competitors, cause increased sourcing costs or require demands for new services. Volvo to make signiﬁcant investments not necessary from an operational point of view. Geopolitical instability The Volvo Group is active in more than 190 countries and political Change in technology instability, armed conﬂicts and civil unrest may impact Volvo’s As part of the global automotive and logistics industry the Volvo ability to trade in affected areas. Rapid change in inﬂation, devalGroup is driving prosperity for society and for our customers. uations or regulations can sustain Volvo signiﬁcant losses, impairWhile shaping offerings to improve our customers’ productivity and ment of assets or costs due to underutilized assets. proﬁtability we are taking changes which emerge through new technological breakthroughs and legislatory changes into account. As any company the Volvo Group has limited resources and we must at all times select and invest into such new technologies we believe provide the best prosperity for the society and for our customers. The Volvo Group approach to prevent the associated risks is to continuously scan and assess new technologies and only bring those new technologies to product development and commercialization that have proven levels of desired customer beneﬁt, quality, safety and environmental impact. 108 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES O P E R AT I O N A L R I S K S and components can vary signiﬁcantly over a business cycle. Cost variations may be caused by changes in world market prices For Volvo Group, steering the tactical and operational work is for raw materials or by an inability of our suppliers to deliver. crucial to reach our aspirations in terms of customer satisfaction, An increase in demand could potentially result in delivery disturbadmired employer and leading proﬁtability. ances due to suppliers’ ﬁnancial instability or shortage of To enhance business value, all decisions and operations are resources. Uncertainty regarding customers’ access to ﬁnancing based on knowledge regarding short and medium term operational of products in emerging markets might have a negative impact on risks. These risks are actively managed throughout the Volvo Group demand. in accordance with our governance model. Operational risks may affect our ability to create value, which Operation of plants means that knowledge of these are important for the daily business. For Volvo Group the industrial system is crucial in providing customers with the right products at the right time. It is a large Customer satisfaction operation with machines and human beings having to interact in Top priority for Volvo Group is to support the customers’ businesses an efﬁcient and timely manner in relation to volatility in production and proﬁtability in order for them to succeed, regardless of segvolumes. Interruptions or inefﬁciencies in the system can have a ment, brand, product or service. Customer satisfaction is reliant negative impact. Here risk management is crucial to foresee and on the total offer of products, services or features on new or used prevent possible stops in production, injuries on personnel as well vehicles. The satisfaction is at risk if the quality of a product or as ensuring the correct handling of materials and chemicals, etc. service is not at the expected level and price point. An aspect is There is a large number of instructions on how to perform differalso how the customer is met in all interactions with the brands in ent tasks to avoid implications, as well as audits and assessments the Volvo Group, from person to person interactions at retailer or performed to ensure that the instructions are followed. workshop level, to searching for information on a web page or in calling an assistance service. To prevent possible risks, all staff at Risk related to human capital retailers and workshops are continuously trained and provided Employees and other stakeholder expectations are changing with instructions or guidelines on how to interact with their cusquickly, which requires a stronger focus on several different aspects: tomers. Also web pages are aligned, positioned and developed leadership, empowerment, engagement, and human rights and towards the brand’s targeted customers. company values. Our failure in doing the right things according to basic human rights and company values can negatively impact Product development our image as an employer, Volvo Group’s reputation, and the abilFor Volvo Group our products are a key part of the total offer to our ity of our employees to develop the knowledge and skills necescustomers. The Group could be at risk of losing customers and sary to satisfy market demands. Risk management incorporates market shares if not developing products to new legislations on the monitoring of changing legislation and securing the availabiltime or not providing products fulﬁlling customer expectations. ity of properly skilled and engaged employees. Our diversity is the Each development project monitors risks regarding project and basis upon which our strength depends to be a successful multiproduct quality and cost, project lead time and product features. national company. By executing the Volvo Group Attitude Survey To ensure that product development is executed in an efﬁcient way and driving employee dialogues, we build an inclusive leadership. the Group has implemented a project gate model, governance The human resource strategy embraces a ﬂexible workforce and model as well as global processes and instructions to monitor agile organization in order to constantly adapt to an increasingly project execution and balance project and product portfolio. dynamic, complex and uncertain environment. Reliance on suppliers Residual value commitments The Volvo Group purchases raw materials, parts and components When selling products the Volvo Group at times enters into resifrom numerous external suppliers. A signiﬁcant part of the dual value commitments. Predicting future development of used Group’s requirements for raw materials and supplies is ﬁlled by truck prices can be challenging, for example when introducing single-source suppliers. The effects of delivery interruptions vary new models or when large swings in demand occur. At the time of depending on the item or component. Certain items and compothe sale the future evolution of the used commercial vehicle nents are standard throughout the industry, whereas others are market and equipment market may be uncertain, potentially leadinternally developed and require unique tools that are timeing to too high commitments, impacting the future proﬁtability. consuming to replace. The Volvo Group’s costs for raw materials Diligent analysis is performed prior to entering into residual value commitments. 109 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES COMPLIANCE RISKS Contractual conditions related to takeover bids Provisions stipulating that an agreement can be changed or termiIn its operations the Volvo Group is obliged to follow a number of nated if the control of the company is changed are included in laws and regulations and has made the conscious decision to some of the agreements whereby Renault Trucks has been given comply with global standards. Additionally, the reputation for the right to sell Renault s.a.s.’ and Nissan Motor Co. Ltd’s light-duty being a company that has legal compliance, business ethics, trucks as well as in some of the Group’s purchasing agreements. integrity and corporate social responsibility is high on the agenda and set internal demands on the business. These requirements Complaints and legal actions are implemented by Group-wide policies. The Volvo Group may be the target of complaints and legal actions Compliance risks may affect our ability to protect value through initiated by customers, employees and other third parties alleging threats posed to the Group’s reputation or ﬁnancial position. health, environmental, safety or business related issues, or failure to comply with applicable legislation and regulations. Information Intangible assets about legal proceedings involving entities within the Volvo Group The Volvo Group owns or otherwise has rights to patents, tradeare found in Note 21 Other Provisions and in Note 24 Contingent marks, designs and copyrights that relate to the products and Liabilities. Even if such disputes are resolved successfully, without services that the Group manufactures and markets. These rights having adverse consequences ﬁnancially or on our values, they have been developed or acquired over a number of years and are could negatively impact the Group’s reputation and take up valuable to the operations of the Volvo Group. Further, in order to resources that could be used for other purposes. safeguard investments in R&D, the Volvo Group has an intellectual property plan deﬁning the creation and use of its intellectual Environmental property rights. The Volvo Group could be at risk for complaints and legal actions AB Volvo and Volvo Car Corporation jointly own the Volvo brand initiated by customers, employees and other third parties alleging and trademarks through Volvo Trademark Holding AB. AB Volvo environmental related issues. Environmental legislation is fast has the exclusive right to use the Volvo name and trademark for changing and there are increased demands in many areas, for its products and services. Similarly, Volvo Car Corporation has the instance chemical management as well as on emission standards exclusive right to use the Volvo name and trademark for its prodfor the vehicles themselves. The Group invests a great deal of ucts and services. The Volvo Group’s rights to use the Renault resources to adhere to different legislation throughout the entire brand and trademarks are related to the truck operations only and value chain. Recent developments in international standards in are regulated by a license from Renault s.a.s., which owns the environmental and quality management are further emphasizing Renault brand and trademarks. In addition, the Volvo Group owns the need for risk management in these areas. Even if potential several other trademarks relating to its business. problems in these areas are resolved and handled without adverse Use in conﬂict with intellectual property rights may have signifimpact ﬁnancially or on our values, they could have a negative icant business impact on the Group. Therefore, the Volvo Group is impact on Group reputation and divert resources that would have continually assessing intellectual property rights of third parties been brought to better use in the Group’s development. as well as possible infringements by third parties of the Group’s intellectual property rights. 110 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FINANCIAL RISKS Credit risk There are three main areas of credit risk for the Volvo Group. For the Volvo Group steering and monitoring the operational and Firstly, within its Industrial Operations the Group sells products compliance aspects of ﬁnancial risk is important. Group-wide with open credits to customers and issues credit guarantees for policies, which are updated and decided upon annually, form the customers’ commercial vehicles and equipment. The majority of basis of each Group company’s management of these operational the outstanding credit guarantees at year-end relates to Chinese and compliance ﬁnancial risks. retail customers within Construction Equipment. Secondly, the Financial risks may affect our ability to enhance and protect customer-ﬁnancing activity in Volvo Financial Services manages value from potential effects on the Group’s ﬁnancial position. a signiﬁcant credit portfolio, equivalent to SEK 130 billion at yearThey may affect the Volvo Group’s ability to live by our values or to end 2016. The portfolio is largely secured by the title to the fulﬁll our aspirations. ﬁnanced commercial vehicles and equipment. However, in the case of customer default, the value of the repossessed commerInterest rate risk cial vehicles and equipment may not necessarily cover the outVolvo Group’s debt structure is connected to the aspiration to standing ﬁnanced amount. Lastly, a part of the Group’s credit risk have industry-leading proﬁtability. Movements in interest-rate is related to the investment of the ﬁnancial assets of the Group. levels may impact the Group’s net income and cash ﬂow or the The majority has been invested in interest-bearing securities value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. Financial Services funding issued by Swedish real estate ﬁnancing institutions or deposited and lending shall be matched to mitigate undesired volatility in with the banks the Group is working with. proﬁtability due to interest-rate risk. The Industrial Operations’ interest-rate ﬁxing is kept short, to leverage on the countercycliMarket risk from investments in shares cal relationship of interest-rate movements. or similar instruments The Volvo Group has invested in listed shares with a direct Currency risk exposure to the capital markets. The majority of this exposure The Volvo Group’s global presence means that business is conrelates to the investments in Deutz AG and Inner Mongolia North ducted in many different regions. More than 95% of the net sales Hauler Joint Stock Co., Ltd. Please see Note 5 for further inforof the Volvo Group are generated in countries other than Sweden. mation. Furthermore, the Volvo Group is indirectly exposed to A majority of the Group’s costs also stem from countries other market risks from shares and other similar instruments as a result than Sweden. As such the Volvo Group’s cash ﬂow and proﬁtabilof capital in independent pension plans with asset management ity is impacted by uncertainties in foreign exchange rates which with exposure to these types of instruments. Please see Note 20 impact the Volvo Group’s operating income, balance sheet and for further information. cash ﬂow, as well as an indirect impact over time on Volvo’s competitiveness. The Volvo Group strives to have manufacturing Impairment located in the major markets which offsets structural currency The Volvo Group veriﬁes annually, or more frequently if necessary, exposures, and actively manages currency ﬂows and translation the goodwill value and other intangible assets upon indication for risk to reduce the impact on proﬁtability and cash ﬂow. possible impairment. The size of the surplus value differs between the business areas and they are, to a varying degree, sensitive to Liquidity risk changes in the business environment. Instability in the business The Volvo Group needs to ensure that it has adequate payment recovery and volatility in interest and currency rates may lead to capabilities over time, in order to capture both business opportuindications of impairment. For further information on intangible nities and expectations from external stakeholders. Sudden assets, see Note 12. changes in the business cycle, or unforeseen events within the ﬁnancial markets can affect the Volvo Group both in a direct or Change of control clauses indirect way. Our customers can experience difﬁculties in ﬁnancSome of Volvo Group’s long-term loan agreements contain condiing products bought from the Volvo Group, our suppliers can face tions stipulating the right for a bondholder to request repayment challenges in assuring their delivery of components to the Volvo in advance under certain conditions following a change of the Group production, and the Volvo Group can face challenges in control of the company. These clauses are not unusual in loan delivering accordning to expectations from other external stakeagreements. In AB Volvo’s opinion it has been necessary to holders. accept those conditions in order to receive ﬁnancing on otherwise The Volvo Group ensures sound ﬁnancial preparedness by acceptable terms. always keeping a certain percent of its sales in liquid assets. A sound balance between short and long term debt maturities as well as long-term committed credit facilities and cash, are intended to secure liquidity preparedness and thus the Volvo Group’s payment capability. 111 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 Note FINANCIAL STATEMENTS sttatement Income statements t ts Balance Ballance sh sheet heett Cash ﬂ h ﬂow t tementt stat statement Changes Change C consolid i consolidated s in lidattedd shar sharePage 80 Page 83 Page 86 holders’ equity Page 102 NOTES PAGE NOTE THE VOLVO GROUP PAGE NOTE PARENT COMPANY PAGE Notes to ﬁnancial statements 113 1 Accounting policies 113 1 Accounting policies 164 Parent Company AB Volvo 160 2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty 115 2 Intra-Group transactions 164 Proposed policy for remuneration 188 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in 116 3 Administrative expenses 164 to senior executives subsidiaries 4 Other operating income 164 Proposed disposition of 189 4 Goals and policies in ﬁnancial 118 and expenses unappropriated earnings risk management 5 Income from investments 165 Audit report for AB Volvo 190 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated com124 in Group companies panies and other shares and participations Eleven-year summary 193 6 Income from investments 165 6 Segment reporting 127 in joint ventures and associated companies 7 Revenue 128 7 Income from other investments 165 8 Other operating income and expenses 129 8 Interest expenses 165 9 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses 129 9 Other ﬁnancial income 165 and expenses 10 Income taxes 130 10 Allocations 165 11 Minority interests 131 11 Income taxes 165 12 Intangible assets 132 12 Intangible and tangible assets 166 13 Tangible assets 134 13 Investments in shares 166 14 Leasing 136 and participations 15 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables 137 14 Other receivables 168 16 Receivables 138 15 Untaxed reserves 168 17 Inventories 139 16 Provisions for post168 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds 140 employment beneﬁts 19 Equity and number of shares 140 17 Other provisions 169 20 Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts 141 18 Non-current liabilities 169 21 Other provisions 146 19 Other liabilities 169 22 Liabilities 148 20 Contingent liabilities 169 23 Assets pledged 149 21 Cash ﬂow 169 24 Contingent liabilities 150 25 Transactions with related parties 151 26 Government grants 151 27 Personnel 152 28 Fees to the auditors 155 Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise speciﬁed. The amounts within parentheses refer 29 Cash ﬂow 155 to the preceding year, 2015. 30 Financial instruments 156 112 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Notes to Financial Statements Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise speciﬁed. The amounts within parentheses refer to the preceding year, 2015. NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The consolidated ﬁnancial statements for AB Volvo and its subsidiaries How should the Volvo Group’s accounting policies be read? have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The Volvo Group describes the accounting policies in conjunction Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board with each note in the aim of providing enhanced understanding of each (IASB), as adopted by the European Union, EU. This Annual Report is accounting area. The Volvo Group focuses on describing the accounting prepared in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements choices made within the framework of the prevailing IFRS policy and avoids and with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. In addition, RFR 1 Supplerepeating the actual text of the standard, unless the Volvo Group considers mentary Rules for Groups, has been applied, which is issued by the Swedit particularly important to the understanding of the note’s content. The folish Financial Reporting Board. lowing symbols I/S and B/S show which amounts in the notes that can be found in the income statement or balance sheet. The total amount in tables and statements might not always summarize as there are rounding differences. The aim is to have each line item corresponding to the source and it might therefore be rounding differences in the total. Refer to the table below to see the note in which each accounting policy is listed and for the relevant and material IFRS standard. Accounting principle Note IFRS-standard Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries IFRS 5, IFRS 13 operations Business combinations 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries IFRS 3 Joint ventures 5, Investments in joint ventures, associated companies and IFRS 11, IAS 28, IFRS 12 other shares and participations Associated companies 5, Investments in joint ventures, associated companies and IAS 28, IFRS 12 other shares and participations Operating segments 6, Segment reporting IFRS 8 Revenue 7, Revenue IAS 17, IAS 18 Shares and participations 5, Investments in joint ventures, associated companies IAS 28, IAS 32, IAS 36, IAS 39, IFRS 7, and other shares and participations IFRS 13 Financial income and expenses 9, Other ﬁnancial income and expenses IAS 39 Income taxes 10, Income taxes IAS 12 Minority interests 11, Minority interests IFRS 10, IFRS 12 Research and development expenses 12, Intangible assets IAS 36, IAS 38, IAS 23 Goodwill 12, Intangible assets IAS 36, IAS 38 Tangible assets 13, Tangible assets IAS 16, IAS 36, IAS 40, IFRS 13, IAS 23 Leasing 14, Leasing IAS 17 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables 15, Customer-ﬁnancing receivables IAS 17, IAS 18, IAS 32, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 13 Inventories 17, Inventories IAS 2 Earnings per share 19, Equity and number of shares IAS 33 Pensions and similar obligations 20, Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts IAS 19 Provisions for residual value risks 21, Other provisions IAS 17, IAS 18, IAS 37 Warranty expenses 21, Other provisions IAS 37 Restructuring costs 21, Other provisions IAS 37, IAS 19 Liabilities 22, Liabilities IAS 32, IAS 37, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 13 Contingent liabilities 24, Contingent liabilities IAS 37 Transactions with related parties 25, Transactions with related parties IAS 24 Government grants 26, Government grants IAS 20 Share-based payments 27, Personnel IFRS 2 Cash-ﬂow statement 29, Cash ﬂow IAS 7 Financial instruments 4, Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management IAS 32, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 13 16, Receivables 18, Marketable securities and liquid funds 30, Financial instruments 113 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Consolidated ﬁnancial statements New accounting policies for 2016 There are no new accounting principles and interpretations that came into Principles for consolidation effect as of January 1, 2016 that signiﬁcantly effects the Volvo Group’s The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the parent company, subﬁnancial statements. sidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies. Intra-group transactions as well as gains on transactions with joint ventures and associated New accounting policies for 2017 and later companies are eliminated in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. A number of accounting standards and interpretations have been published, but have not yet become effective. Read more in Note 5 about deﬁnitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associated companies. IFRS 9 Financial instruments Translation to Swedish kronor when consolidating companies have other IFRS 9 is divided in three parts: Classiﬁcation and Measurement, Imfunctional currencies pairment and Hedge Accounting, and will replace the current IAS 39 The functional currency of each Volvo Group company is determined Financial instruments: recognition and measurement. The Volvo Group is based on the currency in which the company primarily generates and currently assessing the effect of IFRS 9. The major impact from the transiexpends cash, normally the currency of the country where the company is tion is related to the new expected credit loss model. The new requirelocated. AB Volvo’s and the Volvo Group’s presentation currency is SEK. In ments are designed to result in earlier recognition of credit losses and is preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, items in the income more forward looking than the now applied incurred loss model. Although statements of foreign subsidiaries (except for subsidiaries in hyperinﬂationthe model is forward looking, historical data is an important base from ary economies) are translated to SEK using monthly average exchange which to measure expected credit losses. However, historical data should rates. Balance sheet items are translated into SEK using exchange rates be adjusted based on current data to reﬂect current conditions and foreat year end (closing rate). Exchange differences are recognized in other casts on future conditions. A preliminary assessment indicates a negative comprehensive income and accumulated in equity. impact on shareholders’ equity at the transition date. Volvo Group will The accumulated translation differences related to a certain subsidiary, apply the simpliﬁed approach when measuring the loss allowance at an joint venture or associated company are reversed to the income statement amount equal to lifetime expected credit loss on ﬁnancial assets within as a part of the gain/loss arising from disposal of such a company or Financial Services and accounts receivables within Industrial Operations. repayment of capital contribution from such a company. The mandatory effective date is January 1, 2018, with earlier application allowed. IFRS 9 Financial instruments is endorsed by the EU. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency Receivables and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers of the reporting entity (foreign currencies) are translated to the functional IFRS 15 represents a new framework for recognizing revenue from extercurrency using the closing rate. Translation differences on operating nal customers with additional disclosure requirements. The framework assets and liabilities are recognized in operating income, while translation establish principles about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty for differences arising in ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are recognized in revenue and cash ﬂow arising from an entity’s contracts with customer. ﬁnancial income and expenses. Interest-bearing ﬁnancial assets and IFRS 15 will replace current IAS 11 Construction contracts, IAS 18 Revliabilities are deﬁned as items included in the net ﬁnancial position of the enue and the related interpretations IFRIC 13, 15, 18 and SIC-31. Volvo Group (see Deﬁnitions at the end of this report). Exchange rate difThe Volvo Group has assessed the impact of IFRS 15 and the major ferences on loans and other ﬁnancial instruments in foreign currency, change to the current revenue recognition model is for sales transactions which are used to hedge net assets in foreign subsidiaries and associated of vehicles with residual value commitments, e.g. buy-backs and tradecompanies, are offset against translation differences in the shareholders’ backs, and the assessment if control has been transferred from Volvo to equity of the respective companies. Exchange rate gains and losses on the customer. The criteria of transferring control is based on if the cusassets and liabilities in foreign currencies, both on payments during the tomer has a signiﬁcant economic incentive to exercise the residual value year and on measurements at year end, impact proﬁt or loss in the year in commitment or not. which they are incurred. If the customer is considered to have a signiﬁcant economic incentive to exercise the residual value commitment to return the vehicle, revenue Read more in Note 4 about currency exposure and currency risk management. will be recognized over the contract period in accordance with the operating lease model. Various factors will be assessed when considering if The most important exchange rates applied in the consolidated ﬁnancial signiﬁcant economic incentives exists, such as repurchase price in relastatements are shown in the table. tion to the expected market value at the date of the repurchase and historical return rates. This is new criterias compared with the current reveClosing rate nue recognition model, were the residual value is compared with the sales Exchange rates Average rate as of Dec 31 price. The accounting model will not change, however the criterias for Country Currency 2016 2015 2016 2015 when to apply the operating lease model will be different. If the customer is not considered to have a signiﬁcant economic incenAustralia AUD 6.3743 6.3377 6.5688 6.0861 tive to exercise the residual value commitment to return the vehicle, the Brazil BRL 2.4777 2.5643 2.7950 2.1596 revenue will be recognized in accordance with the right of return model. Euro Zone EUR 9.4801 9.3638 9.5762 9.1443 Hence, a major portion of revenue and margin will be recognized at incepJapan JPY 0.0791 0.0697 0.0778 0.0694 tion of the contract. A refund liability and an asset related to the right to Canada CAD 6.4697 6.6054 6.7472 6.0293 recover the vehicle from the customer on settling the refund liability will be China CNY 1.2878 1.3424 1.3091 1.2868 recognized in the balance sheet. This is a change under IFRS 15 comNorway NOK 1.0212 1.0469 1.0550 0.9567 pared to the current model, where full revenues are recognized at the Great Britain GBP 11.5680 12.9042 11.1850 12.3848 inception of the contract with an off balance sheet commitment. South Africa ZAR 0.5859 0.6641 0.6675 0.5433 The consequence for Volvo Group with the two models related to residual South Korea KRW 0.0074 0.0075 0.0076 0.0071 value commitments is a later recognition of revenue when the customer United States USD 8.5630 8.4370 9.0984 8.3537 does not have signiﬁcant economic incentive to exercise the repurchase option (right of return model). 114 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES The Volvo Group recognizes revenue from service contract over time recognized on the balance sheet. For the Volvo Group this means that for based on incurred costs. The revenue recognition model for service conexample all rental contracts for real estate, company cars and other major tracts will not change based on the implementation of IFRS 15. items will be recognized on the balance sheet. The model reﬂects that, at The additional disclosure requirements will as from 2018 be presented the start of a lease, the lessee obtains the right to use an asset for a in the note for Segment reporting and the note for Revenue in accordance period of time and has an obligation to pay for that right. The right to use with the new standard. The disclosures will focus mainly on describing the asset and the lease liability will be recognized at the present value of performance obligations and the timing for recognizing revenue for differfuture rental payment. Future focus will be on separating service compoent revenue streams. nents from the lease contract, as services will continuously be recognized The standard is effective from January 1, 2018. The new standard will as an expense. be applied retrospectively, and hence the closing balance for 2016 will be The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after adjusted in accordance with the new standard and the reported numbers January 1, 2019. Applying the new lease accounting for lessees will for 2017 will be restated accordingly for comparison reasons. increase the balance sheet but will also have a positive impact on operating IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is endorsed by the EU. income compared to today, as a part of the lease payments will be recognized as interest expense. Implementing IFRS 16 will also lead to an IFRS 16 Leases increase in interest-bearing liabilities. IFRS 16 Leases was published in January 2016 and is replacing the IFRS 16 Leases have not yet been endorsed by the EU when this former IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and Annual Report is published. SIC-27. IFRS 16 will not imply any signiﬁcant changes to lessor accountOther new or revised accounting standards are not considered to have ing but lessee accounting will change. For a lessee, lease contracts will be a material impact on the Volvo Groups’s ﬁnancial statements. NOTE 2 KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The Volvo Group’s most signiﬁcant accounting policies are described Source of estimation uncertainty Note together with the applicable note. Read more in Note 1, Accounting Policies for a speciﬁcation. The preparation of AB Volvo’s Consolidated Buy-back agreements and residual value Financial Statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that guarantees 7, Revenue may affect the recognized amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of Deferred taxes 10, Income taxes the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, the recognized amounts of net sales Impairment of goodwill and other intangible and expenses during the periods presented are affected. In preparing these assets 12, Intangible assets ﬁnancial statements, management has made its best judgments of cerImpairment of tangible assets 13, Tangible assets tain amounts included in the ﬁnancial statements, materiality taken into Credit loss reserves 15, Customer-ﬁnancing receivables account. Actual results may differ from previously made estimates. In 16, Receivables accordance with IAS 1, the company is required to disclose the assumpInventory obsolescence 17, Inventories tions and other major sources of estimation uncertainties that, if actual Assumptions when calculating pensions and 20, Provisions for postresults differ, may have a material impact on the ﬁnancial statements. other post-employment beneﬁts employment beneﬁts Product warranty costs 21, Other provisions Provision for externally issued credit guarantees ! The sources of uncertainty which has been identiﬁed by the Volvo Group and which are considered to fulﬁll these criteria are prefor Construction Equipment in China Provisions for extended coverage and 21, Other provisions sented in connection to the items considered to be affected. The table service contracts 21, Other provisions discloses where to ﬁnd these descriptions. Legal proceedings 21, Other provisions Residual value risks 21, Other provisions 115 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 3 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS OF SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations ACCOUNTING POLICY In a global group like the Volvo Group, processes are continuously ongoing regarding the sale of assets or groups of assets at minor values. When the Recognition of business combinations criteria for being classiﬁed as a non-current asset held for sale are fulﬁlled All business combinations are recognized in accordance with the purchase and the asset or group of assets are of signiﬁcant value, the asset or group method. Volvo Group measures acquired identiﬁable assets, tangible and of assets, both current and non-current, and the related liabilities are recintangible, and liabilities at fair value. Any surplus amount from the ognized on a separate line in the balance sheet. The asset or group of purchase price, possible minority interests and fair value of previously assets are measured at the lower of it’s carrying amount and fair value held equity interests at the acquisition date compared to the Volvo Group’s after deductions for selling expenses. The balance sheet items and the share of acquired net assets is recognized as goodwill. Any deﬁcit amount, potential income effect resulting from the revaluation to fair value less sellknown as negative goodwill, is recognized in the income statement. ing expenses are normally recognized in the segment Group functions & In step acquisitions, a business combination occurs only on the date Other, until the sale is completed and the result is distributed to the relecontrol is achieved, which is also the time when goodwill is calculated. vant segments. Transactions with the minority are recognized as equity as long as control of the subsidiary is retained. For each business combination, the Volvo Group decides whether the minority interest shall be valued at fair value or at the AB Volvo’s holding of shares in subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 minority interest’s proportionate share of the net assets of the acquiree. All is disclosed in Note 13 for the Parent Company. Signiﬁcant acquisitions, acquisition-related costs are expensed. Companies acquired during the formations and divestments within the Group are listed below. year are consolidated as of the date of acquisition. Companies that have been divested are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements up to Business combinations during the period and including the date of the divestment. The Volvo Group has not made any acquisitions of subsidiaries during 2016, which solely or jointly have had a signiﬁcant impact on the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial statements. For the comparative year 2015 the Volvo Group has not made any acquisitions of subsidiaries. 116 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Divestments Assets and liabilities held for sale External IT operation As of December 31, 2016, the Volvo Group recognized assets amounting Volvo Group completed the sale of the external IT operation and outto SEK 525 M and liabilities amounting to SEK 148 M as assets and sourced the IT infrastructure during 2016. The divestment resulted in a liabilities held for sale, mainly pertaining to planned dealer divestments. positive effect on operating income and net ﬁnancial debt of SEK 885 M. For the comparative year 2015, the Volvo Group recognized assets The Volvo Group has not made any other divestments during 2016, amounting to SEK 3,314 M and liabilities amounting to SEK 573 M as which solely or jointly have had a signiﬁcant impact on the Volvo Group’s assets and liabilities held for sale. Those mainly pertained to the planned ﬁnancial statements. As of January 2016, divestment of operations with divestment of the North American used truck business, Arrow Truck the main purpose to dispose ﬁxed assets is treated as disposal of ﬁxed Sales. The assets and liabilities held for sale also included the planned assets. For clariﬁcation of effect in the cash ﬂow read more in Note 29 divestment of the external IT business and outsourcing of Volvo Group’s Cash ﬂow. own IT infrastructure which has been completed during 2016. Translation For the comparative year 2015 the Volvo Group has not made any differences on foreign operations of SEK 11 M were also recognized in divestments, which solely or jointly have had a signiﬁcant impact on the other comprehensive income. Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial statements. Comparative ﬁgures for 2015 include the divestment of activities within the efﬁciency program and of operaAssets and liabilities held for sale Dec 31, Dec 31, tions with the main purpose to dispose ﬁxed assets. 2016 2015 The impact on the Volvo Group’s balance sheet and cash ﬂow statement Tangible assets 300 815 in connection with the divestment of subsidiaries and other business units Inventories 98 519 are speciﬁed in the following table: Other current receivables 76 778 Other assets 51 1,202 Divestments 2016 2015 B/S Total assets 525 3,314 Intangible assets –8 – Trade payables 0 86 Property, plant and equipment –353 –219 Provisions 0 14 Assets under operating lease –180 – Other current liabilities 148 391 Inventories –115 –209 Other liabilities – 82 Other receivables –143 –156 B/S Total liabilities 148 573 Cash and cash equivalents –3 –187 Other provisions 4 13 Acquisitions and divestments after the end of the period Other liabilities 262 479 Volvo Group has not made any acquisitions or divestments after the end Divested net assets –536 –279 of the period that have had any signiﬁcant impact on the Volvo Group. Goodwill –9 –23 Total –545 –302 Additional purchase price – – Cash and cash equivalents received 1,483 595 Cash and cash equivalents, divested companies –3 –187 Effect on Volvo Group cash and cash equivalents 1,480 408 Effect on Volvo Group net ﬁnancial position 1,557 498 117 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 4 GOALS AND POLICIES IN FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Volvo Group’s global operations expose the Group to ﬁnancial risks in the form of interest rate risks, currency risks, credit risks, liquidity risks and other price risks. Work on ﬁnancial risks comprises an integrated element of the Volvo Group’s business. The Volvo Group strive to minimize these risks by optimizing the Group’s capital costs by utilizing economies of scale, minimize negative effects on income as a result of changes in currency or interest rates and to minimize risk exposure. All risks are managed pursuant to the Volvo Group’s established policies in these areas. Read more about accounting principles for ﬁnancial instruments in Note 30, Financial Instruments. Read more about Financial management on page 101 and 102. USD FINANCIAL RISKS 12.1 INTEREST RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS COMMERCIAL CURRENCY CASH FLOW RISKS COMMERCIAL CREDIT RISK COMMODITY RISK EXPOSURE FINANCIAL CURRENCY PRICE RISKS FINANCIAL CREDIT RISK EXPOSURE CURRENCY EXPOSURE FINANCIAL OF EQUITY COUNTERPARTY RISK BRL FINANCIAL RISKS 7.3 INTEREST RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS matching degree excludes equity, which amounted to 8% in Financial SerINTEREST RATE RISKS A vices. At year end 2016, the degree of such matching was 98% (99) for the segment Financial Services, which was in line with the Volvo Group’s policy. Interest rate risk refers to the risk that changed interest rate will affect the Treasury Group has, for practical as well as business reasons, the mandate Volvo Group’s consolidated earnings and cash ﬂow (cash ﬂow risks) or the to mismatch the portfolio for Financial Services down to a matching ratio fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (price risks). of 80%. At year end 2016, the matching ratio was 92% (91). Any gains or losses from the mismatch impact the segment Group functions & Other within Industrial Operations. At year end 2016, in addition to the ﬁnancial assets in Financial Services, the Volvo Group’s interest-bearing assets POLICY consisted primarily of cash and cash equivalents. On December 31, 2016, the average interest on Industrial Operations ﬁnancial assets was 0.6% Matching the interest ﬁxing terms of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (0.6). When taking derivatives into account, outstanding loans had interest reduces the exposure. Interest rate swaps are used to change/inﬂuence terms corresponding to an interest rate ﬁxing of between one to three the interest ﬁxing term for the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. months. The average interest on Industrial Operations ﬁnancial liabilities at Currency interest rate swaps enable borrowing in foreign currencies from year end amounted to 4.2% (4.3), including the Volvo Group’s credit costs. different markets without introducing currency risk. The Volvo Group has also standardized interest rate forward contracts (futures) and FRAs Price risks C (forward rate agreements). Most of these contracts are used to hedge Exposure to price risks as a result of changed interest rate refers to ﬁnancial interest rate levels for short-term borrowing or investments. assets and liabilities with a longer interest rate ﬁxing term (ﬁxed interest). The following table 4:1 shows the effect on earnings before taxes in Industrial Operations net ﬁnancial position, excluding pensions and similar Cash ﬂow risks obligations, if interest rates were to increase by 1 percentage point, (100 The effect of changed interest rate levels on future currency and interest basis points) assuming an average interest rate ﬁxed term of three months rate ﬂows primarily pertains to Financial Services and Industrial Operaon the liability side.* The impact on equity is earnings after tax. tions net ﬁnancial items. Financial Services measure the degree of matching interest rate ﬁxing on borrowing and lending. The calculation of the * The sensitivity analysis on interest rate risks is based on simpliﬁed assumptions. It is Read more in Note 20 Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts regarding not unlikely for market interest rates to change by one percentage point (100 basis sensitivity analysis on the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations when changes in the applied points) on an annual basis. However, in reality, these rates often rise or decline at assumptions for discount rate and inﬂations are made. different points in time. The sensitivity analysis also assumes a parallel deferment of the return curve, and that the interest rates on assets and liabilities will be equally impacted by changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the impact of real interest rate changes may differ from the analysis presented in table 4:1. 118 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Risk net ﬁnanNet ﬁnancial Impact on Income after Impact on Net ﬁnancial cial position position excl. ﬁnancial items if position if SEK appreciates Dec 31, 2016 pensions interest rate rises 1% against other currencies 10% B (Currency risks) SEK M A (Interest rate risks) The Volvo Group’s SEK 8,539 103 – net assets in different JPY –15,973 –140 1,597 currencies (SEK bn) = RUB –1,703 –15 170 EUR 7,720 69 –772 CNY –798 –4 80 USD 2,908 27 –291 SEK 24.7 Other –1,844 –10 184 Total C –1,151 31 969 GBP 3.4 Read more about the Industrial Operations net ﬁnancial position on page 83. 4:1 EUR 21.8 JPY 4.2 KRW 3.2 CNY 11.1 INR 1.3 OTHER 7.0 FINANCIAL RISKS INTEREST-RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS VALUTARISKER CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS B POLICY The balance sheet may be affected by changes in different exchange The aim of the Volvo Group’s currency risk management is to secure cash rates. Currency risks in the Volvo Group’s operations are related to ﬂow from ﬁrm ﬂows through currency hedges pursuant to the established changes in the value of contracted and expected future payment ﬂows currency policy, and to minimize the exposure of ﬁnancial items in the Volvo (commercial currency exposure), changes in the value of loans and investGroup’s balance sheet. Below is a presentation on how this work is conments (ﬁnancial currency exposure) and changes in the value of assets ducted for commercial and ﬁnancial currency exposure, and for currency and liabilities in foreign subsidiaries (currency exposure of equity). exposure of equity. Volvo Group’s outstanding derivatives hedging commercial currency risks Dec 31, 2016 Millions USD/SEK USD/KRW AUD/SEK GBP/SEK Due date 2017 256 79 9 101 Due date 2018 – – – – Total local currency 256 79 9 101 Average contract rate 9.05 1104 5.77 11.29 Market value of outstanding forward contracts, SEK M –1 –58 –6 10 –55 4:2 119 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management (cont.) Sensitivity analysis for transaction exposure* Sensitivity analysis* The table 4:3 illustrates the impact on operating income if key currencies for Industrial Operations appreciate by 10% against all other currencies. Hedge accounting is not applied on derivatives hedging cash ﬂows in Risk currency Transaction exposure Impact on operating exposure 2016 from operating income if currency foreign currency. As a consequence the impact on equity equals the net ﬂows rate appreciates impact on operating income before tax. against all other The deﬁcit in transaction exposure in SEK is mainly generated from currencies by 10% ﬂows in USD, GBP, EUR, NOK and ZAR against SEK. SEK bn B (Currency risks) SEK –35 –3.5 Industrial Operations currency review KRW –6 –0.6 The tables 4:4 4:5 4:6 4:7 and 4:8 on the next page illustrate the EUR 5 0.5 currency impact on sales and operating income in key currencies. The GBP 8 0.8 effect arises from translation during the consolidation of foreign currenUSD 11 1.1 cies and from commercial net ﬂows in foreign currency. 4:3 Read more about Industrial Operations transaction exposure in section Commercial currency exposure above. Financial currency exposure Commercial currency exposure Loans and investments in the Volvo Group’s subsidiaries are performed Transaction exposure from commercial ﬂows mainly in local currencies through Treasury, which minimizes individual The Volvo Group conducts manufacturing in 18 countries around the companies’ ﬁnancial currency exposure. Volvo Treasury uses various globe and more than 95% of net sales are generated in countries other derivatives to facilitate lending and borrowing in different currencies withthan Sweden. Transaction exposure from commercial ﬂows in foreign out increasing the risk for the Volvo Group. The net ﬁnancial position of currency is generated from internal purchases and sales between manuthe Volvo Group is affected by currency ﬂuctuations since ﬁnancial assets facturing units and market companies and external sales and purchases and liabilities are distributed among the Volvo Group companies that conin foreign currency around the globe. As the predominant parts of the duct their operations using different currencies. operations in the Volvo Group are situated outside Sweden, the ﬂuctuTable 4:1 discloses the impact on earnings before tax on Industrial ations in currency rates affecting the transaction ﬂows in foreign currency Operations net ﬁnancial position, excluding pensions and similar net obligaare in many cases not against SEK. Industrial Operations’ transaction tions, if SEK were to strengthen by 10%. exposure in key currencies is presented in table 4:5. The graph represents the transaction exposure from commercial operating net cash ﬂows Currency exposure of equity in foreign currency, expressed as net surpluses or deﬁcits in key currenThe carrying amount of assets and liabilities in foreign subsidiaries are cies. The deﬁcit in SEK and KRW is mainly an effect of manufacturing affected by current exchange rates in conjunction with the translation of costs in the plants in Sweden and Korea, but limited external revenues in assets and liabilities to SEK. To minimize currency exposure of equity, the those currencies. The surplus in EUR on the other hand, is the net of sigsize of equity in foreign subsidiaries is continuously optimized with respect niﬁcant gross volumes of sales and purchases made by many entities to commercial and legal conditions. Currency hedging of equity may occur around the globe in EUR. The surplus in USD is mainly generated from in cases where a foreign subsidiary is considered overcapitalized. Net external sales to entities in the US and emerging markets. assets in foreign subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures The hedging of the Volvo Group’s commercial currency exposure is amounted at year end 2016 to SEK 71 billion (68). The need to undertake decided centrally. The Volvo Group’s consolidated currency portfolio currency hedging relating to investments in associated companies, joint exposure is the value of forecasted ﬂows in foreign currency. The Volvo ventures and other companies is assessed on a case-by-case basis. Group only hedge the part of the forecasted portfolio that is considered On the map on page 118–119 the Volvo Group’s net assets in different highly probable to occur, i.e. ﬁrm ﬂows, where the main parts will be realcurrencies (SEK bn) are displayed. ized within six months. The Volvo Group uses forward contracts and currency options to hedge the portion of the value of forecasted future payRead more in Note 30 Financial Instruments about Volvo Group’s policy choice on hedge accounting. ment ﬂows in foreign currency. The hedged amount of ﬁrm ﬂows for all periods fall within the framework of the Volvo Group’s currency policy. Table 4:2 shows outstanding forward and option contracts for the hedging of commercial currency risks. Translation exposure from the consolidation of operating income in foreign subsidiaries In conjunction with the translation of operating income in foreign subsidiaries, the Volvo Group’s earnings are impacted if currency rates change. The Volvo Group does not hedge this risk. Table 4:7 shows the translation effect in key currencies when consolidating operating income for 2016 in foreign subsidiaries in Industrial Operations. Read more in section currency exposure of equity. * The sensitivity analysis on currency rate risks is based on simpliﬁed assumptions. any given time, so the actual effect of exchange rate changes may differ from the It is not unlikely for a currency to appreciate by 10% in relation to other currencies. sensitivity analysis. Please refer to tables 4:1 4:3 In reality however, all currencies usually do not change in the same direction at 120 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES The Volvo Group’s currency review When the Volvo Group communicates the currency impact on operating income for Industrial Operations, the following factors are included: Currency impact on operating income, Industrial Operations, SEK billion 2016 2015 Change Net ﬂows in foreign currency –1.2 Realized and unrealized gains and losses on hedging contracts 0.0 –0.1 0.1 Unrealized gains and losses on receivables and liabilities in foreign currency 0.0 –0.4 0.5 Translation effect on operating income in foreign subsidiaries 0.1 Total currency impact on operating income Industrial Operations –0.4 Currency impact on Net ﬂows in foreign currency is detailed in table 4:6 and Translation effect on operating income in foreign subsidiaries is detailed in table 4:7 in key currencies. 4:4 Transaction exposure from operating net ﬂows in 2016 and 2015 Currency effect from Net ﬂows in foreign currency 2016 versus 2015 SEK bn SEK bn 20 1.0 10 0.8 0.6 0 0.4 –10 0.2 0.0 –20 –0.2 –30 –0.4 –0.6 –40 –0.8 USD GBP EUR NOK ZAR CAD AUD KRW SEK Other 11 8 5 4 3 3 3 –6 –35 4 –1.0 19 9 –2 4 4 5 3 –8 –39 6 EUR Other KRW USD BRL CAD NOK MXN ZAR GBP 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 –0.1 –0.1 –0.3 –0.4 –0.9 Currency ﬂow 2016 Currency ﬂow 2015 Changes in currency rates compared to 2015 (Total SEK –1.2 bn). The graph above represents the transaction exposure from commercial Currency effect on operating income from Net ﬂows in foreign operating net cash ﬂows in foreign currency, expressed as net surpluses or currency in Industrial Operations is presented in the graph above. deﬁcits in key currencies. For further information read more in the section Commercial currency exposure. 4:6 4:5 Translation effect on operating income in foreign Currency effect on Net sales in 2016 versus 2015 subsidiaries in 2016 versus 2015 SEK M SEK M 150 3 125 2 100 75 1 50 0 25 0 –1 –25 –2 –50 –75 –3 JPY EUR USD CAD BRL CNY ZAR GBP Other –100 2.122 1.221 1.182 –194 –222 –385 –602 –2.063 –1.190 JPY GBP CNY EUR USD Other PEN RUB KRW ZAR 141 49 43 36 17 9 –22 –23 –28 –84 Changes in currency rates compared to 2015 (Total SEK –91 M). Changes in currency rates compared to 2015 (Total SEK 137 M). Currency effect on Net sales from inﬂows in foreign currency and translation effect when consolidating Net sales in foreign subsidiaries Translation effect when consolidating operating income in foreign for Industrial Operations is presented in the graph above. subsidiaries for Industrial Operations is presented in the graph above. 4:7 4:8 121 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management (cont.) FINANCIAL RISKS INTEREST-RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS Financial credit risk CREDIT RISKS The Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial assets are to large extent managed by Treasury Group and invested in the money and capital markets. All investments Credit risks are deﬁned as the risk that the Volvo Group does not receive must meet the requirements of low credit risk and high liquidity. According payment for recognized accounts receivable and customer-ﬁnancing to the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial risk policy, counterparties for investments receivables (commercial credit risk), that the Volvo Group’s investments and derivative transactions should have a rating better or equivalent to A are unable to be realized (ﬁnancial credit risk) and that potential proﬁt is from one of the well-established credit rating institutions. not realized due to the counterparty not fulﬁlling its part of the contract Liquid funds and marketable securities amounted as of December 31, when using derivative instruments (ﬁnancial counterparty risk). 2016 to approximately SEK 25 billion (24). Read more in Note 18 about Marketable securities and liquid funds within the Volvo Group. POLICY Financial counterparty risk The objective of the Volvo Group’s credit risk management is to deﬁne and The use of derivatives involves a counterparty risk, in that a potential loss measure the credit exposure and control the risk of losses deriving from may not be possible to offset (in full or in part) against a potential gain if credits to customers, credits to suppliers, counterparty risks and custhe counterparty fails to fulﬁl its part of the contract. To reduce the expostomer ﬁnance activities within Financial Services. ure, the Volvo Group enters into master netting agreements, so called ISDA agreements, with all counterparts eligible for derivative transactions. The netting agreements provide the possibility for assets and liabilities to Commercial credit risk be set off under certain circumstances, such as in the case of the counThe Volvo Group’s credit granting is steered by group policies and terpart’s insolvency. A Credit Support Annex (CSA) often accompanies customer-classiﬁcation rules. The credit portfolio should contain a distrithe ISDA agreement. The CSA stipulates the terms and conditions under bution among different customer categories and industries. The credit which the two parties are required to make cash transfers to each other risks are managed through active credit monitoring, follow-up routines to further reduce the exposure from the net open positions. The netting and, where applicable, product repossession. Moreover, regular monitoring agreements have no effect on proﬁt, loss or the position of the Volvo ensures that the necessary allowances are made for incurred losses on Group, since derivative transactions are accounted for on a gross basis, doubtful receivables. In Notes 15 and 16, ageing analysis are presented The Volvo Group’s gross exposure from positive derivatives, amounting to of customer-ﬁnancing receivables overdue and accounts receivables SEK 3,026 M (3,238) is reduced by 65% (53) to SEK 1,049 M (1,531) by overdue in relation to the reserves made. netting agreements and cash deposits. The Volvo Group is actively working The customer-ﬁnancing receivables in Financial Services amounted at with limits per counterpart in order to reduce risk for high net amounts December 31, 2016 to approximately net SEK 111 billion (103). The credit towards individual counterparts. risk of this portfolio is distributed over a large number of retail customers Read more about the Volvo Group’s gross exposure from positive derivatives and dealers. Collaterals are provided in the form of the ﬁnanced products. per type of instrument in Note 30. In the credit granting the Volvo Group strives for a balance between risk exposure and expected return. Read more about Volvo’s credit risk in Note 15 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables. The Volvo Group’s accounts receivables amounted as of December 31, 2016 to approximately net SEK 34 billion (29). 122 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES FINANCIAL RISKS INTEREST-RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS The predominant part of expected future cash ﬂows that expires within LIQUIDITY RISKS 2017 and 2018 is an effect of the Volvo Group’s normal business cycle, with shorter duration in the portfolio within Financial Services compared Liquidity risk is deﬁned as the risk that the Volvo Group would be unable to Industrial Operations. to ﬁnance or reﬁnance its assets or fulﬁll its payment obligations. The hybrid bond in Volvo Treasury amounting to EUR 1.5 billion was issued 2014 in order to further strengthen the Volvo Group’s balance sheet and prolong the maturity structure of the debt portfolio. The hybrid bond is classiﬁed as a loan with duration of 61.6 years, subordinated to all POLICY other ﬁnancial liabilities currently outstanding. The Volvo Group assures itself of sound ﬁnancial preparedness by always Read more about contractual term analysis of the Volvo Group’s future payments from non-annullable ﬁnancial and operational lease contracts in keeping a certain percentage of its sales in liquid assets. A sound balance Note 14. between short and long-term debt maturities as well as long-term committed credit facilities, are intended to secure liquidity preparedness. Future cash ﬂow including derivatives related to non-current and current ﬁnancial liabilities The Volvo Group’s liquid funds, i.e. cash and cash equivalents and market0 able securities combined, amounted to SEK 25.2 billion on December 31, 2016. In addition to this, granted but unutilized credit facilities amounted –10 to SEK 42.5 billion. The adjacent graph 4:9 discloses expected future –20 cash ﬂows including derivatives related to ﬁnancial liabilities. Capital ﬂow –30 refers to expected payments of loans and derivatives, see Note 22. –40 Expected interest ﬂow refers to the future interest payments on loans and –50 derivatives based on interest rates expected by the market. The interest ﬂow is recognized within cash ﬂow from operating activities. –60 In addition to derivatives included in capital ﬂow in the adjacent graph –70 4:9 there are also derivatives related to ﬁnancial liabilities recognized as 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 or later assets, which are expected to give a future capital ﬂow of SEK 1.3 billion –56.5 –43.7 –19.7 –3.0 –0.9 –0.1 –17.1 Capital ﬂow, SEK bn and a future interest ﬂow of SEK 1.5 billion. –3.6 –2.0 –1.4 –1.0 –0.4 –0.4 –0.5 Interest ﬂow, SEK bn 4:9 FINANCIAL RISKS INTEREST-RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS POLICY Commodity risks Changes in commodity prices are included in the product cost calculation. Commodity risks refer to the risk that changed commodity prices will Increased commodity prices are therefore reﬂected in the sales price of affect the consolidated earnings within the Volvo Group. Procurement of the Volvo Group’s ﬁnal products. Purchasing agreements with commodity commodities such as steel, precious metals and electricity are made on a suppliers may also be long-term in nature or structured in a way that regular basis where prices are set in the global markets. short-term volatility in commodity prices have less direct effect on Volvo Group’s cost base. Financial hedging is performed in order to reduce short-term volatility of electricity cost in Sweden. 123 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 5 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES, ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND OTHER SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS ACCOUNTING POLICY Volvo Group’s share of the company’s net income, less depreciation of Subsidiaries surplus values and dividends received. Investments in joint ventures and The Volvo Group has production facilities in 18 countries and sales of associated companies are also affected by Volvo Group’s share of the products in more than 190 markets which means that the Volvo Group company’s other comprehensive income and by the translation difference has subsidiaries in many parts of the world. A subsidiary is deﬁned as an from translating the company’s equity in the Volvo Group. entity that is controlled by the Volvo Group. A subsidiary is controlled by a When applying the equity method, including recognizing the associate’s parent company when it has power over the investee, exposure, or rights, or joint venture’s losses, additional impairment losses might be recogto variable returns from its involvement with the investee and the ability to nized given any indication of impairment. A signiﬁcant or prolonged use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor’s decline in the fair value of the shares is an indication of impairment. return. Most of the Volvo Group’s subsidiaries are owned to 100% by the Investments accounted for in accordance with the equity method cannot Volvo Group and are therefore considered to be controlled by the Volvo be of a negative carrying value and therefore losses are not provided for Group. For some subsidiaries there are restrictions on the Volvo Group’s if the holding is of a negative amount. Additional losses are provided for ability to access or use cash from these subsidiaries. to the extent that the Volvo Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or of the Read more in Note 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds about cash associated company. that is not available for use, or where other limitations exists, in Note 11 Minority interests. Also read in Parent company Note 13 Investments in shares Other shares and participations and participations. Holding of shares that do not provide the Volvo Group with signiﬁcant inﬂuence, which generally means that Volvo Group’s holding of shares Joint ventures corresponds to less than 20% of the votes, are recognized as other Joint ventures are companies over which the Volvo Group has controlling shares and participations. For listed shares, the carrying amount is equivainﬂuence together with one or more external parties. Joint ventures are lent to the market value. Unlisted shares and participations, for which a fair recognized by applying equity method accounting. The investment in VE value cannot reasonably be determined, are measured at acquisition cost Commercial Vehicles Ltd., (VECV) is of a business related nature and less any impairment. aims at strengthening the Volvo Group’s position in India. VECV is included Any change in value is recognized directly in Other comprehensive in the Trucks segment. income, unless the decline is signiﬁcant or prolonged. Then the impairment is recognized in the income statement. The cumulative gain or loss Associated companies recognized in Other comprehensive income is recycled in the income Associated companies are companies in which the Volvo Group has a statement on the sale of the asset. signiﬁcant inﬂuence. A strong indication of such inﬂuence is when the Earned or paid interest attributable to these assets is recognized in the Group’s holdings equal at least 20% but less than 50% of the voting income statement as part of net ﬁnancial items in accordance with the rights. Holdings in associated companies are recognized in accordance effective interest method. Dividends received attributable to these assets with the equity method. Deutz AG is a German manufacturer and is an are recognized in the income statement as Income from other investments. important supplier to the Volvo Group of medium-duty engines. The investment in Deutz AG is of a business related nature. Deutz AG is included in the segment Group functions & Other. Joint ventures The ownership in the Chinese automotive manufacturer Dongfeng The Volvo Group’s investments in joint ventures are listed below. Commercial Vehicles Co., Ltd (DFCV) is classiﬁed as an associated company and consolidated with the equity method. The ownership is included Shares in joint ventures Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 in the Trucks segment. Holding Holding percentage percentage Equity method Shanghai Sunwin Bus Corp., China1 – 50.0 The Volvo Group’s share of income in companies recognized according to DONGVO Truck Co., Ltd. (DVT) China 2 – 50.0 the equity method is included in the consolidated income statement under VE Commercial Vehicles, Ltd., India3 45.6 45.6 Income/loss from investments in joint ventures and associated companies, less, where appropriate, depreciation of surplus values and the effect 1 During the year the Volvo Group reduced its ownership in Shanghai Sunwin Bus Corp., China from 50% to 19,5%, and discontinued the equity method accounting. of applying different accounting policies. Income from companies recogThe remaining holding of shares in Shanghai Sunwin Bus Corp., China are recognized in accordance with the equity method is included in operating income nized as Other shares and participations. since the Volvo Group’s investments are of business related nature. For 2 During the year the Volvo Group liquidated the share of ownership in the joint practical reasons, some of the associated companies are included in the venture DONGVO Truck Co., Ltd. (DVT) China. 3 VE Commercial Vehicles Ltd., is considered to be a joint venture as Volvo Group consolidated ﬁnancial statements with a certain time lag, normally one and Eicher Motors Ltd. have signed an agreement which states that common quarter. Dividends from joint ventures and associated companies are not agreement is needed for important matters related to the governance of VECV. included in the consolidated income. In the consolidated balance sheet, investments in joint ventures and associated companies are affected by the 124 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES The following tables present summarized ﬁnancial information for the Volvo Group’s joint ventures: Summarized income statements 2016 2015 VE Commercial Other joint VE Commercial Other joint Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Net sales 10,204 77 10,281 9,212 1,586 10,798 Operating income 1 424 –97 327 311 –577 –266 Interest income and similar credits 43 0 43 22 3 25 Interest expense and similar charges –18 –22 –40 –13 –88 –101 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses 5 0 5 6 –2 4 Income taxes –131 0 –131 –81 –34 –116 Income for the period2 323 –118 205 243 –698 –454 Other comprehensive income3 4 – 4 – – – Total comprehensive income 327 –118 209 243 –698 –454 1 Depreciation and amortization of SEK 356 M (372) are included within operating income whereof SEK 337 M (338) is related to VECV. 2 Income for the period in joint ventures includes depreciation of surplus values. 3 Including the Volvo Group’s share of OCI related to joint ventures. Translation differences from translating joint ventures equity in the Volvo Group are excluded. Summarized balance sheets Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 VE Commercial Other joint VE Commercial Other joint Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Non-current assets 4,980 114 5,094 4,556 483 5,039 Marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents 749 40 789 727 382 1,108 Other current assets 3,432 28 3,460 2,842 1,898 4,740 Total assets 9,161 182 9,343 8,124 2,762 10,887 Equity1 5,358 –115 5,243 4,848 –402 4,446 Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 8 0 8 8 2 10 Other non-current liabilities 320 7 327 272 128 400 Current ﬁnancial liabilities 1,853 284 2,137 1,695 2,845 4,540 Other current liabilities 1,622 6 1,628 1,302 189 1,491 Total equity and liabilities 9,161 182 9,343 8,124 2,762 10,887 1 Including the translation differences from translating joint ventures equity in the Volvo Group. Investments in joint ventures Percentage Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 holding Carrying value Carrying value VE Commercial Vehicles, Ltd., India 45.6 2,389 2,211 Other holdings in joint ventures – 0 0 B/S Investments in joint ventures 2,389 2,211 Net ﬁnancial position for the joint ventures (excluding post-employment beneﬁts) amounted to SEK 73 M (negative 514) as of December 31, 2016. As of December 31, 2016, Volvo Group’s share of contingent liabilities in its joint ventures amounted to SEK 152 M (157). Dividend received from VE Commercial Vehicles., Ltd, amounted to SEK 67 M (46). 125 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Associated companies The following tables present summarized ﬁnancial information for the Volvo Group’s associated companies: Summarized income 2016 2015 statements Other associated Other associated DFCV Deutz AG companies Total DFCV Deutz AG companies Total Net sales 37,086 11,888 4,551 53,525 33,606 12,089 5,630 51,324 Operating income –248 76 –108 –280 –930 84 181 –664 Income for the period1 –64 106 –267 –226 –613 179 97 –338 Other comprehensive income2 62 31 – 93 – 24 – 24 Total comprehensive income –2 137 –267 –133 –613 203 97 –313 1 Income for the period in associated companies include depreciation of surplus values and internal transactions. 2 Including the Volvo Group’s share of Other comprehensive income related to associated companies. Translation differences from translating associated companies’ equity in the Volvo Group are excluded. Summarized balance sheets Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Other associated Other associated DFCV1 Deutz AG2 companies Total DFCV1 Deutz AG2 companies Total Non-current assets 18,216 7,055 2,095 27,366 18,107 7,002 2,264 27,373 Current assets 29,414 4,695 3,525 37,634 20,131 4,435 4,960 29,527 Total assets 47,630 11,750 5,620 65,000 38,238 11,437 7,225 56,900 Equity 15,363 6,062 2,359 23,784 15,265 5,902 2,767 23,934 Non-current liabilities 2,601 2,834 584 6,019 2,264 2,865 738 5,867 Current liabilities 29,666 2,854 2,677 35,197 20,709 2,670 3,720 27,099 Total equity and liabilities 47,630 11,750 5,620 65,000 38,238 11,437 7,225 56,900 1 No dividend was received during ﬁnancial year 2016 from DFCV (–). 2 Deutz AG’s equity share is recognized in the Volvo Group with a time lag of one quarter. Dividends of SEK 19 M (20) was received from Deutz AG. Investments in associated companies Percentage Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 holding Carrying value Carrying value Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co., Ltd (DFCV) China 45.0 6,946 6,581 Deutz AG, Germany 1 25.0 1,515 1,475 Other holdings in associated companies 2 793 883 B/S Investments in associated companies 9,254 8,939 1 The market value of investments in Deutz AG amounted to SEK 1,548 M (1,021) as of December 31, 2016. The market value has ﬂuctuated throughout the year, even above carrying value. There was no signiﬁcant or prolonged decline in market value and therefore no indication of impairment during 2016 according to the accounting principle applied. 2 Other holdings include the investment of Inner Mongolia North Hauler Jont Stock Co, Ltd., China., two dealers in Japan and Blue Chip Jet. Income/loss from investments in joint Other shares and participations ventures and associated companies 2016 2015 The carrying amount of the Volvo Group’s holding of shares and participations in other companies as of December 31, 2016, is disclosed in the Income/loss joint ventures table below. VECV 147 115 Other joint ventures 0 –87 Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments regarding ﬁnancial assets Subtotal 147 28 classiﬁed as available for sale. Income/loss associated companies DFCV1 –29 –276 Holding of shares Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 in listed companies Carrying value Carrying value Deutz AG 27 45 Other companies –41 48 Holdings in Japanese companies 409 348 Subtotal –43 –183 Holdings in other listed companies 82 160 Revaluation, write-down and gain on divestment Holding of shares in listed companies 491 507 of shares associated companies Holding of shares in non-listed companies 285 394 Other companies 52 12 B/S Other shares and participations 777 902 Subtotal 52 12 I/S Income/loss from investments in joint ventures and associated companies2 156 –143 1 Income/loss includes an internal proﬁt elimination of net SEK 195 M (–). Corresponding revenue amounts to SEK 472 M (56) and is recognized in Other operating income and expense for Volvo Group. 2 Income/loss from investments in joint ventures include Volvo Group’s share of depreciation of surplus values of SEK 24 M (35) and associated companies include depreciation of surplus values of SEK 48 M (71). 126 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 6 SEGMENT REPORTING Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal The business is reported in six segments, as the truck brands are seen reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operas one segment since they have similar characteristics and are managed ating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and together, and Governmental Sales is part of the Group functions & Other assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identiﬁed as incl. eliminations segment. the Group Executive Board that makes strategic decisions. The Volvo Group has shared operations in both the Trucks segment and As from March 1, 2016 the Volvo Group has introduced a brand-based in the segment Group functions & Other incl. eliminations. Purchasing, organization with clearer commercial accountability for the Volvo Group’s powertrain, logistics and parts operations are part of the Trucks segment. various truck brands. Four separate units have been created: Volvo Trucks, Volvo IT and Volvo Real Estate are treated as business support functions UD Trucks, Renault Trucks and Mack Trucks. Since then, the Volvo Group and are included in Group functions & Other incl. eliminations. The cost of comprises ten business areas: Volvo Trucks, UD Trucks, Mack Trucks, these operations is shared between the different business areas based Renault Trucks, Group Trucks Asia & JVs, Volvo Construction Equipment, on utilization according to the principles of the ﬁnancial framework set by Volvo Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and Volvo Financial Services. the Volvo Group. As from March 31, 2016 the divestment of the external IT business and the outsourcing of IT infrastructure operations was done to HCL Technologies. Group functions Construction & Other incl. Industrial Financial EliminaVolvo 2016 Trucks Equipment Buses Volvo Penta elim. Operations Services tions Group Net sales, external customers 200,118 50,490 24,397 9,575 6,567 291,147 10,767 – 301,914 Net sales, internal 532 241 989 318 –1,769 312 475 –787 – I/S Net sales 200,650 50,731 25,386 9,893 4,799 291,459 11,242 –787 301,914 Expenses –185,764 –48,447 –24,543 –8,623 –5,499 –272,875 –9,155 787 –281,243 I/S Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies 134 –38 68 –1 –8 156 – – 156 I/S Operating income 15,020 2,246 911 1,269 –707 18,740 2,086 – 20,826 I/S Interest income and similar credits 240 – – 240 I/S Interest expense and similar charges –1,847 – – –1,847 I/S Other ﬁnancial income and expense 11 – – 11 I/S Income after ﬁnancial items 17,144 2,086 – 19,230 Other segment information Depreciation, amortization and impairment –10,769 –2,162 –398 –218 915 –12,633 –4,133 – –16,766 Restructuring costs –19 –18 1 –4 – –40 – – –40 Gains/losses from divestments 40 18 – – 877 936 – – 936 Investments in ﬁxed assets 7,270 981 302 232 1,243 10,026 10,770 – 20,796 B/S Investments in joint ventures and associated companies (the equity method) 9,595 254 74 29 1,691 11,643 – – 11,643 B/S Assets held for sale 525 – – 525 B/S Liabilities held for sale –148 – – –148 127 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Group functions Construction & Other incl. Industrial Financial EliminaVolvo 2015 Trucks Equipment Buses Volvo Penta elim. Operations Services tions Group Net sales, external customers 212,060 50,717 22,818 9,137 7,145 301,878 10,636 – 312,515 Net sales, internal 1,918 291 762 269 –1,535 1,704 562 –2,265 – I/S Net sales 213,978 51,008 23,580 9,406 5,610 303,582 11,199 –2,265 312,515 Expenses –194,320 –48,957 –22,643 –8,320 –7,886 –282,127 –9,193 2,265 –289,054 I/S Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies –141 –7 –77 – 82 –143 – – –143 I/S Operating income 19,517 2,044 860 1,086 –2,194 21,312 2,006 – 23,318 I/S Interest income and similar credits 257 – – 257 I/S Interest expense and similar charges –2,366 – – –2,366 I/S Other ﬁnancial income and expense –792 – – –792 I/S Income after ﬁnancial items 18,411 2,006 – 20,418 Other segment information Depreciation, amortization and impairment –10,441 –1,986 –360 –281 494 –12,574 –4,233 – –16,807 Restructuring costs –2,034 –52 –23 –21 –216 –2,346 – – –2,346 Gains/losses from divestments 61 2 – – 278 341 – – 341 Investments in ﬁxed assets 6,707 1,112 259 277 817 9,173 10,239 – 19,412 B/S Investments in joint ventures and associated companies (the equity method) 9,024 277 122 30 1,695 11,148 – – 11,148 B/S Assets held for sale 3,314 – – 3,314 B/S Liabilities held for sale –573 – – –573 Internal sales between segments are generally made at standard cost of sales, including calculated interest and product improvement expenses. Reporting by market Net sales 2016 2015 Non-current assets1 2016 2015 NOTE 7 REVENUE Europe 131,712 120,413 60,672 60,836 of which Sweden 9,177 9,142 14,499 17,920 of which France 24,887 23,114 14,856 15,404 ACCOUNTING POLICY North America 80,701 101,952 20,452 18,533 of which USA 65,738 84,035 18,829 16,846 South America 14,863 16,725 2,837 2,209 The Volvo Group’s recognized net sales pertain mainly to revenues from of which Brazil 7,471 8,608 2,440 1,896 sales of goods and services. Net sales are, if the occasion arises, reduced Asia 55,501 53,470 19,902 17,950 by the value of rebates granted and by returns. of which China 9,346 8,574 1,999 2,136 Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to external parties, of which Japan 17,159 15,119 12,835 10,875 normally when the goods are delivered to the customer. Other markets 19,137 19,955 1,255 948 However, if the sale of goods is combined with a buy-back agreement I/S B/S Total 301,914 312,515 105,118 100,477 or a residual value guarantee, the transaction is recognized as an operating 1 Non-current assets include tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill. lease transaction if signiﬁcant risks in regard to the goods are retained in Volvo Group. Revenue is then recognized over the period of the residual The reporting of net sales by market is based on where the delivery of the value commitment. If the residual value risk commitment is not signiﬁcant goods or services took place. or the sale was made to an independent party before Volvo Group is committed to the residual value risk the revenue is recognized at the time of sale and a provision is made to reﬂect the estimated residual value risk. If sale is in combination with a commitment from the customer to buy a new Volvo product in connection to a buy-back option, revenue is recognized at the time of the sale. 128 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Revenue from the sale of workshop services is recognized when the 3 Restructuring costs 2016 mainly related to outsourcing of IT infrastructure service is provided. operations. Restructuring costs 2015 related mainly to the Volvo Group wide efﬁciency program which impacted the Group with an amount of SEK 2,333 M. Interest income in conjunction with ﬁnance leasing or instalment credit 4 Including SEK 72 M (376) of the provision for expected credit losses for Concontracts are recognized as net sales within Financial Services during struction Equipment in China of in total SEK 319 M (747). SEK 247 M (349) was the underlying contract period. recognized as change in allowance for doubtful receivables, and SEK – M (22) Revenue for maintenance contracts are recognized in line with the was recognized within gross income. 5 Including gain on sale of properties in Gothenburg, Sweden of SEK 1,371 M. allocation of associated costs over the contract period. Interest income is recognized on a continuous basis and dividend Read more about gains/losses on divestment of Group companies in Note 3 income when the right to receive dividend is obtained. Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries. Read more regarding the company’s management of credit risk and credit reserves in Note 4 Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management. ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Read more about damages and litigations in Note 21 Other provisions and Note 24 Contingent liabilities. Buy-back agreements and residual value guarantees In certain cases, Volvo Group enters into a buy-back agreement or Read more about credit losses in China in Note 9, Other ﬁnancial income and residual value guarantee after having sold the product to an independent expenses. party or in combination with an undertaking from the customer to purchase a new product in the event of a buy-back. In such cases, there may be a question of judgement regarding whether or not signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. If it is determined that such an assessment is incorrect, the Volvo Group’s NOTE 9 OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES recognized revenue and income for the period will decline and instead be distributed over several reporting periods. Read more in Note 21, Other provisions, for a description of residual value risks. ACCOUNTING POLICY Unrealized revaluation on derivatives used to hedge interest rate exposure Vehicles and Services and realized result and unrealized revaluation on derivatives used to The Volvo Group’s product range is divided into Vehicles and Services. hedge future cash ﬂow exposure in foreign currency are recognized in The sale of new vehicles, machinery and engines comprise Vehicles as other ﬁnancial income and expenses. Hedge accounting is not applied on well as the sale of used vehicles and machines, trailers, superstructures those derivatives. and special vehicles. Services are deﬁned as the sale of spare parts, maintenance service and other aftermarket products. Read more in Note 1 about the accounting policy for receivables and During 2016, Services represented approximately 26% (25) of the Volvo liabilities in foreign currency. Group’s net sales. Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments regarding the accounting policy Read more in Note 6 regarding net sales by product and market. for ﬁnancial assets at fair value through the income statement. Other ﬁnancial income and expense 2016 2015 NOTE 8 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES Unrealized revaluation on derivatives used to hedge interest rate exposure 386 –28 Realized result and unrealized revaluation on derivatives used to hedge future cash ﬂow exposure in forChanges in provisions for doubtful accounts receivables and customereign currency 11 –426 ﬁnancing receivables are among other things recognized in Other operating Financial instruments at fair value income and expenses. through income statement 397 –454 Exchange rate gains and losses on ﬁnancial assets Other operating income and expense 2016 2015 and liabilities –5 –89 Financial income and expenses related to taxes –23 1 1 Gains/losses on divestment of Group companies 936 341 Costs for Treasury function, credit facilities, etc1 –357 –250 Change in allowances and write-offs for I/S Total2 11 –792 doubtful customer-ﬁnancing receivables –677 –817 Change in allowances and write-offs for other doubtful receivables –397 –549 The unrealized revaluation on derivatives used to hedge interest rate exposure were mainly related to the debt portfolio within Industrial Damages and litigations2 –2,912 471 Operations and customer-ﬁnancing portfolio within Financial Services. Restructuring costs3 –460 –2,346 The realized result and unrealized revaluation on derivatives used to Volvo proﬁt sharing program –498 –455 hedge future cash ﬂow exposure in foreign currency were mainly related Other income and expenses4, 5 873 –824 to hedging future ﬁrm cash ﬂows of SEK 11 M (–426). I/S Total –3,135 –4,179 1 Including neg SEK 97 M (–) write-down of an entrustment loan related to credit 1 Including capital gain from the sale of external IT-operations of SEK 885 M. losses in China. 2 Including additional cost of SEK 2,524 M related to the EU antitrust 2 Other ﬁnancial income and expense attributable to ﬁnancial instruments investigation. 2015 including SEK 809 M from the favorable outcome in an amounted to neg SEK 392 M (–543) and is included in the table presenting arbitration case. gains, losses interest income and expenses related to ﬁnancial instruments in note 30 Financial Instruments. 129 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES Reconciliation of effective tax rate Swedish corporate income tax rate Difference between coporate tax rate in Sweden 2016, % 22 2015, % 22 and other countries 3 3 Non-taxable income –5 –6 ACCOUNTING POLICY Non-deductible expenses 5 1 Current taxes related to prior years 0 –1 Income tax for the period includes current and deferred taxes. Current Remeasurement of deferred tax assets 5 6 taxes are calculated on the basis of the tax regulations prevailing in the Other differences 2 1 countries where the Group companies have operations. Effective tax rate for the Volvo Group 31 26 Deferred taxes are recognized on differences that arise between the taxable value and carrying value of assets and liabilities as well as on taxThe effective tax rate for the Volvo Group, as of December 31 2016, was loss carryforwards. Furthermore deferred tax assets are recognized to the mainly impacted by the additional cost for the EU antitrust investigation of extent it is probable that they will be utilized against future taxable income. SEK 2.5 billion. The cost was not tax deductible and impacted the effecDeferred tax liabilities on temporary differences on participations in subtive tax rate by 3.6%. sidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies are recognized in the balance sheet except when the Volvo Group control the timing of the reversal Speciﬁcation of deferred tax assets Dec 31, Dec 31, of the temporary difference related to accumulated undistributed earnings and liabilities 2016 2015 and it is probable that a reversal will not be done in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets: Tax laws in Sweden and certain other countries allow companies to defer Unused tax-loss carryforwards 3,596 3,724 payment of taxes through allocations to untaxed reserves. In the consoliOther unused tax credits 167 192 dated ﬁnancial statements untaxed reserves are recognized as temporary Intercompany proﬁt in inventories 1,302 1,339 differences, that are partly recognized as deferred tax liability and partly Allowance for inventory obsolescence 740 639 as equity. In the consolidated income statements changes of untaxed reserves are split between deferred taxes and net income for the year. Valuation allowance for doubtful receivables 1,329 1,211 Provisions have been made for estimated tax charges that are probable Provisions for warranties 4,317 4,111 as a result of identiﬁed tax risks. Tax processes are evaluated on a regular Provisions for residual value risks 250 247 basis and provisions are made for the estimated outcome when a reasonable Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts 4,535 4,408 assessment can be made. Tax claims, for which no provision is considered Provisions for restructuring measures 130 262 required, are generally recognized as contingent liabilities. Market value of derivative instruments – 25 Land 1,218 1,160 Read more about contingent liabilities in Note 24. Other deductible temporary differences 5,442 4,930 Deferred tax assets before deduction for valuation allowance 23,025 22,248 Valuation allowance –1,348 –1,181 ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Deferred tax assets after deduction for valuation allowance 21,677 21,067 Deferred taxes Netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities –7,277 –7,617 The Volvo Group recognizes valuation allowances for deferred tax assets B/S Deferred tax assets, net 14,399 13,450 where management does not expect such assets to be realized based upon current forecasts. In the event that actual results differ from these Deferred tax liabilities: estimates or adjustments are made to future periods in these estimates, Accelerated depreciation on property, changes in the valuation allowance may be required. This could have plant and equipment 2,496 2,163 signiﬁcant impact on the ﬁnancial position and the income for the period. Accelerated depreciation on leasing assets 3,547 3,174 The Volvo Group has substantial tax-loss carryforwards that are LIFO valuation of inventories 591 557 assessed as being probable to be utilized due to sufﬁcient income generCapitalized product and software development 2,576 2,384 ated in the coming years. The base for this assessment is possibilities to Adjustment to fair value at corporate offset tax assets and tax liabilities and that a signiﬁcant part of tax-loss acquisitions/divestments 35 30 carryforwards is related to countries with long or indeﬁnite periods of Untaxed reserves 643 87 utilization. In order to ensure the likelihood of utilization, business plans Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts 66 69 are used when relevant. Other taxable temporary differences 2,593 2,648 Deferred tax liabilities 12,547 11,112 Netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities –7,277 –7,617 Distribution of Income taxes 2016 2015 B/S Deferred tax liabilities, net 5,270 3,495 Current taxes relating to the period –3,831 –3,207 Deferred tax assets and liabilities, net1 9,129 9,955 Adjustment of current taxes for prior periods –113 197 Deferred taxes originated or reversed during the 1 The deferred tax assets and liabilities above are partially recognized in the balance period –1,749 –965 sheet on a net basis after taking into account offsetting possibilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been measured at the tax rates that are expected Remeasurements of deferred tax assets –315 –1,345 to apply during the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, I/S Total income taxes –6,008 –5,320 according to the tax rates and tax regulations that have been resolved or enacted at the balance sheet date. The Swedish corporate income tax rate amounted to 22% in 2016. Next table explains the major reasons for the difference between the Swedish corporate income tax rate and the Volvo Group’s effective tax rate, based on income after ﬁnancial items. 130 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES The total valuation allowance amounted to SEK 1,348 M (1,181). Most of the reserve, SEK 1,224 M (1,051) consisted of valuation allowance for unused tax-loss carry forwards, mainly related to Japan. As of December 31, 2016, the Volvo Group’s gross unused tax-loss NOTE 11 MINORITY INTERESTS carryforwards amounted to SEK 12,394 M (11,979) pertaining to deferred tax assets of SEK 3,596 M (3,724) recognized in the balance sheet. After deduction for valuation allowance, deferred tax assets attributable ACCOUNTING POLICY to unused tax-loss carry forwards amounted to SEK 2,372 M (2,673) of which SEK 1,122 M (1,346) pertains to France and SEK 448 M (405) to Minority interests are interest attributable to non-controlling shareholdJapan. ers. Minority interests are presented in equity, separately from equity of The gross unused tax-loss carryforwards expire according to the folthe owners of the parent company. At business combinations minority lowing table: interests are valued either at fair value or at the minority’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Minority interests are assigned the minority shareholder’s portion of the equity of the subsidiary. Changes in Due date, unused tax-loss Dec 31, Dec 31, carryforwards gross 2016 2015 a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. after 1 year 534 68 after 2 years 931 584 after 3 years 375 857 The Volvo Group has a few non-wholly owned subsidiaries of which one of after 4 years 1,621 335 the subsidiaries is considered to have a signiﬁcant minority interest. after 5 years 1,469 2,206 Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery Co., (Lingong), in China has a after 6 years or more 1 7,463 7,929 minority interest holding amounting to 30% share and voting rights in the Total 12,394 11,979 company. During the year, the proﬁt allocated to the minority interest of Lingong amounted to 61 (34) and the accumulated minority interest at 1 Tax-loss carryforwards with long or indeﬁnite periods of utilization were mainly the end of December 31, 2016, amounted to 1,648 (1,752). related to Japan and France. Tax-loss carryforwards with indeﬁnite periods of utilization amounted to SEK 6,169 M (4,994) which corresponds to 50% (42) The following table presents summarized ﬁnancial information for of the total unused tax-losses carryforward. Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery Co., Lingong: Changes in deferred tax Summarized income statement 2016 2015 assets and liabilities, net 2016 2015 Net sales 5,384 5,297 Deferred tax assets and liabilities, net, opening Operating income 160 116 balance 9,955 13,035 Income for the period 202 113 Recognized in Income statement –2,064 –2,310 Other comprehensive income1 117 115 Recognized in Other comprehensive income, Total comprehensive income1 319 229 whereof: Remeasurements of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans 76 –725 Dividends paid to minority interest 200 – Cash ﬂow hedge reserve –19 9 Available-for-sale reserve –5 –17 Summarized balance sheet Dec 31, Dec 31, Translation differences and other changes 1,186 –37 2016 2015 Deferred tax assets and liabilities, net, Non-current assets 1,734 1,693 as of December 31 9,129 9,955 Marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents 2,116 2,236 Current assets 5,646 5,636 The cumulative amount of undistributed earnings in foreign subsidiaries, Total assets 9,496 9,565 which the Volvo Group currently intends to indeﬁnitely reinvest outside of Sweden and which no deferred income tax have been accounted for, Non-current liabilities 188 167 amounted to SEK 23 billion (23) at year end. Undistributed earnings Current liabilities 3,815 3,558 pertaining to countries where the dividends are not taxable are excluded. Total liabilities 4,003 3,725 Read more in Note 4 for Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management Equity attributable to the Volvo Group’s shareholders 3,845 4,088 about how the Volvo Group handles equity currency risk. Minority interests1 1,648 1,752 1 Includes translation differences from translating equity in foreign subsidiaries in the Volvo Group. 131 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS segments would be impaired as a result of this test. The operating paramACCOUNTING POLICY eters applied in the valuation are based on management’s strategy and could indicate higher value than historical performance for each operating Volvo Group applies the cost method for recognition of intangible assets. segment. Furthermore the Volvo Group is operating in a cyclical industry Borrowing costs are included in the cost of assets that are expected to where performance could vary over time. take more than twelve months to complete for their intended use or sale. The surplus values differ between the operating segments and are to a When participating in industrial projects in partnership with other comvarying degree sensitive to changes in the assumptions described above. panies the Volvo Group in certain cases pays an entrance fee to particiTherefore, the Volvo Group continuously follows the performance of the pate. These entrance fees are capitalized as intangible assets. operating segments whose surplus value is dependent on the fulﬁllment of the Volvo Group’s assessments. Instability in the recovery of the market Research and development expenses and volatility in interest and currency rates may lead to indications of a Expenditures for the development of new products, production systems need for impairment. The most important factors for the future operations and software are recognized as intangible assets if such expenditures, of the Volvo Group are described in the Volvo Group operating segment with a high degree of certainty, will result in future ﬁnancial beneﬁts for section, as well as in the Risk management section. the company. The cost for such intangible assets is amortized over the estimated useful life of the assets. Amortization and impairment The rules require stringent criteria to be met for these development Amortization is made on a straight line basis based on the cost of the expenditures to be recognized as assets. For example, it must be possible assets, adjusted in appropriate cases by impairments, and estimated useto prove the technical functionality of a new product or software prior to ful lives. Amortization is recognized in the respective function to which it its development being recognized as an asset. In normal cases, this means belongs, meaning that amortization of product development is part of the that expenditures are capitalized only during the industrialization phase of research and development expenses in the income statement. Impaira product development project. Other research and development expenses ment tests for amortizable assets are performed if there are indications of are recognized in the income statement as incurred. impairment at the balance sheet date. The Volvo Group has developed a process for conducting product development projects named the DVP Project Handbook (DVP-PH). The Amortization periods DVP-PH has six phases focused on separate parts of the project. Every phase starts and ends with a reconciliation point, known as a gate, for Trademarks 20 years which the criteria must be met for the project’s decision making committee Distribution networks 10 years to open the gate and allow the project to progress to the next phase. Product and software development 3 to 8 years During the industrialization phase, the industrial system is prepared for serial production and the product is launched. A corresponding software development process named the Process & IT Project Handbook was implemented during 2016. ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Goodwill Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill is recognized as an intangible asset with indeﬁnite useful life. Intangible assets other than goodwill are amortized and depreciated over For non-depreciable assets such as goodwill, impairment tests are pertheir useful lives. Useful lives are based on estimates of the period in which formed annually, as well as if there are indications of impairments during the assets will generate revenue. If, at the date of the ﬁnancial statements, the year, by calculating the asset’s recovery value. If the calculated recovany indication exists that an intangible non-current asset has been impaired, ery value is less than the carrying value, the asset is written down to its the recoverable amount of the asset is calculated. The recoverable amount recovery value. is the higher of the asset’s net selling price and its value in use, estimated The Volvo Group’s valuation model is based on a discounted cash ﬂow with reference to management’s projections of future cash ﬂows. If the recovmodel, with a forecast period of four years. Valuation is performed on cash erable amount of the asset is less than the carrying amount, an impairment generating units, identiﬁed as the Volvo Group’s operating segments. is recognized and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to the Each operating segment is fully integrated ensuring maximum synergy, recoverable amount. Determination of the recoverable amount is based hence no independent cash ﬂows exists on a lower level. upon management’s projections of future cash ﬂows, which are generally Goodwill is allocated to these cash generating units based on expected based on internal business plans or forecasts. While management believes future beneﬁt from the combination. The valuation is based on a business that estimates of future cash ﬂows are reasonable, different assumptions plan which is an integral part of the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial planning regarding such cash ﬂows could materially affect valuations. The need for process and represents management’s best estimate of the development impairment of goodwill is determined on an annual basis, or more frequently of the Group’s operations. Assumption of 2% (2) long-term market growth if required through calculation of the value of the asset. Such an impairbeyond the forecast period and the Group’s expected performance in this ment review will require management to determine the fair value of the environment is a basis for the valuation. In the model, the Volvo Group is Volvo Group’s cash generating units, on the basis of projected cash ﬂows expected to maintain stable capital efﬁciency over time. Other parameters and internal business plans and forecasts. Surplus values differ between considered in the calculation are operating income, mix of products and the operating segments and they are, to a varying degree, sensitive to services, expenses and level of capital expenditures. Measurements are changes in assumptions and the business environment. The Volvo Group based on nominal values and applies a general rate of inﬂation applicable has performed similar impairment reviews since 2002. No impairment for the main markets where the Volvo Group operates. The Volvo Group was recognized for the period 2002 until 2016. The goodwill related to uses a discount rate at 12% (12) before tax for 2016. planned divestments was revaluated in accordance with IFRS 5. In 2016, the value of Volvo Group’s operations exceeded the carrying amount of goodwill for all operating segments, thus no impairment was Read more in Note 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, recognized. The Volvo Group has also analyzed whether a negative adjustfor further information. ment of one percentage point to the aforementioned parameters would 132 result in impairment for any goodwill value, however none of the operating GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Intangible assets, acquisition costs Capitalized product and Other intangible Total intangible Goodwill software development assets1 assets Opening balance 2015 21,494 37,708 6,368 65,570 Investments – 2,247 10 2,257 Sales/scrapping – –47 –89 –136 Acquired and divested operations –24 –3 0 –27 Translation differences 170 266 105 541 Reclassiﬁcation at divestment – – –47 –47 Reclassiﬁcations and other 448 –38 1,184 1,594 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2015 22,088 40,133 7,531 69,752 Investments2 – 2,937 11 2,947 Sales/scrapping – –545 –49 –594 Acquired and divested operations 28 –2 44 69 Translation differences 1,338 1,829 409 3,576 Reclassiﬁcation at divestment – – 47 47 Reclassiﬁcations and other –16 29 188 202 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2016 23,438 44,382 8,180 75,999 Intangible assets, accumulated amortization Capitalized product and Other intangible Total intangible and impairment Goodwill software development assets1 assets Opening balance 2015 – 25,181 3,274 28,455 Amortization – 2,954 366 3,320 Impairment – 24 0 24 Sales/scrapping – –48 –86 –134 Acquired and divested operations – –2 – –2 Translation differences – 362 31 393 Reclassiﬁcation at divestment – – –46 –46 Reclassiﬁcations and other – –40 1,366 1,326 Accumulated amortization and impairment as of Dec 31, 2015 – 28,431 4,905 33,336 Amortization – 2,836 372 3,208 Impairment – 20 132 152 Revaluation 71 – – 71 Sales/scrapping – –503 –49 –552 Acquired and divested operations – –2 –7 –10 Translation differences – 1,426 208 1,634 Reclassiﬁcation at divestment – – 46 46 Reclassiﬁcations and other – 8 189 198 Accumulated amortization and impairment as of Dec 31, 2016 71 32,217 5,794 38,083 3 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 22,088 11,702 2,626 36,416 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 3 23,366 12,164 2,386 37,916 1 Other intangible assets mainly consist of entrance fees, trademarks and distribution networks. 2 Including capitalized borrowing costs of SEK 65 M (0). 3 Costs less accumulated amortization and impairments. Read more in Note 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, for a description of acquired and divested operations. Goodwill per Operating Segment Dec 31, Dec 31, 2016 2015 Trucks 12,865 12,101 Construction Equipment 8,873 8,475 Buses 1,059 992 Other operating segments 570 519 Total goodwill value 23,366 22,088 133 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 13 TANGIBLE ASSETS useful lives. Depreciation is recognized in the respective function to which ACCOUNTING POLICY it belongs. Impairment tests for depreciable non-current assets are performed if there are indications of impairment at the balance-sheet date. The Volvo Group applies the cost method for measurement of tangible Depreciation periods assets. Borrowing costs are included in the acquisition value of assets that are expected to take more than 12 months to complete for their Type-speciﬁc tools 3 to 8 years intended use or sale. Operating leases, Rental ﬂeet 3 to 5 years Investment properties are properties owned for the purpose of obtainSales with residual value commitments 3 to 5 years ing rental income and appreciation in value. Investment properties are Machinery 5 to 20 years recognized at cost. For disclosure purposes, information regarding the Buildings and investment properties 20 to 50 years estimated fair value of investment properties is based on an internal Land improvements 20 years discounted cash ﬂow projection. The required return is based on current property market conditions for comparable properties in comparable locations. The applied valuation method is classiﬁed as level 3 as per the fair value hierarchy in IFRS 13 and there have not been any changes in valuation method during the year. Investment properties are classiﬁed as buildings. Land contain land ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY and land improvements. Machinery is machinery, type-bound tools and other equipment. Ongoing projects are assets under construction and Impairment of tangible assets advanced payments. Operating leases are assets under operating leases If, at the balance-sheet date, there is any indication that a tangible asset that do not occur from rental business or sales with residual value has been impaired, the recoverable amount of the asset should be esticommitments. Rental ﬂeet is assets under operating lease used in a ﬂeet mated. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s net selling for rental business. Sales with residual value commitment are sales where price and its value in use, estimated with reference to management’s prothe operating lease model is applied. jections of future cash ﬂows. If the recoverable amount of the asset is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized and the carryDepreciation and impairment ing amount of the asset is reduced to the recoverable amount. DeterminaProperty, plant and equipment are depreciated over their useful lives. tion of the recoverable amount is based upon management’s projections Useful lives are based on estimates of the period over which the assets of future cash ﬂows, which are generally made by use of internal business will generate revenue. Land is not depreciated. plans or forecasts. While management believes that estimates of future Depreciation is recognized on a straight-line basis based on the cost of cash ﬂows are reasonable, different assumptions regarding such cash the assets, adjusted in appropriate cases by impairments, and estimated ﬂows could materially affect valuations. Tangible assets, Sales w. Acquisition cost residual Total Ongoing Operating value comtangible 3 Buildings Land Machinery projects leases Rental ﬂeet mitments5 assets Opening balance 2015 33,953 11,682 76,031 4,190 27,031 1,562 14,789 169,238 Investments 764 57 2,057 3,746 10,435 – – 17,060 Sales/scrapping –532 –182 –3,699 –20 –9,023 – – –13,456 Acquired and divested operations –281 –66 –64 –10 – –4 – –424 Translation differences –142 199 –343 31 30 –146 –238 –608 Reclassiﬁed at divestment –176 –202 –967 –37 – –290 18 –1,653 Reclassiﬁcations and other 1,248 34 1,779 –3,598 –1,897 2,424 347 337 Acquisition costs as of Dec 31, 2015 34,835 11,522 74,795 4,303 26,578 3,545 14,917 170,494 Investments1 944 152 1,803 4,134 10,720 – – 17,752 Sales/scrapping –2,539 –866 –2,621 –61 –9,998 – – –16,085 Acquired and divested operations –163 –53 –979 – – –315 – –1,510 Translation differences 2,095 905 3,583 350 953 121 721 8,729 Reclassiﬁed at divestment 365 306 976 36 – –52 – 1,632 Reclassiﬁcations and other 1,115 95 2,511 –3,859 –126 900 398 1,035 Acquisition costs as of Dec 31, 2016 36,652 12,062 80,068 4,902 28,127 4,198 16,036 182,046 134 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Tangible assets, Sales w. Accumulated depreciation residual Total Ongoing Operating value comtangible and impairments Buildings Land Machinery 3 projects leases Rental ﬂeet mitments5 assets Opening balance 2015 16,822 1,147 52,694 11 7,803 409 3,952 82,839 Depreciation 1,310 85 5,008 – 4,386 470 2,289 13,548 Impairment 25 26 –10 – – – –124 –84 Sales/scrapping –391 –26 –3,523 – –3,536 – 0 –7,476 Acquired and divested operations –147 – –56 – – –1 – –203 Translation differences 103 6 99 – –41 –37 –121 10 Reclassiﬁed at divestment –133 –21 –717 – – –132 10 –994 Reclassiﬁcations and other –243 –20 –214 – –727 113 –2,203 –3,294 Accumulated depreciation and impairments as of Dec 31, 2015 17,347 1,198 53,281 11 7,884 821 3,802 84,345 Depreciation 1,325 85 4,888 – 4,164 657 2,016 13,135 Impairment 22 22 –3 – – –88 245 199 Sales/scrapping –1,558 –176 –2,367 – –4,091 – – –8,192 Acquired and divested operations –113 –7 –721 – – –138 – –979 Translation differences 1,023 72 2,609 – 256 28 213 4,201 Reclassiﬁed at divestment 256 29 728 – – 51 – 1,065 Reclassiﬁcations and other –76 –2 –64 – 4 –247 –1,911 –2,296 Accumulated depreciation and impairments as of Dec 31, 2016 18,227 1,221 58,351 11 8,217 1,085 4,366 91,477 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20152, 4 17,488 10,324 21,514 4,292 18,693 2,724 11,114 86,149 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20162, 4 18,425 10,842 21,717 4,891 19,910 3,113 11,670 90,568 1 Including capitalized borrowing costs of SEK 33 M (0). 2 Acquisition costs less accumulated depreciation and impairments. 3 Machinery and equipment pertains mainly to production related assets. 4 Of which investment property SEK 34 M (283) and property, plant and equipment as well as ongoing projects SEK 55,841 M (53,335). 5 Read more in Note 7, Revenue about sales with residual value commitments. Read more in Note 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, for a description of acquired and divested operations. Reclassiﬁcations and other presented in the table above mainly consist of Investment properties assets within sales with residual value commitments related to legal sales During 2016, Volvo divested properties in Gothenburg, which affected transactions, where revenue is deferred and accounted for as operating both acquisition value and accumulated depreciation. The acquisition lease revenue. Assets classiﬁed as inventory will, when the operating value of investment properties at year-end amounted to SEK 73 M (692). lease model is applied for revenue recognition, be reclassiﬁed from invenCapital expenditures during 2016 amounted to SEK 1 M (6). Accumulated tory to sales with residual value commitments, when the legal sales transdepreciation amounted to SEK 38 M (409) at year-end, of which SEK 24 action occurs. If the product is returned after the lease period, there will M (26) refers to 2016. The estimated fair value of investment properties be a reclassiﬁcation from sales with residual value commitments back amounted to SEK 61 M (1,0 billion) at year-end. 98% (97) of the area to inventory. When a buy-back agreement has expired, but the related available for lease was leased out during the year. Operating income for product is not returned, the cost and the accumulated depreciation are the year was affected by SEK 88 M (97) in rental income from investment reversed in reclassiﬁcation and other, within the line item sales with properties and of SEK 22 M (19) in direct costs. residual value commitments. Most reclassiﬁcations within tangible assets relate to construction in progress, which are reclassiﬁed to the respective category within property, plant and equipment. Most reclassiﬁcations within rental ﬂeet relate to assets moved from inventory to rental ﬂeet during the time the product is used in the rental business. When the product is de-ﬂeeted it is reclassiﬁed back to inventory from rental ﬂeet. 135 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 14 LEASING Volvo Group as a lessee ACCOUNTING POLICY As of December 31, 2016, future rental payments (minimum leasing fees) related to non-cancellable leases amounted to SEK 6,534 M (5,140). Volvo Group as the lessor Leasing contracts are deﬁned in two categories, operating and ﬁnance Future rental payments Finance Operating leases, depending on the contract’s ﬁnancial implications. Operating lease leases leases contracts are recognized as non-current assets in Assets under operating 2017 207 1,444 leases. Income from operating lease is recognized equally distributed over 2018–2021 631 2,622 the leasing period. Straight-line depreciation is applied to these assets in 2022 or later 444 1,186 accordance with the terms of the undertaking and the depreciation Total 1,282 5,252 amount is adjusted to correspond to the estimated realizable value when the undertaking expires. Assessed impairments are charged to the income statement. The product’s assessed realizable value at expiration of the undertaking is reviewed continuously on an individual basis. Rental expenses 2016 2015 Finance lease contracts are recognized as either non-current or current Finance leases: receivables in Financial Services. Payments from ﬁnance lease contracts Contingent rents –6 –5 are distributed between interest income and amortization of the receivable Operating leases: in Financial Services. Contingent rents –37 –34 Rental payments –1,638 –1,447 Volvo Group as the lessee Sublease payments 7 5 As for lessors, leases are divided into operating and ﬁnance lease. Total –1,674 –1,481 Finance lease are those cases when risks and rewards related to ownership are substantially held by the Volvo Group. Volvo Group recognizes the asset and related obligation in the balance sheet at the lower of the leased asset’s fair value or the present value of minimum lease payments. Future Carrying amount of assets subject Dec 31, Dec 31, lease fee commitments are recognized as obligations. The lease asset is to ﬁnancial leases 2016 2015 depreciated in accordance with the Volvo Group’s policy for the respective Acquisition value: non-current asset. The lease payments made are allocated between Buildings 670 413 amortization and interest expenses. If the lease contract is considered to Land 80 78 be an operating lease, lease payments are charged to proﬁt or loss over Machinery 661 689 the lease contract period. Assets under operating lease and rental ﬂeet1 538 545 Total 1,948 1,725 Volvo Group as the lessor Accumulated depreciation: As of December 31, 2016, future rental income from non-cancellable Buildings –117 –96 ﬁnance and operating leases (minimum lease fees excluding sales with Land –5 –3 residual value commitments) amounted to SEK 61,517 M (56,226). Machinery –340 –353 Assets under operating lease and rental ﬂeet1 –177 –213 Future rental income Finance Operating Total –640 –666 leases leases Carrying amount in the balance sheet: 2017 15,276 7,817 Buildings 552 317 2018–2021 24,444 12,466 Land 74 75 2022 or later 1,085 429 Machinery 321 336 Total 40,805 20,712 Assets under operating lease and rental ﬂeet1 361 332 Total 1,309 1,059 Allowance for uncollectible future rental income –618 Unearned rental income –2,527 1 Refer to assets leased by the Volvo Group as ﬁnance lease which are later Present value of future rental income related to leased to customers as operating lease. non-cancellable leases 37,660 Read more about ﬁnance lease, in Note 15 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables. 136 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 15 CUSTOMER-FINANCING RECEIVABLES ACCOUNTING POLICY Non-current customer-ﬁnancing Interest income on the customer-ﬁnancing receivables is recognized receivables maturities within Net sales, mainly within Financial Services. Changes to the credit SEK M loss reserves are recognized in Other operating income and expense. ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Credit loss reserves 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 or later The assessment of credit loss reserves on customer-ﬁnancing receiv24,275 17,051 9,899 4,201 1,435 15:2 ables is dependent on estimates including assumptions regarding past dues, repossession rates and the recovery rate on the underlying collaterals. The impairment requirement is primarily evaluated for each respective asset. If, based on objective grounds, it cannot be determined that one or Current customer-ﬁnancing Dec 31, Dec 31, more assets are subject to an impairment loss, the assets are grouped in receivables 2016 2015 units based, for example, on similar credit risks to evaluate the impairment Installment credits 18,926 16,053 loss requirement collectively. This is in order to cover credit losses incurred Financial leasing 13,649 12,948 but not yet individually identiﬁed in a larger population. Individually Dealer ﬁnancing 18,996 21,989 impaired assets or assets impaired during previous periods are not Other receivables 1,424 631 included when grouping assets for collective assessment. If the conditions that gave rise to the recognition of an impairment loss later prove to B/S Current customer-ﬁnancing receivables 52,994 51,621 no longer be valid the impairment loss is reversed in the income statement as long as the carrying amount does not exceed the amortized cost at the The effective interest rate for current customer-ﬁnancing receivtime of the reversal. ables amounted to 4.83% (4.74) as of December 31, 2016. As of December 31, 2016, the total credit loss reserves in Financial Services amounted to 1.43% (1.41) of the total credit portfolio in Financial 15:3 Services. This reserve ratio, which is used as an important measure for Financial Services, includes operating leases and inventory, whereas this note speciﬁes the balance sheet item customer ﬁnance receivables for the Volvo Group and thereby excludes operating leases and inventory as Credit risk in customer-ﬁnancing Dec 31, Dec 31, they are recognized elsewhere in the balance sheet. receivables 2016 2015 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables gross 112,510 104,096 Read more in Note 4 for a description of the credit risk, interest and currency Valuation allowance for doubtful risks and in Note 30 for further information regarding customer-ﬁnancing customer-ﬁnancing receivables –1,689 –1,514 receivables. Whereof speciﬁc reserve –413 –365 Whereof other reserve –1,276 –1,149 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables, net of allowance 110,821 102,583 15:4 Non-current customer-ﬁnancing Dec 31, Dec 31, Change of valuation allowance for doubtreceivables 2016 2015 ful customer-ﬁnancing receivables 2016 2015 Installment credits 32,752 29,580 Opening balance 1,514 1,450 Financial leasing 24,011 21,325 New valuation allowance charged to income 751 745 Other receivables 1,064 57 Reversal of valuation allowance charged to income –46 –56 B/S Non-current customerUtilization of valuation allowance related to ﬁnancing receivables 57,827 50,962 actual losses –679 –549 Translation differences 148 –76 The effective interest rate for non-current customer-ﬁnancing Valuation allowance for doubtful customerreceivables amounted to 4.80% (4.65) as of December 31, 2016. ﬁnancing receivables as of December 31 1,689 1,514 15:1 15:5 137 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Overdues in relation to speciﬁc reserves Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 for customer-ﬁnancing receivables Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Overdue amount – 556 176 50 782 – 477 268 292 1,037 Valuation allowance for doubtful customer-ﬁnancing receivables, speciﬁc reserve –107 –65 –85 –155 –412 –94 –57 –90 –124 –365 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables after deduction of speciﬁc reserve –107 491 91 –105 370 –94 420 178 168 672 15:6 The table above presents overdue payments within Financial Services in table below. In order to provide for occurred but not yet identiﬁed customrelation to speciﬁc reserves. It is not unusual for a receivable to be settled er-ﬁnancing receivables overdue, there were additional reserves of 1,276 a couple of days after its due date, which impacts the age interval of 1–30 (1,149), included in table 15:4. The remaining exposure was secured by days. Valuation allowance presented within the interval not due and the liens on the ﬁnanced equipment and, in certain circumstances, other higher valuation allowance compared to the overdue amount presented in credit enhancements such as personal guarantees, credit insurance, liens the interval > 90 days, is mainly an effect of recognition of impairment on on other property owned by the borrower etc. portions of contracts that have not yet been invoiced. The total contracCollaterals taken in possession that meet the criteria for recognition in the tual amount to which the overdue payments pertain are presented in the Balance sheet amounted to SEK 135 M (162) as of December 31, 2016. Customer-ﬁnancing receivables Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 total exposure Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Customer ﬁnancing receivables 101,478 9,003 1,739 290 112,510 94,126 7,764 1,962 245 104,096 15:7 Concentration of credit risk Geographic market, percentage Customer concentration of customer-ﬁnancing portfolio (%). The ten largest customers within Financial Services account for 7.3% (8.5) of the total asset portfolio. The rest of the portfolio is pertinent to a large number of customers. Hence the credit risk is spread across many markets and customers. Europe, 40.7% North America, 41.8% Concentration by geographical market Asia, 6.6% The adjacent table discloses the concentration of Financial Services portSouth America, 10.8% folio divided into geographical markets. Read more in Note 4 about Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management and description of credit risks. 15:8 Read more about Financial Services’ development during the year in the Board of Directors’ Report on Financial Services. NOTE 16 RECEIVABLES ACCOUNTING POLICY ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Receivables are recognized at amortized cost. Credit quality of receivCredit loss reserves ables that are neither past due nor impaired has been deemed sufﬁcient An allowance for account receivables is recognized as soon as it is and payments are expected to be received when receivables are due. probable that a credit loss has incurred, that is when there has been an Changes to the credit loss reserves as well as any interest and gain or loss event that has triggered the customer’s inability to pay. As of December upon divestment of receivables are recognized in Other operating income 31, 2016, the total credit loss reserves for account receivables amounted and expense. to 4.02% (4.02) of total account receivables. Refer to Note 30 Financial Instruments in section Derecognition of ﬁnancial Refer to Note 4 regarding credit risk. assets, for receivables subject to cash enhancement activities. 138 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Non-current receivables Dec 31, Dec 31, Credit risks in accounts receivable 2016 2015 Other interest-bearing loans to external parties 1 700 739 Change of valuation allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 2016 2015 Other receivables 3,046 2,644 Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives 2 1,648 1,034 Opening balance 1,219 834 Outstanding raw materials derivatives 11 0 New valuation allowance charged to income 655 695 Non-current receivables 5,406 4,418 Reversal of valuation allowance charged to income –275 –250 Utilization of valuation allowance related to actual losses –221 –34 1 Non-current part of Other interest bearing receivables in table Carrying amounts and fair values in Note 30. Acquired and divested operations –1 0 2 Non-current part of Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives in table Translation differences 43 –34 Carrying amounts and fair values in Note 30. Reclassiﬁcations, etc 23 8 Valuation allowance for doubtful accounts Current receivables Dec 31, Dec 31, receivables as of December 31 1,443 1,219 2016 2015 Other interest-bearing receivables 1 405 743 Refer to Note 8 Other operating income and expenses, for information Other interest-bearing ﬁnancial receivables 27 61 regarding credit provisions for Construction Equipment in China. Accounts receivable 34,419 29,101 Refer to Note 15 for information regarding credit risk in customer ﬁnancing Prepaid expenses and accrued income 3,120 2,906 receivables. VAT receivables 4,025 3,789 Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives 2 1,378 1,588 Refer to Note 30 for information regarding ﬁnancial instruments. Other receivables 8,570 6,615 Outstanding raw materials derivatives 21 5 Current receivables, after deduction of valuation allowances for doubtful accounts receivable 51,964 44,809 1 Current part of Other interest bearing receivables in table Carrying amounts and fair values in Note 30. 2 Current part of Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives in table Carrying amounts and fair values in Note 30. Age analysis of portfolio value Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 – Accounts receivable Not Due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Not Due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Accounts receivable gross 32,094 1,317 521 1,929 35,862 26,798 1,102 656 1,765 30,320 Provision for doubtful accounts receivable –414 –19 –17 –992 –1,443 –381 –16 –108 –714 –1,219 B/S Accounts receivable net 31,679 1,298 504 937 34,419 26,417 1,086 548 1,051 29,101 NOTE 17 INVENTORIES Inventory Dec 31, Dec 31, ACCOUNTING POLICY 2016 2015 Finished products 31,012 27,496 Inventories are recognized at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Production materials, etc. 17,275 16,894 The cost is established using the ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out principle (FIFO) and is based on the standard cost method, including costs for all direct manuB/S Inventory 48,287 44,390 facturing expenses and the attributable share of capacity and other manufacturing-related costs. The standard costs are tested regularly and Inventories recognized as cost of sold products during the period amounted adjustments are made based on current conditions. Costs for research to SEK 212,398 M (216,778). and development, selling, administration and ﬁnancial expenses are not included. Net realizable value is calculated as the selling price less costs Increase (decrease) in allowance attributable to the sale. for inventory obsolescence 2016 2015 Opening balance 3,624 3,394 Change in allowance for inventory obsolescence ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY charged to income Scrapping 480 –576 675 –435 Inventory obsolescence Translation differences 177 –29 If the net realizable value is lower than cost, a valuation allowance is Reclassiﬁcations etc. –23 20 established for inventory obsolescence. The total inventory value, net of Allowance for inventory obsolescence inventory obsolescence allowance, was SEK 48,287 M (44,390) as of as of December 31 3,683 3,624 December 31, 2016. 139 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 18 MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND LIQUID FUNDS ACCOUNTING POLICY Cash and cash equivalents Dec 31, Dec 31, Cash and Cash equivalents include highly liquid interest-bearing securi2016 2015 ties that are considered easily convertible to cash. This includes marketCash in banks 22,226 18,474 able securities, with a date of maturity within three months at the time of Bank certiﬁcates 531 674 investment. Interest-bearing securities that fail to meet this deﬁnition are Time deposits in banks 1,192 1,900 recognized as marketable securities. B/S Cash and cash equivalents 23,949 21,048 Marketable securities Dec 31, Dec 31, Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2016, include SEK 0.8 2016 2015 billion (0.8) that is not available for use by the Volvo Group and SEK 6.0 Government securities 201 1,586 billion (5.4) where other limitations exist, mainly liquid funds in countries Banks and ﬁnancial institutions 1,000 1,090 where exchange controls or other legal restrictions apply. Therefore it is not Real estate ﬁnancial institutions 21 668 possible to immediately use these liquid funds in other parts of the Volvo B/S Marketable securities 1,223 3,344 Group, however there is normally no limitation to use them for the Volvo Group’s operation in the respective country. NOTE 19 EQUITY AND NUMBER OF SHARES ACCOUNTING POLICY Information regarding Dec 31, Dec 31, Earnings per share before dilution is calculated as income for the period, number of shares 2016 2015 attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders, divided by the Parent Company’s average number of shares outstanding for the ﬁscal year. Own Series A shares 20,728,135 20,728,135 Diluted earnings per share is calculated as income for the period attributOwn Series B shares 76,250,400 76,975,610 able to the Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the average number Total own shares 96,978,535 97,703,745 of shares outstanding plus the average number of shares that would be Own shares in % of total issued as an effect of ongoing share-based incentive programs. If during registered shares 4.77 4.59 the year there were potential shares redeemed or expired during the period, these are also included in the average number of shares used to Outstanding Series A shares 471,797,086 484,753,825 calculate the earnings per share after dilution. Outstanding Series B shares 1,559,644,599 1,545,962,650 Total outstanding shares 2,031,441,685 2,030,716,475 Total registered Series A shares 492,525,221 505,481,960 The share capital of the Parent Company is divided into two series of Total registered Series B shares 1,635,894,999 1,622,938,260 shares, A and B. Both series carry the same rights, except that each Total registered shares 2,128,420,220 2,128,420,220 Series A share carries the right to one vote and each Series B share carries the right to one tenth of a vote. The shares’ quota value is SEK 1.20. Average number of Cash dividend 2016, decided by the Annual General Meeting 2015, outstanding shares 2,031,173,306 2,030,116,663 was SEK 3.00 (3.00) per share or totally SEK 6,093 M (6,090). During 2016 AB Volvo transferred, free of consideration, 725,210 treasury B-shares, with a total quota value of 870,252 SEK, to participants in the long-term share-based incentive program for Group and senior executives in the Volvo Group, as accelerated allotment. The transferred treasury shares represent an insigniﬁcant portion of the share capital of AB Volvo. During 2016 AB Volvo converted a total of 12,956,739 Series A shares to Series B shares. Unrestricted equity in the Parent Company as of December 31, 2016 amounted to SEK 33,207 M (31,115). Read more in Note 27 about the Volvo Group share-based incentive program. 140 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Information regarding shares 2016 2015 Change in other reserves AvailableHedge for-sale Number of outstanding shares, December 31, in millions 2,031 2,031 reserve reserve Total Average number of shares before dilution in millions 2,031 2,030 Opening balance 2016 –48 307 259 Shares that would be issued as an effect of Other changes 68 68 ongoing shared-based incentive programs, in millions 2 2 Fair value adjustments regarding Average number of shares after dilution in millions 2,033 2,032 holdings in Japanese companies 18 18 Average share price, SEK 91.19 96.57 Fair value adjustments regarding other companies –74 –74 Net income attributable to Parent Company shareholders 13,147 15,058 Balance as of December 31, 2016 20 251 271 Basic earnings per share, SEK 6.47 7.42 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 6.47 7.41 The Volvo Group’s accumulated amount of exchange difference recognized in equity relating to assets held for sale amounted to SEK – M (11). NOTE 20 PROVISIONS FOR POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Volvo Group’s post-employment beneﬁts, such as pensions, healthcare and other beneﬁts are mainly settled by means of regular payments to independent authorities or bodies that assume pension obligations and ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY administer pensions through deﬁned-contribution plans. Assumptions when calculating pensions and other The remaining post-employment beneﬁts are deﬁned-beneﬁt plans; post-employment beneﬁts that is, the obligations remain within the Volvo Group or are secured by Provisions and costs for post-employment beneﬁts, mainly pensions and proprietary pension foundations. The Volvo Group’s deﬁned-beneﬁt plans health-care beneﬁts, are dependent on assumptions used by actuaries relate mainly to subsidiaries in the U.S. and comprise both pensions and when calculating such amounts. The appropriate assumptions and actuother beneﬁts, such as healthcare. Other large-scale deﬁned-beneﬁt arial calculations are made separately for the respective countries of the plans apply to white-collar employees in Sweden (mainly through the Volvo Group’s operations which result in obligations for post-employment Swedish ITP pension plan) and employees in France and Great Britain. beneﬁts. The assumptions include discount rates, health care cost trends rates, inﬂation, salary growth, retirement rates, mortality rates and other factors. Healthcare cost trend assumptions are based on historical cost ACCOUNTING POLICY data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. Inﬂation assumptions are based on an evaluation of external market Actuarial calculations shall be made for all deﬁned-beneﬁt plans in order indicators. The salary growth assumptions reﬂect the historical trend, the to determine the present value of obligation for beneﬁts vested by its near-term outlook and assumed inﬂation. Retirement and mortality rates current and former employees. The actuarial calculations are prepared are based primarily on ofﬁcially available mortality statistics. The actuarial annually and are based upon actuarial assumptions that are determined assumptions are reviewed annually by the Volvo Group and modiﬁed when at the balance-sheet date each year. Changes in the present value of deemed appropriate. obligations due to revised actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments constitute remeasurements. Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts in the Volvo Group’s balance The following tables disclose information about deﬁned-beneﬁt plans. sheet correspond to the present value of obligations at year-end, less fair The Volvo Group recognizes the difference between the obligations and value of plan assets. Discount rate is used when calculating the net the plan assets in the balance sheet. The disclosures refer to assumptions interest income or expense on the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability (asset). applied for actuarial calculations, recognized costs during the ﬁnancial All changes in the net deﬁned liability (asset) are recognized when they year and the value of obligations and plan assets at year-end. The tables occur. Service cost and net interest income or expense are recognized in also include a reconciliation of obligations and plan assets during the year. the income statement, while remeasurements such as actuarial gains and losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. Special payroll tax is included in the pension liability. Special payroll tax is applicable for Summary of provision for Dec 31, Dec 31, pension plans in Sweden and Belgium. post–employment beneﬁts 2016 2015 For deﬁned contribution plans, premiums are recognized in the income Obligations –53,508 –49,038 statement as incurred according to function. Fair value of plan assets 38,917 35,400 Net provision for post-employment beneﬁts –14,590 –13,638 141 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Sweden USA The main deﬁned beneﬁt plan in Sweden is the ITP2 plan and it is based In the US, the Volvo Group has tax-qualiﬁed pension plans, post-retirement on ﬁnal salary. The plan is semi-closed, meaning that only new employees medical plans and non-qualiﬁed pension plans. The tax-qualiﬁed pension born before 1979 have the possibility to choose the ITP2 solution. The plans are funded while the other plans are generally unfunded. There are Volvo Group’s pension foundation in Sweden was formed in 1996 to ﬁve funded deﬁned beneﬁt plans, whereof one is closed, one is partially secure obligations relating to retirement pensions for white-collar workers closed and three are open to new entrants. All plans are open for future in Sweden in accordance with the ITP plan. Plan assets amounting to SEK accruals. The Volvo Group’s subsidiaries in the United States mainly 2,456 M were contributed to the foundation at its formation, correspondsecure their pension obligations through transfer of funds to pension ing to the value of the pension obligations at that time. Since its formation, plans. At the end of 2016, the total value of pension obligations secured net contributions of SEK 3,419 M, whereof SEK 252 M during 2016, have by pension plans of this type amounted to SEK 19,071 M (17,386). At the been made to the foundation. The plan assets in the Volvo Group’s same point in time, the total value of the plan assets in these plans Swedish pension foundation are invested in Swedish and foreign stocks amounted to SEK 17,481 M (15,774), of which 45% (48) was invested in and mutual funds, and in interest-bearing securities, in accordance with a equity instruments. The regulations for securing pension obligations distribution that is determined by the foundation’s Board of Directors. As stipulate certain minimum levels concerning the ratio between the value of December 31, 2016, the fair value of the foundation’s plan assets of the plan assets and the value of the obligations. During 2016, the Volvo amounted to SEK 11,354 M (10,249), of which 47% (47) was invested in Group contributed SEK 399 M (397) to the American pension plans. equity instruments. At the same date, retirement pension obligations attributable to the ITP plan amounted to SEK 14,437 M (12,915). France Swedish companies can secure new pension obligations through In France, the Volvo Group has two types of deﬁned beneﬁt plans, balance-sheet provisions or pension-fund contributions. Furthermore, a Indemnité de Fin de Carrière (IFC) and jubilee award plan. The plans are credit insurance policy must be taken out for the value of the obligations. unfunded. The retirement indemnities plan is compulsory in France. The In addition to beneﬁts relating to retirement pensions, the ITP plan also beneﬁts are based on the Collective Bargaining Agreement applicable in includes, for example, a collective family pension, which the Volvo Group the company, on the employee’s seniority at retirement date and on the ﬁnances through an insurance policy with the Alecta insurance company. ﬁnal pay. The beneﬁt payment is due only if employees are working for the According to an interpretation from the Swedish Financial Reporting company when they retire. The jubilee awards plan is an internal agreeBoard, this is a multi-employer deﬁned beneﬁt plan. For ﬁscal year 2016, ment. The beneﬁt is based on the employee’s seniority career at 20, 30, the Volvo Group did not have access to information from Alecta that would 35 and 40 years. As of December 31, 2016 the total value of pension have enabled this plan to be recognized as a deﬁned beneﬁt plan. Accordobligations amounted to SEK 2,992 M (2,574). ingly, the plan has been recognized as a deﬁned contribution plan. The Volvo Group estimates it will pay premiums of about SEK 265 M to Alecta Great Britain in 2017. The collective consolidation level measures the apportionable In Great Britain the Volvo Group has ﬁve deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans. assets in relation to the insurance commitment. According to Alecta’s The plans are funded. The deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans provides beneconsolidation policy for deﬁned beneﬁt pension insurance, the collective ﬁts which are linked to each member’s ﬁnal pay at the earlier of their date consolidation level is normally allowed to vary between 125% and 155%. of leaving or retirement. The pension funds are set up as separate legal Alecta’s consolidation ratio amounts to 149% (153). If the consolidation entities, which are governed by trustees who are responsible for the level falls short or exceeds the normal interval one measure may be to governance of the plan. The common trustee board is composed of repincrease the contract price for new subscription and expanding existing resentatives from the employees and an independent trust. All plans are beneﬁts or introduce premium reductions. closed to new entrants and two of the plans are closed to future accrual. The Volvo Group’s share of the total saving premiums for ITP2 in Alecta Members of the plan also have the option to commute an amount of their as at December 31, 2016 amounted to 0.33 % (0.29) and the share of the pension beneﬁt as cash at retirement as permitted by UK legislation. total number of active policy holders amounted to 1.67% (1.82). The strategic allocation of plan assets must comply with the investment During 2015 the Volvo Group reviewed all the assumptions regarding guidelines agreed by the trustees of the respective schemes. If a net surplus the Swedish pension plan where the consequence was a lower pension is recognized in the balance sheet when the pension scheme runs-off the obligation, excluding any variation in the discount rate, and a future lower Volvo Goup has an unconditional right to the surplus of that plan or plans. service cost in the income statement. At the end of 2016, the total value of pension obligations secured by All employees in Sweden beneﬁt from a jubilee awards plan according pension plans amounted to SEK 7,114 M (6,820). The total value of the to which they receive a certain number of shares after they have rendered plan assets in these plans amounted to SEK 7,186 M (6,847). 25, 35 and 45 years of services. This plan is accounted for as a shareDuring 2016, the Volvo Group has made extra contributions to the based payment program. pension plans in Great Britain in the amount of SEK 104 M (107). Read more in Note 27 Personnel about accounting policy on share-based payments. 142 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Assumptions applied for actuarial Dec 31, Dec 31, Pension costs 2016 2015 calculations, % 2016 2015 Current year service costs 1,447 1,681 Sweden Interest costs 1,557 1,532 Discount rate1 3.00 3.50 Interest income –1,284 –1,208 Expected salary increase 2.90 2.90 Past service costs –3 122 Inﬂation 1.50 1.50 Gain/loss on settlements –2 –129 Pension costs for the period, United States deﬁned-beneﬁt plans 1,715 1,999 Discount rate1,2 2.50–4.29 3.00–4.40 Expected salary increase 2.60–3.50 2.70–3.50 Pension costs for deﬁned contribution plans 2,169 2,340 Inﬂation 2.20 2.20 Total pension costs for the period 3,884 4,339 France Discount rate1 1.10–1.80 1.50–2.20 Costs for the period, post–employment Expected salary increase 3.00 2.50–3.00 beneﬁts other than pensions 2016 2015 Inﬂation 1.50 1.50 Current year service costs 77 121 Great Britain Interest costs 151 147 Discount rate1 2.80–2.95 3.50–3.80 Interest income –4 –3 Expected salary increases 3.25–3.80 3.50–3.60 Past service costs – – Inﬂation 3.25–3.30 3.10 Gain/loss on settlements –1 –185 Remeasurements 20 248 1 The discount rate for each country is determined by reference to market yields on Total costs for the period 243 328 high-quality corporate bonds. In countries where there is no functioning market in such bonds, the market yields on government bonds are used. The discount rate for the Swedish pension obligation is determined by extrapolating current market rates along the yield curve of mortgage bonds. 2 For all plans except three the discount rate used is within the range 3.67–4.29% (3.70–4.40). Sweden US France Great Britain US Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions Other beneﬁts Average duration of the obligation, years 22.0 11.0 15.8 19.2 10.2 The analysis below presents the sensitivity on the deﬁned beneﬁt this is not probable, and changes in some of the assumptions may be obligations when changes in the applied assumptions for discount rate correlated. Depending on local regulations, facts and circumstances in and inﬂation are made. The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in the separate countries the sensitivity effect on the obligation differs for an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, the respective assumptions. Sensitivity analysis 2016 − Effect on obligation, SEK M + If discount rate increases 0.5% If discount rate decreases 0.5% Sweden Pensions –1,523 1,734 US Pensions –1,065 1,114 France Pensions –217 241 Great Britain Pensions –636 732 US Other beneﬁts –184 190 Other plans –340 343 If inﬂation decreases 0.5% If inﬂation increases 0.5% Sweden Pensions –1,523 1,734 US Pensions 0 0 France Pensions –5 5 Great Britain Pensions –412 509 US Other beneﬁts –16 20 Other plans –182 234 143 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Obligations in deﬁned-beneﬁt plans Great US Sweden US France Britain Other Other Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions beneﬁts plans Total Obligations opening balance 2015 15,831 16,841 2,849 6,671 3,516 5,241 50,948 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes – – – – – –59 –59 Current year service costs 772 402 92 57 109 370 1,802 Interest costs 430 681 55 257 137 120 1,680 Past service costs 84 19 – – – 20 124 Settlements 160 – –20 – –184 –416 –461 Employee contributions –2 – – 14 – 4 16 Remeasurements: – Effect of changes in demographic assumptions –166 335 – 11 39 –43 176 – Effect of changes in ﬁnancial assumptions –2,707 –265 –79 –36 –111 11 –3,186 – Effect of experience adjustments –663 59 –87 –8 229 –27 –496 Exchange rate translation – 1,174 –112 128 241 –112 1,319 Beneﬁts paid –436 –1,199 –122 –273 –304 –488 –2,824 Obligations as of December 31, 2015 13,302 18,048 2,574 6,820 3,673 4,621 49,038 of which Funded deﬁned-beneﬁt plans 12,938 17,386 10 6,820 24 3,190 40,367 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes – 2 –5 –10 –2 –84 –98 Current year service costs 592 370 89 59 56 357 1,524 Interest costs 458 715 57 233 140 106 1,709 Past service costs 67 60 – – – –93 35 Settlements 20 – –2 – – –2 15 Employee contributions – – – 12 – 7 19 Remeasurements: – Effect of changes in demographic assumptions – –68 –7 – –122 –3 –200 – Effect of changes in ﬁnancial assumptions 1,523 219 382 1,059 43 284 3,510 – Effect of experience adjustments –717 104 –103 –100 –33 –45 –894 Exchange rate translation – 1,692 118 –690 326 307 1,753 Beneﬁts paid –449 –1,358 –110 –269 –398 –317 –2,902 Obligations as of December 31, 2016 14,796 19,786 2,992 7,114 3,683 5,137 53,508 of which Funded deﬁned-beneﬁt plans 14,460 19,071 12 7,114 10 3,595 44,263 Fair value of plan assets in funded plans Great Sweden US France Britain US Other Other Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions beneﬁts plans Total Plan assets opening balance 2015 9,511 15,215 8 6,772 26 2,859 34,391 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes –2 – – – – –105 –107 Interest income 261 621 – 263 1 65 1,211 Settlements – – – – – –309 –309 Remeasurements 285 –391 – –167 –5 30 –247 Employer contributions 216 397 1 107 – 230 950 Employee contributions – – – 14 – 4 18 Exchange rate translation – 1,071 – 132 2 –96 1,110 Beneﬁts paid –1 –1,139 – –273 – –202 –1,615 Plan assets as of December 31, 2015 10,270 15,774 9 6,847 23 2,477 35,400 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes – –1 – –9 – –50 –59 Interest income 359 630 – 236 1 61 1,287 Settlements – – – – – – – Remeasurements 494 519 –1 960 –1 43 2,014 Employer contributions 252 399 3 104 – 332 1,090 Employee contributions – – – 12 – 3 15 Exchange rate translation – 1,481 – –695 2 143 931 Beneﬁts paid –1 –1,321 – –269 –15 –154 –1,761 Plan assets as of December 31, 2016 11,374 17,481 11 7,186 9 2,855 38,917 144 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Net provisions for post-employment beneﬁts Great US Sweden US France Britain Other Other Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions beneﬁts plans Total Net provision for post-employment beneﬁts as of December 31, 2015 –3,032 –2,274 –2,565 27 –3,650 –2,144 –13,638 of which reported as: B/S Prepaid pensions – – – 27 – 8 34 B/S Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts –3,032 –2,274 –2,565 – –3,650 –2,151 –13,673 Net provisions for post-employment beneﬁts as of December 31, 2016 –3,422 –2,305 –2,981 72 –3,674 –2,283 –14,590 of which reported as: B/S Prepaid pensions – – – 72 – 7 79 B/S Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts –3,422 –2,305 –2,981 – –3,674 –2,289 –14,669 Investment strategy and risk management The Volvo Group manages the allocation and investment of pension plan Plan assets by category as of December 31, 2015 assets with the purpose of meeting the long term objectives. The main objectives are to meet present and future beneﬁt obligations, provide sufCash and cash equivalents, 589 (2%) ﬁcient liquidity to meet such payment requirements and to provide a total Equity instruments, Volvo, 316 (1%) return that maximizes the ratio of the plan assets in relation to the plan Equity instruments, other, 13,259 (37%) liabilities by maximizing return on the assets at an appropriate level of risk. Debt instruments, 13,069 (37%) The ﬁnal investment decision often resides with the local trustee, but the Real estate, 1,977 (6%) investment policy for all plans ensures that the risks in the investment Investments funds, 4,805 (14%) portfolios are well diversiﬁed. The risks related to pension obligations, e.g. Assets held by insurance company, 814 (2%) longevity and inﬂation, as well as buy out premiums and matching strateOther assets, 572 (2%) gies are monitored on an ongoing basis in order to limit the Volvo Group’s exposure. In the last couple of years, some of the deﬁned beneﬁt plans have been Plan assets by category as of December 31, 2016 closed to new entrants and replaced by deﬁned contribution plans in order to reduce risk for the Volvo Group. Cash and cash equivalents, 1,075 (3%) In Sweden the minimum funding target is decided by PRI PensionsEquity instruments, Volvo, 0 (0%) garanti, this is mandatory in order to stay in the system and get insurance Equity instruments, other, 14,458 (37%) for the pension liability. The minimum contribution is decided by the comDebt instruments, 13,677 (35%) pany and should equal at least the pension beneﬁts expected to be earned Real estate, 2,908 (8%) during the coming year. Investments funds, 3,970 (10%) In the United States the minimum funding target is decided by the Assets held by insurance company, 802 (2%) company in order to avoid penalties, keep ﬂexibility and avoid extensive Other assets, 2,027 (5%) ﬁling with the IRS and participants. The minimum contribution should equal at least the beneﬁts expected to be earned during the coming year plus one-seventh of the underfunding. In Great Britain there are no minimum funding requirements. For each plan there is a contribution plan, which is well deﬁned, in place to bring the Actual return on plan assets amounted to SEK 3,301 M (964). schemes to full funding within a reasonable time frame. The contribution plans are to be approved by regulators. Fair value of plan assets Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 In 2017 the Volvo Group estimates to transfer an amount of SEK 1–2 With a quoted market price billion to pension plans. Cash and cash equivalents 1,075 579 Equity instruments 14,458 13,574 Debt instruments 13,486 13,069 Real estate 2,236 1,653 Derivatives –29 –4 Investments funds 2,810 3,440 Other 1,952 573 With an unquoted market price Other 2,928 2,516 Total 38,917 35,400 145 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 21 OTHER PROVISIONS ACCOUNTING POLICY 25,822 M (22,585) as of December 31, 2016. Residual value risks are reﬂected in different ways in the Volvo Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial Provisions are recognized when a legal or constructive obligation exists statements depending on the extent to which the risk remains with the as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outﬂow of resources Volvo Group. will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably In cases where signiﬁcant risks pertaining to the product remain with estimated. the Volvo Group, the products, primarily trucks, are generally recognized in the balance sheet as assets under operating leases. Depreciation of Provisions for residual value risks these products is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the Residual value risks are attributable to operating lease contracts or sales commitment and the depreciable amount is adjusted to correspond to transactions combined with buy-back agreements or residual value guarestimated net realizable value at the end of the commitment. The estiantees. Residual value risks are the risks that the Volvo Group in the mated net realizable value of the products at the end of the commitment future would have to dispose used products at a loss if the price developis monitored individually on a continuing basis. A decline in prices for used ment of these products is worse than what was expected when the trucks and construction equipments may negatively affect the Volvo contracts were entered. Provisions for residual value risks are made on a Group’s operating income. High inventories in the truck industry and the continuing basis based upon estimations of the used products’ future net construction equipment industry and low demand may have a negative realizable values. The estimations of future net realizable values are made impact on the prices of new and used trucks and construction equipwith consideration to current prices, expected future price development, ments. In monitoring estimated net realizable value of each product under expected inventory lead-time and expected direct and indirect selling a residual value commitment, management makes considerations of expenses. If the residual value risks pertain to products that are recogcurrent price-level of the used product model, value of options, mileage, nized as tangible assets in the Volvo Group’s balance sheet, these risks condition, future price deterioration due to expected change of market are reﬂected by depreciation or write-down of the carrying value of these conditions, alternative distribution channels, inventory lead-time, repair assets. If the residual value risks pertain to products, which are not recogand reconditioning costs, handling costs and indirect costs associated nized as assets in the Volvo Group’s balance sheet, these risks are with the sale of used products. Additional depreciations and estimated reﬂected under provisions. impairment losses are immediately recognized in the income statement. In cases where the products have been recognized as assets under Read more in Note 7 Revenue. operating leases, the residual value commitment agreed with the customer is recognized as current and non-current residual value liabilities. Provision for product warranty For contracts which have been ﬁnanced by Financial Services the residual Estimated provision for product warranties are recognized when the prodvalue liability is being eliminated on Group level and instead recognized as ucts are sold. The provision includes both expected contractual warranﬁnance liability both in the Financial Services and Group Balance Sheet. ties and so called technical goodwill warranties and is determined based on historical statistics considering known quality improvements, costs for Read more in Note 22 Liabilities about residual value liabilities. remedy of defaults etc. Provision for campaigns in connection with speciﬁc quality problems are recognized when the campaign is decided. If the residual value risk commitment is not signiﬁcant, independent from the sale transaction or in combination with a commitment from the cusProvision for restructuring costs tomer to buy a new product in connection to a buy-back option, the asset A provision for decided restructuring measures is recognized when a is not recognized on the balance sheet. Instead, the risk that the Volvo detailed plan for the implementation of the measures is complete and Group would have to dispose the used products at a loss is reported as a when this plan is communicated to those who are affected. A provision residual value provision. and costs for termination beneﬁts as a result of a voluntary termination To the extent the residual value exposure does not meet the deﬁnition program is recognized when the employee accepts the offer. Restructuring of a provision, the gross exposure is reported as a contingent liability. For costs can be reported as a separate line item in the income statement if contracts which have been ﬁnanced by Financial Services the residual they relate to a major change of the Group structure. Normally restructuring value commitment is recognized as ﬁnance liability, hence no contingent costs are included in other operating income and expenses. liabilities are recognized for these contracts. Read more in Note 24 Contingent liabilities. ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Provision for product warranty Warranty provisions are estimated with consideration of historical claims The uncertainties about the amount or timing of outﬂows vary for different statistics, the warranty period, the average time-lag between faults occurkind of provisions. Regarding provisions for warranty, extended coverage, ring and claims to the company and anticipated changes in quality indexes. residual value risks and service contracts, the provisions are based on Estimated costs for product warranties are recognized as cost of sales historical statistics and estimated future costs, why the provided amount when the products are sold. Estimated warranty costs include contractual has a higher correlation with the outﬂow of resources. Regarding proviwarranty and goodwill warranty (warranty cover in excess of contractual sions for disputes, like tax and legal disputes, the uncertainty is higher. warranty or campaigns which is accepted as a matter of policy or normal practice in order to maintain a good business relation with the customer). Residual value risks Differences between actual warranty claims and the estimated ﬁnal claims In the course of its operations, the Volvo Group is exposed to residual cost generally affect the recognized expense and provisions in future perivalue risks through operating lease agreements and sales combined with ods. Refunds from suppliers, that decrease the Volvo Group’s warranty repurchase agreements. Residual value commitments amounted to SEK costs, are recognized to the extent these are considered to be certain. 146 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Provisions for extended coverage Commission regarding a possible violation of EU antitrust rules. On An extended coverage is a product insurance sold to a customer to cover November 20, 2014, the European Commission issued a Statement of a product according to speciﬁc conditions for an agreed period and/or Objections stating its preliminary view that the Volvo Group and several content in addition to the factory contractual warranty. The provision is other European Truck companies may have violated the European intended to cover the risk that the expected cost of providing services Competition rules. After an evaluation of the Statement of Objections, the under the contract exceed the expected revenue. Volvo Group decided to recognize a provision of EUR 400 M in the fourth quarter of 2014. An additional provision of EUR 250 M was recognized in Provision for service contracts the second quarter of 2016. The provisions impacted the Volvo Group’s Service contracts offer the customer preventive maintenance according operating income in each of the respective quarters negatively with the to an agreed service plan. The provision is intended to cover the risk that same amount. In July 2016, the Volvo Group reached a settlement with the expected cost of providing services and repairs under the contract the European Commission in the investigation. As part of the settlement, exceeds the expected revenue. the Volvo Group paid a ﬁne of EUR 670 M in the fourth quarter of 2016. The part of the amount not covered by the provisions already made (EUR Legal proceedings 20 M) impacted the Volvo Group’s operating income negatively in the third Provisions for legal disputes are included within Other provisions in the quarter of 2016. table below. The Volvo Group recognizes obligations as provisions or other liabilities Read more in Note 24 Contingent liabilities. only in cases where the Volvo group has a present obligation from a past event, where a ﬁnancial responsibility is probable and the Volvo Group can Provision for externally issued credit guarantees for Construction make a reliable estimate of the amount. When these criteria are not met, Equipment in China a contingent liability may be recognized. The provision for externally issued credit guarantees decreased during 2016. The Volvo Group regularly reviews the development of signiﬁcant outstanding legal disputes in which the Volvo Group companies are parties, Read more in Note 8 Other operating income and expenses and Note 24 both regarding civil law and tax disputes, in order to assess the need for Contingent liabilities. provisions and contingent liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements. Among the factors that the Volvo Group considers in making decisions on proviProvisions in insurance operations sions and contingent liabilities are the nature of the dispute, the amount Volvo Group has a captive insurance company and the provisions in insurclaimed, the progress of the case, the opinions or views of legal counsels ance operations consist of the claims reserve related to third party claims and other advisers, experience in similar cases, and any decision of the addressed to companies within the Volvo Group. The claims reserve also Volvo Group’s management as to how the Volvo Group intends to handle includes a provision for unreported losses based on past experience. The the dispute. The actual outcome of a legal dispute may deviate from the unearned premium reserve is reported as an accrued expense within expected outcome of the dispute. The difference between actual and other current liabilities. expected outcome of a dispute might materially affect future ﬁnancial statements, with an adverse impact upon the Volvo Group’s operating Other provisions income, ﬁnancial position and liquidity. Other provisions mainly includes provisions for tax disputes, provisions for In January 2011, the Volvo Group and a number of other companies in legal disputes, provisions for externally issued credit guarantees and the truck industry became part of an investigation by the European other provisions, unless separately speciﬁed and commented in the table and text. Carrying Acquired and Other Carrying Of which Of which value as of divested Translation reclassivalue as of due within due after Dec 31, 2015 Provisions Reversals Utilizations companies differences ﬁcations Dec 31, 2016 12 months 12 months Warranties 11,372 10,038 –2,044 –7,069 1 722 –199 12,821 7,127 5,694 Provisions for extended coverage 1,047 378 –100 –549 – 24 205 1,005 357 648 Provisions in insurance operations 697 150 –18 –186 – 11 – 654 – 654 Restructuring measures 1,297 223 –93 –863 – 64 –42 586 543 43 Provisions for residual value risks 1,004 743 –215 –469 1 61 10 1,135 421 714 Provisions for service contracts 324 285 –116 –169 –1 25 –4 344 179 165 Provision related to EU antitrust investigation 3,658 2,524 – –6,382 – 200 – – – – Provision for externally issued credit guarantees for Volvo CE 408 – –317 – – 3 – 94 94 – Other provisions 3,905 3,536 –851 –2,324 –4 287 –51 4,498 2,612 1,886 B/S Total 23,712 17,877 –3,754 –18,011 –3 1,397 –81 21,137 11,333 9,804 Long-term provisions as above are expected to be settled within 2 to 3 years. Read more about restructuring costs in Note 8 Other operating income and expenses. Read more about provisions for residual value risks in Note 24 Contingent liabilities. 147 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 22 LIABILITIES ACCOUNTING POLICY Non-current liabilities The tables below disclose the Volvo Group’s non-current liabilities with Loans are valued at amortized cost using the effective interest rate the largest loans listed by currency. Loans in the Volvo Group’s subsidiaries method. A hybrid bond issued by AB Volvo is classiﬁed as debt in the are mainly in local currencies through Treasury which minimizes the curVolvo Group’s accounts as it constitutes a contractual obligation to make rency exposure in the individual companies. Treasury uses various derivainterest payments to the holder of the instrument. tives to facilitate lending and borrowing in different currencies without increasing the risk for the Volvo Group. Read more in Note 4 about Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management and in Note 30 about Financial Instruments. Non-current liabilities Actual interest rate Effective interest rate Dec 31, Dec 31, Currency/start year/maturity Dec 31, 2016, % Dec 31, 2016, % 2016 2015 Bond loans EUR 2012–2016/2018–20784 0.03–4.99 0.03–4.99 48,215 34,525 SEK 2013–2016/2018–2019 0.04–3.39 0.04–3.39 12,438 12,557 JPY 2014/2017 – 693 B/S Total Bond loans1 60,653 47,776 Other loans USD 2008–2016/2018–2024 1.11–3.00 1.11–3.00 6,157 6,766 EUR 2008–2016/2019–2027 1.05–6.5 1.05–6.50 1,817 1,753 CAD 2016/2019 1.98 1.99 472 754 MXN 2015–2016/2020 6.58–7.33 6.78–7.33 747 981 JPY 2009–2016/2019–2025 0.35–1.23 0.35–1.24 6,688 9,509 BRL 2010–2016/2019–2026 5.51–6.97 5.72–6.97 5,659 5,468 AUD 2015–2016/2019–2020 2.63–2.79 2.67–2.83 597 220 CNY 2012–2016/2018–2019 4.30–4.51 4.30–4.51 518 508 THB 2015/2017 – 348 Other loans 837 609 Revaluation of outstanding derivatives to SEK 2 406 585 B/S Total Other loans1 23,898 27,500 Total Bond loans and Other loans3 84,551 75,275 Other liabilities Deferred leasing income 2,709 2,615 Residual value liabilities 5,942 4,939 Deferred service revenue 9,285 7,256 Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives2 176 181 Other non-current liabilities 2,210 1,529 Outstanding raw material derivatives 0 18 B/S Total Other liabilities 20,322 16,538 Total non-current liabilities 104,873 91,813 1 Of which loans raised to ﬁnance the credit portfolio of the Financial Services operations amounted to SEK 44,669 M (25,238) in Bond loans and SEK 19,003 M (29,263) in Other loans. 2 Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments, table Carrying amounts and fair values on Financial Instruments. 3 Of the above non-current loans, SEK 5,213 M (5,926) were secured by assets pledged. Read more in Note 23 Assets pledged. 4 Including the hybrid bond of EUR 1,5 bn. This bond consists of two tranches, EUR 0.9 bn with a ﬁrst call in 2020 and ﬁnal maturity in 2075 and EUR 0.6 bn with a ﬁrst call in 2023 and ﬁnal maturity in 2078. 148 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Maturity Not utilized Bank loans include current maturities of non-current loans SEK 4,805 M Bond loans and non-current credit (6,066). Other loans include current maturities of non-current loans, SEK Year other loans facilities1 30,004 M (32,753), and commercial papers, SEK 8,213 M (5,845). 2018 43,687 7,979 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities amounted to SEK 98,705 M 2019 19,673 11,491 (98,529), or 64% (63) of the Volvo Group’s total current liabilities. 2020 2,993 – The table below presents the Volvo Group’s other current liabilities. In addi2021 947 22,025 tion to this non-interest-bearing current liabilities also include trade payables 2022 131 – of SEK 55,264 M (55,648), current tax liabilities of SEK 685 M (1,322) and 2023 or later 17,120 – non-interest-bearing liabilities held for sale of SEK 148 M (573). Total 84,551 41,495 Other current liabilities Dec 31, Dec 31, 1 Current not utilized credit facilities amounted to SEK 958 M (1,576). 2016 2015 Advances from customers 4,356 4,026 Read more in Note 15 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables, table 15:2 Wages, salaries and withholding taxes 8,558 8,551 VAT liabilities 2,301 2,401 AB Volvo issued a hybrid bond in 2014, amounting to EUR 1.5 bn with a maturity of 61,6 years, in order to further strengthen the Volvo Group’s Accrued expenses for dealer bonuses and rebates1 5,129 3,696 balance sheet and prolong the maturity structure of the debt portfolio. Other accrued expenses and deferred income 12,945 12,728 The predominant part of non-current loans that mature in 2018 is an Deferred leasing income 2,026 1,992 effect of the Volvo Group’s normal business cycle, with shorter duration in Residual value liability 2,590 2,825 the Financial Services portfolio compared to Industrial Operations. Other ﬁnancial liabilities 485 295 Granted but not utilized credit facilities consists of stand-by facilities Other liabilities 3,971 4,287 for loans. A fee is charged for granted credit facilities, this is recognized in Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives2 241 134 proﬁt or loss within other ﬁnancial income and expenses. Outstanding raw material derivatives 7 50 B/S Other current liabilities 42,608 40,986 Read more in Note 9 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses. 1 Read more in Note 21 Other provisions. Current liabilities 2 Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments, regarding current part of Loans Dec 31, Dec 31, Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives included in table carrying 2016 2015 amounts and fair value. Bank loans 13,309 14,495 Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, Other loans 43,187 42,836 table Assets and liabilities held for sale. B/S Loans1, 2 56,497 57,331 Read more in Note 23 Assets pledged. 1 Of which loans raised to ﬁnance the Financial Services credit portfolio amounted to SEK 45,876 M (48,786) and outstanding derivatives, at fair value, amounted to SEK 717 M (811). 2 Current loans amounting to SEK 5,027 M (3,299) were secured by assets pledged. NOTE 23 ASSETS PLEDGED Assets pledged Dec 31, Dec 31, Non-current and current loans of SEK 10,240 M (9,225) were secured by 2016 2015 assets pledged. Under the terms of asset-backed securitizations, SEK 10,031 M (9,064) Property, plant and equipment – mortgages 85 65 of securities have been issued tied to US-based loans, secured by Assets under operating leases 228 – customer ﬁnancing receivables, SEK 10,259 M (9,323), recognized on Receivables 10,259 9,323 the balance sheet with trucks and construction equipment assets as Cash, loans and marketable securities 20 40 collaterals, whereof SEK 6,031 M (6,819) were signed in 2016. Total 10,592 9,428 Read more in Note 22 Liabilities. 149 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 24 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Group regularly assesses these tax processes. When it is probable that ACCOUNTING POLICY additional taxes must be paid and the outcome can be reasonably estimated, the required provision is made. Out of total tax claims, SEK 2.2 Contingent liabilities (1.5) billion is related to a transfer price audit in Brazil and SEK 1.1 (0.7) A contingent liability is recognized for a possible obligation, for which it is billion to a custom duties audit in India. The increase in contingent liabilinot yet conﬁrmed that a present obligation exists that could lead to an ties is mainly related to currency changes. outﬂow of resources. Alternatively a present obligation that does not meet the deﬁnitions of a provision or a liability as it is not probable that an outResidual value guarantees amounted to SEK 4,014 M (3,195) and were ﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation or when a sufﬁattributable to sales transactions combined with buy back agreements or ciently reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made. residual value guarantees for which assets are not recognized in the balance sheet. The recognized amount corresponds to the gross exposure and has not been reduced by the estimated net selling price of used prodContingent liabilities Dec 31, Dec 31, ucts taken as collaterals. To the extent the used products pertaining to 2016 2015 those transactions are expected to be disposed at a loss, a provision for Credit guarantees issued for customers and others 1,406 3,432 residual value is recognized. Tax claims 5,090 3,976 Residual value guarantees 4,014 3,195 Read more about provision for residual value guarantees in Note 21 Other Other contingent liabilities 5,546 4,977 provisions. Total contingent liabilities 16,056 15,580 Other contingent liabilities amounted to SEK 5,546 M (4,977) and Total contingent liabilities at December 31, 2016, amounted to net SEK included for example bid and performance clauses and legal proceedings. 16,056 M (15,580) and included no contingent assets. Legal proceedings Credit guarantees amounted to SEK 1,406 M (3,432). The recognized Volvo Group has been subject to the below investigations by competition amount for credit guarantees corresponds to the gross exposure and has authorities. Volvo Group has co-operated fully with the respective authority. not been reduced by the value of counter guarantees received or other In April 2011, the Volvo Group’s truck business in Korea and a number collaterals such as the right to repossess the products in cases where a of other truck companies became the subject of an investigation by the legal offsetting right does not exist. The value of counter guarantees and Korean Fair Trade Commission (KFTC). During 2013 KFTC decided to other collaterals reducing the exposure is dependent on the development impose a ﬁne on the Volvo Group in an amount corresponding to approxof used products prices and on the possibility to repossess the products. imately SEK 133 M as of September 30, 2016. The Volvo Group appealed A major part of the credit guarantees is still related to the outstanding against the decision. A decision was rendered in August 2016 by the High credit guarantees related to Chinese dealers and retail customers within Court in Seoul, which found in favor of the Volvo Group’s appeal. KFTC Construction Equipment. During 2016 the ﬁnancial situation for Chinese ﬁled an appeal of the High Court decision to the Supreme Court in Sepdealers and retail customers has developed positively and the exposure is tember 2016. The Supreme Court dismissed KFTC’s appeal in December reduced which is reﬂected in the decreased recognized amount. However, 2016 and, consequently, the High Court’s decision is ﬁnal. The previously including both contingent liabilities and on-balance sheet exposure the disclosed contingent liability corresponding to the ﬁne amount has therecredit risk is still signiﬁcant. fore been cancelled. Other risks than credit guarantees referring to future credit losses in In January 2011, the Volvo Group and a number of other companies in China, are reﬂected as on-balance sheet exposures. The provisions for the truck industry became part of an investigation by the European Comexternally issued credit guarantees decreased during 2016 and amounted mission regarding a possible violation of EU antitrust rules. In July 2016, to SEK 94 M (408) at December 31, 2016 affecting other operating the Volvo Group reached a settlement with the European Commission in income and expenses positively. This was offset by additional provisions the investigation. Following the adoption of the European Commission’s for credit losses for receivables with a negative effect on other operating settlement decision, the Volvo Group will be dealing with private damages income and expenses. The net effect on other operating income and claims from customers and other third parties alleging that they suffered expenses was SEK 319 M (747) negatively during 2016. Also increased loss by reason of the conduct covered in the decision. At this stage it is allowance of SEK 97 M of an entrustment loan to dealers was reported as not possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount of any liability that other ﬁnancial income and expenses. could arise from any such proceedings. The Volvo Group is also involved in a number of legal proceedings other Tax claims amounted to SEK 5,090 M (3,976) and pertained to charges than those described above. The Volvo Group’s assessment is that such against the Volvo Group for which the criteria for recognizing a provision other legal proceedings in aggregate are not likely to entail any risk of were not met. Global companies such as the Volvo Group are occasionally having a material effect on the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial position. involved in tax processes of varying scope and in various stages. Volvo 150 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 25 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Transactions between AB Volvo and its subsidiaries, which are related parTransactions with joint ventures 2016 2015 ties to AB Volvo, have been eliminated in the Group and are not disclosed in this note. Sales to joint ventures 1,756 1,887 Purchase from joint ventures 801 769 Receivables from joint ventures, Dec 31 182 319 Transactions with associated companies 2016 2015 Liabilities to joint ventures, Dec 31 169 194 Sales to associated companies 1,771 2,448 Purchase from associated companies 2,062 2,258 The Volvo Group engages in transactions with its joint ventures. The transReceivables from associated companies, Dec 31 352 638 actions consist mainly of sales of vehicles and parts and purchase of engine Liabilities to associated companies, Dec 31 438 515 long blocks and services. Commercial terms and market prices apply for the supply of goods and services to/from joint ventures. The Volvo Group engages in transactions with some of its associated companies. The transactions consist mainly of sales of vehicles and parts Read more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies to dealers and importers and purchases of engines from Deutz AG. and other shares and participations Commercial terms and market prices apply for the supply of goods and services to/from associated companies. NOTE 26 GOVERNMENT GRANTS ACCOUNTING POLICY In 2016, government grants of SEK 687 M (495) were received, and SEK Government grants are ﬁnancial grants from governmental or suprana592 M (682) was recognized in the income statement. The amount tional bodies received by the Volvo Group in exchange for fulﬁllment of includes tax credits of SEK 290 M (280) related to product development, certain conditions. which were primarily received in France and in the United States. Other Governmental grants related to assets are presented in the balance sheet grants were mainly received from Swedish, Chinese and US governmental by deducting the grants in arriving at the carrying amount of the asset. organizations and from the European Commission. Governmental grants related to income are reported as a deferred income and recognized in the income statement over the periods necessary to match the related costs. If the costs incur before the grants have been received, but there is an agreement that grants will be received, grants are recognized in the income statement to compensate the relevant costs. 151 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 27 PERSONNEL Executives resident outside Sweden or resident in Sweden but having ACCOUNTING POLICY a material connection to or having been resident in a country other than Sweden may be offered notice periods for termination and severance payIncentive programs ment that are competitive in the country where the Executives are or have The Volvo Group has a long-term incentive program in accordance with been resident or to which the Executives have a material connection, prefIAS19 Employee beneﬁts. During the vesting period, it is recognized as an erably solutions comparable to the solutions applied to Executives resiexpense and as a short term liability. dent in Sweden. The Volvo Group also has share-based incentive programs for the years The Board of Directors may deviate from this policy if there are special 2011 to 2013 and for the years 2014 to 2016 (terminated one year in reasons to do so in an individual case. advance), including both a cash-settled and an equity-settled part. The fair value of the equity-settled payments is determined at the grant date, recogFee paid to the Board of Directors nized as an expense during the vesting period and offset in equity. The fair According to a resolution adopted at the Annual General Meeting 2016, value is based on the share price reduced by dividends connected with the the fee to the Board of Directors appointed at the Annual General Meetshare during the vesting period. ing for the period until the close of the Annual General Meeting 2017 shall Additional social costs are reported as a liability, revalued at each balance be paid as follows: The Chairman of the Board should be awarded SEK sheet date in accordance with UFR 7, issued by the Swedish Financial Report3,250,000 and each of the other members SEK 950,000 with exception ing Board. The cash-settled payment is revalued at each balance sheet date of the President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of AB Volvo. In addition, SEK and is recognized as an expense during the vesting period and as a short term 300,000 should be awarded to the chairman of the audit committee and liability. An assessment whether the terms for allotment will be fulﬁlled is SEK 150,000 to each of the other members of the audit committee, and made continuously. Based on such assessment, expense might be adjusted. SEK 125,000 to the chairman of the remuneration committee and SEK 100,000 to each of the members of the remuneration committee. Remuneration policy decided at the Annual General Terms of employment and remuneration to the CEO Meeting in 2016 Fixed salary, short-term and long-term incentives The Annual General Meeting of 2016 decided upon a policy on remunerThe President and CEO is entitled to a remuneration consisting of a ﬁxed ation and other employment terms for the members of the Volvo Group annual salary and short-term and long-term incentives. During the ﬁnancial Executive Board. The decided principles can be summarized as follows: year 2016, the short-term and long-term incentives are based on EBIT and The remuneration and the other terms of employment of the Executives cash ﬂow for the Volvo Group. The short-term and long-term incentives, shall be competitive so that the Volvo Group can attract and retain comeach, amounts to a maximum of 100% of the ﬁxed annual salary. petent Executives. The total remuneration to Executives consists of ﬁxed For the ﬁnancial year 2016, Martin Lundstedt received a ﬁxed salary of salary, short-term and long-term incentives, pension and other beneﬁts. SEK 12,755,712 and a short-term incentive of SEK 3,105,894. The shortShort-term and long-term incentives shall be linked to predetermined and term incentive is 24.6% of the base salary. Other beneﬁts, mainly pertainmeasurable criteria relating to EBIT and cash ﬂow targets for the Volvo ing to car and housing, amounted to SEK 311,516 in 2016. Martin LundGroup, devised to promote the long-term value creation of the Volvo stedt was also participating in the long-term incentive program decided by Group and strengthen the link between achieved performance targets the Board of Directors. During the ﬁnancial year the outcome of the longand rewards. The criteria for short-term and long-term incentives shall be term incentive program amounted to SEK 3,105,894 of which the full net determined by the Board annually. amount shall be invested in Volvo B shares. Payment of the amount is Short-term incentive may, as regards the President and CEO, amount to subject to the General Meetings approval. a maximum of 100% of the ﬁxed salary and, as regards other Executives, a maximum of 80% of the ﬁxed salary. Pensions Long-term incentive may, as regards the President and CEO, amount to The President and CEO is covered both by pension beneﬁts provided a maximum of 100% of the ﬁxed salary and as regards other Executives, under collective bargain agreements and by the Volvo Management a maximum of 80% of the ﬁxed salary. The Board of Directors has decided Pension (VMP) and Volvo Executive Pension (VEP) plans. The retirement on a new cash-based long-term incentive program for the Group’s top beneﬁt under the Volvo executive pension plans is a deﬁned-contribution 300 executives, including the Executives, subject to the general meetplan. The pensionable salary consists of the annual salary and a calcuing’s approval of this policy. Awards under the program, based on how well lated short-term and long-term incentive component. The premium for the the performance targets are achieved, are disbursed in cash to the particVMP is SEK 30,000 plus 20% of the pensionable salary over 30 income ipants on the condition that they invest the net award in AB Volvo shares base amounts and the premium for VEP is 10% of pensionable salary. and that they retain the shares for at least three years. The long-term There are no commitments other than the payment of the premiums. In share-based incentive program resolved by the 2014 Annual General addition to the collective bargain agreement the disability pension is 40% Meeting is therefore discontinued after 2015. New share-based incentive of pensionable salary between 30–50 income base amounts. The right to programs, will, where applicable, be resolved by the General Meeting, but disability pension is conditional to employment and will cease upon termino such program is currently proposed. nation of duty. For Executives resident in Sweden, the notice period upon termination The President and CEO is also covered by Volvo Företagspension, a by the company shall not exceed 12 months and the notice period upon deﬁned contribution plan for additional retirement beneﬁt. The premium is termination by the Executive shall not exceed 6 months. In addition, in the negotiated each year. For 2016 the premium amounted to SEK 583 a event of termination by the company, the Executive may be entitled to a month. maximum of 12 months’ severance pay. Total pension premiums 2016 amounted to SEK 4,003,740 for Martin Lundstedt. 152 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Severance payments Executives resident outside Sweden or resident in Sweden but having a Martin Lundstedt has a 6 months notice of termination on his own initiamaterial connection to or having resident in a country other than Sweden tive and 12 months’ notice of termination from AB Volvo. If terminated by may be offered notice periods for termination and severance payment that the company, Martin Lundstedt is entitled to a severance payment equivare competitive in the country where the Executives are or have been resialent to 12 months’ salary. In the event he gains employment during the dent or to which the Executives have a material connection, preferably soluseverance period, severance pay is reduced with an amount equal to tions comparable to the solutions applied to Executives resident in Sweden. 100% of the income from the new employment. Volvo Group’s total costs for remuneration and beneﬁts to the Remuneration to the Group Executive Board Group Executive Board Fixed salary, short-term and long-term incentives The total costs for remuneration and beneﬁts to the Group Executive Members of Group Executive Board receive short-term and long-term Board amounted to SEK 175 M (159) and pertained to ﬁxed salary, shortincentives in addition to ﬁxed salaries. Short-term and long-term incenterm and long-term incentives, other beneﬁts, pensions and severance tives are based on the fulﬁlment of certain improvement targets or ﬁnancompensations. It also included social fees on salaries and beneﬁts, special targets. The targets are decided by the Board of Directors in AB Volvo cial pension tax and additional costs for other beneﬁts. The cost related and are based on EBIT and cash ﬂow for the Volvo Group. During 2016, to the long-term share-based incentive program is reﬂected over the vestshort-term and long-term incentives, for Group Executive Board members ing period and amounted to SEK 18 M (14) for 2016. The remuneration excluding the CEO, could each amount to a maximum of 80% of the ﬁxed model of the Volvo Group is to a main part designed to follow changes in annual salary. the proﬁtability of the Group. For the ﬁnancial year 2016, ﬁxed salaries amounted to SEK 67,352,200 and short-term incentive amounted to SEK 10,094,294 for Group ExecuLong-term incentive programs tive Board members excluding the CEO. The short-term incentive is Long-term share-based incentive program 2011–2013 19.7% of the base salary. Group Executive Board comprised, excluding The Annual General Meeting held in 2011 approved a long-term sharethe CEO, of 12 members at the beginning and 12 at the end of the year. based incentive program for up to 300 Group and senior executives and Other beneﬁts, mainly pertaining to car and housing, amounted to SEK comprising the years 2011 to 2013. During 2016, a part of the shares 7,654,703 in 2016. granted under the programs during 2012 and 2013 have been allotted to Group Executive Board members, also participate in the long-term the participants (see further information in the table Long-term shareshare-based incentive programs decided by the Annual General Meeting based incentive program on the next page). 2014. During 2016, 57,861 shares granted under the 2012 and 2013 programs corresponding to a taxable value of SEK 4,900,231 have been Long-term share-based incentive program 2014–2015 allotted to Group Executive Board members. The Annual General Meeting held in 2014 approved a long-term shareThe Group Executive Board, excluding CEO, was also participating in based incentive program for up to 300 Group and senior executives and the long-term incentive program decided by the Board of Directors in comprising the years 2014 to 2016. The Board of Director’s has in 2016 2016. During the ﬁnancial year the outcome of the long-term incentive approved this program to be replaced by a new program as from 2016 program amounted to SEK 10,094,294 of which the full net amount shall with the effect of terminating current program one year in advance (read be invested in Volvo B shares. Payment of the amount is subject to the more under Remuneration policy decided at the Annual General Meeting General Meetings approval. 2016. During 2016, a part of the shares granted under the programs during 2014 and 2015 have been allotted to the participants (see further Pensions information in the table Long-term share-based incentive program on the Group Executive Board members resident in Sweden are covered by a next page). deﬁned-contribution plan, Volvo Executive Pension plan with pension premium payments at the longest to the age of 65 years. The premium conLong-term incentive program valid from 2016 stitutes 10% of the pensionable salary. As complement to the collective The Board of Director’s has in 2016 approved a long-term incentive probargain agreement regarding occupational pension employees born gram comprising the top 300 executives in the Volvo Group. This program before 1979 are covered by a deﬁned contribution pension plan, Volvo replaces the previous long-term share-based incentive program approved Management Pension. The premium constitutes of SEK 30,000 plus in 2014. A prerequisite for participation in the program is that the partici20% of the pensionable salary over 30 income base amounts. The penpants shall undertake to invest the annual net (after tax) pay-out amounts sionable salary consists of twelve times the current monthly salary and under the plan in Volvo B-shares and to hold those shares for at least the average of the variable salary for the previous ﬁve years. Pension prethree years. miums for the Group Executive Board excluding the CEO amounted to Long-term incentive may, as regards the President & CEO, amount to a SEK 29,085,927 in 2016. maximum of 100% of the ﬁxed salary and, as regards other Executives, a maximum of 80% of the ﬁxed salary. There will however be no pay-out Severance payments under the long-term incentive program if the Annual General Meeting to The employment contracts for Group Executive Board members contain be held in 2017 decides not to distribute any dividend to the shareholders. rules governing severance payments when the company terminates the employment. For Executives resident in Sweden, the notice period upon termination by the company shall not exceed 12 months and the notice period upon termination by the Executive shall not exceed 6 months. In addition, in the event of termination by the company, the Executive may be entitled to a maximum of 12 months’ severance pay. 153 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Long-term share-based Shares granted conditional under the plan but not yet allotted (in thousand shares) incentive program Beginning Cancelled/ Allotments End of Cost 2016 (equity-settled version) Vesting year of the year Adjustment forfeited 2016 during 2016 the year (SEK M) 1 Year 2011 incentive program 2014/2015 3 – – –3 – – Year 2012 incentive program 2015/2016 313 – – –313 – 0.8 Year 2013 incentive program 2016/2017 395 – –3 –271 121 10.2 Year 2014 Incentive program 2017/2018 446 – –6 –68 372 15.5 Year 2015 incentive program 2018/2019 1,543 170 –14 –69 1,630 80.4 Total 2,699 170 –22 –725 2,122 106.8 1 The fair value of the payments is determined based on the share price at the grant date reduced by the discounted value of expected dividends connected with the share during the vesting period. The cost for the program is recognized over the vesting period. The cost includes social security cost. The cost for the cash-settled version of the incentive program amounted 2016, for the equity-settled plan, a total of 725,210 shares (1,377,988) to SEK 14 M (6) including social security cost during 2016, and the total have been allotted to participants. For the cash-settled plan, a total of liability amounted to SEK 14 M (6) as of December 31, 2016. SEK 2 M (13) has been allotted during 2016. The allotment during the year 2016 mainly pertained to the shares granted under the program during the years 2012 and 2013. During Average number 2016 2015 Board members1 and 2016 2015 of employees Number of of which Number of of which other senior executives Number at of which Number at of which employees women, % employees women, % year-end women, % year-end women, % AB Volvo AB Volvo Sweden 314 50 322 50 Board members1 11 36 9 33 CEO and other senior executives 12 17 10 30 Subsidiaries Sweden 18,606 21 19,854 21 Volvo Group Western Europe Board members1 483 22 471 23 (excl. Sweden) 21,022 15 22,146 15 Presidents and other Eastern Europe 5,566 21 5,792 21 senior executives 613 24 624 22 North America 14,150 19 15,427 19 1 Excluding deputy Board members. South America 5,279 15 6,074 15 Asia 17,279 13 18,005 13 Other countries 2,437 16 2,573 16 Group total 84,653 17 90,193 18 Wages, salaries and other remunerations 2016 2015 Board and of which Other Board and of which Other SEK M Presidents1 variable salaries employees Presidents1 variable salaries employees AB Volvo 30.2 5.1 350,4 56.8 5.3 356.0 Subsidiaries 578.9 63,8 38,109.9 684.6 75.5 39,360.1 Group total 609.1 68.9 38,460.3 741.4 80.8 39,716.1 Wages, salaries and other remunerations and social costs 2016 2015 Wages, salaries Pension Wages, salaries SEK M remuneration Social costs costs remuneration Social costs Pension costs 2 AB Volvo 380.6 106.8 114.2 412.8 123.1 119.7 Subsidiaries 38,688.9 8,121.3 3,769.6 40,044.7 8,871.7 4,219.9 Group total3 39,069.4 8,228.1 3,883.8 40,457.5 8,994.8 4,339.6 1 Including current and former Board members, Presidents and Executive The cost for non-monetary beneﬁts in the Volvo Group amounted to SEK 2,472 M Vice Presidents. (3,007) of which SEK 150 M (80) to Board members and Presidents. 2 The Parent Company’s pension costs, pertaining to Board members and The cost for non-monetary beneﬁts in the Parent Company amounted to SEK Presidents are disclosed in Note 3 in the Parent Company. 11.6 M (14.4) of which SEK 0.5 M (1.5) to Board members and Presidents. 3 Of the Volvo Group’s pension costs, SEK 93 M (89) pertain to Board members and Presidents, including current and former Board members, Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. The Volvo Group’s outstanding pension obligations to these individuals amount to SEK 687 M (600). 154 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES NOTE 28 FEES TO THE AUDITORS Fees to the auditors 2016 2015 The audit assignment involves review of the Annual report and ﬁnancial accounting and the administration by the Board and the President. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Audit-related assignments mean quality assurance services required by – Audit fees 104 105 enactment, articles of association, regulations or agreement. The amount – Audit-related fees 4 5 includes the fee for reviewing the half-year report. Tax services include – Tax advisory services 9 13 both tax consultancy and tax compliance services. All other tasks are – Other fees 4 14 deﬁned as other. Total 121 137 Audit fees to others 3 3 Volvo Group Total 124 140 NOTE 29 CASH FLOW ACCOUNTING POLICY Acquired and divested shares and participations, net 2016 2015 Cash ﬂow analysis The cash ﬂow statement is prepared in accordance with the indirect New issue of shares –3 –5 method. The cash ﬂow statements of foreign group companies are transCapital contribution –1 151 lated at the average rate. Changes in group structure, acquisitions and Acquisitions –10 –7,072 divestments, are recognized net, excluding cash and cash equivalents, in Divestments 265 4,900 the item Acquired and divested operations and are included in cash ﬂow Other –27 42 from investing activities. Total cash ﬂow from acquired and divested shares and participations, net 224 –1,984 Read more in Note 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds. Read more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies As of January 1, 2016 a divestment of an operation with the main purpose and other shares and participations to dispose the ﬁxed assets is included in the item disposal of ﬁxed assets and leasing vehicles. Acquired and divested operations, net 2016 2015 Acquired subsidiaries and other business units –56 – Other non-cash items 2016 2015 Divested subsidiaries and other business units 1,480 408 Risk provisions and losses related to doubtful Total cash ﬂow from acquired and divested accounts receivable/customer-ﬁnancing receivables1 1,084 1,376 subsidiaries and other business units 1,425 408 Capital gains/losses on divested operations –937 –293 Unrealized exchange rate gains/losses on accounts receivable and payable –156 257 In 2016 Volvo Group sold its external IT operations and operation of its IT Unrealized exchange rate gains/losses on other infrastructure to HCL Technologies. The sale generated a positive cash operating assets and liabilities 122 458 ﬂow of SEK 1.1 billion. Provision for global proﬁt sharing program 350 450 Provision for incentive program 484 66 Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries regarding the effect on net ﬁnancial position from the acquisitions and divestProvision for restructuring cost – 1,120 ments. Gains/losses on sale of property, plant & equipment –1,083 –17 Gains/losses on sale of shares and participations –131 –4,590 Credit losses in Construction Equipment in China1 –32 398 Other changes –132 323 Total Other items not affecting cash ﬂow –431 –452 1 SEK 247 M (349) is included in risk provisions related to doubtful accounts receivables. Read more in Note 8 Other operating income and expenses about expected credit losses in Construction Equipment in China. 155 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Changes in loans, net 2016 2015 performed in Financial Services to an amount of SEK 5.6 billion (7.0). All syndications impacted cash ﬂow this year. Changes in loans, net has been New borrowings 177,573 127,059 adjusted for currency effects in the cash ﬂow. Amortizations –174,090 –132,437 Realized gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge future commerSyndications –5,638 –6,965 cial cash ﬂows amounted to positive SEK 0.2 billion (negative 0.6) and is Changes in group composition 70 84 included in Other in the table Changes in loans, net. Other –160 –988 Changes in loans, net –2,245 –13,247 Read more in Note 22 Liabilities regarding Bond loans and other loans. Read more in Group performance regarding Cashﬂow and Net ﬁnancial During 2016 bond loans and other loans in the Volvo Group increased by Position. SEK 8.4 billion, whereof currency effects from revaluation of foreign subsidiaries increased the total debt by SEK 10,5 billion. Syndications were NOTE 30 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICY and losses from ﬂuctuations in the fair values of the ﬁnancial instruments Purchases and sales of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are recognized on are recognized in Other ﬁnancial income and expense. The Volvo Group the transaction date. Transaction expenses are included in the asset’s fair intends to hold these derivatives to maturity, which is why, over time, the value, except in cases in which the change in value is recognized in the market valuation will be offset as a consequence of the interest-rate ﬁxing income statement. The transaction costs that arise in conjunction with the on borrowing and lending in Financial Services, and thus not affect operadmission of ﬁnancial liabilities are amortized over the term of the loan as ating income or cash ﬂow. ﬁnancial cost. Financial instruments used for hedging currency risks arising from A ﬁnancial asset is derecognized from the balance sheet when all future ﬁrm commercial cash ﬂows are also recognized under this category. signiﬁcant risks and beneﬁts related to the asset have been transferred to Realized result and unrealized revaluation of derivatives are recognized in a third party. Other ﬁnancial income and expenses to be able to net all internal ﬂows The fair value of assets is determined based on valid market prices, before entering into external derivatives to hedge future currency risk. when available. If market prices are unavailable, the fair value is deterWhen hedging future cash ﬂows for speciﬁc orders the classiﬁcation in mined for each asset using various measurement techniques. the income statement is decided on a case by case basis, according to the Financial instruments are classiﬁed based on the degree that market Volvo Group ﬁnancial risk policy. In 2016 gains and losses from derivatives values have been utilized when measuring fair value. All ﬁnancial instruhedging currency risks for speciﬁc orders of SEK 51 M have been recogments measured at fair value held by Volvo Group are classiﬁed as level 2 nized in Operating income and SEK 61 M in Other ﬁnancial income and with the exception of shares and participations, which are classiﬁed as expenses. level 1 for listed and level 3 for not listed and call options based on the Black & Scholes option pricing formula which are classiﬁed as level 3. The Read more in Note 9 about the effect in the income statement from realized result and unrealized revaluation of derivatives. valuation of level 2 instruments is based on market conditions using quoted market data existing at each balance sheet date. The basis for the The Volvo Group only applies hedge accounting on a few speciﬁc hedging interest is the zero-coupon-curve in each currency which is used to calcurelationships. Refer to section on Hedge accounting in this note for the late the present value of all the estimated future cash ﬂows. For forward Volvo Group’s policy choice on hedge accounting. exchange contracts the basis is the forward premium based on current spot rate for each currency and future date. The fair value is then disLoan receivables and other receivables counted based on the forward rates as per the balance sheet date. Included in this category are accounts receivables, customer-ﬁnance receivables and other interest-bearing receivables. Read more in Note 5 about valuation policy for other shares and participations. Read more in Note 15 for accounting policy on customer-ﬁnancing receivables. Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Read more in Note 16 for accounting policy on account receivables and other All of the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial assets that are recognized at fair value interest-bearing receivables. through the income statement are classiﬁed as held for trading. As presented in the table on the next page, these instruments are derivatives, Assets available for sale used for hedging interest, currency and raw material prices, and marketable This category includes assets available for sale and assets that have not securities (further presented in note 18). been classiﬁed in any of the other categories. For the Volvo Group this Derivatives used for hedging interest rate exposure in the customercategory contains holding of shares in listed and non-listed companies. ﬁnancing portfolio within Financial Services as well as the debt portfolio in Industrial Operations are included in this category. Unrealized gains Read more in Note 5 about other shares and participations. 156 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Information regarding carrying amounts and fair values In the table below, carrying amounts are compared with fair values for all of the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial instruments. Carrying amounts and fair values on Financial Instruments Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair SEK M value value value value Assets Financial assets at fair value through the income statement The Volvo Group’s outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives3 Note 16 3,026 3,026 2,622 2,622 The Volvo Group's outstanding raw material derivatives Note 16 33 33 6 6 Other derivatives4 564 564 564 564 B/S Marketable securities Note 18 1,223 1,223 3,344 3,344 4,845 4,845 6,536 6,536 Loans and receivables B/S Accounts receivable Note 16 34,419 – 29,101 – Customer ﬁnancing receivables1 Note 15 110,821 – 102,583 – Other interest-bearing receivables Note 16 1,105 – 1,482 – 146,345 133,166 – Financial assets available for sale Holding of shares in listed companies Note 5 491 491 507 507 Holding of shares in non-listed companies Note 5 285 – 394 – 777 491 902 507 B/S Cash and cash equivalents Note 18 23,949 23,949 21,048 21,048 Liabilities Note 22 Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement The Volvo Group’s outstanding interest and currency risks derivatives 1,540 1,540 1,711 1,711 The Volvo Group’s outstanding raw material derivatives 6 6 68 68 1,546 1,546 1,779 1,779 Financial liabilities valued at amortized cost2 Long term bond loans and other loans 84,145 86,926 74,691 78,576 Short term bank loans and other loans 55,780 55,720 56,521 56,056 139,925 142,646 131,211 134,632 B/S Trade Payables 55,264 – 55,648 – 1 Volvo does not estimate the risk premium for the customer ﬁnancing receivables 3 The Volvo Group’s gross exposure from positive derivatives is reduced by 65% and therefore chooses not to disclose fair value for this category. (53) by netting agreements and cash deposits to SEK 1,049 M (1,531). 2 In the Volvo Group consolidated ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial liabilities include 4 The input data used in the valuation model for calculating the fair value has not loan-related derivatives amounting to SEK –1,122 M (–1,395). The credit risk is changed during 2016. included in the fair value of loans. Read more in Note 4 about Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management. 157 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES Derecognition of ﬁnancial assets The Volvo Group’s maximum exposure to loss is considered being the The Volvo Group is involved in cash enhancement activities such as factoring total recourse relating to transferred assets that are part of the recogand discounting. Financial assets that have been transferred are included nized credit guarantees, i.e. the total amount Volvo Group would have to in full or in part in the recognized assets of the Volvo Group dependent on pay in case of default of the customers. The likelihood for all customers the risk and rewards related to the asset that have been transferred to the going into default at the same time is considered to be low. The gross recipient. An evaluation is performed to establish whether, substantially, exposure for the Volvo Group amounted to SEK 1.4 billion (3.4) related to all the risks and rewards have been transferred to an external party. credit guarantees issued for customers and others and is part of the Volvo Where the Volvo Group concludes that this is not the case, the portion of Group’s contingent liabilities. This amount has not been reduced by the the ﬁnancial assets corresponding to the Volvo Group’s continuous value of counter guarantees received or other collaterals such as the right involvement is recognized. When all the risk and rewards are considered to repossess the product. not to be transferred the amount is kept on the balance sheet in full. Transferred ﬁnancial assets that do not fulﬁll the requirements for Read more in Note 21 regarding Other provisions derecognition amounted to SEK 0.8 bn (0.4). Financial assets for which Read more in Note 24 regarding Contingent Liabilities. substantially all risks and rewards have been transferred are derecognized from the Volvo Group’s balance sheet. Involvement in these assets Gains, losses, interest income and expenses from are reﬂected in the Volvo Group’s balance sheet as part of the external ﬁnancial instruments credit guarantees, which are recognized at fair value as provisions in the The table below shows how gains and losses, as well as interest income balance sheet and amounted to SEK 0.2 bn (0.5). and expenses, have affected income after ﬁnancial items in the Volvo Group divided by the different categories of ﬁnancial instruments. Recognized in operating income1 2016 2015 Interest Interest Interest Interest SEK M Gain/loss income expense7 Gain/loss income expense7 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement2 Currency risk derivatives3 51 –11 – – Loans receivable and other receivables Accounts receivables/trade payables 1 –757 –913 – – Customer ﬁnancing receivables Financial Services 1 62 5,235 75 5,128 – Financial assets available for sale Shares and participations for which a market value can be calculated6 37 4,650 – – Shares and participations for which a market value cannot be calculated 114 28 – – Financial liabilities valued at amortized cost4 –1,845 – –1,945 Impact on operating income –494 5,235 –1,845 3,829 5,128 –1,945 Recognized in net ﬁnancial items5, 7 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement Marketable securities – 7 – 14 Interest and currency rate risk derivatives2, 3 –952 3 –235 298 1 –208 Loans receivable and other receivables Cash and Cash equivalents – 229 – 242 Financial liabilities valued at amortized cost 1,344 –1,200 –841 –1,698 Impact on net ﬁnancial items5 , 7 392 240 –1,435 –543 257 –1,906 1 Information is provided regarding changes in provisions for doubtful receivables 6 During 2015 Volvo Group sold the holding of the shares in the listed Indian and customer-ﬁnancing in Notes 15, Customer-ﬁnancing receivables and note automotive manufacturer Eicher Motors Limited. The sale generated a gain of 16, Accounts receivables, as well as in Note 8, Other operating income and SEK 4.6 billion. expenses. 7 Interest expenses reported in net ﬁnancial items attributable to pensions, SEK 2 Accrued and realized interest is included in gains and losses related to Financial 411 M (460) are not included in this table. assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement. 3 The Volvo Group uses forward contracts and currency options to hedge the Read more in Note 4, Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk managment. value of future cash ﬂows in foreign currency. Both unrealized and realized result of currency risk contracts are included in the table. Read more in Note 9, Other ﬁnancial income and expenses for further 4 Interest expenses attributable to ﬁnancial liabilities valued at amortized cost information. recognized in operating income include interest expenses for ﬁnancing operating lease activities, which are not classiﬁed as Financial Instruments. Read more in Note 5, Investments in joint ventures, associated companies 5 In gain, loss, income and expense related to ﬁnancial instruments recognized in and other shares and participations for further information about the divestNet ﬁnancial items, SEK 392 M (–543) was recognized under Other ﬁnancial ments of the shares in Eicher Motors limited. income and expenses. 158 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 NOTES In the table below outstanding derivatives hedging currency and interest rate risks is presented. Outstanding derivative instruments Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 SEK M Nominal amount Carrying value Nominal amount Carrying value Interest-rate swaps – receivable position 88,715 2,413 87,712 1,824 – payable position 74,249 –1,072 66,793 –763 Forwards and futures – receivable position 2,000 0 – – Foreign exchange derivatives – receivable position 25,136 593 44,386 793 – payable position 18,776 –452 16,019 –333 Options purchased – receivable position 1,518 20 627 5 – payable position 48 – 84 – Options written – receivable position 48 0 – – – payable position 1,413 –16 755 –3 Subtotal 1,486 1,522 Raw material derivatives – receivable position 180 33 27 6 – payable position 259 –6 236 –68 Total 1,512 1,460 Hedge accounting Volvo Group is only applying hedge accounting on the following speciﬁc hedging relationships: • Hedging fair value of a loan. Fair value of the hedge instruments outstanding amounted to SEK 472 M (872). Changes in fair value of the loan related to hedge accounting amounted to SEK –194 M (– 611). The changes in the fair value of the hedge instruments and on the loan have been recognized in the ﬁnance net in the income statement. • Hedging of certain net investments in foreign operations done in previous years. The result of such hedges was recognized as a separate item in other comprehensive income (OCI). In the event of a divestment, the accumulated result from the hedge is recognized in the income statement. • Hedging of forecasted electricity consumption. Changes in the fair value are recognized in the cash ﬂow hedge reserve in OCI for effective hedge accounting. Read more in Note 4, Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management. Refer to Note 19, Equity and numbers of shares for information on the changes in the fair value on derivatives hedging forecasted electricity consumption recognized in the cash ﬂow hedge reserve in OCI. Refer to accounting policies in this note for all other hedging relationships where hedge accounting is not applied. 159 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 PARENT COMPANY Parent Company AB Volvo Corporate registration number 556012-5790. Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise speciﬁed. Amounts within parentheses refer to the preceding year, 2015. Board of Directors’ report Total investments at year end in joint ventures and associated compaAB Volvo is the Parent Company of the Volvo Group and its operations nies, recognized in accordance with the equity method in the consolidated comprise of the Group’s head ofﬁce with staff together with some coraccounts, amounted to 10,348 (10,392). The portion of shareholders’ porate functions. equity in joint ventures and associated companies pertaining to AB Volvo Income from investments in Group companies include dividends amounted to 8,487 (8,026). amounting to 1,473 (1,061) and transfer price adjustments and royalties Financial net debt amounted to 38,890 (42,933). amounting to an expense of 331 (775). AB Volvo’s risk capital (shareholders’ equity plus untaxed reserves) During 2015, capital gain from divestment of the holding in Eicher amounted to 45,600 (41,010) corresponding to 48% (41%) of total assets. Motors Ltd. amounted to 4,608. Reversal of revaluation to market value amounted to 3,995 and was recognized in other comprehensive income. The carrying value of shares and participations in Group companies amounted to 60,816 (60,766), of which 59,694 (60,092) pertained to shares in wholly owned subsidiaries. The corresponding shareholders’ equity in the subsidiaries (including equity in untaxed reserves but excluding minority interests) amounted to 111,678 (103,382). I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T SEK M 2016 2015 Net sales Note 2 625 884 Cost of sales Note 2 –625 –884 Gross income 0 0 Administrative expenses Note 2, 3 –1,401 –1,342 Other operating income and expenses Note 4 –44 –161 Income from investments in Group companies Note 5 774 288 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies Note 6 27 84 Income from other investments Note 7 18 4,612 Operating income –626 3,481 Interest income and similar credits 0 0 Interest expenses and similar charges Note 8 –902 –1,195 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses Note 9 26 –9 Income after ﬁnancial items –1,502 2,277 Allocations Note 10 11,265 12,565 Income taxes Note 11 –1,636 –2,103 Income for the period 8,127 12,739 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Income for the period 8,127 12,739 Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to income statement: Available-for-sale investments – –3,995 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes – –3,995 Total comprehensive income for the period 8,127 8,744 160 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets Note 12 – 8 Tangible assets Note 12 11 41 Financial assets Shares and participations in Group companies Note 13 60,816 60,766 Receivables from Group companies 48 54 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies Note 13 10,353 10,397 Other shares and participations Note 13 7 13 Deferred tax assets Note 11 168 157 Other non-current receivables 0 – Total non-current assets 71,403 71,436 Current assets Current receivables Receivables Group companies 23,332 28,627 Tax assets 2 – Other receivables Note 14 235 116 Total current assets 23,569 28,743 Total assets 94,972 100,179 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity Restricted equity Share capital 2,554 2,554 Statutory reserve 7,337 7,337 Unrestricted equity Non-restricted reserves 327 302 Retained earnings 24,753 18,074 Income for the period 8,127 12,739 Total shareholders’ equity 43,098 41,006 Untaxed reserves Note 15 2,502 4 Provisions Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts Note 16 112 117 Other provisions Note 17 6 11 Total provisions 118 128 Non-current liabilities Note 18 Liabilities to Group companies 13,973 13,973 Other liabilities 5 3 Total non-current liabilities 13,978 13,976 Current liabilities Trade payables 193 170 Other liabilities to Group companies 34,504 44,470 Tax liabilities 176 44 Other liabilities Note 19 403 381 Total current liabilities 35,276 45,065 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 94,972 100,179 161 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 PARENT COMPANY C A S H F L O W S TAT E M E N T SEK M 2016 2015 Operating activities Operating income –626 3,481 Depreciation and amortization 10 17 Other non-cash items Note 21 460 –5,104 Total change in working capital whereof 447 3 Change in accounts receivable –179 –166 Change in trade payables –8 5 Other changes in working capital 634 164 Interest and similar items received 0 0 Interest and similar items paid –910 –1,171 Other ﬁnancial items 6 –18 Group contributions received 12,566 3,504 Income taxes paid –1,517 0 Cash-ﬂow from operating activities 10,436 712 Investing activities Investments in ﬁxed assets –1 –10 Disposals of ﬁxed assets 32 21 Investments and divestments of shares in group companies, net Note 21 –418 519 Investments and divestments of shares in non-group companies, net Note 21 24 –2,207 Interest-bearing receivables – 26 Cash-ﬂow after net investments 10,073 –939 Financing activities Change in loans, net Note 21 –4,018 6,953 Dividends to AB Volvo shareholders –6,093 –6,090 Other 38 76 Change in liquid funds 0 0 Liquid funds, beginning of year – 0 Liquid funds, end of year – – 162 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 PARENT COMPANY CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUIT Y Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Share Total Share Statutory premium Fair value Retained shareholders’ SEK M capital reserve reserve reserve earnings Total equity Balance at December 31, 2014 2,554 7,337 257 3,995 24,143 28,395 38,286 Income for the period – – – – 12,739 12,739 12,739 Other comprehensive income Available-for-sale investments: Divestment of fair value investment – – – –3,995 – –3,995 –3,995 Other comprehensive income for the period – – – –3,995 – –3,995 –3,995 Total income for the period – – – –3,995 12,739 8,744 8,744 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to AB Volvo shareholders – – – – –6,090 –6,090 –6,090 Share based payments – – 45 – 21 66 66 Transactions with shareholders – – 45 – –6,069 –6,024 –6,024 Balance at December 31, 2015 2,554 7,337 302 – 30,813 31,115 41,006 Income for the period – – – – 8,127 8,127 8,127 Other comprehensive income Available-for-sale investments: Divestment of fair value investment – – – – – – – Other comprehensive income for the period – – – – – – – Total income for the period – – – – 8,127 8,127 8,127 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to AB Volvo shareholders – – – – –6,093 –6,093 –6,093 Share based payments – – 25 – 33 58 58 Transactions with shareholders – – 25 – –6,060 –6,035 –6,035 Balance at December 31, 2016 2,554 7,337 327 – 32,880 33,207 43,098 Read more about the share capital of the Parent Company in Note 19 Equity and number of shares in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 163 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 PARENT COMPANY NOTES NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise speciﬁed. The amounts within parentheses refer to the preceding year, 2015. NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOTE 2 INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS The Parent Company has prepared its ﬁnancial statements in accordance The Parent Company’s net sales amounted to 625 (884), of which 528 with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and RFR 2, Account(756) pertained to Group companies. Purchases from Group companies ing for Legal entities. According to RFR 2, the Parent Company shall apply amounted to 583 (810). all the International Financial Reporting Standards endorsed by the EU as far as this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The changes in RFR 2 applicable to the ﬁscal year beginning January 1, 2016, have had no material impact on the ﬁnancial statements of the Parent Company. NOTE 3 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES The accounting policies applied by the Volvo Group are described in the respective Notes in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The main deviDepreciation ations between the accounting policies applied by the Volvo Group and Administrative expenses include depreciation of 10 (17) of which 1 (1) the Parent Company are described below. pertains to machinery and equipment, 0 (1) to buildings and 8 (15) to other Shares and participations in Group companies and investments in joint intangible assets. ventures and associated companies are recognized at cost in the Parent Company and test for impairment is performed annually. In accordance with RFR 2, the Parent Company includes expenses related to acquisition Fees to the auditors 2016 2015 of a business in the acquisition value. Dividend is recognized in the income PricewaterhouseCoopers AB statement. All shares and participations are related to business opera– Audit fees 23 21 tions and proﬁt or loss are recognized within operating income. – Audit-related fees 1 1 The Parent Company applies the exception in the application of IAS 39 – Tax advisory services – 1 which concerns accounting and measurement of ﬁnancial contracts of – Other fees – 1 guarantee in favour of subsidiaries and associated companies. The Parent Total 24 24 Company recognizes the ﬁnancial contracts of guarantee as contingent liabilities. Read more in Note 28 Fees to the Auditors in the consolidated ﬁnancial According to RFR 2, application of the regulations in IAS 19 regarding statements for a description of the different categories of fees. deﬁned-beneﬁt plans is not mandatory for legal entities. However, IAS 19 shall be applied for supplementary disclosures when applicable. RFR 2 Personnel refers to the Swedish law on safeguarding of pension commitments Wages, salaries and other remunerations amounted to 381 (413), social (“tryggandelagen”) related to recognition of provisions for post-employment costs to 107 (123) and pension costs to 108 (123). Pension cost of 5 (9) beneﬁts in the balance sheet and of plan assets in pension foundations. pertained to Board Members and the President. The Parent Company has The Parent Company recognizes the difference between depreciation outstanding pension obligations of 0 (1) to these individuals. according to plan and tax depreciation as accumulated additional depreThe number of employees at year end was 309 (327). ciation, included in untaxed reserves. Reporting of group contributions is recognized in accordance with the Read more in Note 27 Personnel in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements about the average number of employees, wages, salaries and other remuneraalternative rule in RFR 2. Group contributions are reported as allocations. tions including incentive program as well as Board members and senior executives by gender. NOTE 4 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES Other operating income and expenses include restructuring costs, donations and grants and Volvo proﬁt sharing program costs by 3 (3). 164 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 PARENT COMPANY NOTES NOTE 5 INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS IN GROUP COMPANIES NOTE 8 INTEREST EXPENSES Interest expenses and similar charges totalling 902 (1,195) included Income from investments in Group Companies 2016 2015 interest of 901 (1,193) to subsidiaries. Dividends received Volvo Holding Sverige AB, Sweden 747 – 9 Volvo Korea Holding AB, Sweden 561 – OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME Volvo Danmark A/S, Denmark 69 – NOTE AND EXPENSES Volvo Norge AS, Norway 65 – Volvo Group UK Ltd., Great Britain 31 – Volvo Automotive Finance (China) Ltd., China – 477 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses include exchange rate gains and Volvo Financial Services AB, Sweden – 565 losses, costs for credit rating and stock exchange listing cost. Volvo Malaysia Sdn Bhd., Malaysia – 19 Subtotal 1,473 1,061 Impairment of shares UD Trucks Corporation, Japan Volvo Logistics AB, Sweden Volvo Business Services AB, Sweden –417 – – – –85 –67 NOTE 10 ALLOCATIONS Volvo East Asia (Pte) Ltd., Singapore – –9 Allocations include a net of group contributions of 13,763 (12,566), Alviva AB, Sweden – –5 tax allocation reserve of –2,500 (–) and additional depreciation of 2 (–1). Subtotal –417 –166 Reversal impairment of shares Volvo Parts AB, Sweden 50 – Volvo Danmark A/S, Denmark Subtotal – 50 30 30 NOTE 11 INCOME TAXES Income from divestment of shares Part of Volvo Norge AS after ﬁssion 0 134 Income taxes were distributed as follow: Adjustment of divestment Volvo Aero AB –1 4 2016 2015 Subtotal –1 138 Current taxes relating to the period –1,809 –69 Adjustment of current taxes for prior period 162 – Income from investments in Group Companies 1,105 1,063 Deferred taxes 11 –2,034 Transfer price adjustments and royalties amount to an expense of 331 (775). I/S Total income taxes –1,636 –2,103 Deferred taxes relate to estimated tax on the change in tax-loss carryforwards and temporary differences. NOTE 6 INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES The table below discloses the principal reasons for the difference between the corporate income tax of 22% and the tax for the period: 2016 2015 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies Income before taxes 9,763 14,842 include dividend from VE Commercial Vehicles, Ltd. of 51 (35), and from Income tax according to applicable tax rate –2,148 –3,265 Deutz AG of 20 (20). Income include impairment of participation in Blue Capital gains/losses 0 1,044 Chip Jet HB with 2 and in Blue Chip Jet II HB with 42. In 2015, reversal of Non-taxable dividends 340 247 impairment of participation in Blue Chip Jet HB was made with 4 and in Non-taxable revaluations of shareholdings –412 –24 Blue Chip Jet II HB with 25. Other non-deductible expenses 309 –26 Other non-taxable income 109 0 Withholding tax – –24 NOTE 7 INCOME FROM OTHER INVESTMENTS Adjustment of current taxes for prior period Adjustment of deferred taxes for prior periods Income taxes for the period 162 –1,636 4 – –55 –2,103 Income from other investments includes gain from divestment of particiSpeciﬁcation of deferred tax assets Dec 31, Dec 31, pation in Brf Falken of 19. Impairment of shares in Johanneberg Science 2016 2015 Park AB and Lindholmen Science Park AB was made by an expense of 1 (3). Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts 166 154 In 2015, income from other investments included gain from divestment Provisions for restructuring measures 2 3 of the holding in Eicher Motors Ltd. of 4,608. Dividend of 7 was received B/S Deferred tax assets 168 157 from Eicher Motors Ltd. 165 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 PARENT COMPANY NOTES NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE AND TANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets, acquisition costs Rights Other intangible assets Total intangible assets Opening balance 2015 52 116 168 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2015 52 116 168 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2016 52 116 168 Intangible assets, accumulated amortization Rights Other intangible assets Total intangible assets Opening balance 2015 52 93 145 Amortization – 15 15 Accumulated amortization as of Dec 31, 2015 52 108 160 Amortization – 8 8 Accumulated amortization as of Dec 31, 2016 52 116 168 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20151 – 8 8 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20161 – – – Tangible assets, acquisition costs Construction in Land and Machinery progress, including Buildings improvements and equipment advance payments Total tangible assets Opening balance 2015 21 11 47 11 90 Capital Expenditures – – – 10 10 Sales/scrapping – – – –21 –21 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2015 21 11 47 0 79 Capital Expenditures – – – 1 1 Sales/scrapping –21 –11 –25 – –57 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2016 – – 22 1 23 Tangible assets, accumulated Construction in depreciation Land and Machinery progress, including Buildings improvements and equipment advance payments Total tangible assets Opening balance 2015 3 0 33 – 36 Depreciation 1 0 1 – 2 Accumulated depreciation as Dec 31, 2015 4 0 34 – 38 Depreciation – 0 1 – 1 Sales/scrapping –4 0 –23 – –27 Accumulated depreciation as of Dec 31, 2016 – – 12 – 12 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20151 17 11 13 0 41 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20161 – – 10 1 11 1 Acquisition value, less accumulated depreciation, amortization and impairment. NOTE 13 INVESTMENTS IN SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS AB Volvo owns, directly or indirectly, 260 (278) legal entities. The legal restrictions which limit the Group’s ability to transfer assets between the structure is designed to effectively manage legal requirements, adminisGroup’s legal entities. Read more in Note 18 Marketable securities and tration and taxes, as well as the operations conducted by the Group in liquid funds in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for a description of each country it operates. Legal entities may have different characters and restrictions related to cash and cash equivalents. include different types of operations, such as production, development Volvo Group’s operational structure gives a better overview of how the and sales. The character of a legal entity may change over time. FurtherVolvo Group has chosen to organize its business. Read more about Volvo more legal entities could include different type of the Group’s operations Group’s operational structure in Note 6 Segment Reporting in the consoliand this could also change over time. In some countries there are legal dated ﬁnancial statements. 166 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 PARENT COMPANY NOTES Changes in AB Volvo’s holding of shares and participations are disclosed below: Joint ventures Group companies and associated companies Non-Group companies 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Opening balance as of January 1 60,766 61,283 10,397 3,322 13 4,241 Acquisitions/New issue of shares – – – 7,197 – – Divestments – –381 – – –6 –232 Shareholder’s contribution 417 – – – 1 2 Repayment of equity – – – –151 – – Impairment of shares and participations –417 –166 –44 – –1 –3 Reversal impairment of shares and participations 50 30 – 29 – – Revaluation of shares in listed companies – – – – – –3,995 B/S Balance sheet, December 31 60,816 60,766 10,353 10,397 7 13 Holding of shares in Group Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Shares and participations in Group companies companies Registration Percentage Carrying Carrying number holding1 value2 value2 Shareholder’s contribution has been paid to UD Trucks Corporation, Japan by 417. Impairment of Volvo Lastvagnar AB, Sweden 556013–9700 100 8,711 8,711 the holding has been made with the same amount. Volvo Holding Sverige AB, Sweden 556539–9853 100 7,634 7,634 Reversal of impairment in Volvo Parts AB has UD Trucks Corporation, Japan – 100 8,928 8,928 been made by 50. Volvo Bussar AB, Sweden 556197–3826 100 1,917 1,917 During 2015 CPAC was divested by 367. Volvo Construction Equipment NV, Fission was made in Volvo Norge AS which The Netherlands – 100 2,582 2,582 created four new companies divested by the AB Volvo Penta, Sweden 556034–1330 100 438 438 carrying value of 14. Impairment of shares was VNA Holding Inc., USA – 100 3,278 3,278 made in Volvo Logistics AB by 85, in Volvo Volvo Financial Services AB, Sweden 556000–5406 100 1,945 1,945 Business Services AB by 67, in Volvo East Asia Volvo Treasury AB, Sweden 556135–4449 100 13,044 13,044 (Pte) Ltd by 9 and in Alviva AB by 5. Reversal of Sotrof AB, Sweden 556519–4494 100 1,388 1,388 impairment was made in Volvo Danmark A/S by 30. Volvo Korea Holding AB, Sweden 556531–8572 100 2,655 2,655 AB Volvo’s holding in Group companies is presented in the adjoining table. Volvo China Investment Co Ltd., China – 100 1,096 1,096 Volvo Automotive Finance (China) Ltd., China – 100 491 491 Investments in associated companies Volvo Group UK Ltd., Great Britain3 – 55 561 561 and joint ventures Volvo Group Mexico SA, Mexico – 100 531 531 Impairment of participation in Blue Chip Jet HB has Volvo Group Venture Capital AB, Sweden 556542–4370 100 361 361 been made by 2 and in Blue Chip Jet II HB by 42. Volvo Powertrain AB, Sweden 556000–0753 100 898 898 During 2015, investment in Dongfeng ComVolvo Information Technology AB, Sweden 556103–2698 100 1,263 1,263 mercial Vehicles Co Ltd. was made by 7,197. Volvo Parts AB, Sweden 556365–9746 100 200 150 Repayment of equity decreased the holding in Blue Chip Jet II by 151. Reversal of impairment of Volvo Group Insurance Försäkrings AB, Sweden 516401–8037 100 182 182 the participation in Blue Chip Jet was recognized Volvo Business Services AB, Sweden 556029–5197 100 – – by 4 and in Blue Chip Jet II HB by 25. Volvo Danmark A/S, Denmark – 100 157 157 VFS Servizi Financiari Spa, Italy4 – 25 79 79 Shares and participations in non-Group Kommersiella Fordon Europa AB, Sweden 556049–3388 100 1,890 1,890 companies Volvo Norge AS, Norway – 100 43 43 Divestment of Brf Falken has been made by 6. Volvo Malaysia Sdn Bhd., Malaysia – 100 48 48 Shareholders’ contribution has been paid to ZAO Volvo Vostok, Russia5 – 75 34 34 Johanneberg Science Park AB and Lindholmen Sciende Park AB by 1 (2). Impairment of shares in Volvo Italia Spa, Italy 6 – 73 447 447 Johanneberg Science Partk AB and Lindholmen Volvo Logistics AB, Sweden 556197–9732 100 – – Science Park AB has been made by 1 (3). Alviva AB, Sweden 556622–8820 100 – – During 2015, divestment was made of the Volvo East Asia (Pte) Ltd., Singapore – 100 – – holding in the listed company Eicher Motors Ltd. Volvo Information Technology GB Ltd., Great Britain – 100 3 3 to a carrying amount of 4,228. The acquisition VFS Latvia SIA, Latvia – 100 9 9 value amounted to 232 and reversal of the revaluVFS Int Romania Leasing Operational, Romania – 100 2 2 ation to fair value amounted to 3,995, also recogOther holdings – – 1 1 nized in Other comprehensive income. Total carrying value Group companies7 60,816 60,766 1 The percentage holding refers to the Parent Company AB Volvo’s holding. Holding of shares in Joint Ventures, Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 2 Refers to AB Volvo’s carrying value of its holding. associated companies and 3 Total holding by Volvo Lastvagnar AB and AB Registration Percentage Carrying Carrying number holding1 value2 value2 Volvo is 100%. non-Group companies 4 Total holding by Volvo Italia Spa and AB Volvo Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co. Ltd., China – 45.0 7,197 7,197 is 100%. VE Commercial Vehicles Ltd., India8 – 45.6 1,616 1,616 5 Total holding by AB Volvo and Volvo Trucks Deutz AG, Germany – 25.0 1,359 1,359 Region Central Europe GmbH is 100%. Blue Chip Jet HB, Sweden 969639–1011 50.0 5 8 6 Total holding by Renault Trucks (SAS), Volvo Blue Chip Jet II HB, Sweden 969717–2105 50.0 170 212 Lastvagnar AB and AB Volvo is 100%. Other investments – – 13 18 7 AB Volvo’s share of shareholders’ equity in subsidiaries (including equity in untaxed Total carrying value, joint ventures, associated reserves) was 111,678 (103,382). companies and non-Group companies 10,360 10,410 8 In Volvo Group the company is reported as a joint venture, consolidated according to equity method. 167 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 PARENT COMPANY NOTES NOTE 14 OTHER RECEIVABLES Obligations in deﬁned-beneﬁt plans Obligations opening balance 2015 Funded 575 Unfunded 122 Total 697 Service costs 15 11 26 Interest costs 21 2 23 Dec 31, Dec 31, 2016 2015 Pensions paid –18 –18 –36 Accounts receivable 20 9 Obligations as of December 31, 2015 593 117 710 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 57 62 Service costs 15 10 25 Other receivables 158 45 Interest costs 23 1 24 B/S Total other receivables 235 116 Pensions paid –19 –16 –35 Obligations as of December 31, 2016 612 112 724 The valuation allowance for doubtful receivables amounted to 1 (1) at the end of the year. Fair value is not considered to differ from carrying value. Fair value of plan assets in funded plans Plan assets opening balance 2015 656 Actual return on plan assets 36 NOTE 15 UNTAXED RESERVES Contributions and compensation to/from the fund Plan assets as of December 31, 2015 Actual return on plan assets 692 – 55 Contributions and compensation to/from the fund – Dec 31, Dec 31, Plan assets as of December 31, 2016 747 2016 2015 Tax allocation reserve 2,500 – Accumulated additional depreciation: Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts Dec 31, Dec 31, Machinery and equipment 2 4 2016 2015 B/S Total untaxed reserves 2,502 4 Obligations1 –724 –710 Fair value of plan assets 747 692 Funded status 23 –18 16 Limitation on assets in accordance with RFR2 (when PROVISIONS FOR POSTplan assets exceed corresponding obligations) –135 –99 NOTE EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS B/S Net provisions for post-employment beneﬁts2 –112 –117 The Parent Company has two types of pension plans: 1 The ITP2 obligations amount to –593 (–573). 2 ITP2 obligations, net, amount to 0 (0). Deﬁned-contribution plans: post-employment beneﬁt plans where the Company makes regular payments to separate entities and has no legal Pension costs 2016 2015 or constructive obligation to pay further contributions. The expenses for deﬁned contribution plans are recognized during the period when the Service costs 25 26 employee provides service. Interest costs3 24 23 Interest income3 –19 –18 Deﬁned-beneﬁt plans: post-employment beneﬁt plans where the Company’s Pension costs for deﬁned-beneﬁt plans 30 31 undertaking is to provide predetermined beneﬁts that the employee will receive on or after retirement. These beneﬁt plans are secured through Pension costs for deﬁned-contribution plans 49 46 balance-sheet provisions or pension-fund contributions. Furthermore, a 4 Special payroll tax/yield tax 28 46 credit insurance policy has been taken out for the value of the obligations. Cost for credit insurance FPG 1 0 The main deﬁned-beneﬁt plan is the ITP2 plan which is based on ﬁnal Total costs for the period 108 123 salary. The plan is semi-closed, meaning that only new employees born before 1979 have the possibility to choose the ITP2 solution. The ITP2 3 Interest cost, net of 1 (2) is included in ﬁnancial items. plan for the Company is funded in Volvo Pension Foundation. Pension 4 Special payroll tax / yield tax are calculated according to Swedish Tax law and obligations are calculated annually, on the balance sheet date, based on accrued for in current liabilities. actuarial assumptions. The deﬁned-beneﬁt obligations are calculated based on the actual salary levels at year-end and based on a discount rate of 3.84% (3.84) for the ITP2 plan and 0.8% (1.9) for other pension obligations. Assumptions for discount rates and mortality rates are determined annually by PRI Pensionsgaranti for ITP2 and Finansinspektionen for other pension obligations, respectively. The Volvo Pension Foundation was formed in 1996 to secure obligations relating to retirement pensions in accordance with the ITP plan. Since its formation, net contributions of 250 have been made to the foundation by the Parent Company. Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts in the Parent Company’s balance sheet correspond to the present value of obligations at year end, less value of plan assets. 168 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2016 PARENT COMPANY NOTES Volvo Group applies IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. This implies differences, which may be signiﬁcant, in the accounting of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans as well as in the accounting of plan assets invested in the Volvo Pension Foundation. NOTE 20 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The accounting principles for deﬁned-beneﬁt plans differ from IAS19 mainly relating to: Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2016, amounted to 298,384 • Pension liability calculated according to Swedish accounting principles (282,175) of which 298,363 (282,164) pertained to Group companies. does not take into account future salary increases. Credit guarantees are included to an amount corresponding to the • The discount rate used in the calculations is set by PRI Pensionsgaranti credit limits. Credit guarantees amounted to 277,696 (272,432). The total and Finansinspektionen, respectively. amount pertained to Group companies. • Changes in the discount rate, actual return on plan assets and other The utilized portion at year end amounted to 133,041 (124,526), of actuarial assumptions are recognized directly in the income statement which 133,020 (124,514) pertained to Group companies. and in the balance sheet. • Deﬁcit must be either immediately settled in cash or recognized as a liability in the balance sheet. • Surplus cannot be recognized as an asset, but may in some cases be refunded to the Company to offset pensions costs. NOTE 21 CASH-FLOW Other non-cash items 2016 2015 NOTE 17 OTHER PROVISIONS Revaluation of shareholdings Gains on sale of shares Transfer price adjustments, net 412 –18 –24 110 –4,746 –104 Anticipated dividend – –419 Other provisions include provisions for restructuring measures of 6 (11). Other changes 90 55 Total Other items not affecting cash ﬂow 460 –5,104 Further information is provided in Note 5 Income from investments in Group NOTE 18 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES companies, Note 6 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies and Note 7 Income from other investments. Acquired and divested shares in Non-current debt matures as follows: Group companies, net 2016 2015 Acquisitions –417 – Divestments –1 519 2018–2022 9,352 Total cash ﬂow from acquired and divested 2023 or later 4,626 shares in Group companies, net –418 519 B/S Total non-current liabilities 13,978 Acquisitions and divestments of participations in Group companies are shown in Note 13 Investments in shares and participations. NOTE 19 OTHER LIABILITIES Acquired and divested shares in non-Group companies, net Acquisitions 2016 –1 2015 –7,047 Divestments 25 4,840 Total cash ﬂow from acquired and divested Dec 31, Dec 31, shares in non-Group companies, net 24 –2,207 2016 2015 Wages, salaries and withholding taxes 183 184 Acquisitions and divestments of participations in non-Group companies VAT liabilities 5 1 are presented in Note 13 Investments in shares and participations. Accrued expenses and prepaid income 212 162 Other liabilities 3 34 Change in loans, net B/S Total other liabilities 403 381 Decrease in loans is related to the Parent Company’s liability in the group No collateral is provided for current liabilities. account at Volvo Treasury AB which has decreased by 4,018 (7,020). 169 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report 2016 The Volvo Group appreciates the value of sound corporate governance as a fundamental base in achieving a trusting relation with shareholders and other key parties. The Swedish Corporate Governance Code, which is applied by the Volvo Group, aims at creating a sound balance of power between shareholders, the board of directors and the senior management. Sound corporate governance, characterized by high standards when it comes to transparency, reliability and ethical values, has always been a well-established guiding principle within the Volvo Group’s operations. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS 2016 The Swedish Corporate Governance Code On March 1, the Volvo Group introduced a new brand-based organization with clearer commercial accountability for the Group’s various truck brands. Volvo’s Group Executive Board was changed in connection with the new organization and the number of executive positions comprising the Group Executive Board increased from 10 to 13. AB Volvo’s shares are admitted to trading on the stock exchange Nasdaq Stockholm and accordingly, Volvo complies with Nasdaq In March, the sale of the Volvo Group’s external IT operation and Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers. As a listed company, Volvo also the operation of the IT infrastructure to HCL Technologies was applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code), which completed. The transaction entails both sustained cost savings is available at www.corporategovernanceboard.se. and a capital gain corresponding to SEK 885 million. This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and is In July, the Volvo Group announced that it had reached a settleseparate from the Annual Report. The report has been reviewed by ment with the European Commission putting an end to a long Volvo’s auditors and includes a report from the auditors. running EU antitrust investigation. As part of the settlement, Volvo has paid a ﬁne of EUR 670 million, corresponding to SEK 6.5 billion. During autumn, the Volvo Group completed the sale of properCorporate Governance Model ties for a sales price amounting to SEK 2.7 billion. The divestment is part of a long-term plan to gather the majority of Volvo Group ofﬁce workers in Gothenburg in an area that will be called Campus Lundby. The governance and control of the Volvo Group is carried out through In November, the Volvo Group announced that it has conducted a number of corporate bodies. At the General Meetings of AB Volvo, a strategic review of the Governmental Sales business area and which is the Parent Company in the Volvo Group, the shareholders intends to initiate a process to divest the business. exercise their voting rights with regard to for example the composition of the Board of Directors of AB Volvo and the election of auditors. An Election Committee, appointed by the Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo, submits proposals to the Annual General Meeting concerning the election of Board members and Board Chairman as well as proposals for resolutions concerning fees to the Board. When applicable, the Election Committee also submits proposal concerning the election of external auditors and proposal for resolutions concerning fees to the auditors. The Board is ultimately responsible for Volvo’s organization and management of its operations. The duties of the Board are partly exercised through its Audit Committee and its Remuneration Committee. In addition, the Board appoints the President of AB Volvo, who is also the CEO of the Volvo Group. The CEO is in charge of the daily management of the Group in accordance with guidelines and instructions provided by the Board. Division of responsibilities and duties between the General Meeting, the Board of Directors and the President are regulated inter alia by the Swedish Companies Act, Volvo’s Articles of Association, the Code and the Board’s Work Procedures. 170 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 1 Shareholders AB VOLVO Vote at the General Meetings 2 Elects Auditor General Meeting Appoints Election Submits proposals concerning election Committee of Board members, auditors and Election 5 Audit Committee Committee for the upcoming Annual General Meeting. 7 Auditor 3 Election Committee 6 Remuneration Committee Elects Board Prepare part of the Board’s work. 4 Board of Directors The auditors review the interim report for the period January 1 Appoints President/CEO to June 30 and audit the annual 9 report and consolidated ﬁnancial 10 statements. President/CEO 8 Corporate Audit 11 Internal Control over Financial Reporting 10 Group Executive Board BUSINESS AREAS/ Operations DIVISIONS 171 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 1 Shares and shareholders 2 General Meeting AB Volvo’s share register is kept by Euroclear Sweden AB. On December General 31, 2016, Volvo had 237,654 shareholders according to the share register. The General Meeting is Volvo’s highest decision-making body. The Annual The largest shareholder on that date, in terms of votes, was AB IndustriGeneral Meeting is held within six months after the end of the ﬁscal year, värden, with 22.6 percent of the votes based on the number of outstandnormally in Göteborg. The Annual General Meeting adopts the income ing shares. Cevian Capital held 15.3 percent of the votes, Norges Bank statement and balance sheet for AB Volvo and the Volvo Group, and Investment Management held 6.1 percent of the votes and Svenska Hanresolves on the allocations of proﬁt, the composition of Volvo’s Board of delsbanken together with SHB Pension Fund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB Directors, Board remuneration and elects, when applicable, external audiPensionskassa and Oktogonen held 5.1 percent of the votes, based on tors. Notice to attend a General Meeting is issued in the form of an the number of outstanding shares. announcement in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar (Swedish Ofﬁcial Gazette) Volvo has issued two classes of shares: series A and series B. In a vote and on the company’s website. The fact that notice has been issued is at a General Meeting, series A shares carry one vote and series B shares announced in Dagens Nyheter and Göteborgs-Posten. one-tenth of a vote. The two share classes carry equal rights to a share in In addition to what follows from applicable law regarding shareholders’ the assets and earnings of the company. According to a special share right to participate at General Meetings, under Volvo’s Articles of Associaconversion clause in the Articles of Association, holders of series A tion shareholders must give notice of their attendance (within the time shares are entitled to request that their series A shares are converted to stated in the convening notice) and notify the company of any intention to series B shares. Implementation of such conversions entails that the total bring assistants. number of votes in the company decreases. A shareholder who wants the Meeting to consider a special matter At the end of 2016, the total number of shares in AB Volvo amounted must submit a request to the Board in sufﬁcient time prior to the Meeting to 2,128,420,220, of which series A shares accounted for 492,525,221 to the address provided on Volvo’s website, www.volvogroup.com. and series B shares accounted for 1,635,894,999. The total number of Resolutions at a General Meeting are normally passed by simple majorvotes amounted to 656,114,720.90. ity and for elections, the person who receives the most votes is considFor more information about the Volvo share and its shareholders, referered elected. However, certain resolutions, such as amendment of the ence is made to the Board of Director’s report on pages 103–105 of the Articles of Association, require a decision by a qualiﬁed majority. Annual Report. AB Volvo’s Annual General Meeting 2016 was held on April 6 in Konserthuset, Gothenburg, Sweden. 172 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 3 Election Committee Annual General Meeting 2016 Duties Volvo’s Annual General Meeting 2016 was held on Wednesday, April 6, The Election Committee is the shareholders’ body responsible for submit2016 in Konserthuset, Göteborg. The Meeting was attended by 1,430 ting to the Annual General Meeting the names of candidates to serve as shareholders, either in person or by proxy, representing 70.26 percent of Chairman at the Meeting and Chairman and other Members of the Board the votes in the company. Attorney Sven Unger was elected Chairman of and, when applicable, proposal for auditors and remuneration to the audithe Meeting. Members of the Board and of the Group Executive Board tors. were present at the Meeting. Authorized Public Accountants Peter The Election Committee is also responsible for submitting proposal for Clemedtson, Volvo’s Lead Audit Partner, and Johan Palmgren were also fees and other compensations to be paid to the Board Members. In addipresent, representing the company’s auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers AB. tion, the Election Committee, in accordance with prevailing instructions The Annual General Meeting 2016 decided to pay a dividend of SEK 3.00 for Volvo’s Election Committee, presents proposals for members of the per share. The Meeting further resolved to re-elect Board Members Matti Election Committee for the following year. Alahuhta, Eckhard Cordes, James W. Grifﬁth, Kathryn V. Marinello, The Election Committee’s proposal shall be presented to Volvo in sufMartina Merz, Hanne de Mora, Carl-Henric Svanberg (as Chairman) and ﬁcient time to be included in the notice to attend the Annual General Lars Westerberg, and to elect Martin Lundstedt, Håkan Samuelsson and Meeting and to be published on Volvo’s website at the same time. In conHelena Stjernholm as new Board Members. junction with the notice to attend the Annual General Meeting being pubThe further resolutions of the Meeting are included in the complete lished, the Election Committee shall comment on whether those persons minutes from the Annual General Meeting 2016 which, together with who are proposed to be elected as Board Members are to be considered other information about the Meeting, are available at www.volvogroup.com. as independent in relation to the company and company management as well as to major shareholders in the company and further to comment on Annual General Meeting 2017 their important assignments and holding of shares in Volvo. Volvo’s Annual General Meeting 2017 will be held on Tuesday, April 4, 2017 in Konserthuset, Göteborg. For further information about the Annual Composition General Meeting 2017, please refer to the fold-out in the end of the In accordance with instructions for the Election Committee adopted by Annual and Sustainability Report and Volvo’s website. www.volvogroup.com. the Annual General Meeting 2016, the Annual General Meeting shall elect ﬁve members to serve on the Election Committee, of whom four shall represent the largest shareholders in the company, in terms of the number of votes, who have expressed their willingness to participate on the Election Committee. In addition, one of the members shall be the Chairman of the AB Volvo Board. Additionally, the Election Committee can offer other major shareholders to appoint one representative as a member of the Election Committee. If such an offer is made, it should be directed in turn to the largest shareholder in terms of voting rights not already represented on the Election Committee. The number of members on the Election Committee may however not exceed seven. In accordance with its instructions, Volvo’s Annual General Meeting 2016 resolved to appoint the following individuals as members of the Election Committee: • Carl-Henric Svanberg, Chairman of the Board, • Bengt Kjell, representing AB Industrivärden, • Lars Förberg, representing Cevian Capital, • Yngve Slyngstad, representing Norges Bank Investment Management, and • Pär Boman, representing Svenska Handelsbanken, SHB Pension Fund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB Pensionskassa and Oktogonen. The Election Committee appointed Bengt Kjell as Chairman. 173 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 4 Board of Directors Duties Work procedures The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for Volvo’s organization Every year, the Board adopts work procedures for the Board’s work. The and management of the company’s operations. The Board is responsible work procedures contain rules pertaining to the number of Board meetfor the Group’s long-term development and strategy, for regularly controlings, matters to be addressed at regular meetings of the Board and duties ling and evaluating the Group’s operations and for the other duties set incumbent on the Chairman. forth in the Swedish Companies Act. Volvo’s Chairman shall organize and guide the Board’s work, be responsible for contacts with the owners regarding ownership matters and proComposition vide the owners’ viewpoints to the Board, ensure that the Board receives During the period January 1, 2016 to April 6, 2016, AB Volvo’s Board adequate information and decision documents for its work and verify that consisted of nine members elected by the Annual General Meeting. In the Board’s resolutions are implemented. The work procedures further addition, the Board had three members and two deputy members refer to the charter of the Audit Committee and the charter of the Remuappointed by employee organizations. According to the Articles of Assoneration Committee for the tasks assigned to the respective committee. ciation, the Board shall consist of not less than six and not more than The Board has also issued written instructions specifying how ﬁnancial twelve members elected by the General Meeting. information should be reported to the Board, as well as deﬁning the distribThe Annual General Meeting 2016 re-elect Matti Alahuhta, Eckhard ution of duties between the Board and the President. Cordes, James W. Grifﬁth, Kathryn V. Marinello, Martina Merz, Hanne de Mora, Carl-Henric Svanberg and Lars Westerberg as Board members and The Board’s work in 2016 Carl-Henric Svanberg as Chairman of the Board. Martin Lundstedt, Håkan The Board’s work is mainly performed within the framework of formal Samuelsson and Helena Stjernholm were elected as new Board Members. Board meetings and through meetings in the respective committees of An account of each Board member’s age, principal education, professional the Board. In addition, regular contact is maintained between the Chairexperience, assignments in the company, other important board memberman of the Board and the CEO in order to discuss on-going business and ships, their own and related parties’ ownership of shares in Volvo as of to ensure that the resolutions taken by the Board are executed. March 6, 2017, and the year they were elected on the Volvo Board, is preIn 2016, there were nine regular Board meetings, two extraordinary meetsented in the “Board of Directors” section on pages 178–179. ings and one statutory meeting. The attendance of Board members at these meetings is presented in the table on page 177. Independence requirements During 2016, the Board has continued to focus on measures to increase The Board of Directors of AB Volvo must meet independence requirements the Group’s proﬁtability, strengthen the balance sheet and streamlining the pursuant to the Code entailing that only one person from the company’s business. management may be a member of the Board, that a majority of the Board As a result, Volvo completed in March the sale of its external IT operation members elected by the General Meeting shall be independent of the comand the operation of the IT infrastructure to HCL Technologies. The transacpany and the company management and that at least two of the Board memtion is the result of a review of the Group’s IT operations conducted during bers elected by the General Meeting who are independent of the company 2015 and entails both sustained cost savings and a capital gain correspondand the company’s management shall also be independent of the company’s ing to SEK 885 million. major shareholders. Prior to the Annual General Meeting 2016, the Election As part of its focus, the Board decided to divest the Group’s properties in Committee presented the following assessment concerning independence the areas of Arendal, Torslanda and Säve in Gothenburg, Sweden, which was of the Board members elected by the Annual General Meeting 2016. completed during the autumn. The sales price totalled SEK 2.7 billion and Matti Alahuhta, James W. Grifﬁth, Kathryn V. Marinello, Martina Merz, the transaction results in a positive impact on the Group’s operating cash Hanne de Mora, Håkan Samuelsson, Carl-Henric Svanberg and Lars ﬂow and net ﬁnancial debt in the amounts of SEK 2.6 billion and SEK 2.3 Westerberg were all considered independent of the company and the billion, respectively. company management as well as of the company’s major shareholders. Finally, a strategic review of the Governmental Sales business has been Since Martin Lundstedt had the position as AB Volvo’s President and conducted and in November it was announced that Volvo intends to initiate CEO of the Volvo Group prior to the Annual General Meeting 2016, he a process to divest the business. was considered independent of the company’s major shareholders but not In addition to the above measures, the Board has decided on an overall of the company and the company management. ﬁnancial plan and investment frame for the Group’s operations. The Board Eckhard Cordes and Helena Stjernholm were considered independent has continuously followed-up the Group’s performance and ﬁnancial posiof the company and the company management. tion in order to ensure proper actions and that there are efﬁcient systems for Since Cevian Capital Partners, prior to the Annual General Meeting follow-up and control of the business and the ﬁnancial position of the Volvo 2016, controlled more than 10 percent of the votes in the company, Group. In connection therewith, the Audit Committee has been responsible Eckhard Cordes, due to his capacity as partner in Cevian Capital Partners, for preparing the Board’s work to assure the quality of the Group’s ﬁnancial was not considered independent in relation to one of the company’s major reporting by reviewing the interim reports, the Annual Report and consolishareholders. dated accounting. The Board has met with the company’s auditors at several Since AB Industrivärden, prior to the Annual General Meeting 2016, occasions during 2016 and without the presence of management at one controlled more than 10 percent of the votes in the company, Helena occasion. Additionally, the Board has engaged in the succession planning Stjernholm, due to her capacity as President and CEO of AB Industrifor the executive management. värden, was not considered independent in relation to one of the compaThe Board has also focused on risk-related matters, such as enterprise ny’s major shareholders. risk management and ongoing legal cases and investigations. As part of this work, the Board has decided on a settlement with the European Commission, putting an end to the EU antitrust investigation. The settlement implies 174 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 In October 2016, the Board visited the Group’s facilities in the US. that Volvo, during the fourth quarter, has paid a ﬁne of EUR 670 million to focus of Board meetings, Board support, Board oversight and priorities for the Commission, corresponding to SEK 6.5 billion. change. The areas covered by the evaluation may differ from one year to Finally, the Board continuously keeps itself updated about the status and another to reﬂect the development of the Board’s work and the Volvo Group. development of the business operations of the Group by devoting considerSeparate evaluations for the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the able time to operational reviews of the Group’s various Truck Divisions and Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the CEO were comBusiness Areas. As part of these operational reviews, the Board usually pleted. The reports over the evaluations were discussed at a Board meetvisits a Volvo Group facility once a year and in October 2016, the Board ing. In addition, the results of the evaluations of the Board and the Board visited the Group’s facilities in the US, which deepened the Board’s underChairman are shared with the Election Committee. standing for the American market as well as for the Volvo Group’s activities in the US. Remuneration to Board members The Annual General Meeting resolves on fees to be paid to the Board MemEvaluation of the board’s work bers elected by the shareholders. The Annual General Meeting held on During 2016, the Board performed its yearly evaluation of the Board’s April 6, 2016, decided that until the end of the next Annual General Meetwork. The purpose of the evaluation is to develop the Board’s efﬁciency ing, the remuneration to the Board should remain unchanged, as follows. and its working procedures and to determine the focus of the Board’s Volvo’s Chairman receives a fee of SEK 3,250,000 and each of the coming work. In addition, the evaluation serves as a tool in determining remaining Members elected by the shareholders receives a fee of the requirements for special competence needed in the Board and for SEK 950,000 with the exception of the President. The Chairman of the analyzing the competence already accessible in the current Board. By Audit Committee receives SEK 300,000 and other members of the Audit that, the evaluation also serves as input for the Election Committee’s work Committee SEK 150,000 each. In addition, the Chairman of the Remuwith proposing Board members. neration Committee receives SEK 125,000 and other members of the In performing the yearly evaluation, the Board members were asked to Remuneration Committee SEK 100,000 each. complete an individual questionnaire rating, from their own perspective, different areas relating to the Board’s work. The areas being evaluated for 2016 included, for example, the Board composition, management and 175 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 Board of Directors >> The Board’s committees 5 Audit Committee 6 Remuneration Committee Duties Duties In December 2002, the Board established an Audit Committee primarily In April 2003, the Board established a Remuneration Committee for the for the purpose of overseeing the accounting and ﬁnancial reporting propurpose of preparing and deciding on issues relating to remuneration to cesses and the audit of the ﬁnancial statements. senior executives in the Group. The duties of the Committee include preThe Audit Committee is, among other things, responsible for preparing senting recommendations for resolution by the Board regarding the terms the Board’s work to assure the quality of the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting by and conditions of employment and remuneration for the CEO and the reviewing the interim reports, the Annual Report and the consolidated Deputy CEO of AB Volvo, principles for remuneration, including pensions accounting. The Audit Committee also has the task of reviewing and overand severance payments, for other members of the Group Executive Team seeing the Group’s legal and taxation matters as well as compliance with and principles for variable salary systems, share-based incentive prolaws and regulations that may have a material impact on the ﬁnancial grams, pensions and severance payment for other senior executives in the reporting. Further, the Audit Committee has the task of reviewing and Group. overseeing the impartiality and independence of the company’s auditors. The Remuneration Committee shall monitor and evaluate ongoing proThe Audit Committee is also responsible for evaluating the internal and grams and programs concluded during the year covering variable remuexternal auditors’ work and, when applicable, handling the tender process neration for the executives, application of the policy for remuneration to for audit services. In addition, it is the Audit Committee’s task to presenior executives on which the Annual General Meeting shall decide and approve what other services, beyond auditing, the company may procure the current remuneration structures and levels in the Group. from the auditors. The Audit Committee also adopts guidelines for transThe Board shall, no later than three weeks prior to the Annual General actions with companies and persons closely associated with Volvo. Finally, Meeting, submit a report on the results of the Remuneration Committee’s the Audit Committee shall evaluate the quality, relevance and efﬁciency of evaluation on the company’s website. the Group’s system for internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, as well as with respect to the internal audit and risk management, and discharge any Composition and work in 2016 other duties of an audit committee. At the statutory Board meeting following the Annual General Meeting 2016, the following Board members were appointed members of the Composition and work in 2016 Remuneration Committee: At the statutory Board meeting following the Annual General Meeting • Carl-Henric Svanberg 2016, the following Board members were appointed members of the • Matti Alahuhta Audit Committee: • James W. Grifﬁth • Lars Westerberg Carl-Henric Svanberg was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration • Helena Stjernholm Committee. • Hanne de Mora The Code sets the requirement that members of the Remuneration ComLars Westerberg was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee. mittee, with the exception of the Board Chairman if being a member of the The Audit Committee met with the external auditors without the presence Remuneration Committee, shall be independent of the company and the of management at four occasions during 2016 in connection with the company management. The Election Committee’s assessment of indeAudit Committee meetings. The Audit Committee has also met with the pendence prior to the Annual General Meeting 2016 is presented under Head of Corporate Audit at the meetings of the Audit Committee. the “Independence requirements” section on page 174. The Audit Committee and the external auditors have, among other The Remuneration Committee held three meetings during 2016. The tasks, discussed the external audit plan and risk management. The Audit attendance of Board Members at Committee meetings is presented in the Committee held eight regular meetings during 2016. The attendance of table on page 177. The Remuneration Committee reports the outcome of Board Members at Committee meetings is presented in the table on page its work to the full Board on a regular basis. 177. The Audit Committee reports the outcome of its work to the full Board on a regular basis, and the minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are distributed to the Board members. 176 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 The Board’s composition and attendance at meetings January 1, 2016 – December 31, 2016 Board (12 incl. Audit Remuneration Member statutory) Committee (8) Committee (3) Carl-Henric Svanberg 12 3 Martin Lundstedt 1 8 Matti Alahuhta 12 2 Eckhard Cordes 12 James Grifﬁth 12 3 Hanne de Mora 12 8 Kathryn Marinello 11 Martina Merz 12 Anders Nyrén2 3 2 1 Håkan Samuelsson3 6 Helena Stjernholm4 8 6 Lars Westerberg 10 7 Lars Ask, employee representative5 12 Mats Henning, employee representative 12 Camilla Johansson, employee representative6 6 Mari Larsson, employee representative 12 Mikael Sällström, employee representative 11 Berth Tulin7 3 Total number of meeting 12 8 3 1 Joined the Board on April 6, 2016. 2 Stepped down from the Board on April 6, 2016. 3 Joined the Board on April 6, 2016. 4 Joined the Board on April 6, 2016. 5 Employee representative, deputy member, until April 6, 2016 when he joined as ordinary member. 6 Joined the Board as employee representative, deputy member, on April 6, 2016. 7 Stepped down from the Board as employee representative, ordinary member, on April 6, 2016. 177 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 Board of Directors BOARD MEMBERS ELECTED BY THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Carl-Henric Svanberg Matti Alahuhta Eckhard Cordes James W. Grifﬁth Martin Lundstedt Chairman of the Board, Member of the Remuneration Member of the President and CEO Chairman of the Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Education Master of Science, BSc. Master of Science, MBA and PhD, University of BSc Industrial Engineering, MSc. Business Administration. Doctor of Science. Hamburg. MBA from Stanford University. Born 1952 1952 1950 1954 1967 Member of the Chairman of the Volvo Board Since April 2, 2014. Since April 1, 2015. Since April 2, 2014. Since April 6, 2016. Volvo Board since April 4, 2012. Position and Board Board Chairman: BP p.l.c. Board Chairman: DevCo Partner in Cevian Capital and Board member: Illinois Tool President and CEO of AB memberships Partners Oy and Outotec EMERAM Capital Partners. Works Inc. Volvo. Corporation. Member of the Executive Board Chairman: Partex Marking Board member: Kone CorporaCommitte of Eastern European Systems AB and Permobil AB. tion, ABB Ltd. Economic Relations of German Board member: ACEA CommerIndustry. cial Vehicle and Concentric AB. Board Chairman: Bilﬁnger SE. Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. Principal work Has held various positions at Has held several management Started with Daimler Benz AG, Began his career at The Timken President and CEO of Scania experience Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) and positions in the Nokia Group – where he has held several manCompany in 1984, where he 2012–2015. Prior to that, Securitas AB; President and President of Nokia Telecomagement positions, such as has held several management various managerial positions Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Assa munications, President of head of the trucks and buses positions, such as responsible at Scania since 1992. CoAbloy AB; President and Chief Nokia Mobile Phones and business, Head of Group Confor Timken’s bearing business chairman of the UN SecretaryExecutive Ofﬁcer of TelefonakChief Strategy Ofﬁcer of the trolling, Corporate Developactivities in Asia, the Paciﬁc General’s High-Level Advisory tiebolaget LM Ericsson; memNokia Group; President of ment and M&A in AEG AG and and Latin America and for the Group on Sustainable Transport ber of the External Advisory Kone Corporation between CEO of Mercedes Car Group. company’s automotive busi2015–2016. Board of the Earth Institute at 2005–2014 and between Previously CEO of Metro AG, ness in North America. Until Columbia University and the 2006–2014 also Chief Execusenior advisor at EQT and 2014 President and Chief Advisory Board of Harvard tive Ofﬁcer. Board Chairman Board member of Air Berlin, Executive Ofﬁcer at Timken Kennedy School. Aalto University FoundaSKF, Carl Zeiss and RheinCompany. tion until 2015. Board Chairmetall AG. Since 2012 partner man at the Confederation of in Cevian Capital and EMERAM Finnish Industries 2015–2016. Capital Partners respectively. Holdings in Volvo, 700,000 Series B shares 64,100 Series B shares. None. 20,000 Series B shares. 36,447 Series B shares. own and related parties BOARD MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE EMPLOYEE ORGANISATIONS Lars Ask Mats Henning Mikael Sällström Employee representative, ordinary member Employee representative, ordinary member Employee representative, ordinary member Born 1959 1961 1959 Member of the Deputy member from June 16, 2009. Ordinary Since May 9, 2014. Since September 7, 2009. Volvo Board member since April 6, 2016. Background within With Volvo since 1982. With Volvo since 1982. With Volvo 1980–1999 and since 2009. Volvo Holdings in Volvo, own 245 Series A shares. 495 shares, including 250 Series B Shares. 495 shares, including 250 Series B Shares. and related parties 178 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 Kathryn V. Marinello Martina Merz Hanne de Mora Håkan Samuelsson Helena Stjernholm Lars Westerberg Member of the Audit Member of the Audit Chairman of the Committee Committee Audit Committee BA from State University of BS from University of CooperaBA in Economics from HEC in MSc. MSc Business Administration. MSc Engineering, Bachelor New York at Albany, MBA from tive Education, Stuttgart. Lausanne, MBA from IESE in Business Administration. Hofstra University. Barcelona. 1956 1963 1960 1951 1970 1948 Since April 2, 2014. Since April 1, 2015. Since April 14, 2010. Since April 6, 2016. Since April 6, 2016. Since April 4, 2007. President and CEO Hertz Vice Chairperson: Board Chairperson: a-connect President and CEO of President and CEO of Board member: SSAB Global Holdings. SAF Holland SA. (group) ag. Volvo Car Group AB Industrivärden Svenskt Stål AB, Sandvik AB Board member: Nielsen. Board member: Deutsche Board member: IMD Board member: TeknikBoard member: AB Industriand Stena AB. Lufthansa AG (supervisory Super visory Board. företagen (Engineering värden, Sandvik AB and board) and NV Bekaert S.A. companies). Ericsson. Has held several management Until January 2015, Chief ExecCredit Analyst Den Norske Began his career in 1977 at Between 1998–2015, partner Has held various positions positions at Citibank, Chemical utive Ofﬁcer for Chassis Brakes Creditbank in Luxemburg 1984, Scania where he stayed for in the private equity ﬁrm IK within ASEA 1972–1984. Bank New York (now JP Morgan International. Has, during almost various positions within brand more than 20 years. He held Investment Partners (former Served several executive posiChase), First Bank Systems and 25 years held various managemanagement and controlling leading positions within Scania’s Industri Kapital) with responstions at Esab AB 1984–1994 First Data Corporation; Division ment positions in Robert Bosch within Procter & Gamble 1986– technical division before he ibility for its Stockholm ofﬁce. including Chief Executive President General Electric GmbH, most recently as Execu1989, Partner McKinsey & joined the executive board in She was also a member of IK’s Ofﬁcer and President. Chief Financial Assurance Partnertive Vice President Sales and Company, Inc. 1989–2002, one 1996. He brought his vast truck Executive Committee. Helena Executive Ofﬁcer and President ship Marketing and Division Marketing in the Chassis Sysof the founders and owners, experience from Scania to MAN has served in various positions of Gränges AB 1994–1999. President General Electric Fleet tem Brakes division combined also Board Chairperson of in 2000 when he became with IK and prior to that worked Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Services; President and Chief with responsibility for regions the global consulting ﬁrm and Chairman & CEO of MAN Nutzas a consultant for Bain & President of Autoliv Inc. 1999– Executive Ofﬁcer of Ceridian China and Brazil and previously talent pool a-connect (group) ag fahrzeuge AG. Chairman & CEO Company. 2007 and Chairman of Autoliv Corporation and subsequently Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the since 2002. of MAN AG from 2005–2009. Inc. 2007–2011. Previously also Chairman; Board Chairsubsidiary Bosch Closure SysChairman of Husqvarna AB, man, President and Chief Exectems, also member of the Board Vattenfall AB and Ahlsell AB. utive Ofﬁcer of Stream Global of Management of Brose Services, Inc. Senior Advisor, Fahrzeugteile GmbH & Co. Ares Management, LLC. None. 4,500 Series B shares. 3,000 Series B shares. 106,000 Series B shares. 8,000 Series B shares. 198,000 shares including 168,000 Series B shares. DEPUTIES APPOINTED BY THE EMPLOYEE ORGANISATIONS SECRETARY TO THE BOARD Camilla Johansson Mari Larsson Soﬁa Frändberg Employee representative, deputy member Employee representative, deputy member Secretary to the Board Master of Laws 1966 1978 1964 Deputy member since April 6, 2016. Deputy member since May 22, 2015. Secretary to the Board since April 1, 2013. With Volvo since 1997. With Volvo since 2004. Executive Vice President Group Legal & Compliance and General Counsel. 595 Series A shares. 557 Series A shares. 48,517 shares, including 46,827 Series B shares. 179 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 7 External auditing 8 Corporate Audit Volvo’s auditors are elected by the Annual General Meeting. The current Volvo’s internal audit function, Corporate Audit, helps the organization auditor is PricewaterhouseCoopers AB (PwC), which was elected at the accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach Annual General Meeting 2014 for a period of four years. Two partners of to evaluate, independently and objectively, the effectiveness of risk manPwC, Peter Clemedtson and Johan Palmgren, are responsible for the agement, control, and governance processes as well as to contribute to audit of Volvo. Peter Clemedtson is Lead Partner. its improvement. The external auditors discuss the external audit plan and risk management In the discharge of its duties, Corporate Audit performs internal audits with the Audit Committee. The auditors review the interim report for the and special assignments requested by management and the Audit Comperiod January 1 to June 30 and audit the Annual Report and the consolimittee and issues reports summarizing the results of these activities. dated accounting. The auditors also express an opinion whether this CorpoThe audits cover, among other things, assessments on the adequacy and rate Governance Report was prepared or not, and in such respect whether effectiveness of the organization’s processes for controlling its activities and certain information therein coincides with the Annual Report and consolimanaging its risks and evaluation of compliance with policies and directives. dated accounting. The auditors report their ﬁndings with regard to the Annual Corporate Audit also assists in investigations of suspected fraudulent Report and consolidated accounting through the audit reports and a sepaactivities within the organization and coordinates and provides oversight rate opinion regarding the Corporate Governance Report, which they present of other control and monitoring functions. to the Annual General Meeting. In addition, the auditors report detailed ﬁndThe head of Corporate Audit reports directly to the CEO, the Group’s ings from their reviews to the Audit Committee three times a year and once General Counsel and the Board’s Audit Committee. a year to the full Board of Directors. For additional information on internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, When PwC is retained to provide services other than the audit, it is see pages 186–187. done in accordance with rules decided by the Audit Committee pertaining to pre-approval of the nature of the services and the fees. During 2016, Volvo has decided to initiate a tender process regarding statutory audit services to prepare for the election of statutory auditors at the Annual General Meeting to be held in April 2018. The process is currently ongoing. For information concerning Volvo’s remuneration to the auditors, reference is made to Note 28 “Fees to the auditors” in the Group’s notes in the Annual Report. Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren Authorized Public Accountant. Authorized Public Accountant. Lead Partner. Partner. Auditor since 2012. Auditor since 2015. Peter Clemedtson’s other listed Johan Palmgren’s other listed clients are Nordea AB, SKF AB clients include Hexatronic and Ratos AB. His unlisted Group AB. clients include Stena AB and Born 1974. Wallenbergstiftelserna. Born 1956. 180 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 9 Governance principles and organizational structure Volvo’s strategy Governance documents The Volvo Group’s mission is to ”Drive prosperity through transport soluAnother key component of the governance and control is the Group’s tions”. The Volvo Group contributes to society’s welfare globally in many policies and directives, such as the Code of Conduct and policies pertaindifferent ways, through transportation of people and goods, sanitation ing to investments, ﬁnancial risks, accounting, ﬁnancial control and interand power generation, extraction of raw materials in mines and infrastrucnal audit, which contain Group wide operating and ﬁnancial rules for the ture optimization. The Group’s products and services are continuously operations, as well as responsibility and authority structures. being developed to support sustainable societies and the well-being and safety of people. With this mission in mind, the Volvo Group strives to Organizational structure achieve its Vision to “Be the most desirable and successful transport On March 1, 2016, the Volvo Group introduced a new brand-based organsolution provider in the world”. Trust and customer relations are therefore ization with clearer commercial accountability for the Group’s trucks sales important ingredients of the Group’s total customer offer. operations. The former single Group Trucks Sales division was replaced Volvo’s aspirations are to have leading customer satisfaction for all its by four brand speciﬁc Business Areas; Volvo Trucks, UD Trucks, Renault brands; being the most admired employer in the industry and having Trucks and Mack Trucks, each with proﬁt and loss responsibility for their industry leading proﬁtability. The Group values Customer Success, Trust, respective business. A new Business Area called Group Trucks Asia & Passion, Change and Performance are the base for how the Volvo Group’s JVs has also been introduced. company culture. Seven strategic priorities further set the direction for the The Truck Division Group Trucks Technology (GTT) is responsible for Volvo Group. They describe the key fundamentals of the Volvo Group product development of engines, transmissions and trucks, whereas the strategy such as customer focus, decentralization, empowerment and Truck Division Group Trucks Operations (GTO) is responsible for the proP&L responsibility for its brand organizations, continuous improvements duction of trucks and the Group’s engines and transmissions. GTO is also as well as the importance of utilizing the Group strengths to increase responsible for the Group’s spare parts supply and logistics operation. synergies, proﬁtability and to take leadership in key technologies. Based on the Group strategic priorities, each Business Area deﬁnes their own Business Area execution plans. In addition, long term plans such as the Group’s industrial and technology plans are developed as a crucial part of the Group’s strategic direction. The follow-up of the Volvo Group strategy is managed by the annual Group Strategy cycle. The strategic direction of the Group is set by the Group Executive Board while overall balancing of the Group’s offering portfolio and resources are managed by MISSION the Product Board. VISION ASPIRATIONS VALUES VOLVO GROUP ORGANIZATION AS FROM MARCH 1, 2016 Group CEO Group Finance Group Human Resources (Deputy CEO & CFO) Group Communication Group Legal & Compliance & Sustainability Affairs BUSINESS AREAS Renault Mack UD Volvo Group Trucks Volvo Volvo Volvo Governmental VFS Trucks Trucks Trucks Trucks Asia & JVs CE Buses Penta Sales TRUCK DIVISIONS Value Trucks Group Trucks Technology DFCV Group Trucks Operations Group Trucks Purchasing VECV Executive Board members 181 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 Governance principles and organizational structure (cont.) 10 Group Management A new Truck Division, Group Trucks Purchasing (GTP) has been introSince March 1, 2016, the Group Executive Board comprises 13 executive duced, with an overall responsibility for purchasing for the Group’s trucks, positions, including the CEO. The position as Executive Vice President engines and transmissions operations as well as for the Group’s purchase GTP was vacant until January 1, 2017. of indirect products and services. In addition to the CEO, the Group Executive Board comprises the ExecuSince March 1, 2016, the Volvo Group’s business activities are theretive Vice Presidents of the three Group Truck Divisions, the Executive Vice fore, in addition to the three Trucks Divisions, organized into ten Business Presidents of the ﬁve Business Areas Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks, UD Areas, namely: Volvo Trucks, UD Trucks, Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks, Trucks, Volvo Trucks and Volvo Construction Equipment, and the Executive Group Trucks Asia & JVs, Volvo Construction Equipment, Volvo Buses, Vice Presidents of the four Group Functions Group Human Resources, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and Volvo Financial Services (VFS). In Group Communication & Sustainability Affairs, Group Finance (Deputy addition, there are four Group Functions; Group Human Resources, Group CEO & Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (CFO)) and Group Legal & Compliance. The Finance, Group Communication & Sustainability Affairs and Group Legal members of the Group Executive Board report directly to the CEO. & Compliance, providing support to the CEO and the Group Executive The Presidents of the Business Areas Group Trucks Asia & JVs, Volvo Board with expertise in each Group Function area and developing standBuses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and VFS also report directly to the ards for the entire organization through policies, directives and guidelines. CEO and are part of an extended Group Management Team together with In addition there are Group Functions that provide services and/or prodthe members of the Group Executive Board. ucts to the entire Group, for example Group IT and Accounting & ComThe CEO is responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of the pany Control. Volvo Group and is authorized to make decisions on matters that do not With this governance model, Volvo can utilize the synergies of having require Board approval. The CEO leads the operations of the Group mainly global organizations for manufacturing, product development and purthrough the Group Executive Board and the enlarged Group Management chasing, while still having clear leadership and responsibility for each Team. Further, the ten Business Areas also have separate decision foras for truck brand to make sure that customer needs are met. The governance important matters, so called Business Review Meetings. The CEO is the model imply that all Business Areas are driven along the same distinct Chairman of the Business Review Meetings for the ﬁve trucks related Busibusiness principles and the Group’s decided brand positioning, whereby ness Areas. The Deputy CEO/CFO is the Chairman of the Business Review each Business Area can follow and optimize its own earnings perforMeetings for the ﬁve Business Areas Volvo Construction Equipment, Volvo mance in the long and short term. Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and VFS. The Product Board is where key decisions are made related to the Group’s offeringand technology portfolio. The Product Board makes the overall balancing of the development resources and protects and develops synergies from a Business Area and Group perspective. The Product Board focuses primarily on R&D projects for Truck Business Areas and Group common projects of signiﬁcant size. Members of the Product Board are the CEO (chairperson), the deputy CEO & CFO, the Executive Vice Presidents of the three Group Truck Divisions and the Executive Vice Presidents of Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks, UD Trucks, Volvo Trucks and Group Trucks Asia & JVs. In Group common matters, the Executive Vice Presidents of Volvo Construction Equipment, Volvo Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and VFS are also involved in the Product Board. The Quality Board is where quality related matters are addressed in order to support fast decision making and customer focus in this area. Members of the Quality Board are the CEO (chairperson), the Deputy CEO & CFO, the Executive Vice Presidents of the three Group Truck Divisions and the Executive Vice Presidents of Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks, UD Trucks, Volvo Trucks and Group Trucks Asia & JVs. On a regular basis, the Executive Vice Presidents of Volvo Construction Equipment, Volvo Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and VFS are also involved in the Quality Board. At the Sales & Operations Planning (S&OP) Executive decision meetings, the executive management decides upon one S&OP plan that optimizes the Volvo Group’s overall proﬁtability. The purpose is to balance demand with supply chain capabilities, drive capacity management and provide directions for Sales and Operations. Members of the S&OP Executive decision meeting are the CEO (chairperson), the Deputy CEO & CFO, the Executive Vice Presidents of Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks, UD Trucks, Volvo Trucks, Group Trucks Asia and JVs, Volvo Construction Equipment, Volvo Buses, Volvo Penta, and the Executive Vice Presidents of the Group Truck Divisions GTO and GTP. All the above bodies affect control and monitoring of the Group’s ﬁnancial development, strategies and targets and take decisions regarding investments and other matters. 182 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 Remuneration to the Group Executive Board Long-term incentive may, as regards the President & CEO, amount to a AB Volvo’s Annual General Meeting annually approves a policy on remumaximum of 100 percent of the ﬁxed salary and, as regards other Execuneration to the Group Executive Board, following a proposal from the AB tives, a maximum of 80 percent of the ﬁxed salary. The long-term incentive Volvo Board. plan (LTI) adopted in 2016 is cash-based with annual performance targets In 2015, a review of the reward strategy for the Volvo Group’s top 300 measured on EBIT and operating cash ﬂow levels, with annual pay-outs. executives was performed. The purpose of the review was to ensure alignThe participants in the plan shall undertake to invest the annual net (after ment between the reward system and the development of the business tax) pay-out amounts under the plan in Volvo B-shares and to hold those and to reinforce a high performing culture. As a consequence of the shares for at least three years. The purpose of the plan is to reward longrevised Top Executive Reward Strategy the Board proposed that the term company performance and to ensure alignment between manageAnnual General Meeting 2016 would resolve to adopt a revised policy for ment and shareholders. As of 2016, the new LTI plan replaces the previous remuneration to the members of the Volvo Group Executive Board. share-based incentive program resolved by the Annual General Meeting The remuneration policy adopted by the Annual General Meeting 2016 2014. states that the guiding principle is that remuneration and other terms of The short-term incentive program (STI) adopted in 2016 is also based employment for the Group Executive Board shall be competitive in order on annual performance targets measured on EBIT and operating cash ﬂow to ensure that the Volvo Group can attract and retain competent execulevels achieved for 2016 with annual pay-outs. The EBIT and cash ﬂow tives. The total remuneration to Executives consists of ﬁxed salary, shorttargets are measured on a Group level for the Volvo Group Executive term and long-term incentives, pension and other beneﬁts. Short-term Board. For less senior management levels the targets may be measured and long-term incentives shall be linked to predetermined and measurpartly on a Group level and partly on a business area/regional/brand/local able criteria relating to EBIT and cash ﬂow targets for the Volvo Group, level. devised to promote the long-term value creation of the Volvo Group and The AB Volvo Board Remuneration Committee conducts an annual strengthen the link between achieved performance targets and reward. evaluation of the remuneration policy, Volvo’s system for variable remuThe policy states that the short term incentive may, as regards the Presineration to executives and the AB Volvo Board prepares a special report dent & CEO, amount to a maximum of 100 percent of the ﬁxed salary and, of this evaluation and the conclusions. The report on the evaluation for as regards other Executives, a maximum of 80 percent of the ﬁxed salary. 2016 will be available on Volvo’s website no later than three weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting 2017, www.volvogroup.com. For more information about remuneration to the Group Executive Board and an account of outstanding share and share-price related incentive programs to the management, refer to Note 27 in the Group’s notes in the Annual Report. Changes to the Group Executive Board As a result of the new trucks sales organization and a decision to include representatives from the Group’s largest Business Areas in the Executive Board, the number of executive positions comprising the Group Executive Board increased as from March 1, 2016 from 10 to 13 including the CEO. The composition of the Group Executive Board after the organizational change is detailed above in the preamble section of this chapter. On June 1, 2016, Jan Ohlsson joined the Group Executive Board and assumed the position as Executive Vice President for Volvo Group Trucks Operations (GTO). Jan Ohlsson, who replaced Mikael Bratt, served since April 1, 2016 as the Acting Head of Group Trucks Operations. On October 10, 2016, Lars Stenqvist joined the Group Executive Board and assumed the position as Executive Vice President for Volvo Group Trucks Technology (GTT). Lars Stenqvist replaced Torbjörn Holmström, who in September 2015 announced his intention to step down from his position as Executive Vice President GTT. On January 1, 2017, Andrea Fuder joined the Group Executive Board and assumed position as Executive Vice President Volvo Group Trucks Purchasing (GTP). The position had, at that time, been vacant since it was introduced on March 1, 2016. Martin Lundstedt, President and CEO, at the Volvo Group Leadership Summit in February 2016. 183 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 Group Executive Board Martin Lundstedt Jan Gurander Claes Nilsson Bruno Blin Dennis Slagle Joachim Rosenberg President and CEO Deputy CEO and CFO Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice Volvo Group & PresiVolvo Group & PresiVolvo Group and President Volvo Group dent Volvo Trucks dent Renault Trucks President Mack Trucks and Chairman of UD Trucks. Education MSc. MSc. MBA. BS Accounting CPA. MSc Industrial Engineering and Management, MSc Financial Economics, MSc Business and Economics. Born 1967 1961 1957 1963 1954 1970 Principal work President and CEO Chief Financial Ofﬁcer & President Volvo Trucks After having worked for Has held various execuHas held various senior experience of Volvo and member of Senior Vice President since 2016. Senior Vice several companies in tive level positions positions in the Volvo the Group Executive Finance Volvo Car President Volvo Group the manufacturing, qualwithin Volvo Group Group, most recently as Board since October 22, Corporation 2011–2013. Trucks Sales Latin ity and purchasing Trucks Sales North Executive Vice Presi2015. President and CFO MAN Diesel & America 2015. Senior areas, Bruno Blin joined America 2008–2016. dent Group Trucks Sales CEO of Scania 2012– Turbo SE 2010. CFO Vice President Volvo Renault Trucks PurchasPresident Volvo Con2015. Executive Vice 2015. Prior to that, MAN Diesel SE 2008– Group Trucks Sales, ing in 1999. He has held struction Equipment NA President Group Trucks various managerial 2009. Group Vice Europe North and Censeveral senior positions 2000–2008. Member of Sales & Marketing positions at Scania President and CFO tral 2013–2014. Senior over the years until the Executive Board APAC 2012–2014. since 1992. Scania AB 2001–2006. Vice President Volvo being appointed Senior since March 1, 2016 and President of Volvo President of Business Trucks 2011–2012. Vice President of Volvo between 2008–2014. Group Asia Truck OperUnit Finance AB Volvo President Volvo Trucks, Group Purchasing. He With Volvo since 2000. ations 2007–2011. Vice 1999–2001. Senior Vice Europe Division 2007– has also served as SenPresident Volvo Group President & Finance 2011 and International ior Vice President, Alliance Ofﬁce 2007. Director Scania AB Division 2006. Member Group Truck Sales Vice President Volvo 1998–1999. Member of of the Group Executive South Europe since Powertrain 2005–2007. the Group Executive Board since 2016. With January 2013. Member Member of the Group Board since 2014. With Volvo since 1982. of the Group Executive Executive Board since Volvo 1999–2001 and Board since March 1 2012. With Volvo since since 2014. 2016. With Volvo since 2005. 1999. Board Chairman of Partex Volvo Group RepresentVolvo Group representamemberships Marking Systems AB ative for National Assotive for Japan Autoand Permobil AB. Board ciation of Manufacturers mobile Manufacturers member of ACEA Com(NAM). Association (JAMA). mercial Vehicle and Concentric AB. Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. Holdings in 36,447 Series B shares. 17,687 Series B shares. 17,195 shares, including 19,417 Series B shares. 74,825 Series B shares. 52,194 shares, including Volvo, own and 17,037 Series B shares. 52,107 Series B shares. related parties 184 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 Martin Weissburg Lars Stenqvist Jan Ohlsson Andrea Fuder Soﬁa Frändberg Kerstin Renard Henry Sténson Executive Vice President Executive Vice Executive Vice Executive Vice PresiExecutive Vice Executive Vice Executive Vice Volvo Group and President Group President Group dent Volvo Group President Group Legal President Group President Group President Volvo Trucks Technology Trucks Operations Trucks Purchasing & Compliance and Human Resources Communication & Construction Equipment General Counsel Sustainability Affairs Master of Business MSc Industrial MSc. MSc and MBA. Master of Laws. BSc Sociology. Management, Engineering. BSc Industrial Management. 1962 1967 1953 1967 1964 1961 1955 President Volvo CE Executive Vice PresiSenior Vice President Has worked in Quality Responsible for Group Senior Vice President 2012–2014 Brunswick since 2014. President dent Group Trucks Powertrain Production and Logistic and held Legal & Compliance Human Resources for Group Partner. Senior & CEO Volvo Financial Technology and Volvo Group Trucks Operavarious senior positions and General Counsel the Volvo Group Vice President CorpoServices 2010–2014. Group Chief Technoltions, since 2012. at Volkswagen’s Purof the Volvo Group 2007–2011. Prior to rate Communications President Volvo Finanogy Ofﬁcer since Octo2001–2012 General chasing organization since April 1, 2013. that Senior Vice PresiEricsson 2002–2011. cial Services Americas ber 10, 2016. Head of Manager European since 1992. Head of Head of Corporate dent Human Resources Senior Vice President 2005–2010. Prior to R&D and CTO at VolkManufacturing Volvo Purchasing at Scania Legal at AB Volvo & Communication at SAS Group CommuniVolvo, President Woodswagen Truck & Bus Trucks. Member of the 2012–2016. With Volvo 1998–2013. Corporate Volvo Powertrain cations 1998–2002. ard LLC. President 2015–2016. Senior Group Executive Board since 2017. Legal Counsel at AB 2005–2006. Member Senior Vice President Great Dane Financial Vice President Vehicle since April 1, 2016. Volvo 1994–1997. of the Group Executive Communications Volvo Services. Senior Vice Deﬁnition R&D at ScaWith Volvo since 1979. Member of the Group Board since 2012. With Car Corporation 1995– President ORIX. Memnia 2007–2015. Prior Executive Board since Volvo since 2005. 1998. Vice President ber of the Executive to that various senior April 1, 2013. With Automotive CommuniBoard since March 1, positions at Scania Volvo since 1994. cation AB 1993–1994. 2016 and between since 1992. Member of Vice President Com2010–2014. With Volvo the Group Executive munications & Public since 2005. Board since October Affairs Volvo Aero 2016. With Volvo 1989–1994. Member Group since October of the Group Executive 2016. Board since 2015. With Volvo 1989–1994 and 1995–1998 and since 2015. Secretary to the Board Board member Board member Vestas of AB Volvo since Teknikföretagen Wind Systems A/S, April 1, 2013. (Engineering Denmark. Braathens companies). Regional Aviation. 62,745 series B shares 1,210 Series B shares. 34,602 shares, 3,700 shares, including 48,517 shares, 39,401 shares, 16,967 Series B and 4,500 non-sponincluding 34,163 2,100 Series B shares. including 46,827 including 38,996 shares. sored ADR shares. Series B shares. Series B shares. Series B shares. 185 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 11 Internal control over ﬁnancial reporting The Board is responsible for the internal controls according to the Swedish Risk assessment Companies Act and the Code. The purpose of this report is to provide Risks relating to ﬁnancial reporting are evaluated and monitored by the shareholders and other interested parties with an understanding of how Board through the Audit Committee inter alia through identifying risks internal control is organized at Volvo with regard to ﬁnancial reporting. The that could be considered as material, and through the mitigating control description has been designed in accordance with the Swedish Annual objectives. The risk assessment is based on a number of criteria, such as Accounts Act and is thus limited to internal control over ﬁnancial reporting. the complexity of the accounting principles, revaluation principles of assets or liabilities, complex and/or changing business circumstances, Introduction etc. The risks together with mitigating control objectives are collected in Volvo has a function for internal control with the objective to provide supa framework for internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, Volvo Internal port for management, allowing them to continuously provide solid and Control Standard (VICS). improved internal controls relating to ﬁnancial reporting. Work that is conducted through this function is primarily based to ensure compliance with Control activities directives and policies, and to create effective conditions for speciﬁc conIn addition to the Board of Directors of AB Volvo and its Audit Committee, trol activities in key processes related to ﬁnancial reporting. The Audit the management groups and other decision-making bodies in the Group Committee is continuously informed of the results of the work performed constitute overall supervisory bodies. Business processes are designed by the Internal Control function within Volvo with regard to risks, control to ensure that potential errors or deviations in the ﬁnancial reporting are activities and follow-up on the ﬁnancial reporting. prevented, discovered and corrected by implementing control activities Volvo also has a Corporate Audit function which, among other things, that correspond to the control objectives deﬁned in the VICS framework. independently monitors that companies in the Group follow the principles Control activities range from review of outcome results in management and rules that are stated in the Group’s directives, policies and instrucgroup meetings to speciﬁc reconciliation of accounts and analyses of the tions for ﬁnancial reporting. The head of the Corporate Audit function ongoing processes for ﬁnancial reporting. reports directly to the CEO, to the Group’s General Counsel and the Board’s Audit Committee. Information and communication Policies and instructions relating to the ﬁnancial reporting are updated Control environment and communicated on a regular basis from management to all affected Fundamental to Volvo’s control environment is the business culture that is employees. The Group’s ﬁnancial reporting function has direct operating established within the Group and in which managers and employees operresponsibility for the daily ﬁnancial reporting and works to ensure a uniate. Volvo works actively on communications and training regarding the comform application of the Group’s policies, principles and instructions for the pany’s basic values included in the Group’s Code of Conduct, to ensure that ﬁnancial reporting and to identify and communicate shortcomings and good morals, ethics and integrity permeate the organization. areas of improvement in the processes for ﬁnancial reporting. The foundation of the internal control process relating to the ﬁnancial reporting is based on the Group’s directives, policies and instructions, as well as the organization’s responsibility and authority structure. The principles for internal controls and directives and policies for the ﬁnancial reporting are contained in the Volvo Group Management System, a group wide management system comprising, among other things, instructions, rules and principles. ies enc Pla eﬁci na d g foc nd of ortin u Rem ep ly ed ear ia ty an tion lec as d Volvo Group Internal se are r Control Programme s FPP VICS Volvo Group Internal Control Programme o Test Yearly evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over ﬁnancial reporting (ICFR) within the Volvo Group. fd es d co et a s m n tr il s en ol (v a li an t da e ss ass ti o n c ) P ro s i g n de 186 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance Report Follow-up To the annual meeting of the shareholders of AB Volvo (publ), corporate Ongoing responsibility for follow-up rests with the Group’s ﬁnancial reportidentity number 556012-5790 ing function. In addition, the Corporate Audit and the Internal Control function conduct review and follow-up activities in accordance with what is Engagement and responsibility described in the introduction of this report. More speciﬁcally, the Internal The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance Control function runs and coordinates evaluation activities through the statement on pages 170–187 has been prepared in accordance with the “Volvo Group Internal Control Programme,” with the purpose of systematiAnnual Accounts Act. cally evaluating the quality of the internal control over ﬁnancial reporting on an annual basis. An annual evaluation plan is established and presented to The scope of the audit the Audit Committee. This evaluation program comprises three main areas: Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s 1. Group-wide controls: Self-assessment procedure carried out by manexamination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our agement teams at business area, Group Function and company levels. examination of the corporate governance statement is different and The main areas evaluated are compliance with the Group’s ﬁnancial substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with directives and policies found in the Financial Policies and Procedures, International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing The Volvo Way and the Group’s Code of Conduct. standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us 2. Process controls at transaction level: Processes related to the ﬁnancial with sufﬁcient basis for our opinions. reporting are evaluated by testing procedures/controls based on the framework for internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, Volvo Internal Opinions Control Standards (VICS). A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 of 3. General IT controls: Processes for maintenance, development and the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph access management of ﬁnancial applications are evaluated by testing the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts procedures and controls. and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual The results of the evaluation activities are reported to Group management Accounts Act. and the Audit Committee. During 2016, the Internal Control function reported three times to the Audit Committee regarding the annual evaluation plan, status on outstanding issues and ﬁnal assessment of the Göteborg, March 6, 2017 control environment. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Göteborg, March 6, 2017 Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren AB Volvo (publ) Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant The Board of Directors Lead Partner Partner 187 OTHER INFORMATION Proposed policy for remuneration to senior executives Proposal by the Board of Directors to the Annual General Meeting 2017 This policy concerns the remuneration and other terms of employment for For Executives resident in Sweden, the notice period upon termination the members of the Volvo Group Executive Board (“Executives”). by the company shall not exceed 12 months and the notice period upon The remuneration and the other terms of employment of the Executives termination by the Executive shall not exceed 6 months. In addition, in the shall be competitive so that the Volvo Group can attract and retain comevent of termination by the company, the Executive may be entitled to a petent Executives. The total remuneration to Executives consists of ﬁxed maximum of 12 months’ severance pay. salary, short-term and long-term incentives, pension and other beneﬁts. Executives resident outside Sweden or resident in Sweden but having Short-term and long-term incentives shall be linked to predetermined and a material connection to or having been resident in a country other than measurable criteria relating to EBIT and cash ﬂow targets for the Volvo Sweden may be offered notice periods for termination and severance payGroup, devised to promote the long-term value creation of the Volvo ment that are competitive in the country where the Executives are or have Group and strengthen the link between achieved performance targets been resident or to which the Executives have a material connection, and reward. The criteria for short-term and long-term incentives shall be preferably solutions comparable to the solutions applied to Executives determined by the Board annually. resident in Sweden. Short-term incentive may, as regards the President & CEO, amount to a maximum of 100% of the ﬁxed salary and, as regards other Executives, a Authority to decide on deviations from this policy maximum of 80% of the ﬁxed salary. The Board of Directors may deviate from this policy if there are special Long-term incentive may, as regards the President & CEO, amount to a reasons to do so in an individual case. maximum of 100% of the ﬁxed salary and, as regards other Executives, a maximum of 80% of the ﬁxed salary. The long-term incentive program for Additional information the Group’s top executives, including the Executives, is cash-based. Executive compensation, which has been decided but which has not yet Awards under the program, based on how well the performance targets become due for payment by the time of the 2017 Annual General Meetare achieved, are disbursed in cash to the participants on the condition ing, falls within the scope of this policy. Additional information regarding that they invest the net award in AB Volvo shares and that they retain the remuneration is available in the Volvo Group Annual and Sustainability shares for at least three years. Any new share-based incentive program Report for 2016. will, where applicable, be resolved by the General Meeting, but no such program is currently proposed. 188 OTHER INFORMATION Proposed Disposition of Unappropriated Earnings AB Volvo SEK The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the Company and the Group have capacity to assume future business risks as well as to bear Retained earnings 25,079,971,412.46 contingent losses. The proposed dividend is not expected to adversely Income for the period 2016 8,127,108,554.17 affect the Company’s and the Group’s ability to make further commercially Total retained earnings 33,207,079,966.63 justiﬁed investments in accordance with the Board of Directors’ plans. In addition to what has been stated above, the Board of Directors has The Board of Directors and the President propose that the above sum considered other known circumstances which may be of importance for be disposed of as follows: the Company’s and the Group’s ﬁnancial position. In doing so, no circumSEK stance has appeared that does not justify the proposed dividend. If the Annual General Meeting resolves in accordance with the Board To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 3.25 per share 6,602,589,682.00 of Directors’ proposal, SEK 26,604,490,284.63 will remain of the ComTo be carried forward 26,604,490,284.63 pany’s non-restricted equity, calculated as per year end 2016. Total 33,207,079,966.63 The Board of Directors has the view that the Company’s and the Group’s shareholders’ equity will, after the proposed dividend, be sufﬁcient in relation to the nature, scope and risks of the business. The record date for determining who is entitled to receive dividends is proposed to be Thursday April 6, 2017. In view of the Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting to be held April 4, 2017 to decide on the distribution of a dividend of SEK 3.25 per share, the Board hereby makes the following statement in The Board of Directors and the President certify that the annual ﬁnancial accordance with Chapter 18, Section 4 of the Swedish Companies Act. report has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accountThe Board of Directors concludes that the Company’s restricted equity is ing principles and that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in fully covered after the proposed dividend. The Board further concludes that accordance with the international set of accounting standards referred to the proposed dividend is justiﬁable in view of the parameters set out in Chapin Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the ter 17, Section 3, second and third paragraphs of the Swedish Companies Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting Act. In connection herewith, the Board wishes to point out the following. standards, and give a true and fair view of the position and proﬁt or loss of The proposed dividend reduces the Company’s solvency from 45.4% to the Company and the Group, and that the management report for the 41.3% and the Group’s solvency from 24.5% to 23.2%, calculated as per Company and for the Group gives a fair review of the development and year end 2016. The Board of Directors considers this solvency to be satperformance of the business, position and proﬁt or loss of the Company isfactory with regard to the business in which the Group is active. and the Group, and describes the principal risks and uncertainties that the According to the Board of Directors’ opinion, the proposed dividend Company and the companies in the Group face. will not affect the Company’s or the Group’s ability to fulﬁl their payment obligations and the Company and the Group are well prepared to handle both changes in the liquidity and unexpected events. Göteborg, March 6, 2017 Carl-Henric Svanberg Board Chairman Matti Alahuhta Eckhard Cordes James W. Grifﬁth Board member Board member Board member Martin Lundstedt Kathryn V. Marinello Martina Merz President, CEO and Board member Board member Board member Hanne de Mora Håkan Samuelsson Helena Stjernholm Board member Board member Board member Lars Westerberg Board member Lars Ask Mats Henning Mikael Sällström Board member Board member Board member Our audit report was issued on March 6, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Lead Partner Partner 189 OTHER INFORMATION AUDIT REPORT Audit Report for AB Volvo (publ) To the general meeting of the shareholders of AB Volvo (publ), corporate uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of manageidentity number 556012-5790 ment override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts material misstatement due to fraud. Opinions We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufﬁcient work to We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of AB enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Volvo (publ) for the year 2016. The annual accounts and consolidated as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group, the accounting accounts of the company are included on pages 76–169, 188–189 and processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. 202–203 in this document. In our audit, we have focused on those entities that have the largest In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance impact on the ﬁnancial reporting with consideration taken to the group’s with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, different segments as well as each entity’s different function such as the ﬁnancial position of parent company as of 31 December 2016 and its manufacturing, sales, ﬁnancial services. ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂow for the year then ended in accordFor the Swedish entities the audit is performed by the group audit team ance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have and for the entities outside of Sweden the audit is performed by local been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present audit teams primarily within the PwC network. The work of local audit fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial position of the group as of 31 teams are based on instructions from the group audit team who continuDecember 2016 and their ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂow for the ously monitor and evaluate the work of local audit teams. year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting As part of this year’s audit procedures we from the group audit team Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. have visited foreign subsidiaries of which some were South Africa, The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of Australia and India. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders Materiality adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company The scope of our audit was inﬂuenced by our application of materiality. An and the group. audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise Basis for Opinions due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inﬂuence the economic Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our decisions of users taken on the basis of the ﬁnancial statements. responsibilities under those standards are further described in the AudiBased on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitator’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company tive thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in ﬁnancial statements as a whole. These, together with qualitative considSweden and have otherwise fulﬁlled our ethical responsibilities in accorderations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, ance with these requirements. timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the ﬁnancial stateappropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. ments as a whole. Our audit approach Key audit matters Audit scope Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks judgement, were of most signiﬁcance in our audit of the annual accounts of material misstatement in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. In parand consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were ticular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion for example, in respect of signiﬁcant accounting estimates that involved thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 190 OTHER INFORMATION AUDIT REPORT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter EU antitrust settlement – risk for losses from private damages claims from customers and other third parties Refer to note 24 in the annual report. Management and the board of directors have been highly involved in the dealing In January 2011, the company and a number of other companies in the truck with private damages claims. In our audit, we assess how the private damages industry became part of an investigation by the European Commission regarding claims are treated on management and board level, including reviewing supporta possible violation of EU antitrust rules. ing documentation. In July 2016, the company reached a settlement with the European Commission We have in our audit taken part of several statements from the company’s in the investigation. Following the adoption of the European Commission’s settleexternal legal advisors as well as requested and received Legal Letter from the ment decision, the company will be dealing with private damages claims from company’s external legal advisors about the claims. customers and other third parties alleging that they suffered loss by reason of the conduct covered in the decision. To assess this kind of legal disputes and possible future obligations is complicated and require involvement of experts within relevant areas to assist in the assessment of the ﬁnancial application aspects of the matters. The outcome of the private damages claims from customers and other third parties require judgement and is uncertain. At this stage it has not been possible for the company to make a reliable estimate of the amount of any liability that could arise from any such proceedings. Credit loss risks in China Refer to note 8, 21, 24 and 30 in the annual report. Our audit of credit loss risks in China is performed in several steps and include to As a result of the downturn of the Chinese mining industry during the last years, understand and assess the process and models management use to limit the many dealers and retail customers of Construction equipment in China have ﬁnanlosses through mitigating activities. cial difﬁculties. We review the risk assessments made by management and thereby also the On-balance exposure mainly consists of exposure for accounts receivables, impairment ratio used for provisions and allowances. The review is made individuentrustment loans to dealers and used equipment that has been bought back while ally per dealer and the objective is to assess the provisions and allowances. off-balance exposure consists of credit guarantees. Our procedures include to review the exposure through test of the gross Management has put several mitigating activities in place to manage the situation. amounts of accounts receivables, entrustment loans to dealers and credit guarDuring 2016 the ﬁnancial situation for Chinese dealers and retail customers has antee exposure through testing a sample of supporting documentation. developed positively and the exposure is reduced. The assessment of risk for losses for assets and credit guarantees include judgement where the outcome can differ from the current assessment. Revenue Recognition Refer to note 7 and 21 in the annual report. As the group offer ﬁnancing and different kinds of residual value guarantees in The recognised net sales pertain mainly to revenues from sales of goods and connection to the sales, the sales agreements must be assessed with respect to services. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when signiﬁcant risks and the timing of the revenue recognition. rewards of ownership have been transferred to external parties, normally when the The company has developed instructions and models for how to recognise goods are delivered to the customer. revenue for these transactions with customers. We have assessed whether the However, if the sale of goods is combined with a buy-back agreement or a residual accounting models are in line with IFRS. value guarantee, the transaction is recognised as an operating lease transaction if Our audit approach has consisted of controls testing regarding managements signiﬁcant risks in regard to the goods are retained in the group. Revenue is then process for identifying sales agreements that should be classiﬁed as operating recognised over the period of the residual value commitment. leases. If the residual value risk commitment is not signiﬁcant the revenue is recognised We also tested a sample of the sales agreements and evaluated the classiﬁat the time of sale and a provision is made to reﬂect the estimated residual value risk. cation of the sales. For sales agreements classiﬁed as operating leases we have Due to the complexity in assessing the transfer of risk and rewards of ownership tested that the sale is recognised as an operating lease and revenue is recogthere is an inherent risk that revenue is recognised in the incorrect period. nised over the time of the contract. Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director This document also contains other information than the annual accounts The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–75, 193–201 and preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that 204. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for this other information. and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary conclusion regarding this other information. to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identiﬁed above and In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going conthe information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. cern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operarequired to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. tions, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s ﬁnancial reporting process. 191 OTHER INFORMATION AUDIT REPORT Auditor’s responsibility Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from of the company’s proﬁt or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an audian assessment of whether the dividend is justiﬁable considering the tor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweequity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. den will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. MisstateThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization ments can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individand the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among ually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inﬂuence other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual ﬁnancial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is accounts and consolidated accounts. designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the compaA further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual ny’s ﬁnancial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsnämnden’s Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/ the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matrev_dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description is part of the auditor’s report. ters take measures that are necessary to fulﬁl the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reasReport on other legal and regulatory requirements suring manner. Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, Auditor’s responsibility we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our Managing Director of AB Volvo (publ) for the year 2016 and the proposed opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss. with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the proﬁt of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminis• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give tration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the rise to liability to the company, or Managing Director be discharged from liability for the ﬁnancial year. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Basis for Opinions Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing the company’s proﬁt or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are furassess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in ther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independaccordance with the Companies Act. ent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulﬁlled our ethical that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. company’s proﬁt or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on Revisorsnämnden’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/rev_dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description is part of the auditor’s report. Göteborg, March 6, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Lead Partner Partner 192 OTHER INFORMATION Eleven-year Summary The reporting in the eleven-year summary is based on IFRS. As from January 1, 2007, only are consolidated in accordance with the purchase January 1, 2007, the beneﬁts from the synergies created in the business method. Comparison ﬁgures for 2006 have been recalculated. The elevenunits are transferred back to the business areas. Also, as from January 1, year summary presents each year in accordance with the Generally 2007, the responsibility for the Group’s treasury operations and real Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP) for that year. Earlier years are not estate has been transferred from Volvo Financial Services, which, as from restated when new accounting standards are applied. Consolidated income statement SEK M 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Net sales 301,914 312,515 282,948 272,622 303,647 310,367 264,749 218,361 303,667 285,405 258,835 Cost of sales –231,602 –240,653 –220,012 –212,504 –235,085 –235,104 –201,797 –186,167 –237,578 –219,600 –199,054 Gross income 70,312 71,862 62,937 60,118 68,562 75,263 62,952 32,194 66,089 65,805 59,781 Research and development expenses –14,631 –15,368 –16,656 –15,124 –14,794 –13,276 –12,970 –13,193 –14,348 –11,059 –8,354 Selling expenses –26,867 –27,694 –27,448 –28,506 –28,248 –26,001 –24,149 –25,334 –27,129 –26,068 –21,213 Administrative expenses –5,121 –5,769 –5,408 –5,862 –5,669 –7,132 –5,666 –5,863 –6,940 –7,133 –6,551 Other operating income and expenses –3,135 –4,179 –7,697 –3,554 –2,160 –1,649 –2,023 –4,798 –1,915 163 –3,466 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies 156 –143 46 96 –23 –81 –86 –14 25 430 61 Income from other investments 112 4,609 50 –30 –47 –225 –58 –6 69 93 141 Operating income 20,826 23,318 5,824 7,138 17,622 26,899 18,000 –17,013 15,851 22,231 20,399 Interest income and similar credits 240 257 328 381 510 608 442 390 1,171 952 666 Interest expenses and similar charges –1,847 –2,366 –1,994 –2,810 –2,476 –2,875 –3,142 –3,559 –1,935 –1,122 –585 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses 11 –792 931 11 –301 297 213 –392 –1,077 –504 –181 Income after ﬁnancial items 19,230 20,418 5,089 4,721 15,355 24,929 15,514 –20,573 14,010 21,557 20,299 Income taxes –6,008 –5,320 –2,854 –919 –4,097 –6,814 –4,302 5,889 –3,994 –6,529 –3,981 Income for the period 13,223 15,099 2,235 3,802 11,258 18,115 11,212 –14,685 10,016 15,028 16,318 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 13,147 15,058 2,099 3,583 11,039 17,751 10,866 –14,718 9,942 14,932 16,268 Minority interest 75 41 136 219 219 364 346 33 74 96 50 13,223 15,099 2,235 3,802 11,258 18,115 11,212 –14,685 10,016 15,028 16,318 Consolidated income statement Industrial Operations SEK M 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Net sales 291,459 303,582 275,999 265,420 296,031 303,589 257,375 208,487 294,932 276,795 249,020 Cost of sales –225,797 –236,311 –217,251 –209,307 –231,216 –233,097 –197,480 –179,578 –232,247 –214,160 –192,400 Gross income 65,662 67,271 58,748 56,113 64,815 70,492 59,895 28,909 62,685 62,635 56,620 Research and development expenses –14,631 –15,368 –16,656 –15,124 –14,794 –13,276 –12,970 –13,193 –14,348 –11,059 –8,354 Selling expenses –24,946 –25,857 –25,778 –26,904 –26,582 –25,181 –22,649 –23,752 –25,597 –24,671 –19,999 Administrative expenses –5,081 –5,728 –5,367 –5,824 –5,639 –4,753 –5,640 –5,838 –6,921 –7,092 –6,481 Other operating income and expenses –2,531 –3,473 –6,931 –2,710 –1,600 –1,045 –659 –2,432 –1,457 249 –3,275 Income/loss from investments in joint ventures and associated companies 156 –143 46 96 –23 –82 –86 –15 23 428 61 Income from other investments 112 4,610 49 –31 –46 –225 –57 –13 69 93 141 Operating income 18,740 21,312 4,111 5,616 16,130 25,930 17,834 –16,333 14,454 20,583 18,713 193 OTHER INFORMATION Consolidated balance sheets SEK M 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Intangible assets 37,916 36,416 37,115 36,588 40,373 39,507 40,714 41,628 43,958 36,508 19,117 Property, plant and equipment 55,875 53,618 55,181 52,233 55,004 54,540 54,242 55,280 57,270 47,210 34,379 Assets under operating leases 34,693 32,531 31,218 25,672 29,022 23,922 19,647 20,388 25,429 22,502 20,501 Shares and participations 12,420 12,050 9,839 6,327 2,890 1,874 2,098 2,044 1,953 2,219 6,890 Inventories 48,287 44,390 45,533 41,153 40,409 44,599 39,837 37,727 55,045 43,645 34,211 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables 110,821 102,583 99,166 83,861 80,989 78,699 72,688 81,977 98,489 78,847 64,742 Interest-bearing receivables 2,393 2,938 2,555 1,389 5,635 3,638 2,757 3,044 5,101 4,530 4,116 Other receivables 70,814 61,932 68,448 59,943 55,531 59,877 53,154 50,575 61,560 55,152 42,567 Non-interest-bearing assets held for sale 525 3,314 288 8,104 – 9,348 136 1,692 – – 805 Cash and cash equivalents 25,172 24,393 33,554 29,559 28,889 37,241 32,733 37,910 23,614 31,034 31,099 Assets 398,916 374,165 382,896 344,829 338,742 353,244 318,007 332,265 372,419 321,647 258,427 Shareholders’ equity1 97,764 85,610 80,048 77,365 86,914 85,681 74,121 67,034 84,640 82,781 87,188 Provision for post-employment beneﬁts 14,669 13,673 16,683 12,322 6,697 6,665 7,510 8,051 11,705 9,774 8,692 Other provisions 26,408 27,207 28,010 19,900 21,787 20,815 18,992 19,485 29,076 27,084 20,970 Interest-bearing liabilities 141,048 132,607 147,985 135,001 131,842 130,479 123,695 156,852 145,727 108,318 66,957 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 148 573 130 350 – 4,716 135 272 – – 280 Other liabilities 118,879 114,495 110,042 99,891 91,502 104,888 93,554 80,571 101,271 93,690 74,340 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities 398,916 374,165 382,896 344,829 338,742 353,244 318,007 332,265 372,419 321,647 258,427 1 of which minority interests 1,703 1,801 1,723 1,333 1,266 1,100 1,011 629 630 579 284 Assets pledged 10,592 9,428 7,680 5,078 4,099 1,832 3,339 958 1,380 1,556 1,960 Contingent liabilities 16,056 15,580 15,940 17,290 17,763 17,154 11,003 9,607 9,427 8,153 7,726 194 OTHER INFORMATION Consolidated balance sheets, Industrial Operations SEK M 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Intangible assets 37,768 36,314 37,010 36,479 40,267 39,385 40,613 41,532 43,909 36,441 19,054 Property, plant and equipment 55,812 53,554 55,087 52,146 54,899 54,446 54,169 55,208 57,185 47,132 30,493 Assets under operating leases 22,752 20,616 19,484 17,013 21,263 16,749 13,217 13,539 16,967 13,850 11,822 Shares and participations 12,409 12,042 9,825 6,321 2,884 1,871 2,080 2,025 1,935 2,189 16,565 Inventories 48,080 44,194 45,364 40,964 40,057 43,828 38,956 35,765 54,084 43,264 33,893 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables 1,698 11 1,828 1,406 1,397 1,702 1,428 1,367 975 1,233 1,193 Interest-bearing receivables 4,415 3,738 2,777 2,195 11,011 6,734 11,153 8,010 6,056 13,701 13,214 Other receivables 75,759 68,223 70,413 60,679 54,324 59,062 52,358 49,008 60,586 55,970 43,335 Non-current assets held for sale 525 3,314 288 8,104 – 9,348 136 1,692 – – 805 Cash and cash equivalents 20,875 21,210 31,105 28,230 27,146 35,951 31,491 37,404 22,575 30,026 29,907 Assets 280,093 263,216 273,181 253,537 253,248 269,076 245,602 245,550 264,272 243,806 200,281 Shareholders’ equity 86,579 75,151 70,105 68,467 78,321 76,682 66,101 58,485 75,046 75,129 87,188 Provision for post-employment beneﬁts 14,608 13,621 16,580 12,249 6,663 6,635 7,478 8,021 11,677 9,746 8,661 Other provisions 22,545 23,936 25,054 17,575 19,653 19,101 17,240 17,456 27,015 25,372 19,385 Interest-bearing liabilities 33,944 32,562 48,180 52,491 54,472 55,394 59,857 78,890 46,749 38,286 9,779 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 148 573 130 350 – 4,716 135 272 – – 280 Other liabilities 122,269 117,374 113,131 102,405 94,139 106,548 94,791 82,426 103,785 95,273 74,988 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities 280,093 263,216 273,181 253,537 253,248 269,076 245,602 245,550 264,272 243,806 200,281 195 OTHER INFORMATION Consolidated cash-ﬂow statements SEK bn 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Operating income 20.8 23.3 5.8 7.1 17.6 26.9 18.0 –17.0 15.9 22.2 20.4 Depreciation and amortization 16.7 16.8 15.9 17.4 14.7 13.9 13.8 15.2 13.5 12.5 12.4 Other non-cash items –0.4 –0.5 6.1 2.4 1.4 1.3 1.6 4.4 –0.2 –0.5 0.7 Change in working capital –13.9 –9.0 –14.1 –10.8 –21.9 –15.1 4.8 16.9 –23.3 –9.9 –7.7 Financial items and income tax –5.7 –4.6 –5.0 –5.1 –8.0 –7.3 –5.5 –4.6 –5.2 –5.9 –4.3 Cash-ﬂow from operating activities 17.5 25.9 8.7 11.0 3.8 19.7 32.7 14.9 0.7 18.4 21.5 Investments in ﬁxed assets –9.5 –8.8 –8.6 –12.2 –14.6 –12.6 –10.4 –10.5 –12.7 –10.1 –10.0 Investments in leasing assets –10.8 –10.5 –10.1 –8.2 –10.0 –7.4 –4.8 –4.2 –5.4 –4.8 –4.6 Disposals of ﬁxed assets and leasing assets 9.0 6.0 5.0 3.4 3.1 3.3 3.1 3.8 2.9 2.9 3.2 Shares and participations, net 0.2 –2.0 0.1 0.0 –1.2 –0.1 –0.1 0.0 0.0 0.4 –5.8 Acquired and divested subsidiaries and other business units, net 1.4 0.4 7.4 0.9 3.4 –1.6 0.6 0.2 –1.3 –15.0 0.5 Interest-bearing receivables including marketable securities 2.5 3.6 –4.8 0.5 3.7 2.6 6.8 –8.9 10.9 3.6 7.7 Cash-ﬂow after net investments 10.4 14.5 –2.3 –4.6 –11.8 3.9 27.9 –4.7 –4.9 –4.6 12.5 Change in loans, net –2.2 –13.2 6.7 13.0 14.1 8.7 –25.7 12.6 18.2 28.7 –2.6 Repurchase of own shares – – – – – – – 0.0 – – – Dividend to AB Volvo’s shareholders –6.1 –6.1 –6.1 –6.1 –6.1 –5.1 0.0 –4.1 –11.1 –20.3 –6.8 Dividend to minority shareholder’s –0.2 0.0 0.0 –0.2 0.0 0.0 –0.1 – – – – Other 0.0 0.0 –0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 –0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in cash and cash equivalents excluding translation differences 1.9 –4.8 –1.8 2.2 –3.8 7.5 2.1 3.7 2.2 3.8 3.1 Translation differences on cash and cash equivalents 1.0 –0.4 1.1 –0.5 –0.8 –0.1 –0.4 –0.2 1.0 0.0 –0.5 Change in cash and cash equivalents 2.9 –5.2 –0.7 1.7 –4.6 7.4 1.7 3.5 3.2 3.8 2.6 Operating cash-ﬂow Industrial Operations SEK bn 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Operating income 18.7 21.3 4.1 5.6 16.1 26.0 17.8 –16.3 14.5 20.6 18.7 Depreciation and amortization 12.6 12.6 12.7 14.5 12.0 11.4 11.4 12.4 11.8 10.3 9.8 Other non-cash items –1.1 –1.1 5.3 1.5 0.8 0.6 0.1 2.3 –0.7 –0.4 0.2 Change in working capital –14.7 –1.9 –3.3 –2.0 –9.2 –4.2 4.6 4.7 –10.9 –0.1 –3.1 Financial items and income taxes –5.6 –4.0 –4.5 –4.9 –7.3 –6.9 –5.1 –4.7 –5.0 –6.0 –3.7 Cash-ﬂow from operating activities 9.9 26.7 14.3 14.7 12.4 26.9 28.8 –1.6 9.7 24.4 21.9 Investments in ﬁxed assets –9.4 –8.8 –8.6 –12.2 –14.6 –12.6 –10.3 –10.3 –12.6 –10.1 –9.7 Investments in leasing assets –0.1 –0.3 –0.5 –1.5 –3.6 –1.4 –0.3 –0.2 –0.4 –0.2 –0.5 Disposals of ﬁxed assets and leasing assets 3.2 0.7 1.1 0.5 0.9 1.2 0.8 0.7 0.6 1.1 0.9 Operating cash-ﬂow 3.5 18.3 6.4 1.5 –4.9 14.1 19.0 –11.4 –2.7 15.2 12.6 196 OTHER INFORMATION Exports from Sweden SEK M 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Volvo Group, total 91,962 86,731 78,174 88,560 84,314 91,065 72,688 41,829 96,571 88,606 80,517 Key ratios 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Gross margin, %1 22.5 22.2 21.3 21.1 21.9 23.7 23.3 13.9 21.3 22.6 22.7 Research and development expenses as percentage of net sales1 5.0 5.1 6.0 5.7 5.0 4.4 5.0 6.3 4.9 4.0 3.4 Selling expenses as percentage of net sales1 8.6 8.5 9.3 10.1 9.0 8.0 8.8 11.4 8.7 8.9 8.0 Administration expenses as percentage of net sales1 1.7 1.9 1.9 2.2 1.9 2.3 2.2 2.8 2.3 2.6 2.6 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 14.9 18.4 2.8 5.0 12.9 23.1 16.0 –19.7 12.1 18.1 19.6 Interest coverage, times1 10.3 9.1 2.2 2.1 6.7 9.6 5.9 –4.7 8.8 20.7 26.1 Self-ﬁnancing ratio, % 155 194 64 84 18 118 270 137 5 153 189 Self-ﬁnancing ratio Industrial Operations, % 155 316 180 112 72 210 294 –16 78 265 235 Net Financial position incl. post-employment beneﬁts SEK M1 –15,679 –13,237 –26,378 –32,066 –22,978 –19,346 –24,691 –41,489 –29,795 –4,305 23,076 Net ﬁnancial position incl. post-employment beneﬁts as percentage of shareholders’ equity1 –18.1 –17.6 –37.6 –46.8 –29.3 –25.2 –37.4 –70.9 –39.7 –5.7 29.2 Shareholders’ equity as percentage of total assets 24.5 22.9 20.9 22.4 25.7 24.3 23.3 20.2 22.7 25.7 33.7 Shareholders’ equity as percentage of total assets, Industrial Operations 30.9 28.6 25.7 27.0 30.9 28.5 26.9 23.8 28.4 30.8 40.6 Shareholders’ equity excluding minority interest as percentage of total assets 24.1 22.4 20.5 22.0 25.2 23.9 23.0 20.0 22.6 25.6 33.6 1 Pertains to the Industrial Operations. For periods up to and including 2006, Financial Services is included and consolidated according to the equity method. 197 OTHER INFORMATION Volvo share statistics Data per share (adjusted for issues and splits)1 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Basic earnings, SEK1 6.47 7.42 1.03 1.77 5.44 8.75 5.36 –7.26 4.90 7.37 8.03 Cash dividend, SEK 3.259 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 2.50 0 2.00 5.50 10.008 Share price at year end (B share), SEK 106.40 79.10 84.70 84.45 88.80 75.30 118.50 61.45 42.90 108.50 90.70 Dividend yield (B share), %2 3.1 3.8 3.5 3.6 3.4 4.0 2.1 – 4.7 5.1 11.0 Effective return (B share), % 3 39 –3 4 –2 22 –34 97 43 –59 25.7 39.8 Price/earnings ratio (B share)4 16.4 10.7 82.2 47.7 16.3 8.6 22.1 neg 8.8 14.7 11.3 EBIT multiple5 11.7 7.7 26.3 19.6 9.0 5.1 12.0 neg 3.6 9.7 10.3 Payout ratio, % 6 50 40 291 169 55 34 47 – 41 75 62 Shareholders’ equity, SEK7 47 41 39 38 43 42 36 33 41 41 43 Return on shareholders' equity, % 14.9 18.4 2.8 5.0 12.9 23.1 16.0 neg 12.1 18.1 19.6 1 Basic earnings per share is calculated as income for the period divided 5 Market value at year end less net ﬁnancial position and minority interests by average number of shares outstanding. divided by operating income. 2 Proposed dividend in SEK per share divided by share price at year end. 6 Cash dividend divided by basic earnings per share. 3 Share price at year end, including proposed dividend during the year, 7 Shareholders’ equity for shareholders in AB Volvo divided by number divided by share price at beginning of the year, (2006 includes a share split of shares outstanding at year end. 6:1 in which the sixth share was redeemed by AB Volvo for an amount of 8 Including extra payment of SEK 5 through redemption of shares. SEK 5.00 per share). 9 Proposed by the Board of Directors. 4 Share price at year end divided by basic earnings per share. Other share data 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Number of shareholders at year end 237,654 234,989 237,871 246,265 242,482 251,715 240,043 233,311 220,192 197,519 183,735 Number of Series A shares outstanding at year end, million 472 485 492 499 526 643 657 657 657 657 131.4 Number of Series B shares outstanding at year end, million 1,560 1,546 1,537 1,530 1,502 1,385 1,371 1,371 1,371 1,369 273.4 Average number of shares outstanding, million 2,031 2,030 2,028 2,028 2,028 2,027 2,027 2,027 2,027 2,025 404.7 Number of Series A shares traded in Stockholm during the year, million 67.2 51.7 86.3 53.0 45.4 130.5 203.2 147.0 308.0 172.3 56.4 Number of Series B shares traded in Stockholm during the year, million 1,667.9 2,052.1 2,068.7 1,878.5 2,081.2 2,944.1 2,272.4 2,713.9 3,130.0 2,712.4 617.0 % of Distribution of shares, Number of % of total Share of The largest shareholders in Number total Share December 31, 20161 shareholders votes1 capital, %1 AB Volvo, December 31, 20161 of shares votes capital, % 1–1,000 shares 183,887 2.9 2.6 Industrivärden 142,154,571 22.6 7.0 1,001–10,000 shares 48,781 5.9 6.5 Cevian Capital 170,515,457 15.3 8.4 10,001–100,000 shares 4,167 3.5 4.9 Norges Bank Investment Management 97,514,686 6.1 4.8 100,001– 819 87.7 86.0 SHB 32,027,820 5.1 1.6 Total 237,654 100.0 100.0 Alecta (pension funds) 83,206,000 4.6 4.1 AMF Insurance & Funds 58,314,924 3.0 2.9 1 Based on all registered shares. AFA Insurance 14,884,990 2.1 0.7 Swedbank Robur Funds 96,328,321 2.0 4.7 AB Volvo held 4.6% of the Company’s shares on December 31, 2016. AP4 Fund 23,841,352 1.9 1.2 Skandia Life 17,201,021 1.0 0.8 Total 735,989,142 63.8 36.2 1 Based on the number of outstanding shares. 198 OTHER INFORMATION Business area statistics Net sales1 SEK M 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Trucks Europe 91,468 83,767 72,757 73,640 76,365 83,451 69,606 65,874 109,914 108,651 93,282 North America 51,849 73,017 53,696 40,314 42,650 37,042 26,901 21,563 26,588 27,255 50,605 South America 10,613 11,624 19,669 23,318 21,172 26,847 21,680 12,490 14,680 11,483 9,213 Asia 33,464 31,589 29,264 26,740 36,531 37,840 35,231 26,943 37,515 26,593 8,975 Africa and Oceania 13,256 13,982 15,518 14,462 15,565 13,741 13,887 12,069 14,538 13,910 9,190 Total 200,650 213,978 190,904 178,474 192,283 198,920 167,305 138,940 203,235 187,892 171,265 Construction Europe 19,739 17,732 17,215 16,356 16,518 17,765 16,138 12,987 25,192 25,294 20,326 Equipment North America 10,724 11,843 10,784 8,319 12,027 7,829 6,267 5,475 10,159 11,170 11,280 South America 1,414 2,207 3,234 3,314 3,788 4,163 4,130 2,578 2,913 2,155 1,358 Asia 15,765 16,424 18,458 21,911 27,033 29,999 24,352 12,957 13,738 12,179 6,903 Africa and Oceania 3,088 2,802 3,164 3,539 4,192 3,745 2,923 1,661 4,077 2,835 2,264 Total 50,731 51,008 52,855 53,437 63,558 63,500 53,810 35,658 56,079 53,633 42,131 Buses Europe 7,861 7,284 6,139 5,429 6,200 6,631 6,242 7,707 7,321 7,767 7,924 North America 11,345 10,635 6,721 5,929 6,675 7,532 7,200 5,673 5,355 4,630 4,910 South America 1,363 1,425 2,559 1,836 2,794 2,715 1,737 1,235 1,571 1,623 1,537 Asia 3,067 2,557 1,892 2,055 2,853 2,953 3,299 2,749 2,094 1,802 2,003 Africa and Oceania 1,749 1,678 1,334 1,457 1,774 1,992 2,038 1,101 971 786 897 Total 25,386 23,580 18,645 16,707 20,295 21,823 20,516 18,465 17,312 16,608 17,271 Volvo Penta Europe 4,973 4,462 3,779 3,714 3,620 4,274 4,507 4,390 6,554 6,798 6,111 North America 2,191 2,161 1,584 1,491 1,486 1,379 1,500 1,100 1,947 2,674 2,815 South America 291 365 386 297 306 335 335 284 364 274 221 Asia 1,891 1,855 1,615 1,692 1,867 2,130 2,008 2,054 2,082 1,624 1,359 Africa and Oceania 546 562 425 356 352 341 366 331 486 349 268 Total 9,893 9,406 7,790 7,550 7,631 8,458 8,716 8,159 11,433 11,719 10,774 Volvo Aero Europe – – – – 2,404 2,893 3,768 3,942 3,497 3,462 3,798 North America – – – – 2,657 3,300 3,599 3,508 3,534 3,723 3,815 South America – – – – 0 7 27 34 58 127 173 Asia – – – – 109 104 233 205 234 234 356 Africa and Oceania – – – – 49 52 81 114 125 100 91 Total – – – – 5,219 6,356 7,708 7,803 7,448 7,646 8,233 Other and eliminations 4,799 5,610 5,806 9,252 7,044 4,532 –680 –538 –575 –703 –654 Net sales Industrial Operations 291,459 303,582 275,999 265,420 296,031 303,589 257,375 208,487 294,932 276,795 249,020 Financial Europe 5,116 5,278 5,120 4,686 4,703 4,663 4,733 7,127 7,099 4,484 4,388 Services North America 4,202 4,033 2,999 2,900 2,833 2,326 2,605 3,004 369 2,467 2,569 South America 1,235 1,116 1,122 1,009 1,195 1,131 1,156 1,070 791 620 608 Asia 476 548 638 707 795 571 435 435 158 87 45 Africa and Oceania 213 224 232 237 257 192 101 75 68 47 38 Total 11,242 11,199 10,111 9,539 9,783 8,883 9,031 11,711 8,485 7,705 7,648 Eliminations –787 –2,265 –3,162 –2,336 –2,167 –2,104 –1,658 –1,836 250 905 2,167 Volvo Group total 301,914 312,515 282,948 272,622 303,647 310,367 264,749 218,361 303,667 285,405 258,835 1 As of January 1, 2007, the results from the synergies created in the business units are transferred back to the various business areas. Comparison ﬁgures for 2006 have been restated. Volvo Aero was divested in October 1, 2012. 199 OTHER INFORMATION Operating income1 SEK M 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Trucks 15,020 19,517 4,157 6,145 10,216 18,227 10,112 –10,805 12,167 15,193 13,116 Construction Equipment 2,246 2,044 652 2,592 5,773 6,812 6,180 –4,005 1,808 4,218 4,072 Buses 911 860 92 –190 51 1,114 780 –350 –76 231 745 Volvo Penta 1,269 1,086 724 626 541 825 578 –230 928 1,173 1,105 Volvo Aero – – – – 767 360 286 50 359 529 359 Financial Services 2,086 2,006 1,712 1,522 1,492 969 167 –680 1,397 1,649 1,686 Other –707 –2,195 –1,514 –3,557 –1,217 –1,408 –102 –994 –731 –762 –684 Operating income/loss Volvo Group 20,826 23,318 5,824 7,138 17,622 26,899 18,000 –17,013 15,851 22,231 20,399 1 Between 2007 and 2011, the beneﬁts from the synergies created in the business units are transferred back to the various business areas. Comparison ﬁgures for 2006 have been restated. Operating income in 2006 included adjustment of goodwill of neg 1,712, reported in Trucks. Operating income in 2014 included expected credit losses of 660. See section for Alternative Performance Measures regarding adjusted items. Operating margin % 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Trucks 7.5 9.1 2.2 3.4 5.3 9.2 6.0 –7.8 6.0 8.1 7.7 Construction Equipment 4.4 4.0 1.2 4.9 9.1 10.7 11.5 –11.2 3.2 7.9 9.7 Buses 3.6 3.6 0.5 –1.1 0.3 5.1 3.8 –1.9 –0.4 1.4 4.3 Volvo Penta 12.8 11.5 9.3 8.3 7.1 9.8 6.6 –2.8 8.1 10.0 10.3 Volvo Aero – – – – 14.7 5.7 3.7 0.6 4.8 6.9 4.4 Volvo Group Industrial Operations 6.4 7.0 1.5 2.1 5.4 8.5 6.9 –7.8 5.2 7.8 7.9 Financial Services 18.6 17.9 16.9 16.0 15.3 10.9 1.8 –5.8 16.5 21.4 22.0 Volvo Group 6.9 7.5 2.1 2.6 5.8 8.7 6.8 –7.8 5.2 7.8 7.9 Number of employees at year-end Number1, 2, 3 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Trucks 52,154 54,668 58,067 58,542 61,256 62,315 57,796 56,505 64,280 64,390 49,900 Construction Equipment 13,397 13,889 14,901 14,663 14,788 18,422 16,648 16,126 19,810 19,710 11,050 Buses 7,353 7,270 6,900 6,648 7,514 8,529 8,685 9,541 8,930 9,290 7,760 Volvo Penta 1,530 1,470 1,422 1,412 1,361 2,549 2,353 2,928 2,940 3,000 1,650 Volvo Aero – – – – – 3,179 3,120 3,278 3,510 3,550 3,510 Financial Services 1,328 1,340 1,339 1,355 1,362 1,323 1,235 1,234 1,290 1,150 1,010 Other 8,277 9,827 10,193 12,913 12,436 1,845 572 596 620 610 8,310 Volvo Group, total 84,039 88,464 92,822 95,533 98,717 98,162 90,409 90,208 101,380 101,700 83,190 1 Between 2007 and 2011, employees in business units are allocated to the business areas. 2 As of 2009, only regular employees are shown, for previous years also temporary employees were included. 3 As of 2012, employees in business units are not allocated to the business areas. Environmental performance of Volvo production plants, Industrial operations Absolute values related to net sales 2016 2015 2014 2013 Energy consumption (GWh; MWh/SEK M) 2,076; 7.1 2,077; 6.8 2,168; 7.9 2,320; 8.7 Direct CO2 emissions, scope 1 (1,000 tons; tons/SEK M)3 211; 0.7 220; 0.7 231; 0.8 255; 1.0 Indirect CO2 emissions, scope 2 (1,000 tons; tons/SEK M)3 196; 0.7 192; 0.6 218; 0.8 243; 0.9 Water consumption (1,000 m3; m3/SEK M) 4,430; 15.2 4,919; 16.2 4,982; 18.1 5,815; 21.9 NO x emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 333; 1.1 344; 1.3 332; 1.2 347; 1.3 Solvent emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 1,792; 6.1 1,885; 6.2 2,472; 9.0 2,221; 8.4 Sulphur dioxide emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 12,9; 0.04 32.1; 0.1 37.9; 0.1 23.4; 0.1 Hazardous waste (tons; kg/SEK M) 27,649; 94.9 27,824; 91.6 24,944; 90.4 28,395; 107.0 Net sales, SEK bn 291.5 303.6 276.0 265.4 1 Restated according to new accounting rules. 2 Excluding UD Trucks and Ingersoll Rand Road Development. 3 From 2012 revised system boundaries and emission factors. 200 OTHER INFORMATION Employees Number1 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Sweden 19,235 20,412 21,384 22,588 23,052 24,663 23,073 22,763 28,190 28,660 27,830 Europe, excluding Sweden 26,955 27,662 29,449 29,746 30,382 30,458 29,239 29,793 32,940 32,780 30,070 North America 14,245 15,534 15,217 16,397 16,569 15,427 12,844 12,640 14,200 15,750 14,820 South America 4,762 5,380 6,353 6,275 5,977 5,234 4,322 4,257 4,380 4,640 3,890 Asia 16,469 17,046 17,793 17,953 20,222 19,924 18,535 18,416 19,090 17,150 4,420 Africa and Oceania 2,373 2,430 2,626 2,574 2,515 2,456 2,396 2,339 2,580 2,720 2,160 Volvo Group total 84,039 88,464 92,822 95,533 98,717 98,162 90,409 90,208 101,380 101,700 83,190 1 As of 2009, only regular employees are shown, for previous years also temporary employees were included. Delivered units Number 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Heavy-duty trucks (>16 tons) 158,025 176,589 173,650 170,307 172,798 179,779 123,522 82,675 179,962 172,322 179,089 Medium-duty trucks (7–16 tons) 15,691 14,749 15,114 16,779 32,935 34,631 30,657 21,653 30,817 27,933 14,695 Light trucks (<7 tons) 16,708 16,137 14,360 13,188 18,284 23,982 25,811 23,354 40,372 36,101 26,147 Total trucks 190,424 207,475 203,124 200,274 224,017 238,391 179,989 127,681 251,151 236,356 219,931 Number 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Trucks Europe 97,909 86,448 72,458 82,088 84,355 95,113 65,503 49,145 121,847 128,070 114,417 North America 39,193 64,507 57,714 44,755 47,806 42,613 24,282 17,574 30,146 33,280 70,499 South America 9,442 11,069 23,741 29,137 23,443 29,274 21,483 12,587 18,092 15,264 11,646 Asia 31,502 31,979 32,399 28,692 51,514 56,165 53,833 34,800 60,725 39,916 12,817 Africa and Oceania 12,378 13,472 16,812 15,602 16,899 15,226 14,888 13,575 20,341 19,826 10,552 Total 190,424 207,475 203,124 200,274 224,017 238,391 179,989 127,681 251,151 236,356 219,931 Buses Europe 2,676 2,431 2,221 2,146 2,491 2,695 2,395 3,164 3,313 3,748 3,570 North America 2,659 2,398 1,590 1,752 1,826 3,014 2,092 1,539 1,884 1,547 1,741 South America 1,149 1,415 2,985 2,434 2,560 2,620 1,174 690 995 1,318 1,236 Asia 1,849 1,656 1,242 1,822 2,945 3,417 3,477 3,839 3,033 2,757 3,349 Africa and Oceania 1,220 925 721 756 856 1,040 1,091 625 712 546 464 Total 9,553 8,825 8,759 8,910 10,678 12,786 10,229 9,857 9,937 9,916 10,360 20121 2011 2010 2009 2008 20072 2006 2,483; 8.5 2,471; 8.1 2,315; 9.0 1,888; 9.1 2,530; 8.6 2,426; 9.6 2,612; 10.5 273; 0.9 255; 0.8 279; 1.1 213; 1.0 291; 1.0 242; 1.0 282; 11.4 260; 0.9 7,372; 25.2 7,970; 26.2 7,519; 29.2 6,637; 31.8 8,205; 27.8 7,067; 27.9 7,596; 30.6 413; 1.4 474; 1.6 719; 2.8 322; 1.5 800; 2.7 542; 2.1 606; 2.4 2,358; 8.1 2,554; 8.4 2,294; 8.9 1,435; 6.9 1,945; 6.6 1,979; 7.8 2,048; 8.3 26; 0.1 34; 0.1 33; 0.1 38; 0.2 64; 0.2 58; 0.2 69; 0.3 32,547; 111.4 25,943; 85.5 22,730; 88 17,558; 84 27,675; 94 27,120; 107 26,987; 108.8 292.2 303.6 257.4 208.5 294.9 253.2 248.1 201 OTHER INFORMATION Explanation to adjusted operating income Group SEK M functions Construction Volvo & Other Industrial Financial EliminaVolvo 2016 Quarter Trucks Equipment Buses Penta incl. elim. operations Services tions Group Net sales 200,650 50,731 25,386 9,893 4,799 291,459 11,242 –787 301,914 Operating income 15,020 2,246 911 1,269 –707 18,740 2,086 – 20,826 Sale of external IT business 1 – – – – –885 –885 – – –885 EU competition investigation 2 2,334 – – – – 2,334 – – 2,334 EU competition investigation 3 190 – – – – 190 – – 190 Gain from divestment of real estate in Gothenburg, Sweden 4 –71 – –41 – –1,258 –1,371 – – –1,371 Year to date 2,453 – –41 – –2,143 268 – – 268 Adjusted operating income 17,472 2,246 870 1,269 –2,850 19,008 2,086 – 21,094 Operating margin 7.5 4.4 3.6 12.8 – 6.4 – – 6.9 Adjusted operating margin 8.7 4.4 3.4 12.8 – 6.5 – – 7.0 Group SEK M functions Construction Volvo & Other Industrial Financial EliminaVolvo 2015 Quarter Trucks Equipment Buses Penta incl. elim. operations Services tions Group Net sales 213,978 51,008 23,580 9,406 5,610 303,582 11,199 –2,265 312,515 Operating income 19,517 2,044 860 1,086 –2,195 21,312 2,006 – 23,318 Efﬁciency program 1 127 75 – 16 11 229 – – 229 Sale of Eicher shares 1 –2,471 – – – – –2,471 – – –2,471 Efﬁciency program 2 701 17 5 – 76 799 – – 799 Sale of Eicher shares 2 –2,137 – – – – –2,137 – – –2,137 Efﬁciency program 3 368 –5 9 – 62 434 – – 434 Efﬁciency program 4 837 –41 8 – 67 871 – – 871 Favourable outcome in an arbitration case 4 –772 – –37 – – –809 – – –809 Year to date –3,347 46 –15 16 216 –3,084 – – –3,084 Adjusted operating income 16,170 2,090 845 1,102 –1,979 18,228 2,006 – 20,234 Operating margin 9.1 4.0 3.6 11.5 – 7.0 – – 7.5 Adjusted operating margin 7.6 4.1 3.6 11.7 – 6.0 – – 6.5 Group SEK M functions Construction Volvo & Other Industrial Financial EliminaVolvo 2014 Quarter Trucks Equipment Buses Penta incl. elim. operations Services tions Group Net sales 190,904 52,855 18,645 7,790 5,806 275,999 10,111 –3,162 282,948 Operating income 4,157 652 92 724 –1,514 4,111 1,712 – 5,824 Efﬁciency program 1 318 – – – – 318 – – 318 Efﬁciency program 2 370 1 6 5 376 758 4 – 762 Release of Volvo Rents provision 2 – – – – –226 –226 – – –226 Gain from divestment of real estate 2 –64 – – – –751 –815 – – –815 Efﬁciency program 3 578 – – – 81 659 – – 659 EPA litigation US 3 – – – – 422 422 – – 422 Efﬁciency program 4 199 579 – – 52 830 – – 830 EU competition investigation 4 – – – – 3,790 3,790 – – 3,790 Year to date 1,401 580 6 5 3,744 5,736 4 – 5,740 Adjusted operating income 5,558 1,232 98 729 2,230 9,847 1,716 – 11,563 Operating margin 2.2 1.2 0.5 9.3 – 1.5 – – 2.1 Adjusted operating margin 2.9 2.3 0.5 9.4 – 3.6 – – 4.1 202 OTHER INFORMATION Group SEK M functions Construction Volvo & Other Industrial Financial EliminaVolvo 2013 Quarter Trucks Equipment Buses Penta incl. elim. operations Services tions Group Net sales 178,474 53,437 16,707 7,550 9,252 265,420 9,539 –2,336 272,622 Operating income 6,145 2,592 –190 626 –3,557 5,616 1,522 – 7,138 Efﬁciency program 3 104 – – – – 104 – – 104 Efﬁciency program 4 549 – – – – 549 – – 549 Write down of Volvo Rents 4 – – – – 1,457 1,457 – – 1,457 Year to date 653 0 0 0 1,457 2,110 – – 2,110 Adjusted operating income 6,798 2,592 –190 626 –2,100 7,726 1,522 – 9,248 Operating margin 3.4 4.9 –1.1 8.3 – 2.1 – – 2.6 Adjusted operating margin 3.8 4.9 –1.1 8.3 – 2.9 – – 3.4 Group SEK M functions Construction Volvo Volvo & Other Industrial Financial EliminaVolvo 2012 Quarter Trucks Equipment Buses Penta Aero incl. elim. operations Services tions Group Net sales 189,156 63,558 19,587 7,631 5,219 7,047 292,198 9,783 –2,167 299,814 Operating income 10,779 5,667 37 549 775 –1,235 16,573 1,496 – 18,069 EPA litigation US 1 – – – – – 66 66 – – 66 Restructuring UD Trucks 3 560 – – – – – 560 – – 560 Gain on sale of Volvo Aero 4 – – – – – –254 –254 – – –254 Restructuring charges 4 880 – 110 – – – 990 – – 990 Year to date 1,440 – 110 – – –188 1,362 – – 1,362 Adjusted operating income 12,219 5,667 147 549 775 –1,423 17,935 1,496 – 19,431 Operating margin 5.7 8.9 0.2 7.2 14.8 – 5.7 – – 6.0 Adjusted operating margin 6.5 8.9 0.8 7.2 14.8 – 6.1 – – 6.5 203 OTHER INFORMATION DEFINITIONS Basic earnings per share Gross margin Income for the period attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company Gross income divided by net sales. divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. Interest coverage Operating income plus interest income and similar credits divided by Capital expenditures interest expense and similar charges. Capital expenditures include investments in property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and assets under operating leases. Investments in ﬁxed Joint ventures assets included in the Group’s cash-ﬂow statement include only capital Companies over which the Company has joint control together with one or expenditures that have reduced the Group’s liquid funds during the year. more external parties. Cash-ﬂow Net ﬁnancial position Combined changes in the Group’s liquid funds during the ﬁscal year. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest-bearing Changes in liquid funds are speciﬁed with reference to changes in opershortand long-term receivables reduced by shortand long-term interestations, operating activities, changes depending on investments in equipbearing liabilities and provisions for post-employment beneﬁts. ment, ﬁxed assets etc. and ﬁnancing activities such as changes in loans and investments. Operating margin Operating income divided by net sales. Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated as income for the period attributPenetration rate able to the Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the average number Share of unit sales ﬁnanced by Volvo Financial Services in relation to total of shares outstanding plus the average number of shares that would be number units sold by the Volvo Group in markets where ﬁnancial services issued as an effect of ongoing share-based incentive programs and are offered. employee stock option programs. Return on operating capital EBITDA Income for the period divided by average operating capital. EBITDA is the operating income before depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets. This key ﬁgure is calculated by adding Return on shareholders’ equity back depreciation and amortization on the operating income of the IndusIncome for the period divided by average shareholders’ equity. trial Operations. Self-ﬁnancing ratio Equity ratio Cash-ﬂow from operating activities (see Cash-ﬂow statement) divided by Shareholders’ equity divided by total assets. net investments in ﬁxed assets and leasing assets as deﬁned in the cashﬂow statement. Financial targets Information on how the comparison with competitors is made is available under the heading Investors on www.volvogroup.com. REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARY For the reporting scope and boundary for non-ﬁnancial data, please see the GRI (G4) Index at www.volvogroup.com. 204 OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING, APRIL 4, 2017 PRELIMINARY PUBLICATION DATES The Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo will be held in Göteborg in Annual General Meeting 2017 April 4, 2017 Konserthuset, Götaplatsen, Tuesday, April 4, 2017. Report on the ﬁrst quarter 2017 April 25, 2017 Report on the second quarter 2017 July 19, 2017 Notice Those who wish to participate must be recorded as shareholders in the Report on the third quarter 2017 October 20, 2017 share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB on March 29, 2017 and Report on the fourth quarter 2017 January 31, 2018 give notice of intention to attend the meeting no later than March 29, 2017: The reports are available on www.volvogroup.com on date of publication • by telephone, +46 8 402 90 76, notice of intention to attend the meeting and are also sent electronically to shareholders who have advised Volvo could be given by telephone no later than 4.00 p.m. on March 29, 2017 that they wish to receive ﬁnancial information. • by mail addressed to AB Volvo (publ), “AGM”, P.O. Box 7841, SE-103 98 Stockholm, Sweden Historical and current time series reﬂecting the Volvo Group’s market • on AB Volvo’s website www.volvogroup.com information are published regularly on www.volvogroup.com When giving notice, shareholders should state their: • name • personal registration number (corporate registration number) CONTACTS • address and telephone number • name and personal number of the proxy, if any Investor Relations: • number of any accompanying assistant(s) (maximum two) Christer Johansson +46 31-66 13 34 Anna Sikström +46 31-66 13 36 To be entitled to participate in the annual general meeting, shareholders Anders Christensson +46 31-66 11 91 having their shares registered in the name of a nominee must request the E-mail: investorrelations@volvo.com nominee to enter the shareholder into the share register. Such registration, which can be temporary, must have been effected by March 29, 2017 and CSR Management: should therefore be requested well in advance of March 29, 2017. Malin Ripa +46 31-322 01 60 Eva Lindebäck Brandt +46 31-322 67 00 E-mail: csr@volvo.com VOLVO’S ELECTION COMMITTEE Aktiebolaget Volvo (publ) 556012-5790 Investor Relations, VHQ The following persons are members of Volvo’s Election Committee: SE-405 08 Göteborg Sweden Bengt Kjell Chairman of the Election Committee, Tel +46 31 66 00 00 AB Industrivärden www.volvogroup.com Lars Förberg Cevian Capital Pär Boman Svenska Handelsbanken, SHB Pension Fund, SHB Pensionskassa, SHB Employee Fund and Oktogonen Yngve Slyngstad Norges Bank Investment Management Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman of the AB Volvo Board Among other duties, the Election Committee is responsible for submitting to the Annual General Meeting proposals for candidates to serve as members of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board and proposal for auditors if applicable. The Committee also proposes the amount of the fees to be paid to the holders of these positions. AB Volvo, Investor Relations and Group Accounting
