CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Corporate Profile 2. President’s Statement of Continued Support 3. Brief Support Statement 4. Introduction 5. Communication on Progress report 6. News Section CCC Bulletin 7. Appendix CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 CORPORATE PROFILE Consolidated Contractors Company (CCC) is a contracting company formed in 1952 and incorporated under the laws of Lebanon. The managing office is presently located in Athens, Greece. CCC is by far the largest Engineering, Procurement and Construction Company in the Middle East and is currently rated by the ENR magazine as #21 among International Contractor Companies. CCC currently operates in 40 countries across 5 continents, employs over 120,000 employees from over 85 nationalities, building some of the most challenging and complex facilities. Drawing on its long and successful experience, CCC can provide a full range of projects services, from Project Development, through detailed Engineering, Procurement and Construction, to StartUp, Operation and Maintenance pertaining to the following:  Buildings and Civil Engineering Works  Oil & Gas, and Water Pipelines  Oil & Gas, and Petrochemical Plants and Refineries  Power Plants  Marine Works  Offshore Installations  Maintenance of Mechanical Installations and Underwater Structures CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 WE SUPPORT The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Brief support statement As part of the requirements of the UN Global Compact’s Initiative, submission of an annual Communication on Progress report is needed. CCC has approached this response in relation to the following four key areas – Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. CCC’s ongoing commitments display constant focus on core values and principles such as the development and growth of staff on all levels, the sense of belonging and harmony for all manpower, continuous propagation of innovation, sustainable commitments to the environment and anti-corruption ideals as well as the utmost respect of cultural identities on company projects. This report was created and developed by a select taskforce composed of staff stemming from diverse departments such as human resources, renewable energies and innovative solutions, construction support and development, health and safety and corporate social responsibility. The objective of this taskforce is to examine and access the sustainability impact of the company across all facets of its operations. Meetings are held every month in order to conduct discussions and assessments of various parameters in order to constantly filter information that will eventually be utilized to compile the report using the contribution and input on all members of this taskforce. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 Introduction From the summer sand storms and +50 ˚C of the Arabian Desert, to the -50 ˚C under the influence of Arctic air masses in Kazakhstan, and from the jungle of Papua New Guinea, to the unique landscapes of Madagascar, the people of CCC are hard at work. Having tasted nature’s whims across the globe, we understand that we have to respect and work with our environment rather than against it. While we go about our extraordinary work accomplishments, we remain strongly committed to our decades long company culture aiming at keeping CCC a force for good in the world. The year of 2016 brought about two very significant milestones in the area of Sustainability: The coming into effect of UN’s Sustainable Development Goals for 2030 in January and the entry into force of the historic Paris Climate Change Agreement in October. The SDGs expect private businesses to play a major role in combating global issues never before readily associated with for profit companies such as poverty alleviation, democratic governance and economic inequality. The Paris agreement requires increased transparency on state policies with regard to emissions and is most welcome by responsible companies such as CCC, as it is expected to level the playing field and correct competitive imbalances in the industry. While the ethical vision of our founders remains our guiding light, we also closely follow international developments and trends in CSR and Sustainability so as to produce an enhanced mix of processes and actions that will guarantee our social license to operate. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS UN GC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights As an employer CCC recognizes employee well-being and safety as a top priority. The extremely low turnover ratio we have achieved through the years bears witness to the strong employee satisfaction with the company’s care for the welfare of its members. CCC upholds and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the historic declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948. In its work related Article 23, the declaration highlights everyone’s right to “favorable conditions of work”. In the SDGs Work is under Goal #8, and in particular safety under Clause 8.8: “Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment” with the relevant indicator 8.8.1: “Frequency rates of fatal and non-fatal occupational injuries, by sex and migrant status”. In our reporting we have already mapped Global Compact’s Principles to the SDGs and the GRI G4 indicators taking full advantage of UN’s relevant toolkits. In the context of construction, favorable work conditions significantly relate to:  Worker accommodation,  Food and hygiene, and  Safety and the relevant to these three parameters regulations, standards and achievements on our project sites. Workforce well-being is at the core of human rights. Work stress, tight deadlines, distance from family, long working hours and many other life and work pressures are contributing factors that affect our workforce’s welfare and lead to stress, depression and feelings of anxiety among others. In CCC, we acknowledge the fact that that the good of our workforce is beneficial for both the staff and the business and we are performing a number of actions to improve workforce well-being beyond the industry standards, namely: CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 1. Management of work related stress On all our projects, we conduct Pre-employment Medical Screening that covers the psychological aspect of the workforce. On regular bases (i.e. semiannually or annually) a post-employment medical screening follow up is conducted, part of which measures any work related stress. With stress becoming such a valid concern, we are including it as a factor in our risk assessments and therefore aim to cut down these figures to as low as reasonably practicable. 2. Creation of a healthy working environment We strive to create an environment for our project staff that is both safe to work for and healthy to live in. We pay particular attention to helping our workforce release the work stress of the day. We achieve this by constantly improving the conditions of our worksites and off accommodation by: a) Ensuring that everyone involved in the production of our work is treated with respect and that the worksite is safe, comfortable and conducive for work b) Developing and maintaining a worker welfare plan c) Ensuring worker accommodation and associated facilities cater to the needs of the staff by providing access to areas such as social events, vocational training, retail services, to name a few d) Providing for different nationalities to be in separate dormitories e) Providing recreational and welfare facilities such as cinema rooms, exercise and outdoor recreational areas, as well as sporting and religious facilities 3. Adding to workforce benefits We run generous monthly incentive schemes for good HSE performance for construction personnel, HSE staff and office staff (Administration, Technical support, others, etc.), such as best near miss report, hazard spot prizes, supervisor/foreman of the month and other 4. Communication with the workforce Often, the best way to ensure that our staff have everything they need is to ask them. The benefits of doing so are two-fold. First, we will be getting the information we need on how to manage our workplace. Secondly, communication in itself is one of the most effective ways to boost morale. Additionally, a Labor HSE Committee is established on all CCC Projects. In this committee, the labor force are more involved in safety in order to foster ownership and feedback in terms of safety issues at the worksite. Through this CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 committee, selected representatives of the workforce have the capacity to raise safety enhancing ideas or concerns to the Project Management Team. 5. Medical/Health Culture Building a culture of health involves all levels of the organization and establishes the workplace health program as a routine part of business operations aligned with overall business goals. CCC’s culture of health is the creation of a working environment where employee health and safety is valued, supported and promoted through workplace health programs, policies and benefits. The wellness lifestyle is a positive notion for achieving wellness when we find ourselves in good enough shape to do what we like without difficulty, when we can manage stress without being overcome by it, when food is a healthy pleasure and not a daily obsession, when physical activity and exercise are an integral part of our week. To achieve the above goals, CCC has a health/medical policy that is highlighted by the health prevention and reporting as well as the health management promotion initiatives. 6. Training and Awareness We strive to make our employees fully aware of the hazards that they might encounter during conducting their work. CCC has established a comprehensive HSE Training Program with courses that cover any type of hazard that our employees might be subject to while performing their job. The training covers safety, health, environment and security. Training is delivered by accredited trainers that ensure the ease transfer of information to CCC workforce in a language that is understandable to all. Our workforce is subject to continuous training and refreshing training that help them maintain their knowledge and complete their job in a safe manner. Awareness take different forms that can be: lessons learned, health / safety alerts, daily job task instructions, stand down meetings, tool box talks etc. They all seek to raise workforce hazard awareness so that we avoid incidents and accidents. 7. Site Reinstatement Policy and Procedure We go to great lengths to minimize our environmental impact on our job sites. Our strict Site Reinstatement Policy and Procedure makes sure we restore the environment within our areas of operation to its original condition safeguarding the living conditions of local populations. Below we have a selection of representative photos displaying our qualified accommodation camps and food & hygiene practices in the UAE: (to be populated). CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 Representative pictures from our camps in UAE that showcase our commitment to providing quality accommodation and high Food & Hygiene Standards to our labourers. The kitchens and labour mess halls at our Jabal Ali Camp in Dubai, serving our current Dubai Projects: CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 Representative pictures from our BAB Habshan Camp Facilities serving our IGDE and BHOG projects in UAE Safety training room: Labour Mess Kitchen: Labour Mess Hall: Labour Accommodation & Ablutions: CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 Religious occasions, Ethnic National Days and HSE accomplishments are duly celebrated. Eid celebration on 12.09.16: IGD-E Project 3-Million HSE Celebration: CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 Indian Independence Day Celebration 15-Aug-2016: CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 Pakistan Independence Day Celebration14-Aug-2016: CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 UN GC Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses In CCC, we understand the importance of due diligence with respect to the Human Rights practices of our subcontractors and suppliers. CCC ensures that all subcontractors, stakeholders and suppliers are properly selected and controlled. During selection the subcontractor / stakeholder will be required to fill an evaluation questionnaire that proves with solid, objective evidence that the basic HSE requirements and human wellness criteria are respected. This will be the major assessment in selecting subcontractors / stakeholders. All subcontractors / stakeholders selected to work for CCC will be required to sign a subcontractor agreement that specifies the HSE Requirements that the subcontractor / stakeholder have to implement and follow while performing a job for CCC. We ensure following up and controlling our subcontractors / stakeholders through regular meeting and a number of weekly and monthly reports that they have to submit to CCC.A typical example is demonstrated in our relevant HSE policies. All subcontractors, stakeholders and suppliers are to implement and follow CCC HSE Management System requirements as follows: 1. The subcontractors shall fully meet and comply with the requirements of CCC HSE&S management system, HSE&S management plan and HSE&S procedures as applicable to and approved for the specific project. 2. For specialized tasks, activities or work scope that are to be executed by a subcontractor, and are not covered by CCC HSE&S management system, HSE&S plan, or HSE&S procedures, then the Subcontractor shall submit their HSE&S Procedures covering the specialized tasks, activities, or scope of work for CCC approval. Approved procedures covering the specialized tasks, activities, or scope of work shall be considered part of CCC HSE&S management system, HSE&S plan, and HSE&S procedures applicable to and approved for the project. 3. In the case where subcontractors are required to have their own HSE&S staff for any activity they will have to submit to CCC Project HSE&S department, CVs of their staff for approval by the CCC HSE Department. 4. We ensure that only approved HSE&S staff are working on our projects. The approved HSE&S staff cannot be replaced or released without CCC’s prior written approval. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 Subcontractor compliance is ensured by close monitoring of their record through all the commercial and construction phases: Bidding Stage:  Project specific sustainability requirements are embedded in the tender documents  Clarification meetings are held with various bidders to ensure they fully understand the requirements Selection Stage:  Upon selection of subcontractor a dedicated sustainability kick-off meeting (KOM) is held in the presence of their senior project management team, the Contract sustainability requirements are again presented and a CD containing all the regulatory framework documentations (plans, procedures, laws, etc.) is handed over to the subcontractor and an acknowledgement sheet is collected and kept on file Execution Stage:  Training: subcontractor senior staff and related personnel are trained by the main contractor on the project’s sustainability principles. Each subcontractor is then requested to establish and implement their own detailed sustainability training plan (either in-house training or utilizing 3rd party consultants)  Deliverables: the subcontractor is requested to put forward a submittal log/matrix for their own sustainability plans within the agreed period  Reporting: subcontractors are enforced to report their sustainability performance indicators on weekly and monthly bases using the provided templates. Main Contractor then run “trend analysis” reviews and compare the actual performance against the targets & goals  Sustainability audits are scheduled and carried out using standardized template/checklist  Delays or non-compliance is penalized through withholding monthly progress payments  Compliance and good performance is rewarded monthly through Subcontractors’ League where the leading subcontractor is awarded the “Best Subcontractor of The Month ” Award. Post-Completion Stage:  The subcontractor’s performance (in terms of sustainability, HSE etc.) during the duration of the project is evaluated using the Subcontractor Performance Report template. This report can later on be used as a tool to decide on whether this particular subcontractor can be recommended for future jobs or not. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 LABOUR UN GC Principle 3 – The support of freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining Open lines of communication are encouraged to be fully operational and taken advantage of by all staff at all projects, sites and offices. This is achieved through various methods including staff meetings and discussions, boxes of suggestions where staff can drop off their proposals and team building exercises. The adherence to professional and courteous manners and behaviors ensure that all staff can be heard and their questions and concerns addressed and dealt with efficiently. UN GC Principle 4: The elimination of all forced and compulsory labour As a devoted upholder of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), CCC adheres to the labour laws of each country and provides its staff with the relevant and applicable compensation. All suppliers used by CCC have provided the company with straightforward and descriptive licenses for their scope of work and supplying of materials and services. We also check that suppliers utilized by the company adhere to federal labor laws of each reciprocal country for avoidance of unbecoming business. UN GC Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour CCC is adamant in the international directives of not employing persons below 18 years old at all projects, areas and offices. This notion has been a core ideal and procedure of the company since its inception. We continuously aim to promote and support the wellbeing of staff members’ children through organizing and undertaking various activities such as visits to museums, courses to parents for psychological assistance on how to deal with teenagers, bullying and promoting self-confidence, field activities such as arts and crafts and cleaning up of braches and forests as well as volunteer schemes during school holidays. UN GC Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The company currently employs over 120,000 staff from over 85 nationalities around the world, reflecting a 6.5% increase when compared to end 2015. This rise is mainly reflected in a 1% decrease of management and commercial staff and a 1% increase of technical staff. Even though the distribution has increased, no remarkable fluctuation can be noticed on the 2016 workforce, shown below: CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 Tabulated numbers of female/males rations were once again collected in the countries where social challenges should be met concerning female employment. Areas of operation where this occurs come to a total of ten, in addition to European countries such as the United Kingdom, Italy and Greece where the managing office is located. The aggregate amounts of the Middle Eastern countries reflect a 17.29/82.71 female/male ratio of staff and European staff amounts to a total of 31.6%. Collectively, the female/male ratio of the entire company comes to 18/82, expected to not have large fluctuations in the future as it has also been observed in the past. The company constantly aims at finding new ways of staff engagement. Again for 2016, in house seminars, workshops and vocational training were held for staff at project offices and sites, where training has been calculated to equal to one training day per employee regardless of where he/she is located. The training and development department of CCC is always looking for new and efficient ways to further attract more staff and improves on existent seminars to further promote an all-level involvement. Engagement and consultation is supported by communication achieved through the quarterly Bulletin magazine where featured articles discuss an array of subjects of the company, and the Knowledge Management internal platform where staff can display write-ups on several business, social and vocational issues occurring in the company. This platform also allows for other staff that read these articles to comment and weigh in their opinions in order to engage further interaction. An innovative approach was taken during 2016 where the bulletin was floated to staff in an electronic option, which not only reduces CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 cost of production for the company and minimizes paper consumption, but it is more readily available and in a shorter period to many more staff. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 ENVIRONMENT UN GC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. CCC is aware that its core business sectors (building and infrastructure construction) have an impact on the Earth’s natural resources. Our objective is to avoid environmental degradation when carrying out our business activities. CCC Camp Layout and Design Manual Camps and site facilities are an integral part of projects and have a direct impact on project success. The need to ensure employee wellbeing and safety, in addition to environmental responsibility, have transformed the design and setup of such facilities into a complex undertaking. To address CCC’s sustainability mission and environmental management in a systematic and solid manner, we revised the subject corporate manual. The updated version embodies a stronger pledge to environmental protection and represents CCC’s increased commitment to practical sustainability. Specifically, CCC’s Camp Layout and Design Manual was re-launched to provide company-wide guidance in implementing sustainable practices consistently and as part of the daily operations across projects, offices and camps. It encompasses all corporate sustainability aspects such as environmental accountability, economic growth and social responsibility. The manual also contains a Sustainability Initiatives Checklist (Appendix 1) that lists several proactive measures under categories such as: • Energy and Water Conservation • Waste Management • Transportation • Environmental Procurement • Renewable Energy CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 USGBC Membership Working to champion sustainability and promote a high level of environmental protection, CCC has become a member of the U.S. Green Building Council, the leading institution promoting sustainable building practices. The USGBC is a global platform comprised of 15,000 organizations and individuals from the entire building industry, with a mission to develop structures that are environmentally conscious, profitable, and healthy to live and work in. LEED (Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design), the certification program guiding buildings towards sustainability has been created by the USGBC. For CCC, this membership embodies our commitment to be a leader in sustainable development, a driver of green building innovation, and a facilitator of more prosperous communities. The Road from Paris As part of the CCC’ social responsibilities towards the UAE communities and the initiatives in support of Science education among UAE students as well as company’s keen interest in developing research in UAE, CCC is partnering with the College of Sustainability and Human Sciences at Zayed University to jointly research and conduct programs in support of mitigating the Climate Change effects in UAE. On a global scale, CCC worldwide is committed to taking on its share of responsibility in terms of reducing global greenhouse gas emissions so that global warming can be limited to the international standard of 2 °C (3.6 °F). This will also help the countries within which we operate to achieve their targets and uphold their commitment towards the global climate deal. UN GC Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility We aim to increasingly embed the principles of sustainable development in our business. We recognize that the necessary element for this is to measure and communicate the economic, social and environmental impacts of our operations. Sustainability Reporting CCC has established procedures to monitor and disclose sustainability performance. We have been diligently tracking our sustainability impacts and contributions since 2012. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 We place particular significance on tracking our environmental metrics, such as energy use, carbon emissions, water consumption and waste production, as this information enables us to tackle our impact on the planet’s natural resources. Since we established our baseline in 2012 CCC has achieved the below results:  5.6% Reduction of Carbon Footprint  28% of On-Site Water Consumption Sourced from Recycled Water  23% of Construction Waste Reused/Recycled  9% of Total Purchased Materials where Materials with Recycled Content Our system for grasping corporate sustainability related data is grounded upon internationally recognized standards (Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), UN Global Compact). Specifically for capturing carbon emissions, our approach also follows the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) protocol standards for the Carbon Footprint Inventory. To improve our impacts and contributions we set annual targets based on the previous year’s outcome. We track our performance and progress based on the below aspects stemming from the three pillars of sustainability: Economic Environmental Social •Economic Perfomance •Energy & Emissions •Labor Practices •Market Presence •Water •Employment •Utilizing local recources •Materials •Health & Safety •Community Investments •Effluents &Waste •Training & Education •Biodiversity •Diversity & Equal •Compliance Opportunities • Supplier Environmental •Human Rights Assessment •Education •Supplier Assesment •Society •Local Communities •Anti-corruption CCC’s related activities, measurements and progress in achieving targets are published through our Sustainability Reports. Valuing business transparency the sustainability reports are published and readily accessible on CCC’s corporate website. (http://www.ccc.me/sustainability.php). Our latest Sustainability Report has been officially certified by the GRI for aligning report content with the G4 GRI Guidelines and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). This endorsement CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 reaffirms CCC’s leading position, this time by demonstrating our efforts to contribute towards the advancement of sustainable development. Booklet about the Water / Energy Conservation In Qatar, CCC organized an educational campaign to raise awareness on Water and Energy conservation among local schools. We conducted several awareness sessions in coordination with local education authorities and institutions during May 2016. During these CCC had published informative booklets in Arabic and English that we distributed to students of all the independent schools in Qatar (public schools for boys and girls) up to secondary level. CCC engineers from civil, mechanical and engineering departments volunteered and actively contributed to his campaign by conducting the presentations at the schools. They participated in interactive sessions with the students and answered all the questions to quench the curiosities of the pupils. This new initiative was very well received and appreciated by all involved parties: the Qatar Ministry of Education, teachers, students and their families. Finally we alerted them about the need to preserve nature and gave them tips for energy saving and water conservation and consuming moderately. UN GC Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Fleet Telematics One of the biggest challenges for CCC is to effectively manage our construction equipment recourses. With the total number of our assets (cranes, vehicles, earthmoving equipment, welding machines, etc.) exceeding 16,000 and the corresponding value estimated at more than 1 US$ billion it is imperative to maximize their performance and availability. Consequently, we actively pursue for solutions that will enhance our fleet management and at the same time allow CCC to have a positive environmental impact and achieve sustainability objectives. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 The use of telematics are becoming a core technology of our fleet management. Automation and centralized databases are essential for timely big data manipulation, applying analytics and proactive planning. CCC is reinventing the way we manage our fleet by introducing leading solutions that converge operational technologies and IT. Through the deployment of our in-house near real-time control systems (CCC Cloud: iFalcon) and IBM Asset Management system (Maximo) we manage and control timely maintenance, repairs, availability, fuel consumption and other parameters during the full lifecycle of our construction equipment resources. To reach applicable environmentally friendly targets, successful monitoring of fuel consumption and Co2 emissions depends on establishing a better insight of vehicle usage. Telematics exactly do that, they provide CCC’s fleet managers with valuable information to detect and tackle fuel-wasting behaviors (i.e. excessive idling). The business intelligence provided through this technology allows CCC to take action towards environmental protection. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 Anti-Corruption UN GC Principle 10 The promotion and adoption of initiatives to counter all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Commitment  CCC maintains its commitment to the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, to UN Global Compact Principle 10 as well as to the World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Principles.  CCC supports PACI Principles and Transparency International’s Business Principles for Countering Bribery.  CCC maintains its commitment to target the zero tolerance policy towards corruption in all its forms. Systems  CCC’s Core Values, Guiding Principles and Code of Practice include our commitment to conduct business ethically in full compliance with CCC’s Ethics & Anti-Corruption Program (EACP) and to fight corruption at all levels.  CCC’s “Ethics & Anti-Corruption Program” (EACP) Revision 3 covers all aspects related to the subject including commitments, declarations, conflicts of interest, gifts & hospitality and whistle blowing procedures and tools.  Implementation of the EACP is mandatory across the Group and is monitored and controlled by senior management.  Periodic training workshops are conducted across the Group to increase awareness of the staff on the implementation of EACP and the importance of fighting corruption.  Internal and external auditing systems and management monitoring procedures are in place to ensure the prevention of bribery and corruption. Actions  Conflict of Interest Procedure was incorporated in Revision 3 of the Ethics & Anti-Corruption Program.  In-house training workshops on Ethics and Anti-Corruption are regularly carried out in the different operational areas and projects around the Company. More than 150 employees holding positions of authority at different levels attended the training workshops and received their completion certificates in 2016. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016  The mandatory bespoke e-Learning Online Training Program that was developed and launched in early 2015, and distributed to approximately 5,500 employees had very successful participation that exceeded 90%.  All new recruits who joined the Company during 2016 have completed the Online Training as part of their induction program.  Annual declarations and commitments of staff are actioned as stipulated in the clauses of EACP.  Strict measure are taken against parties that are suspected of being involved in any corruption activities.  Internal and external audits are regularly carried out, and any non-compliance findings are immediately rectified as applicable. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 CCC’s BULLETIN Corporate Social Responsibility News Section January until December 2016 bulletin 1st Quarter 2016 Issue 117 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company SUSTAINABILITY T. AWAD CSR News Contribution to CSR Initiative employees. In order to provide a healthy work environment for the employees, the No Smoking CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with Policy was adopted by the management two ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR years ago and is applicable to all employees of Initiatives including Going Green and community CCC Construction Nigeria Limited. This policy involvement events. Please send your ideas, is imposed in all indoor areas including offices, initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email workshops, accommodation facilities and CCC CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY address csr@ccc.gr. vehicles. A high level of compliance has been exhibited by employees since its adoption and GREECE reminder sessions take place every three months at various CCC sites and locations within Nigeria. Calendars 2016 SAUDI ARABIA As a concept, ‘being responsible’ embodies the essence of CCC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Initiatives. Driven by the founders’ philosophy that CCC should play an active role in organizing initiatives and activities that focus on the welfare of its employees, their families Awards to Jazan Refinery & Terminal Projectand the local communities, CSR ensures that EPC 13 (JRUP): A ceremony was held by the this vision is achieved. The theme of this year’s Emirate of Jazan to honour CCC for the corporate calendar is dedicated to ‘being responsible’. social responsibility that the project team has shown towards Jazan and its suburbs. Two NIGERIA awards were given, one to the project team for recruiting a good number of nationals especially Non-Smoking Policy CCC Construction Nigeria Limited is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace and promoting the health and wellbeing of its C C C Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 Sub Title CSR News engineers noting that we are the only project USA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY within the ARAMCO area to recruit the highest number of engineers, as stated by the governor Morganti Young of Jazan in front of everyone. Also mentioned Professionals was the guidance given to all the newly recruited nationals, developing their skills and the good (MYP’s) 2016 care that the project team and each department Initiatives grants them. The second award was given to our The Morganti Young Saudi Public Relations Officer for helping Jazan Professionals group and its suburbs to develop the skills of their finalized their 2016 people by employing them on our project. plans for Corporate JRUP Clinic Facilities: This project was highly Social Responsibility appreciated by the Jazan Economic City ARAMCO initiatives. Officers were elected and initiative leaders were selected for 13 events throughout 2016. Events include Bethel YMCA Read Across America, Bethel YMCA Flooring project, Sandy Hook 5K run, March of Dimes, YMCA Summer Camp Outdoor Refresh, United Way Day of Caring, Bethel Relay for Life, Bacon & Brew Festival, Habitat for Humanity, Toys for Tots, YMCA Giving Tree, American Red Cross Blood Drive and additional Baltimore Initiatives. Bethel YMCA Read Across America Morganti celebrated the National Education Association’s Read Across America Programme by volunteering to read to prefor its HSE performance. JRUP Clinic Facilities is school aged the only approved clinic by ARAMCO in the whole children at the economic city being appreciated for its efficient YMCA Children’s organization and the implementation of SAUDI Center in ‪Bethel, ARAMCO requirements which resulted in getting Connecticut‬. The the highest score to be given by ARAMCO: National Education 95/100. Association’s Read Across America UAE programme is a nationwide reading celebration that takes Retirement of a CSR Hero place annually on 2 March which coincides with A CSR hero and a person with 35 years of children’s author, Dr. Seuss’ birthday. splendid service to the company’s PMV department, Kesavan Reghunathan is retiring. He has been a motivating individual with an admirable character and work ethic. During his long tenure with the Area Plant Department, he has served under various Plant Managers. A man with a positive attitude, holding social and welfare causes close to his heart, with continuous goodness is bidding us farewell. We wish him good luck. Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 C C C 29 T. AWAD CSR Volunteers We are pleased to acknowledge the participation and continued support of volunteers towards CSR Initiatives in their respective areas CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY during the First Quarter of 2016. SAUDI ARABIA Fadel El Harbi Saudi Arabia Area Management have named Fadel El Harbi as their CSR Champion in appreciation of his dedicated voluntary initiatives and support towards the local communities of the Emirate of Jazan and the governmental offices all over the different towns of Jazan. Our thanks and appreciation go to all parties who volunteer towards CSR Initiatives. Based on the above nomination, we are pleased to acknowledge Fadel’s dedication by awarding him our Certificate of Appreciation as the CSR Volunteer of the First Quarter of 2016. C C C Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 G. ASSI Fund Raising Lunch for Children in Algeria CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Inspired by the CSR values of the group, CCC Algeria participated in sponsoring a charity event in the form of an international lunch that was organized by the Association of Diplomats’ Wives in Algeria (AFDA). The lunch took place in Algiers at the Hilton Hotel on 5 February and was supported by the record number of 45 embassies: members of each embassy presented specialty dishes from their country. The event was held with the aim of alleviating the suffering of persons and especially children with special needs. The distribution of the sponsors’ contributions was made by trusted Algerian charity associations who are dedicated to improving the quality of life of the most fragile members of society. Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 C C C 31 L. AGGELOPOULOU Theatre Visits in Aid of Friends of the Child Friends of the Child is a charity organization that has provided diverse support to over 450 families annually for 27 years. Amidst its numerous programmes, it runs a nursery for neglected children who come from families living in severe poverty and who are unable to offer their offspring the essentials. At the nursery, 37 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY children engage in educational and recreational programmes, receive three meals, take a bath and have a short afternoon nap. The objective here is to offer the children what they cannot experience or have access to at home. After helping to cover the nutritional needs of the nursery in 2014, CSR Athens Office decided to diversify the support offered to the nursery by sponsoring visits to the theatre for the children. In addition to the theatre’s admission fee, the transportation to/from the nursery was also ensured in order to facilitate the visit. Such experiences are an important mental stimulus for the children, who would otherwise In November and December 2015, the children have little or no opportunity to visit the theatre. aged three to seven accompanied by their The benefits of going to the theatre are many: teachers, attended three theatrical plays that apart from instilling enthusiasm for culture were specially tailored for a young audience. The in children, it can improve their academic theatrical plays ranged from classic fairytales performance, cultivate curiosity, encourage such as Cinderella to more interactive stories reading and significantly boost their selffocusing on contemporary themes of art or confidence. These benefits are clear for children respecting diversity, and as a result, the young regardless of their socio-economic background. children were left enchanted while the older attendees were delighted. C C C Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 L. AGGELOPOULOU Christmas Food Basket Campaign CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As the holiday season marks the time when we Thanks to the generosity of CCC Athens Office direct our thoughts to the less privileged and employees, the CSR basket was filled with an since the need for humanitarian aid has been abundance of food supplies including staple nonrising in Greece, an employee food collection was perishables (pasta and rice) but also seasonal launched in December 2015. treats such as chocolate and biscuits. The food baskets were delivered to the Greek Multiple This year our efforts were directed towards Sclerosis Society before Christmas so that they the support of the Greek Multiple Sclerosis would be distributed in time for Christmas to the Society (GMSS). This is a non-profit and nonpatients and their families. governmental organization dedicated to improving the lives of patients and their families As always, the goods that were donated by who are facing several challenges due to the employees were matched by CCC with various Greek financial crisis and austerity measures. The items that will further help the struggling GMSS cares for those who are facing financial families and make them feel extra special during problems and also provides psychological the holiday season. support by organizing social gatherings and therapy groups. Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 C C C 33 D. NTALACHANI & L. AGGELOPOULOU Dialogue in the Dark CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The United Nations’ (UN) International Day of It was the best experience I ever had in Athens. Persons with Disabilities is held annually on 3 Big thanks for the organizers for your great December to raise awareness about disability efforts. issues and draw attention to the benefits of an inclusive and accessible society for all. To Thanks Dimitra and Lila commemorate this cause, CSR Athens Office organized a visit to Dialogue in the Dark. This is Best Regards, a completely unique and life-altering experience Tarek Hamid” where visitors are led by blind guides in small groups through specially designed darkened “Dear CSR Committee, rooms. I would like to thank you for the very special activity we participated in yesterday: Dialogue “Dear CSR Committee, in the Dark. I would like to thank the CSR team, especially While still in the light, I was wondering how a Dimitra and Lila, for organizing such an blind person can guide us, how can we stay for amazing life changing experience. 80 minutes inside and how would the children Being in total darkness, everything around you manage to do this without being scared! takes on a new dimension. Roles are suddenly But the moment you enter, you are so reassured switched and you depend on a blind person to by the voice of your guide (who is blind) and give you a sense of orientation and security. by his self-confidence! At the beginning I told The tour which lasted for 80 minutes allowed us my daughter Yara (nine years old) to hold my to “see” our lives in a different way. hand. A few minutes later, she refused to hold Once again a big thank you. my hand. She could SEE without using her eyes, she was alone in the dark. She did not Best Regards, need me. I was really impressed with our guide, Nadia and Panagioti” who was helping eight persons to find their way in the dark, checking up on everyone and “Good Morning, taking us on a tour for more than one hour. We walked in the park, smelled the plants, heard We would like to thank you for giving us the the birds and touched the water ... We took the opportunity to participate in this amazing and metro from Syntagma to Monastiraki (we even unforgettable activity. validated our tickets!). We entered a few shops C C C Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 Sub Title Dialogue in the Dark CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY in Monastiraki and a supermarket. We waited ears, nose, tongue and hands. He made us see for the green light and we crossed the street... with our heart. We left ‘Dialogue in the Dark’ We bought drinks and snacks from a bar whose SPEECHLESS! It was a unique experience not to bartender was blind too using real money and be missed; although it only lasted for a couple we sat there while our guide answered all our of hours, it will touch our hearts forever. questions. Best regards In there, he was the one who could SEE and George, Sophie, Tina and Yara” we were BLIND! Our guide Manolis – an amazing person helped us to see with our Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 C C C 35 BULLETIN EDITORS Clothes Collection Piraeus CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CCC employees pooled their efforts together and filled 15 large boxes with warm clothes, blankets Women’s International Group South (Saronida) (W.I.G.S) also contributed to the donation by and other useful items that were delivered hand-knitting items for the refugees. to a Greek NGO called ‘Refugees Welcome to On 26 February, three members from the Athens Piraeus Παμπειραϊκή Πρωτοβουλία Υποστήριξης Office CSR Committee visited the NGO’s centre Προσφύγων και Μεταναστών’. This is primarily in Piraeus and delivered the boxes that had been a volunteer group coordinating provision of compiled by CCC employees. Additionally, this assistance to new refugee arrivals in Piraeus delivery was accompanied by a donation of food Port and cooperates closely with organizations items that consisted of baby food, juices, water, such as Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), Red sanitary items as well as dry and tinned food. Cross, Carry the Future, Nostos, PRAKSIS. The C C C Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 R. SABBAGH-KAWAR Annual Winter Clothing Drive Jordan CCC Jordan held its first annual winter clothing drive in January, encouraging employees to also CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY donate blankets, toys, books, shoes and nonperishable food. Their campaign slogan was very appropriately “Share the Warmth”. The items collected went towards the initiative of the ‘Mobadaret Fa3l Khair’ for volunteerism and charitable works, a local reputable NGO. The campaign focused on providing assistance to less fortunate families. Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 C C C 37 S. KOUTSOUFLAKIS Reforestation of Parnitha On Sunday 20 March around 80 CCC Athens Office Raising environmental awareness and organizing employees, family members and friends gathered initiatives with the aim of protecting and at the National Park of Parnitha Mountain (which preserving the natural environment has always is situated on the outskirts of Athens) for CCC’s been one of the fundamental priorities of the CSR 5th Reforestation Campaign. agenda, even though during the last few years we have been slightly shifting our efforts towards The initiative was organized by the Athens Office social issues in view of the current challenges CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR Committee in the event of the International that Greece is going through. Day of Forests (21 March) that was established by the United Nations General Assembly in This is why, in times like these, it is more than 2012. The day is celebrated all over the globe satisfying to see a wholehearted response to our with a number of events that raise awareness initiative. More than 1000 baby firs were planted of the importance of all types of forests and at the heart of the National Park of Parnitha reforestation for the benefit of current and future which is a protected natural reserve since 1961. generations. As some might recall, two thirds of the National C C C Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 Reforestation of Parnitha Park’s area were severely damaged by a large guarantee that no effort will go wasted and all CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY fire in June 2007. Since then, and taking into work done will have a positive effect. consideration that the physical rebirth of a fir The initiative was blessed with fantastic weather forest can take several hundreds of years, the on the day and gave the participants a unique Greek state decided to implement a very careful chance to visit one of the most beautiful areas of and supervised human intervention, with the aim the region. of gradually restoring the natural environment to the greatest extent possible. The CSR Committee wishes to extend its gratitude to all volunteers for their participation Our action on Sunday 20 March was in keeping and wishes to see you at our next event. with this master plan. Apart from the donation of the 1,000 baby trees, CCC also arranged for their irrigation and maintenance during the first three years after the planting. (This is the most critical period for newly planted trees). This is to Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 C C C 39 S.N. KURUP Cricket Tournament in Oman CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In order to celebrate CCC’s achievement of ten Nazhi Cherri, Deputy Project Director, presented million man hours without a lost time incident, the winning team with the Champion’s Trophy a cricket tournament was organized at the while Carlos Morelli and Bishara Awwad Khazzan CPF Project Pioneer Camp New Cricket presented the Runners-Up Cup. Ground beginning 5 February. Bashar Elias, Many thanks go to CCC CPF project management Deputy Project Director; Bishara Awwad, Head for providing all the facilities for this successful of Administration and Abdallah Melhem, Head of tournament including trophies and medals. Personnel inaugurated the tournament at 17.00 Special thanks go to Bishara Awwad and S.N. that day. Kurup (Tournament Committee Vice Chairman) Out of a total of 18 teams, the two teams that both of whom organized this tournament made it to the final match (held on 3 March) were successfully. Finally, a big thank you to all our ‘Ever Shaheen CCC’ and ‘Pak Kashmir CCC’. This team members for their regular practice and for was a very exciting match and resulted in ‘Ever playing as a tight knit team. Shaheen CCC’ winning the Champion’s Trophy. In Congratulations to the winning team and all order to boost the teams’ morale, Carlos Morelli those who participated and played in this (BP CPF Site Manager) was invited to watch the tournament! final match. C C C Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 D. MAHBOOBEH UAE Clean & Green Campaign The Automated People Mover Project, as part of the Midfield Terminal Complex Project in Abu Dhabi UAE, conducted the 1st Quarter annual Clean & Green Campaign. The client (ADAC) and consultant (AECOM) were invited along with the entire APM Head House staff. The main event took place on 28 February CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and included an environmental awareness presentation, planting a tree, games and distributing gifts. The goal of this event was to spread environmental awareness to people working in the construction field as well as in their personal lives. Environmental awareness means understanding the fragility of our environment and the importance of its protection. Promoting environmental awareness is an easy way to participate in creating a brighter future for the next generations. Analysts have warned that electricity and water usage in the UAE has been growing significantly in the past few years and will be difficult to manage in the future if no effective sustainable measures are undertaken today. The topics that were addressed in the campaign included reducing/reusing/recycling waste, reducing water consumption, reducing energy consumption, and air pollution control measures. Statistics show that construction and demolition waste accounts for 70% of the total solid wastes produced in the UAE. In addition, 550 litres of water are being consumed on a daily basis per person every day in the UAE. According to estimates, the UAE’s gross domestic electricity consumption will reach 141 terawatt-hours in 2020, up from 103 terawatthours in 2014. CCC is certified with ISO 14001: Environmental Management System (EMS). Furthermore, CCC is one of the top 25 contractor companies in the world; therefore, supporting environmental and sustainability practices will enhance the good image of the company. In conclusion, the event was successful and everyone enjoyed it. Gifts were distributed to the winners at the end of the event. The Clean & Green Campaign or similar events should be held regularly and it is recommended that it is included as one of the significant practices to be undertaken in all CCC projects. Commitment at all levels of the organization, starting with management, is essential. Moreover, achieving sustainable and environmental development for our clients is not just our professional commitment, it is also the shared personal commitment of all members of CCC. Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 C C C 41 V. MAMUNNI The Road from Paris As part of our social responsibilities towards the The goal of Zayed University’s forum was UAE communities and our initiatives in support to evaluate the outcome of the COP21 Paris of science education among UAE students, as meeting with a special focus on the impact in well as our keen interest in developing research the UAE and GCC region. The forum served as a in the UAE, we are partnering up with the College platform for decision makers, scientists, young of Sustainability and Human Sciences at Zayed researchers and private sector representatives to University to jointly research and conduct interact and discuss the research agenda for the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY programmes in support of mitigating the effects future. Toward this end the forum emphasized of climate change in the UAE. the future shape of fundamental science and engineering research programmes. As part of this initiative, Zayed University organized a forum on 16 March in the university Societal factors influence natural resource auditorium, which was held under the patronage priorities and several dimensions of sustainable of Her Excellency Sheikha Lubna Al Qasimi, development. In light of this, the forum also Minister of International Cooperation and considered this dimension in order to define Development and President of Zayed University. research topics in this area. Climate change being The forum brought together regional and high on the UAE’s national agenda, CCC’s CSR international experts to assess (probably for the Department and Zayed University’s collaboration first time) key results from the United Nations will inspire students to discuss their view and Climate Change Conference in Paris (COP21) vision of a road map for a lower-carbon and and define its major impact on the UAE in terms climate-resilient future as well as the prospect of adaptation, climate finance, mitigation and for programmes with a greater impact during this technology. year. The forum programmes were formerly launched in a meeting at Zayed University involving CCC representatives and senior professors from the College of Sustainability Sciences and Humanities. From left to right: Dr. Ibrahim Souss, Dr. Fares Howari, CSR Rep., Dr. Deborah Williams C C C Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 V. MAMUNNI Women’s Day Programme Report Dubai Various non-governmental organizations and women’s organizations operating in Dubai, as well as the Embassy of India, also supported this initiative. The programme reflected the aspirations of Dubai authorities that hope to improve the satisfaction and overall well being of blue collar workers whilst simultaneously CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY developing Dubai as a happy city where all segments of the working class can live well. More than 175 women participated in the programme. It was made up of sessions that focused on educating female workers about hygiene, legal obligations and included an Members of the audience in the World Women’s Day programme interactive health care lecture by a medical officer (arranged by CSR Dubai) in order to The UAE CSR Department, together with highlight various common health issues among the Dar Al Ber Society and the Global Food working women. The programme also featured Banking Network organized a World Women’s a special lecture on ‘’Osteoporosis in Female Day programme at the Masjid Ibrahim Al Khalil workers.’’ compound, Bur Dubai. This programme contained Food packets supplied by the CCC camp at several innovative elements, as it targeted Asian Jabel Ali and various gifts provided by other female workers employed in cleaning companies companies were distributed to all participants. and other low paid jobs to whom the concepts of The programme attracted large public and media Women’s Day celebrations were unreachable. attention. Conducted in the open air, the programme had the support of the community development and social authorities of Dubai. Health care session on ‘’Osteoporosis in Female Workers” Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 C C C 43 V. MAMUNNI ‘Act to Sustain-All Communities Together’ Campaign Dubai CCC Dubai projects participated in a number of activities organized jointly by the Centre for Responsible Business of Dubai Chamber and the Sustainability Network member companies based in Dubai to increase the awareness of waste management, titled ‘’Act To Sustain-All CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Communities Together”. A week long programme was marked with a series of events and seminars covering various topics such as: innovation lab for SMEs, waste management activity in shopping malls, sustainable energy and workplace inclusion for people with disabilities and the final event that took place was a sustainability fair for the families. Visitors were encouraged to spread the anti-waste message by taking photos of a specially-installed Instagram frame and promoting it on social media. Children and families were the focus of this fun-filled waste management initiative conducted at Dubai shopping malls as organizing companies set out to recruit young supporters and their parents against waste. Directly targeting the community, an ‘edutainment’ programme of events was held for two days to raise public awareness of waste-related issues. A ‘Recycling Game’ taught participants how to separate recyclable from nonrecyclable waste with the aid of a series of stress balls thrown into green and black bins. Other activities included a ‘Rapid Fire Quiz’ on waste management topics and a ‘Colouring Zone’ with crayons introduced the younger children to waste management and recycling in a funfriendly way. The programme was directly aimed at engaging the community in anti-waste measures, in particular, the need to get the sustainability message across to children and families and edutainment activities provide a great means of communicating a serious topic in a fun way. Dubai Projects Management continues their efforts to cope with the growing demands and challenges of social responsibility in Dubai. CCC’s participation in the Sustainability Week was impressive and it had a discernible effect on the community. C C C Bulletin Issue 117 | 1st Quarter 2016 bulletin 2nd Quarter 2016 Issue 118 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company VISIONEERING A Bridge to Productivity T. AWAD CSR News Report Contribution to CSR Initiative Council and the Orphans Society. Our deed was appreciated by the families and the officials alike. CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with The contents of the packages consisted of 16 ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR items such as sugar, rice, cooking oil, dates, tea, Initiatives including Going Green and community broad beans and so on. involvement events. Please send your ideas, initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email JORDAN CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY address csr@ccc.gr. Beach Cleanup GREECE Donation to Saint Vlassis Church in Livadia Milk and other necessary food supplies were delivered with a CCC van to Livadia for the old age retirement home that Saint Vlassis church is supporting. On the occasion of World Environment Day, CCC Easter Food Basket staff working in collaboration with Saraya Aqaba Donation participated in a campaign to clean the beaches of Aqaba. Athens Main Office CSR Committee organized the Easter season’s food campaign to support Clothing Campaign families with members who suffer from Multiple Sclerosis (MS). The Greek Multiple Sclerosis Society (GMSS) is a non-profit and non-governmental organization dedicated to improving the lives of patients and their families. It supports those who are facing financial problems and also provides psychological support by organizing social gatherings and therapy groups. During the Easter period CCC employees donated olive oil, canned milk, biscuits and other food supplies. CCC staff in Jordan held their first winter clothing IRAQ and food drive and distributed the donated items Donations during Ramadan to underprivileged families in Jordan. As part of the yearly donation to the Iraqi local community in the Governorate of Basra, and Walk for Life during the last ten days of every Ramadan, CCC Jordan staff CCC distributed 500 food packages to the poor participated in the families and orphans. The distribution was Walk for Life to implemented in coordination with Basra City raise awareness of cancer and heart disease and to commemorate the lives lost. KAZAKHSTAN CCC’s Contribution to Sports in Kazakhstan In line with CCC’s CSR initiative, CCEP Kazakhstan continues with the charity and donation programme adopted for the different C C C Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 CSR News Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY sectors in cities and villages in the Republic of fantastic match where our players proved that Kazakhstan. In the presence of state media, the they were excellent players not only by winning CCC Kazakhstan CSR team distributed basketball the tournament but also by winning awards in uniforms to the basketball federation in Kulsary the following categories: at school No. 21. The uniforms distributed to the eleven basketball teams showcased the • Best Goalkeeper Haitham Salem Darwesh. CCC logo. The CCEP team conveyed their warm • Best Player Khamis Jama’ AlKhamisi. wishes to all young basketball players. The • Tournament Scorer Adel Hamad AlJabri. representative of Kulsary Akimat, the head of Atyrau’s basketball federation and the players of Special thanks go to the team’s Technical eleven teams were present at the ceremony. The Manager, Suliman Al Hatmi, for his fantastic local authorities appreciated CCC’s contribution leadership. and management efforts by awarding an appreciation certificate to Ghazi Anouti, Area SAUDI ARABIA General Manager Kazakhstan. Iftar Event OMAN As part of our social responsibilities during the Football Tournament at BP Khazzan CPF Project holy month of Ramadan, CCC-DKO conducted the annual Iftar event at the Carlton Al Moaibed Hotel, Al Khobar on 12 June 2016. The event was successful and everyone enjoyed it thoroughly. UAE On 15 April 2016 CCC held a football tournament A Holy Reward for CCC at CPF Khazzan with the participation of Petrofac Volunteers and BP. Ten teams registered to participate and The UAE Area CSR were divided into two groups (A and B). Department has been extending volunteering BP and the Golden team (CCC) qualified from support to several Group A to meet Suqour Khazzan (CCC) and the programmes implemented by Dream Team (CCC) accordingly in the semifinal. the Community Development The final game was spectacular and took place Authority of Dubai and between Suqour Khazzan (CCC) and the Dream NGOs operating in Dubai. Team (CCC) who won the tournament after Programmes included blue collar workers’ welfare, beating the Suqour Khazzan 6-0. It was a well empowering and educating underprivileged female organized and competitive tournament. BP was workers and so on. As a reward for our efforts awarded the Sportsmanship Award after showing and the sincere dedication of our volunteers, Dar great ethical behaviour, fair play and integrity. El Bar Society, Dubai rewarded three employees CCC Oman Football Tournament 2016 of the company with a free Omra pilgrimage trip to Mecca, Saudi Arabia. The reward was a great CCC’s football team won the Oman Labour Union blessing to these employees, as they were able Ramadan Football Tournament after beating to cherish their dream of performing Omra with all Oman Refreshments Co. (PEPSI) 6-1. It was a costs borne by the Dar El Bar Society. Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 C C C 39 T. AWAD CSR Volunteers We are pleased to acknowledge the participation and continued support of volunteers towards CSR Initiatives in their respective areas CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY during the Second Quarter of 2016. CCC OMAN Shayma Hamdan Mirna Khoury Shayma Hamdan and Mirna Khoury joined forces and started a charity project for a Syrian refugee camp located at Bekaa area in Lebanon. They raised funds to be able to provide the families with the necessary supplies, prepared for a day of entertainment to be spent with the children and put a smile on their faces. This project was organized in coordination with Human Wire, an NGO working with refugees in Lebanon and around the world, which was the focal point between the team and the camp. The refugee camp visit took place on 7 May 2016 and it was a very successful. (See article 3al Autostrad Event, page 46). C C C Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 CSR EDITORS Arts & Crafts Athens Office CSR team organized an exciting activity for children (aged between four and twelve years old) which involved arts and crafts. The activity took place on 16 April 2016 during a pleasant Saturday afternoon. The children, with the help of Lina Awad and their parents, had the opportunity to design Easter CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and Spring themes, as well as engaging in recreational activities such as colouring, drawing and cutting out. Some Benefits of Arts and Crafts Bilateral coordination means that activities such as colouring, drawing and cutting out re-quire children to use both of their hands together. This skill is important in other areas of their lives as they continue to grow, such as writing, tying shoes, typing and so much more! Arts and crafts involve multiple brain areas simultaneously and improve bilateral coordina-tion between the left and right sides of the brain, leading to immediate and future cognitive development. Fine motor coordination is another benefit. In order to draw shapes, cut patterns and hand write, a child uses his or her fine motor coordination. These skills similarly translate to other areas of their lives, such as dressing, eating, and in the academic setting. Activities like arts and crafts accelerate the development of muscles in the hands and fingers. Crafts that require drying require waiting! Self-regulation is a great lesson for your child to demonstrate self-control and patience. Also, as always things might not go exactly as we hoped! Crafts are a great way to promote flexibility in your child. There is no right or wrong way in exploring one’s own creativity and expression! Face-to-face interaction in early years is critical for optimal social development. Arts and crafts promote rich social interactions that help develop language skills and social cognitive abilities, like understanding emotions. Creating Art Relieves Stress Activities such as painting, sculpting, drawing, and arts and crafts creativity are relaxing and rewarding hobbies that can lower your stress levels and leave you feeling mentally clear and calm. The best reason for doing arts and crafts is that Creating art trains you to concentrate on detail they are plain old fun. From picking colours to and pay more attention to your environ-ment. In picking patterns, from visualizing to creating, it is this way, art acts like meditation and relaxation. fun to make something with your own hands! Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 C C C 41 A. ABDELHAMID Easter Bunny Campaign More than 450 meals, snacks, salads, drinks as well as desserts were distributed in Piraeus and Skaramanga (areas of Athens, Greece) on Easter Monday. This was done using a new method called ‘Food Recycling’: I managed to make an extra 200 portions of soup that were distributed on the night of Easter Wednesday therefore CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY bringing the total portions distributed to 650. “Since I began this journey years ago, I have been lucky to find people on the way that helped me continue this act and turn it into a tradition; the more good deeds a person does the more determination this adds to continue the objective. I want to thank you all on the behalf of so many people in whom you quenched their thirst and satiated their hunger.” C C C Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 CSR EDITORS Visit to Vavrona Habitat Archaeological Site & Museum CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY On the occasion of the European Day for Natura and we consequently compared and discussed 2000 the Athens CSR Committee prepared a our findings. We climbed to the observation wonderful day in Vavrona (Attica). Our short point and looked for birds through telescopes. trip gave us the chance to familiarize ourselves Afterwards, we had the opportunity to take part with a precious habitat (that is environmentally in a symbolic one hour cleaning of the habitat significant) and visit the interesting thus participating in a European Eco-activism archaeological site and museum in the same initiative. area. After having completed our voluntary cleaning At first we teamed up with the Hellenic activity we continued our trip with a visit to the Ornithological Society (a Greek NGO devoted nearby Temple of Artemis that dates back to to the protection of birds) to help us appreciate the 5th Century BC. A visit to the small local the importance of the habitat of the Vavrona museum exhibiting the artefacts found in the Wetland. We were given a tour of the unique area signalled the end of our trip! wetland, collected specimens of local flora Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 C C C 43 J. YOUNAN CCC Morocco’s Commitment to CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CCC Morocco’s commitment to Corporate Social with ages ranging from 4-16. The items bought Responsibility has been of high importance to were specially selected to help these children both project management and staff. improve their mental and physical skills under the supervision and presence of the Governor and Being located in a remote desert area, we are local authorities. always working to find ways to assist the local community and actively support them through As for the previous quarters the following two various types of contributions and activities activities took place: depending on the most urgent humanitarian Contribution to an orphanage in Errachidia in needs that are raised each year in coordination which eleven children are being taken care of, with the local authorities. one of which is a child who has special needs. This quarter, and during the holy month of We were provided with a list of all their needs Ramadan, we decided to target two categories ranging from essential items to all kinds of fun and assist them in the best way we could. games which were bought and delivered in the presence of the Governor and local authorities. We decided to help poor families with limited or no income and who were in need of the basics. Finally, we sponsored a Ramadan mini football The names of the families in need were provided tournament so as to support the local sports to us by the local authorities. As a result, we teams in Errachidia. It was organized by the took care of 27 families by buying Ramadan Ministry of Youth and Sports. A CCC team parbaskets and distributing them (each basket ticipated in the tournament. included 13 items). CCC Morocco’s contributions through CSR are Our second objective was providing assistance to changing the lives of many and bringing hope, joy the handicapped and children with special needs and positivity to the life of others a fact which who have physical or mental disabilities. We we are all proud of as the CCC Morocco Team. bought a variety of toys and games for children C C C Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 M. K. SOBH Booklet on Water Being part of our continued efforts to sustain the CSR initiative as directed by the President (E&O) and EVPO, we organized an educational awareness campaign at local schools on the theme of water and energy conservation. We conducted several awareness CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY sessions in coordination with local education authorities and institutions in May 2016. During these sessions, we distributed pictorial and informative booklets to students of all the independent schools in Qatar (public schools for boys and girls) up to secondary school level. Volunteer engineers from the Civil, Mechanical and Engineering Departments of CCC actively contributed to this campaign and delivered presentations for the students in their schools. The volunteers actively participated in the interaction sessions with the students and answered all the questions that were raised by pupils. The response of the audience was overwhelming and answers to the following questions we asked were enlightening. Some of the questions we asked were, but not limited to: • Where does water come from? • Why is water so important? • How can we save water? • What are the sources of energy? • How can we save energy in our homes? • How can we use energy in a smart way? • Which sources are better for the environment? This was a new initiative and was very well received and appreciated by the Ministry of Education, teachers and the students. Finally we highlighted the importance of preserving nature and gave the students advice regarding all the aforementioned issues in order to conserve water and energy. Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 C C C 45 M. KHOURY 3al Autostrad Event This is where we met Amar Sham, Ahed, Waed, Based on the donations collected versus the Bassam, Fatima, Domou, Warda, Haydar, Lina, camp’s needs, the plan was made to then provide Muntaha, Wael, Widad, Rahaf and many more each of the ten tents with the following: beautiful souls. #3alAutostrad was not an event; #3alAutostrad was a life-changing experience. • Five boxes of food supplies (rice, sugar, oil, tea, cheese, meat, lentils, chickpeas, milk). Shayma, Mirna and Sharon started planning • Five packs of bread. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY for this event approximately four months beforehand. This was a charity project that • Three sets of hygiene kits (detergents, hand featured a Syrian refugee camp located in the gel, soap, wet wipes). Bekaa area in Lebanon and aimed to raise funds to provide the families there with basic Besides the above supplies, the plan included supplies. Preparations for a long day to be spent buying new clothes and shoes for the children entertaining the children were also put into (items according to gender, age and size) as well action. as toys and colouring books. The idea of the event was initially an individual 7 May 2016 project based on ‘Yoga Activism’ and what is known as ‘giving back to the community’ as both The day was bright despite the cloudy skies and Shayma and Sharon are Yoga instructors. we could not help but be overwhelmed by the positive vibes of the refugee kids surrounding This project was organized hand in hand with us... Humanwire, an NGO working with refugees in Lebanon and around the world, which was the The day started by meeting and greeting the focal point between the team and the camp. camp residents. Introductions were made and the purpose of our visit was made clear and CCC’s Coordinating with Humanwire, the team was able role as the main event sponsor was outlined. to identify Autostrad as the target camp, being the smallest among the other camps, though We distributed the gifts, clothes and toys to the there were doubts regarding the financial and children and this was followed by a fun yoga management ability of the project at the time. class given by Shayma that was attended by the kids and their parents. The chosen camp consisted of ten tents where almost 15 families reside including 73 persons Then came the distribution of the food supplies, in total, 45 adults and 28 children below the age bread and hygiene kits that were purchased for of 15. each of the families. The assessment undertaken by Humanwire led After that there was a live music show around to the conclusion that the camp is mostly in which all the children gathered; there was need of food supplies and hygiene kits. Therefore dancing and singing as well as a face painting these needs became the project’s targets. session that put a smile on every child’s face. Raising funds and providing the necessary Towards the end of the event a hearty lunch was supplies in sufficient quantities were the main distributed in parcels for every family to enjoy. concerns at that point in time. In the end, we took group photos before saying After four months planning the project (up until goodbye to the camp’s residents. 7 May) the team was ready to organize an event None of the event organizers or the volunteers that covered both the humanitarian aid aspect as who participated wanted to leave. The photos well as an entertaining schedule. show a little of what we experienced. Drawing The team raised funds individually by collecting smiles on these children’s faces and accepting donations from friends, colleagues and family the gratefulness of their families towards our members as well as organizing yoga-classesvisit was priceless and do not compare to any by-donation given by both Shayma and Sharon other feeling. in both Oman and Lebanon respectively. It is worth mentioning that the supplies provided However, the main sponsor of the event to the Autostrad Camp are sufficient for at least was CCC which made a large donation and the next few months for the families that consist incorporated the project as part of the Corporate mainly of women who have no income to provide Social Responsibility programme. Generous or feed their children. contributions from staff members were collected in the Oman Area Office as well as at the Having additional funds at hand, the team AWP and MSQ Projects. Altogether, the funds decided to contribute similarly to any of the collected reached approximately US$5,000. other Syrian refugee camps in need. Coordinating C C C Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 3al Autostrad Event with Humanwire, the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY remaining donations went to providing one box of food supplies and one hygiene kit to each of the 43 families (43 tents) residing at Khalaf Camp, which happens to be the second smallest camp in the area. This was the pre-Ramadan distribution. Shayma, Mirna and Sharon would like to thank all the donors, individual and corporate. Special thanks go to CCC, our main sponsors, and Ms. Mona Ayoub from Humanwire, as well as all the volunteers who participated in the event either individually or as representatives of other NGO’s in the area. “In humanity we are ONE…” Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 C C C 47 B. KHALIL Car Park for the Qatar Faculty of Islamic Studies Building CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The construction of an external car park for the The construction steps of the works are broken Qatar Faculty of Islamic Studies building was down as per the following: required to accommodate the needs of this building during Fridays prayers, during the Holy • Shifting of the site hoarding as per the revised Month of Ramadan and other occasions, since site layout edges including the external the existing car park does not provide enough car park (CCC provided the required labour, parking spots for these peak periods. equipment and supervision to perform the works). The new external car park features: • Levelling and surfacing of the existing ground 1. 301 Car parking lots. level and compaction of the final subgrade 2. 4 Handicapped parking lots. level. 3. 4 Bus, media parking and drop-off spaces. • Construction of light poles foundations and 4. 4 Motor bikes parking lots. utilities. 5. Total surface area is 10,215 m2. • CCC provided the material, labour, equipment 6. Total walkway area is 338m2 (the connection and supervision needed to perform the works. is between the building entrance and the car • Asphalting works (all resources were provided park). by CCC).. 7. Car park distribution board of 63 Amps. • Road marking works and bulk mulch 8. 22 lighting poles along with their utilities and application along the car park perimeter. All accessories. resources were provided by CCC. 9. Connection to the main QF road. • Cable pulling, light poles and distribution board installation. All resources were provided by CCC with the exception of the light poles. • Construction of the walkway between the building and the car park. C C C Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 V. MAMUNNI Memorandum of Understanding with Sheikh Zayed University As part of the UAE Area CSR programmes, a Possible participation by CCC in courses, Memorandum of Understanding was signed with presentations, case studies and forums Sheikh Zayed University. The University bears the conducted by Sheikh Zayed University. name of the founder of the UAE, Sheikh Zayed Supporting the education of students at the Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, and was established in University in the form of local and regional 1998 by the Federal Government of the UAE. internships, training, scholarships or bursaries. The Memorandum of Understanding signing was CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Financing of annual study abroad opportunities attended by Professor Reyadh Al Mehaideb, the and UN partnerships. Vice President of Sheikh Zayed University and Walid Salman, the Regional Managing Director Participation in specific studies of mutual interest of the UAE and Palestine, and was undertaken and/or development and research collaboration in the presence of senior professors of the according to the needs of both parties. university. The Memorandum of Understanding opens up a The Memorandum of Understanding is valid for space for mutually beneficial national support three years. The areas of possible collaboration programmes as this university provides higher between Sheikh Zayed University and CCC, with education to mainly UAE national students and a focus on educational content in particular, are grooms many talented students to hold senior outlined below: positions in leading the country’s future. Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 C C C 49 V. MAMMUNI Mangrove Forests to Sequester Carbon Dioxide CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sadiyat Island mangrove survey in progress The UAE Area CSR Department is supporting The research programme is part of the UAE’s a research programme undertaken by Sheikh efforts to reduce the carbon deposit in the Zayed University to study the potential of country and to create a road map for a lowmangrove forests to sequester carbon dioxide carbon and climate-resilient future for the nation. from the atmosphere. The research programme is CCC’s support to the research team is thus a being undertaken by the College of Sustainability rewarding one. Sciences and Humanities Department, Sheikh Zayed University. The support extended by CCC includes manpower, equipment and transportation for the research team (made up of professors) from the university to survey the mangrove forests on Sadiyat Island, Eastern Mangroves and other thick mangrove forests of the UAE. Measuring the density of mangrove forests C C C Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 D. MAHBOOBEH MTB Blood Donation Campaign CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY You don’t have to be Superman to save lives… The results of this initiative were very successful: we contributed 53 blood units to Abu Dhabi Blood donation is a core activity undertaken by Blood Bank (ADBB). ADBB is the agency in the CSR programme. The CSR committee in the charge of organizing donation campaigns, MTB Abu Dhabi Airport Project, in collaboration maintaining a high standard for donations and with Sheikh Khalifa Medical City, planned and supplying blood to hospitals in the capital and organized a blood donation campaign throughout neighbouring emirates. the MTB premises. ADBB thanked CCC’s CSR team for their initiative By donating blood, you can provide a lifeline and contribution toward the bank and local to people in need including accident victims community. requiring surgery and patients with anemia and cancer. In addition, it benefits both the donor and the ultimate recipient. Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 C C C 51 L. ISTAMBOULI Morganti CSR News 24 March 2016 Campus-wide Beautification Program at Fort Pierce Magnet School of the Arts The West Palm Beach (Florida) office was happy to take part in a campus-wide beautification program at Fort Pierce Magnet CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY School of the Arts. We painted, pressure washed sidewalks, and installed new landscaping alongside with the district’s faculty and staff. During the recent Fort Pierce Magnet School of the Arts (FPMSA) Improvement Day, St Lucy Public School team members from the school, custodial services, grounds and maintenance, and district office joined efforts with volunteers from Morganti to support the school’s need. Many thanks go to one of our painting contractors, Tubito Painting of South Florida, LLC, for providing the paint, supplies, and two professional painters. 2 April 2016 Annual Sandy Hook 5K, Newtown, CT Team Morganti shone during a rainy Sandy Hook 5K, taking first and third places in the Males 20-29 category and with five runners finishing in the top 100 out of 1400+ runners. Proceeds from the Sandy Hook 5K are donated to the Collaborative Recovery Fund administered by the Newtown-Sandy Hook Community Foundation, which pays the out-of-pocket mental health expenses for those eligible who have been most impacted by the 14 December 2012 tragedy. A percent of the proceeds will go directly to the chosen nonprofit organizations of the 26 families who lost loved ones. 24 April 2016 March of Dimes 2016 and March for Babies, Danbury, CT Morganti was happy to participate in the March of Dimes and the Danbury March for Babies 2016. The Morganti Young Professionals, in an initiative led by Katie Asselin, raised over $700 ($744) for the March of Dimes, which goes directly toward research for causes and preventions of infant prematurity at March of Dimes’ 5 Prematurity Research Centers. More than 500 walkers from Danbury and its surrounding communities gathered to celebrate, honor, and remember the precious babies and children in their lives. Morganti employees walked over five miles to raise awareness. C C C Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 Sub Title Morganti CSR News 7 May 2016 Clean City Danbury Day, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Danbury, CT Sunday 7 May was Clean City Danbury Day 2016 and Morganti rolled out with 15 volunteers, walking and cleaning up a square block of Danbury roads. This was Danbury’s 13th year running the program. Opportunities included building or joining a team to pick up litter in a neighborhood, park, or waterway, volunteering at a special designated dumpster location to assist residents, and cleaning your home or property of debris and unwanted items and disposing of them Free of Charge at any one of Danbury’s five Dumpster sites. 7 May 2016 Save the Chimps 16K Race, St. Lucie County, FL We were in St. Lucie County, Florida, with Save the Chimps, Inc. the world’s largest chimpanzee sanctuary. Providing lifetime care for chimps rescued from biomedical research laboratories, the entertainment industry, and the pet trade, STC is a non-profit organization. At the Second Annual Save the Chimps 16K race, Morganti volunteers handled sales at the merchandise station. 6 June 2016 Leadership West Palm Beach, West Palm Beach, FL BD manager, Robin Galanti, was honored with an award at the 17th annual graduation of the Leadership West Palm Beach. The program cultivates leadership potential and helps members utilize and foster skills that will improve programs and opportunities in the Palm Beaches. West Palm Beach, Florida City Mayor Jeri Muoio recognized Robin with the newly-created MVP Award for playing a pivotal role in bringing the 2016 class closer together by organizing all external events and for developing an alumni group. 25 May 2016 43nd Annual LebanonAmerican Club Scholarship Awards, Danbury CT Morganti’s 2016 Lebanon American Club Scholarship award was presented by Nabil Takla to Jena Bourjaili, recognizing her academic achievement, fine character, and leadership ability. The scholarship is awarded to graduating sons or daughters of members of the Lebanon American Club who plan to pursue higher education and who demonstrate their ability to achieve academic success. Jena is endeavoring to become a radiologist after graduating in June 2016. Bulletin Issue 118 | 2nd Quarter 2016 C C C 53 bulletin 3rd Quarter 2016 Issue 119 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company D. NTALACHANI CSR News Report Contribution to CSR Initiative CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR Initiatives including Going Green and community involvement events. Please send your ideas, initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY address csr@ccc.gr. GREECE Donation of Plastic Soup Bowls SAUDI ARABIA CCC donated a very large number of food Philippine Embassy containers to the Women’s International Group South to be used at the Anavyssos soup kitchen which produces three hundred meals daily for families and individuals. Contribution to Hope Center, Faros Hope Center, Faros, is an organization that helps the refugees on a daily basis at Viktoria The Philippine Embassy in Saudi Arabia has Square. They have many needs, but the most thankfully met the request made by CCC to urgent items are nappies and wet wipes. CCC has facilitate consular services to the Filipino donated 26 packs of 30 nappies and 20 packs of Employees located at the Jazan projects (JRTF, three small packs of wet wipes. JRUP, JSRU and SARU). The event took place on 2 September 2016, where the Consular Team PALESTINE provided services such as passports renewals, Contribution during the Holy Month of Ramadan letters authentications, notarial and others. The day was a total success. The Consular Team CCC Palestine contributed clothes and shoes for expressed their satisfaction and appreciation to Gaza City and the Southern Area during The Holy CCC for the logistical support and preparations Month of Ramadan and Eid Al-Fitr. that contributed to the success of their mission as well as looking after its employees by making their context easier. Bulletin Issue 119 | 3rd Quarter 2016 C C C 31 T. AWAD CSR Volunteers We are pleased to acknowledge the participation and continued support of volunteers towards CSR Initiatives in their respective areas CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY during the third Quarter of 2016. AREA HR Department, Khobar Area Office HR Department, CCC Morocco Joel Santos is a Jr. Administrator from the John Younan has been chosen to be the Philippines. He has been working with CCC since volunteer candidate for CSR. He joined CCC 2006 under the HR department in the Khobar in 2006 and is currently the Head of the HR Area Office, Saudi Arabia. Department in CCC Morocco. He is an excellent employee and an asset to our organization. He Joel is a hardworking and dedicated employee, has excellent written and verbal communication he takes his job very seriously and always offers skills, is extremely organized, can work to lend a helping hand to others. In his free time independently and is able to follow through to he enjoys playing basketball with other CCC ensure that the job gets done. colleagues. C C C Bulletin Issue 119 | 3rd Quarter 2016 T. AWAD UN Global Compact International Yearbook 2016 What Gets Measured Can Be Controlled and Managed In continuation of CCC’s support to the UN Global Compact, for the past four years different articles were published in the Best and Good Practices Sections of the UNGC’s International Yearbook: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • YB 2012 Habshan 5 Going Green (Environment Section) • YB 2013 60 Years of Contributing to the Communities (Human Rights Section) • YB 2014 CCC’s Solar Power Adventures (Environment Section) • YB 2015 Secure Jobs in Insecure Times (Labour Standards Section) • YB 2016 CCC’s contribution was published in WE SUPPORT the Good Practice Work / Innovation / Climate Section “What Gets Measured Can Be Controlled and Managed” Bulletin Issue 119 | 3rd Quarter 2016 C C C 33 S. KOUTSOUFLAKIS Race for the Cure, 2016 On Sunday 25 September, an overwhelming crowd of more than 30,000 men, women and children of all ages gathered for this year’s Race for the Cure, driven by the message for prevention and early diagnosis of breast cancer. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CCC was there once again with a team of more than a 120 participants that joined forces with the Alma Zois Association and the Susan G. Komen Organization. The Race for the Cure took place at the Park surrounding the Zappeio Megaro, in the very heart of Athens. This is the 8th year in which the Race for the Cure took place and we are proud to be among the very few organizations that have been supporting this event continuously since 2008. CCC’s enthusiastic A few days after the event, we heard back from participants ran or walked two beautiful routes the organizers of Race for the Cure who informed with the aim of communicating and standing up us that the event was the second largest Race for the prevention and early detection message for the Cure in Europe, demonstrating in the most for breast cancer so as to support the women indisputable way the effectiveness of our efforts currently struggling to overcome the disease, to in spreading the message and awareness. celebrate the survivors (who are the protagonists Morale and spirits were sky-high once again of the event), but also to honour those that are among the CCC team, the photos speak for no longer with us. themselves! See you next year! C C C Bulletin Issue 119 | 3rd Quarter 2016 V. MAMUNNI Jabel Ali Camp, Dubai occupants of Jabel Ali Camp in close cooperation with the camp management. The topics covered under the programme included common behavioral aspects of blue collar workers and the adverse effects CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY on their physical and mental wellbeing. Specialized lectures were imparted by IWRC on the disastrous effects of smoking and alcoholism, its physical damage on the body, mental health, anxiety, depression, social stigma, financial distress, and so on. Help and advice was extended by the IWRC in order to assist in eliminating destructive habits and suffering. The campaign was immensely beneficial to the camp residents and the enthusiasm exhibited by Blue collar worker welfare programmes are the workers during and after the always on the prime agenda of CSR activities program was substantial proof of their moral in Dubai seeing as the emirate’s authorities are courage to improve life habits. The programme keen to involve workers of all classes in social was indeed motivational and enhanced the bond and welfare initiatives. CCC Dubai along with the between the company and workers. Indian Workers Resource Centre (IWRC), which operates under the office of Community Welfare Wing, Embassy of India and Consulate of Dubai, organized an awareness programme for the A view of the Workers Welfare P rogram at Jabel Ali Camp Bulletin Issue 119 | 3rd Quarter 2016 C C C 35 V. MAMUNNI Zayed University Climate Change Programme In pursuit of the UAE Area’s joint CSR initiative with Zayed University, a series of programmes have been initiated to ameliorate the existing support and cooperation for the University’s evolving issues of national cause and student development. Our participation in the Climate Change and Carbon Emission Sequestration CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY programme undertaken by the College of Humanities and Sustainability Sciences was a concomitant effort. The volunteering and material support extended by CCC volunteers and the dedicated involvement of our team in the overall organizational and logistical support to the programme had a high outreach impact among the student’s community and faculty of the University. The College Dean and Chair of the Department appreciated and acknowledged our efforts by presenting an award of appreciation in an event held in the University Hall. Award presented by Dean of Zayed University to the CSR Lead Climate Change and Carbon Sequestration programme. Dr. Fares Howari (Chair College of Sustainability Sciences and Humanities, ZU), Mamunni Musliar (CCC), Christopher Southgate (Dean of ZU) and CEO of CAMFIL. C C C Bulletin Issue 119 | 3rd Quarter 2016 T. AWAD CCC’s Ethics Compliance Programme In continuation of our compliance with CCC’s Ethics & Anti-Corruption Program (EACP) and spreading the awareness towards its implementation by staff in positions of authority ETHICS including those who could be exposed to corruption situations, regular face-to-face interactive workshops are being conducted at CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the different locations throughout the Areas, Projects and Athens office. Implementation and training of the EACP is continuously monitored by senior management to ensure our strict compliance with its terms C O E and clauses. So far almost 400 staff members MP have attended the face-to-face training LIAN C workshops from different areas and in 2016, over 150 staff members from UAE (EPSO), Kazakhstan, Astana joined by Tangiz and Atyrau through an audio/video conference, and Athens have participated in several successful workshops. In addition to the training workshops, our Online Training Program is ongoing whereby every new recruit has to complete the program during their induction periods. So far almost 5,500 invitations were sent to the employees and participation has exceeded 90%. Completion certificates were automatically forwarded to the HR Department and were filed in the employees’ personal files. UAE Kazakhstan Greece Kazakhstan Greece Bulletin Issue 119 | 3rd Quarter 2016 C C C 37 bulletin 4th Quarter 2016 Issue 120 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company THE DUBAI OPERA HOUSE D. NTALACHANI CSR News Contribution to CSR Initiative the areas of: • Supporting local communities. CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with • Promoting Environmental Responsibility. ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR • Education. Initiatives including Going Green and community • In-House Schemes for CCC Employees. involvement events. Please send your ideas, initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email For the goals to be reached, everyone needs to CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY address csr@ccc.gr. do their part: governments, the private sector, civil society and people like you. Greece CCC’s CSR calendar for 2017 offers advice and Greek and Arabic Classes tips we can all adopt into our daily routines to make a positive impact towards achieving the Continuing the Athens Office CSR Committee’s Sustainable Development Goal...Let’s Transform efforts to promote inter-cultural relations Our World. between the communities, Greek and Arabic language classes are consistently organized for Donation to Eleonas Refugee Camp CCC employees and their families and are now running for the sixth year in a row. Eleonas is a state run accommodation centre that hosts approximately 2,200 refugees Discounted Tickets for Santa Claus Kingdom (mainly families) until they leave Greece. In addition to the government, a good number of volunteers are trying to improve the living conditions of these people as much as possible. CCC donated to the camp 35 boxes with shoes, drawing materials, board games and 655 items of men’s and women’s underwear. Our thanks and appreciation go to Darryl Goringe and Omar Alfatyan for helping with the delivery. Oman 46th Oman National Day The CCC CSR Committee secured a substantial discount for all Athens Office children tickets at the Santa Claus Kingdom. Santa Claus Kingdom is the largest indoor Christmas theme park in Greece, covering an area of 13,000 square meters and is already well established as this is the fifth year of its operation. This year’s theme was the Frozen Realm and included Frodi the Snowman mascot, an ice rink, the carousel, a castle and over 40 games for all ages. Athens Main Office Calendar In 2015, 193 UN Member states adopted a set of universal goals to On the occasion of the 46th Oman National end poverty, protect day, Oman Area Office celebrated this on 22 the planet, and November 2016. All ensure prosperity the office employees for all as part of a attended the event. new sustainable development agenda. Blood Donation Campaign CCC’s CSR programme Responding to an has been taking a urgent need of blood strong stance in supply requested by the support of sustainable Department of Blood development for the Services in Oman, the past eight years by DMIA project quickly carrying out projects in launched a blood donation drive and C C C Bulletin Issue 120 | 4th Quarter 2016 Sub Title CSR News arranged a mobile clinic to come to the site on 6 Patrick Stroebel, Steve McCarthy, Jennifer Marks CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY November 2016. The overall support and the kind and Nabil Takla (not pictured). donations made it a huge success. Florida Contractor Outreach West Palm Beach, Florida Saudi Arabia The Morganti Group’s Farewell Party Florida office hosted a Contractor Outreach event at the Stuart Martin Chamber of Commerce. This event was a joint effort with the Martin County School District to increase the Martin County trade contractor base for future work coming out within the School District. Spearheaded by BD Manager Robin Galanti, CCC Saudi Arabia, Khobar Area Management this event was a huge success. With more than held a farewell party for two of the Khobar Camp 20 local contractors in attendance, the district employees who worked at CCC for a long period congratulated Morganti for being proactive, of time: Rafiq Masih (at CCC for 36 years) and forward thinkers and a job well done! Tilak (at CCC for 20 years). Both employees have Florida Contractor Outreach West Palm Beach, Florida exerted great efforts while carrying out their duties and highly appreciated the gesture. Morganti and Cooper Construction USA Morganti Management’s South Florida Contractor Palm Beach County Corporate Partner of the Year Outreach Event was West Palm Beach, Florida a huge success, with more than 75 local contractors in attendance. The event was held to not only expand Morganti’s subcontractor database but to share upcoming opportunities for growth with the local trades while encouraging exposure of the SBE, DBE or MWBE application process. Thanks to everyone who came, including representatives from Broward County Public Schools, Palm Beach County, and Associated General Contractors of We are happy to announce that our West Palm America. Beach office was recognized at Palm Beach Partners Business Matchmaker Conference and YMCA Giving Tree Danbury, Connecticut Expo as the PBC Corporate Partner of the Year In addition to participating in the Marine for 2016. The Palm Beach Partners is a coalition Toys for Tots Foundation, our Danbury, of city, county, state, and non-profit agencies Connecticut office is also helping out the aligned to maximize economic development Regional YMCA of Western Connecticut opportunities for small businesses throughout with this year’s Giving Tree. the South Florida region. This award is their highest honour recognizing large companies We are pleased to say that we are whose supplier and procurement policies are providing over fifty wrapped gifts for small and minority/women-owned businesskids in need in our community, and we focused. couldn’t be prouder that so many of our employees took part in this charitable Attendees for Morganti included: Joe Capraro, event this holiday season. Mia Lonergan, Robin Galanti, Stephen Sines, Bulletin Issue 120 | 4th Quarter 2016 C C C 31 D. NTALACHANI CSR Volunteers We are pleased to acknowledge the participation and continued support of volunteers towards CSR Initiatives in their respective areas CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY during the Fourth Quarter of 2016. MORGANTI DANBURY, CT, USA Nicole Callahan Nicole Callahan joined The Morganti Group at its Danbury, Connecticut headquarters in August 2015 as the Systems Implementation Coordinator. Nicole quickly jumped on board, being voted as the Morganti Young Professionals President, and actively organizing members and initiatives so that participation in volunteer events is higher than ever. Nicole’s enthusiasm and passion is infectious and her involvement in all things Morganti is truly impressive. To name a few, Nicole has participated in Danbury’s America On Tap, the Sandy Hook 5K, and the March of Dimes’ March for Babies in April, May’s Clean City Danbury Day, building camp benches at the Brookfield YMCA in June and various other initiatives, all while managing to update employees on upcoming events. Nicole has been instrumental in keeping the volunteer spirit alive at Morganti and we thank her wholeheartedly for her participation. C C C Bulletin Issue 120 | 4th Quarter 2016 CSR COMMITTEE Helping the Athens Hospice for the Disabled CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Since 2014, the CSR Committee has been supporting the Hospice for the Disabled (Asilo Aniaton) in Athens, Greece. The hospice is a not-for-profit charitable organization that has been providing medical and nursing care to patients with chronic conditions for more than 120 years. The hospice accepts people who are suffering from an incurable illness, are left paraplegic, hemiplegic or tetraplegic by strokes, suffer from neurological disorders, or have had severe accidents and as a result, it is impossible for them to look after themselves. Functioning with no state support of any kind in the current bleak economic climate and taxation system, the hospice continues to serve the community despite the difficulties. Most recently, to support their cause, CCC coordinated a donation of food supplies. Bulletin Issue 120 | 4th Quarter 2016 C C C 33 CSR COMMITTEE Supporting the “Friends of the Child” Nursery CSR Athens Office continued its efforts to sponsor theatre visits and other programmes for the children of the Friends of the Child nursery. The Friends of the Child association is a charity organization that has been providing widespread support to hundreds of families for more than 25 years. Among the several programmes it CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY carries out, it maintains a nursery for vulnerable children who come from families facing social and financial difficulties. With the help of CCC, the children attended a variety of activities. An example of an educational programme was that of the olive tree where the children learned about the olive, its role in nutrition and its symbolic dimension in mythology and customs. Fun activities took place where the children focused on grapes; they discovered the harvest process, participated in grape stomping and prepared grape-must cookies. These activities took place among others such as theatrical plays, puppet shows and drama games. Such experiences are an important mental stimulus for the children who would otherwise have little to no opportunity to participate is these programmes. C C C R. SABBAGH-KAWAR Women in the Front Line, Jordan CCC was one of sponsors of the Women on the Front Lines conference. Under the patronage of Her Majesty Queen Rania Al Abdullah the conference was organized by the May Chidiac Foundation, a non-profit organization offering hands-on learning in media, women’s rights, conflict resolution, and development. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The conference highlighted the stories of female pioneers in the fields of leadership, change and sustainability who could bring optimal solutions to enhance the community and promote sociopolitical development while maintaining ethical standards. Prominent female business managers, politicians, journalists and social entrepreneurs participated in the panels. Participants came from Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Egypt and Morocco while the conference was moderated by James Clancy and Ricardo Karam. C C C 35 H. KHZOUZ Blood Donation at Saraya Aqaba Project On 30 and 31 October 2016, CCC/DSC/ ATC JV held a successful Blood Donation Campaign in collaboration with the Blood Bank of Jordan. 300 blood units were collected from our generous donors on site, at the main offices and offsite facilities. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY H. KHZOUZ Underwater Clean-Up Campaign at Saraya Aqaba Project On 5 October 2016, the Aqaba Divers Association (ADA) conducted an underwater cleanup campaign in collaboration with The Royal Marine Conservation Society (JREDS) and the Aqaba Marine Park in the South Beach Reserve, Jordan. Amer Smadi, Mohammad Tayseer and Mohammad Al Ajlouni represented the CCC/DSC/ATC-JV of Saraya Aqaba Project as volunteers who collected waste that pollutes the underwater environment and hinders the growth of corals. C C C Bulletin Issue 120 | 4th Quarter 2016 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 Appendix Consolidated Contractors Company CAMP LAYOUT AND DESIGN MANUAL CM-CSQM-013 Rev.2 APPENDIX T SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES CHECKLIST CM-CSQM-013 Rev.2 Appendix T Page 1 of 4 Consolidated Contractors Company CAMP LAYOUT AND DESIGN MANUAL CM-CSQM-013 Rev.2 *The yellow highlighted initiatives directly refer to camp procedures. SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES CHECKLIST Implementation ITEM SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Remarks Yes No N/A Site Offices & Camps 1 Energy Conservation 1.1 Use high energy efficient HVAC units (Units with Inverter/ high star rating). 1.2 Use of fully synchronized power house. 1.3 Use of light-emitting diode (LED) lighting fixtures. Change all incandescent bulbs & fluorescent lamps (CFLs) to light-emitting diode 1.4 (LED) lamps. 1.5 Use of high mast LED Flood Lights for camp lighting. Use of Solar powered luminaires for the inner street lighting (the perimeter lights will 1.6 be kept electrically powered for security reasons). Use of Timers for users’ consumption to switch off the power on the cabins during 1.7 the day when the laborers are on site, possibility of manual override to be provided. 1.8 Use of Motion Detectors. Use of Pre-fab units and offices with thick/high density insulation (this will save on 1.9 HVAC unit capacities and power consumption). 1.10 Use ENERGY STAR labeled appliances. Windows and doors in the units and offices to be properly airtight to avoid air 1.11 infiltration. Provide Energy / Diesel metering systems at the Main and sub-main distribution boards and record on daily basis the Electric Energy and Fuel consumption. These 1.12 records will be shared with the concerned departments and with the Sustainability Committee and will be used as baseline for future improvement on the efficiency of the E/M installation, diesel consumption and consequently on the CO2 emission. Locate the camp unit in such a way that long side walls with windows face north, 1.13 and other long side faces south (the opposite in the south of the equator). This will reduce sun exposure. Use a smart power strip and connect all your desktop electrical equipment to it. 1.14 Turn it off at the end of the day to eliminate phantom usage. Set the thermostat to 25°C and install a programmable thermostat. Relevant stickers 1.15 to be placed at the A/C switch or A/C remote control. 1.16 Use day-lighting when possible. Establish a “Last to Leave policy or person to encourage powering down equipment 1.17 (computer, lights, appliances, A/C, heater, etc.) before leaving the office/ room. Unplug other devices (e.g. battery chargers) when they are not in use. Awareness 1.18 posters, A4 or A3 to be visibly displayed within the offices and camp rooms. Use highly efficient washing machines. New modules minimize electricity and water 1.19 usage. Introduction of two story cabinet. The savings here are related to infrastructure and 1.20 power consumption. Light fittings should be those described in the Appendix ISchedule of wiring 1.21 accessories and light fittings. 2 Water Conservation 2.1 Use of shower heads and faucet aerators (mixing water with air) to reduce flow. 2.2 Use of spring taps enforced mechanism to reduce flow. 2.3 Use of dual flush WC cisterns & low flow urinals. 2.4 Use of treated sewage effluent for flushing, irrigation and dust control. 2.5 Use of gravity water supply by utilizing elevated water tanks. CM-CSQM-013 Rev.2 Appendix T Page 2 of 4 Consolidated Contractors Company CAMP LAYOUT AND DESIGN MANUAL CM-CSQM-013 Rev.2 2.6 Use of flow meters and regulators to monitor and control water leakage and misuse. 2.7 Use of 5 star or equivalent rated washing machines and dishwashers. Sanitary fittings should be those described in the Appendix IISchedule of plumbing 2.8 fittings. 3 Transportation Pool transport for all (staff & labor). Pool transport for materials handling within the 3.1 project and logistics. 3.2 Purchase Low consumption engines. 3.3 Purchase Diesel pickups not benzene. 3.4 Proper planning for extended hours required. 3.5 When replacement, consider Purchase of Efficient Plant and Machinery. 3.6 Encourage use of hybrid vehicles. Use biodiesel instead of the regular diesel. Biodiesel is a clean burning fuel 3.7 alternative produced from domestic renewable resources which emits 47% percent of the carbon monoxide gas compared to regular fuel. 3.8 Encourage using bicycles at sits/camps. 3.9 Use web conferencing technology. 4 Renewable Energy 4.1 Use of solar lamp and solar/wind hybrid for lighting poles and high mast. Use of Solar PV Power Plant & Wind Plant for camps with more than 1000 4.2 residents. Use of Solar Water Heaters in Kitchen, & Laundry and labor ablution units in all our 4.3 Camps. 4.4 Use of the generators’ exhaust for heating purposes. 4.5 Heat recovery solution from diesel generator for Cooling and heating. 5 Waste Management 5.1 Use of separate recycling bins for glass, plastic and paper. 5.2 No printing on Wednesdays. Use paper more efficiently, print double-sided, use recycled paper, use scanning 5.3 and e-documents whenever possible. Bind paper to use as scratch/sketch book. 5.4 Use projectors for meetings, instead of printing MOM's and attachments. Waste water treatment. Treated Water can be used for dust control, flushing and 5.5 Irrigation. 5.6 Minimizing bottled water use. 5.7 Recycle the used cooking oil. 6 Environmental Procurement Use Green Office Technology: Prior to purchasing office products, ensure that they 6.1 are energy efficient. 6.2 Use a multi-functional system – an integrated copier, printer and fax. Purchase paper with recycled content and/or that is FSC (Forest Stewardship 6.3 Council) certified. 6.4 Buy equipment with recycled and reused parts. 6.5 Return supplies for reuse/recycling. 7 Air Purification Planting native trees and plants on camps. This landscaping will capture CO2 7.1 emissions and beautify the premises. 7.2 Replace lawns with native plants/trees that survive on minimum water. Walkways made up of paving stones between concrete gridlines. 7.3 (These paving stones can be reused once camp is removed) CM-CSQM-013 Rev.2 Appendix T Page 3 of 4 Consolidated Contractors Company CAMP LAYOUT AND DESIGN MANUAL CM-CSQM-013 Rev.2 7.4 Don't smoke in or near the office. 8 Safety Target Zero Tolerance for a Safe Work Place and Environment for all. 8.1 Strict reinforcement for the implementation of the Safety procedures. 9 Corporate Behavior Explicit in our Core Values, Guiding Principles & Codes of Practice. 9.1 To be circulated to all employees. 10 CSR 10.1 Well Being and Livelihood of: Employees: Creates a sense of belonging. 10.1.1 Focus on training and personal development. 10.1. 2 Partners: Value Suppliers and Subcontractors. 10.2 Manpower: 10.2.1 Internet café: For all staff, including laborers. 10.2.2 Gym: For all staff, including laborers. 10.2.3 Recreation: For all staff, including laborers. 10.2.4 TV and satellite dish: For all staff, including laborers. 10.2.5 Haircut: Free of charge. 10.2.6 ATM: On site for all staff. 10.2.7 Cold water: Sheltered, and provided frequently. 10.3 Community: 10.3.1 Every community chooses a representative to forward requests. 10.3.2 Encourage Local Recruitment. 10.3.3 Donations: Health, Education, Community Engagement. 10.3.4 Women Recruited where possible and safe. 10.3.5 “Open Box” initiative to bring issues to the attention of the President. 11 Green Sustainable Paint Solutions 11.1 Green ecofriendly paint with low volatile organic compounds (VOCs). CM-CSQM-013 Rev.2 Appendix T Page 4 of 4
