Global Compact Asia Lotus Holdings Pvt. Ltd Nepal CompanyP hone: Exemplary practice from Nepal 977-1-5000071 977-1-5000273 e-mail: info@lot us holdings.c om URL: www.lot us holdings.com From the CEO’s Desk The last twelve months in Nepal has brought about positive change in the country that had been long overdue. The major changes includes the electricity load shedding problem that has now been solved, and has stopped our dependence on fossil fuel generators helping us save costs as well curb down pollution that had resulted from it. All our companies have witnessed this cut in this spending and has contributed to the bottom line. Multiply this effect throughout the business industry – this amounts to a huge save in importing of fossil fuels saving the cash balance in the country. Another positive news is that our country carried out the election for local offices (municipalities) after 25 years, and this has been tremendously encouraging for the future of our country, and the business community at large. This starts the process of government accountability and responsibilities as most offices were being run by government workers who were merely working as custodians. Though new challenges such as the liquidity crisis in the financial system that has led to an increase of interest rates making borrowing expensive, the bullishness of businesses has never been at a peak as today there is more positive news than the negative ones. Lotus Holdings and its companies has stayed on its course going through the challenges, and picking opportunities along the way. We have a lot of achieve in the next twelve months and we are staying this course. The principles of the Global Compact is in the mantra of the company, and we will keep on with it. Ajit Bikram Shah CEO Company Name Lotus Holdings Pvt. Ltd Reporting Period FY 2006/2007 FY 2007/2008 FY 2008/2009 FY 2009/2010 FY 2010/2011 FY 2011/2012 FY 2012/2013 FY 2013/2014 FY 2014/2015 FY 2015/2016 FY 2016/2017 FY 2017/2018 About the Company Lotus Holdings (LH) is a venture capital enterprise looking toward businessgrowth through mobilization of both domestic and foreign investments. Although profit making, LH adheres to the principle of social justice. LH started in 1996 as an investment company identifying entrepreneurs having difficulty and providing them support services in the form of finances, marketing, R&D and administration. LH provides / facilitates access to funds for the purpose of business start-up, growth in the various stages of business. Vision: Creation of successful business enterprises that would generate employment and work towards overall development of individuals directly or indirectly working with associated companies. Mission: 1. Identification of new business ventures. 2. Promotion of entrepreneurial ventures and aim for success, stressing on quality and business ethics. 3. Help LH associated companies achieve self-sustainability and growth. 4. Foster the spirit of corporate social responsibility (CSR) among LH associated companies and the business community at large and set up institutions working for welfare and overall development in social, educational and health. 5. Provide better employment opportunities and environment to semi skilled and skilled manpower and work toward upgrading their skill. 6. Integration of underprivileged, particularly women and children, with new venture and to ensure economic benefits reach all participants in a just manner. Participating Companies A. Business Process Outsourcing within Lotus Holdings 1. Flextecs Nepal: Profit Recovery Solutions B. Finance 1. MNB Bank: Class ‘A’ Financial Institution C. Healthcare 1. CTL Pharmaceuticals: Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing 2. Blue Cross Hospital: Full Fledged General Hospital D. Information Technology 1. M. Nepal!: Mobile Commerce Aggregator 2. Jawalakhel Cable Network: Cable TV Distributor 3. Everest Net: Internet Service Provider 4. Fiber Online: Cable Internet Service Provider 5. FOCUSONE Nepal: Software Development, Mobile Technology, 6. FOCUSONE Payment Solutions: Mobile Payment Solutions E. Hospitality 1. Himalayan Hideaway: Hotel & Tented Adventure Camp F. Manufacturing 1. Formation of Carpets: Handmade Export Carpet Production G. Philanthropy 1. Hoste Hainse: NGO/NP O that works in the field of education Services H. Real Estate 1. Lotus Real Estate: Buying, Selling and Leasing of Real Estate I. Services 1. Solutions Consultant: Business Consulting J. Trading 1. Bromed: Pharmaceutic als Trading Chronological (Highlights ) 1987 Mushroom Business 1989 Carpet Business 1990 Social NGO Initiated 1991 – Trading: Local and International 1992 – Pharmaceutical Manufacturing & Trading 1993 Healthcare 1994 Real Estate Development, Leasing 1997 Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights awarded with the Global Human Rights Award 1998 Carpet Company got Best CSR Company in Nepal 1999 Information Technology. Pashmina, Paper 2001 First Business Incubation Center of Nepal 2002 Business Consultancy 2003 – UN-ITC Showcase for success stories 2006 Recognition from Global Compact as CSR Best Practice 2007 Chairperson Won Himani Trust Award for Social Enterprise 2008 Healthcare Diagnostic 2010 Financial Institution 2012 Agent of Change Award 2016 – Social Enterprise Initiative – Carpet Village in Sindupalchowk Project Duration From 1987 Background/ A bst ract Lotus Holdings was founded in 1996 by Mrs. Sulo Shrestha Shah, a Nepali woman entrepreneur. At inception, LH’s aim was to provide incubation and support to its sister companies to promote responsible and ethical business practices. LH ensures outstanding quality of the products and services of its sister companies while ensuring sound working environment for all its employees. Realizing the immense opport unity in the fast growing sector, LH has brought forward venture investment. LH believes this form of investment in small scale industries would be beneficial for entrepreneurial development. The basic modality is to create an investment fund from interested shareholders. LH will ensure proper management of the investments through welldefined reporting and consultative meeting structures. Core Values 1. Capacity Building 2. Institutionalization of companies 3. Professionalis m 4. Transparency 5. Social accountability 6. Information dissemination Initiative Lotus Holdings (LH) with a diversified investment portfolio is also an incubation specialist. LH is involved with entrepreneurs/ producers who have difficulty in their area of business and has inclination towards the concept of CSR. It is the philosophy of LH to be the backstopping instrument to such people/organizations by helping them in their revival and restructuring, or opening new companies if necessary, and also providing investment where required. Lotus Holdings looks forward to maintain its growth strategy to accelerate its current development rate. Reporting System: A quarterly monitoring involves inspection of workplac e and interaction with employees. Health Insurance: All LH staff are insured with up to NRs. 50,000 per year for Out Patient Services; NRs. 10,000 per year for medicine services and NRs. 100,000 per year for hospitalization service. Hygienic Canteen: A subsidized canteen at company premises provides healthy food and drinks. • Provident Fund for permanent employees. • 10 per cent of company’s net profit goes to employees as bonus. • Allowanc e for Dashain, Nepal’s biggest festival. • Flexible leave facility on par with Nepal’s Labour Act. • Maintained salary structure as per staff’s qualification and dedication. • Provided consultancy service to Hoste Hainse, NGO working to eliminate child labour through education. Challenges The instability of the government and the failure to draft the new constitution after the end of the monarchy has been causing a general slowdown in Nepal’s economy. The challenge is increased by the ever growing double digit inflation and the global economic crisis that has significantly decreased export sales throughout the country. With such problems, increase in CSR activities have been limited, but Lotus Holdings has not decreased its ongoing CSR activities to cut costs. The recent earthquak e in Nepal has brought about fresh challenges in the country. LH with its associate companies carried over various relief mission in various parts of the country and now through its philanthropic wing has pledge support in building schools that got damaged in the quake. Impacts and Benefits Due to the initiatives undertaken by the organization, it is now a more responsible organization geared towards not only raising its productivity but also c ont ribut ing t o t he s oc iet y t hrough loc al Corporate S oc ial Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. Staff morale has heightened and the company’s productivity has increased. The image of the company, a leader in adopting CSR in the country, has improved noticeably. Future Plan The organization will continue to raise awareness, enhance skills and knowledge of its employees. Our previous strategy to establish an investment fund has been realized. Lotus Holdings is now even aggressively looking for opport unities to explore into new sectors to invest. Pursuing a dream of a self-reliant, socially and economically developed society, Lotus Holdings believes in business with ethics. This has been the driving force behind the company and as it continues to grow into this millennium, it will remain in the business of helping people achieve these dreams
