BETTER TOGETHER SITA GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT 2 CEO STATEMENT 3 OUR ORGANIZATION 4 CSR AT SITA 8 OUR PEOPLE 10 SITA AND THE ENVIRONMENT 14 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES 18 EDUCATION IN AFRICA 20 EDUCATION AROUND THE WORLD 22 GRI INDEX 23 FEEDBACK Feedback and questions on this report are welcomed and encouraged. They can be directed to the Director, Corporate Social Responsibility at SITA via e-mail: csr@sita.aero, via the corporate website at www.sita.aero or through our social media channels: www.sita.aero/resources/sita-social CSR REPORT 2016 1 BETTER TOGETHER ABOUT THIS REPORT This report covers the corporate social responsibility There have been no changes to the scope or boundaries of this activities of the SITA Group from January to December 2016. report. No feedback has been received from stakeholders. The last report was published in May 2016 and covered 2015. It has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting MATERIALITY Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines at the A materiality assessment was conducted in 2015, with 12 ‘core’ level. It is not SITA’s policy to assure non-financial key material aspects being identified. These aspects have reports, and thus the report has not been externally assured. informed our strategy and the basis for our reporting. They A full GRI index can be found on page 23. Prior reports can be are indicated in the diagram below, and are grouped under found at www.sita.aero/csr or on the United Nations Global three overarching themes: Business, Environment and Social. Compact (UNGC) website. Our internal stakeholders included members of our Senior REPORT BOUNDARIES AND METHODOLOGY Leadership Team and over 700 SITA employees. External feedback was gathered through sessions with our Council and SITA's CSR office requests and consolidates relevant data Board, our Customer Advisory Board, and through additional and information from the respective departments, individuals external research. This provided a broad spectrum of relevant and systems within SITA, and the contents herein have been parties with an interest in SITA and its activities. The material prepared and reported to the best of our knowledge for the aspects are reviewed on an ad hoc basis, and remained report ending 31 December 2016. relevant throughout the year. A full materiality assessment is scheduled for 2017. The material issues included in this report are considered relevant within the boundary of the SITA Group organization. This was assessed by reviewing whether the impacts occur RESTATEMENTS inside or outside the organization as per the GRI G4 guidelines In the CSR Report for the 2015 period, the following was on defining boundaries. It excludes SITA’s subsidiaries inaccurately reported. The number of collective bargaining CHAMP Cargosystems and SITA Bureau Services (SBS) and agreements stated also included those countries with its joint venture Aviareto except in cases which are explicitly mandated inflationary linked salary increases. The correct noted, such as reporting on premises where SITA and its breakdown is shown later in this report. The total energy subsidiaries are co-located. consumption for the 2015 period was omitted from the report. It was 27,242,174 KwH. Business Business integrity Environment IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Social Employees: talent, Operational excellence & acquisition & retention customer satisfaction Data protection & information security Labor & working practice Responsible Working with Local economic contribution procurement local communities Environmental management & compliance Electronic waste Product & service innovation Reducing greenhouse gas emissions IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS 2 CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER CEO STATEMENT against our target, and the 10.5% reduction in energy use at the 19 sites where we measure consumption. We have however seen a 2% increase in global emissions from air travel. This remains a challenge in our role as a provider to almost every airline and airport across the world. Combined, our total emissions (offices and air travel) represent a 3.8% reduction overall across our business. Over the year we continued to support young people in Africa through the work of the SITA Air Transport Community Foundation initiative. A particular highlight was the rollout of RaspberryPi Connect devices to schools in Amhara, Ethiopia – giving greater access to educational content for teachers and students. Projects also ran in Uganda, Zimbabwe and South Africa. The Foundation – governed by the SITA Council Welcome to our fifth Corporate – echoes the commitment to education SITA has made with existing projects in Ireland, South Africa, Russia, China Social Responsibility (CSR) Report – and Singapore. ‘Better Together’ I would like to recognize the dedication of our employees across the business who engaged with their communities Since the release of SITA’s last Corporate Social through our Value in Volunteer Action program. They gave Responsibility Report, I have had the pleasure of joining the their time to projects that addressed food poverty, vulnerable company as Chief Executive Officer. SITA has had a sound groups, and the environment, and raised money for health program of environmental and social initiatives in place for research and good causes. some time, together with a commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. These ten principles In 2017, we’ll continue to work together to be a responsible remain core to our CSR activity, and I reaffirm SITA’s support business in our environmental and social practices, and for them throughout our business. to ensure that the contributions we make are positive. We will also take the opportunity to review the social and Our CSR focus remains on three key themes; integrating environmental trends across our industry and wider society, CSR into our business, managing our environmental impact, and the areas that matter most to our stakeholders, to inform and bringing value to our communities. ‘Better Together’ our approach going forward. shares the progress made in these areas throughout the year. The theme recognizes the efforts of our people across Throughout this report you’ll find more detail on our activities the business in bringing corporate social responsibility to and progress in 2016. We encourage your feedback on our life in our everyday operations. From adopting best practice CSR Report via csr@sita.aero approaches to actively engaging with local communities, our Barbara Dalibard people have a key role to play. CEO, SITA At the start of 2016 we set ourselves a series of targets in environmental reductions and volunteering activity, and I am pleased to report that we achieved them by year end. Notable improvements were the 10% increase in volunteering days CSR REPORT 2016 3 BETTER TOGETHER OUR ORGANIZATION In October the organization brought together three solution SITA is the communications and IT lines to create Air Travel Solutions, while creating a new group within the company called Strategy and Business Support. solution provider that transforms air travel through technology for airlines, During the year, we moved to a new building for our kiosk operations in Burlington, and transferred to new premises in at airports and on aircraft. Dubai and Amman. Other than this, there have been no major changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain since the last report, issued in May 2016. Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, SITA is also one of the world’s most international companies. Our global reach Detailed information on the composition and structure of is based on local presence, with 2,400 customers in 200+ our organization as it pertains to financial and other annual countries and territories. We employ approximately 4,700 reporting requirements is included within the SITA Group people of more than 140 nationalities, speaking over 60 Financial Statements and SITA Group Annual Report. These different languages in more than 125 countries. See the are available on request from the SITA Board Secretariat after 'Our People' section for further detail on our diverse their approval at SITA’s AGA on 23 May 2017. global workforce. GOVERNANCE CORPORATE STRUCTURE SITA Board: As of 31 December 2016, the SITA Board SITA’s corporate structure comprises SITA SCRL, a Belgian comprised 13 Directors including the SITA CEO. Board cooperative, and SITA N.V., a Dutch commercial company. The Directors are nominated by the SITA Council for appointment majority of SITA’s activities are today undertaken through SITA by the General Assembly of Members. The term of office for N.V., although SITA’s network services are housed in the SITA Board Directors, except the SITA CEO, is three years, with cooperative. one-third of the Board seats being available for re-election each year. The SITA Board supervises the activities of the SITA The SITA Trust Foundation is an Employee Share Plan Group to ensure its effective operations. The role of the Board Trust. SITA Group Foundation’s shareholding is fixed, with has been modeled on best practice for both co-operative and companies holding certificates in the Group Foundation, which commercial organizations. represent the economic interest in the N.V. shares. There is a very large overlap between the members of SITA SCRL The SITA Board has two standing Committees which report and the certificate holders of the SITA Group Foundation. In into the SITA Board. The Audit and Risk Management practice, although SITA N.V. has two main shareholders – SITA Committee advises the Board on matters relating to financial SCRL and the SITA Group Foundation – they function as one policy and control, as well as risk management of SITA. On a governing body for SITA N.V. SITA SCRL is wholly owned by its quarterly basis, the Audit and Risk Management Committee members. Shares in SITA SCRL are reallocated to members review all risks recorded in the corporate risk register, each year based on their use of all SITA services in the including any related to economic, environmental and social previous year. This means that the shareholding structure of impacts. The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on the cooperative is variable, rather than fixed. matters relating to SITA-wide remuneration policies. 4 CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER HIGHLIGHTS →→ In 2016, and for the third time →→ For the third time in the past four →→ Leo, a fully autonomous, selfin seven years, Frost & Sullivan years, SITA was named 'IT Company propelling baggage robot has the recognized SITA as the Airport IT of the Year' in the Air Transport News capacity to check in, print bag tags Solutions Company of the year in the (ATN) Awards in March 2016. The and transport up to two suitcases Asia Pacific (APAC) region. The award award recognizes SITA’s leadership with a maximum weight of 32kg. highlights SITA’s leading role in the and innovation in developing It also has an obstacle avoidance air transport industry across APAC, solutions that transform air travel capability and can navigate in a where it provides solutions to 70% of through technology. high-traffic environment such as the region’s top 20 airports. an airport. 105 2,000+ THE NUMBER OF MEMBERS OF OUR PATENTS SITA HAS GLOBAL CUSTOMER BEEN GRANTED SERVICES TEAM TO DATE SITA Council: The SITA Council represents and safeguards SITA SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM the interests of our membership with the right of final approval over specific and important matters relating to the SITA’s CEO leads our Senior Leadership Team (SLT), which high-level direction of the organization. The SITA Council is takes responsibility for defining and setting SITA’s corporate also consulted on any other matter having a material impact strategy (including economic, environmental and social on services provided to SITA members. The Council also aspects), policies, and organizational structure. The SLT serves as the governing body for the SITA Air Transport comprises our most senior executives from across the Community Foundation (see later in this report). Finally, and business areas, functions, geographies and the CEO Office. very importantly, the SITA Council is tasked with gathering community opinions and reporting back on their actions. The SITA Council is composed of up to 34 member representatives. The Council President, who is a representative of a member organization, chairs the SITA Composition of the Council. Senior Leadership Team The SITA Council has two standing committees. The 2 Nomination Committee recommends SITA Board Directors 4 and SITA Council President and Deputy President for appointment by the Annual General Assembly. The Gender Age Membership Committee addresses membership policy and rules. 15 13 Women Men 30-49 50+ Composition of governing bodies Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination Membership SITA Board SITA Council Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Average Tenure 5 3.1 5.2 4.8 4.5 5.8 Men 11 25 5 5 10 5 Women 2 4 1 0 0 0 TOTAL 13 29 6 5 10 5 CSR REPORT 2016 5 BETTER TOGETHER OWNED 100% BY MORE THAN 400 AIR TRANSPORT INDUSTRY MEMBERS, WE HAVE A UNIQUE UNDERSTANDING OF ITS NEEDS AND PLACE A STRONG EMPHASIS ON TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION. OUR SOLUTIONS AND SERVICES organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. These are available on request from the Board Secretariat at SITA after Airlines, airports, aircraft, ground handlers, governments, their approval at SITA’s AGA on May 23, 2017. ENERGY CONSUMPTION air cargo, aerospace, air navigation service providers and SITA’s main environmental impacts have been identified as international organizations all use our information and STAKEHOLDER energy consumption andENGAGEMENT subsequent emissions related to communication technology (ICT) solutions, relying on SITA's normal business operations, use of materials (such as paper, expertise to keep the industry in motion. Our portfolio covers We’re owned byemissions the air transport community, and we print toners) and from business air travel. In addition, everything from managed global communications and collaborate closely with all our stakeholders – members, SITA has some locations with on-site diesel storage and this is infrastructure services, to eAircraft, passenger management, customers, and industry bodies, as well as employees and recorded as an environmental aspect. baggage, self-service, airport and border management local communities worldwide. solutions. In fact, nearly every airline and airport in the This is less that reported in the previous year. While we were not world does business with SITA and our border management able Members: Asdata to collect for some sites that an industry-owned were included organization, SITAin the 2014 solutions are used by more than 30 governments. SITA also data when we consider understands the overall the importance intensity factors of delivering products a decrease and is operates a joint venture; Aviareto, which provides aircraft shown. Throughout services the year that are highly the benefits valued by the air the implementation of transport industry. asset management to the air transport community, and a ofThrough low energy ourlighting, reduced cooperative floorspace structure, and more we provide energy high-speed subsidiary, CHAMP Cargosystems which provides Cargo efficient network equipment continuetotoand communications betweenIn be realized. July we completed members on a management, community integration and eCargo services. a not-for-profit offices refresh on ourbasis in drive and Atlanta thewhich saw our IT agenda floorspace in the industry by A full breakdown of our solutions and services can be found reduce. This floorspace researching and investing in thehas reduction latest been calculated nottechnology in the innovations. online: www.sita.aero/solutions-and-services/solutions overall SITA’sintensity members reports, benefitbutfrom be applied willSITA’s 2016 report in theand neutrality against the full year independence and data. (154)and operate their services in the can plan ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE knowledge that SITA offers services everywhere, including remote and challenging locations. In turn our members Economic performance is reported in the SITA Group guide our direction and strategy through the SITA Council, Financial Statements for the period January 1 to December which has reserved seats for both airport and ICT provider 31, 2016. The statements include revenues, operating costs, representatives. See our membership pages for more employee compensation, retained earnings, payments to information: www.sita.aero/about-us/sita-membership capital providers and governments, and coverage of the HIGHLIGHTS →→ 93% of respondents to our Community Value Index (CVI) survey →→ SITA’s annual employee survey enables our people to give feedback 82% agreed, strongly agreed or absolutely anonymously on a variety of topics. OF OUR PEOPLE agreed that SITA adds value to the air We share the results internally, and PARTICIPATED transport industry. identify areas where improvement IN THE ANNUAL has been made, or where it may be EMPLOYEE SURVEY →→ We had 935 respondents to our required, develop action plans, and CVI survey. The results show that collaboration, engagement and communicate our progress. our people are the most strongly recognized aspects of the community 94% value that SITA brings. OF OUR PEOPLE ARE WILLING TO WORK BEYOND WHAT IS REQUIRED TO HELP 6 CSR REPORT 2016 SITA SUCCEED BETTER TOGETHER Customers: We engage with our customers regularly through SITA events such as the annual Air Transport IT Summit. We hear from our customers through forums including our Customer Advisory Board (CAB), which helps shape our strategy and portfolio, and the Communications and Infrastructure Advisory Board (CIAB), which acts as the voice of the community with respect to our network services. We operate formal feedback channels, such as our annual Customer First Feedback Survey, and our Community Value Index (CVI). We engage regularly with customers through committees and user groups specifically dedicated to airports, baggage, passenger, aircraft, and AIRCOM services. For more information please visit: www.sita.aero/about-us/ working-for-the-community/customer-forums Employees: We engage with our employees as talented partners contributing to our success and growth as a business. Individual development plans and performance rewards help our employees stretch their capabilities and those of the organization. Formal feedback channels include an annual employee survey conducted by an independent third party, while 25 of our larger offices benefit from on-site leadership to engage with local priorities and concerns through a Locations Leader program. We also hold regular staff calls and encourage our people to ask questions. And, our Values in Action awards are an opportunity for individuals or teams to be recognized for their contributions to the business. Industry associations: SITA has working partnerships with over 50 air transport industry associations, international organizations and institutions. By working with a wide range of air transport associations in global and regional forums, we aim to deliver common approaches and set new standards that help the industry as a whole become more efficient. A fuller description of our industry engagement is available at www.sita.aero/about-us/working-for-the-community Local communities: All our employees are encouraged and empowered to take part in community and charitable projects and events through our Value in Volunteer Action (VIVA) program which gives each employee a full day’s paid leave for volunteer activity each year. An overview of 2016 VIVA activities are included later in this report. CSR REPORT 2016 7 BETTER TOGETHER CSR AT SITA SITA’s CSR office is managed by dedicated resource and reviewed monthly at a minimum by SITA’s SLT. Issues related reports into the Senior Leadership Team (SLT). It is to environmental and social factors, and materiality, are complemented by the CSR Executive Review Board, assessed throughout the year by SITA’s CSR Office, and 2-3 comprising key members of our SLT, who review and approve times annually through the CSR Executive Review Board. strategy, act on a consultative basis for issues raised, review the CSR Report, and support integration of CSR throughout We conduct annual standalone compliance risk assessments the business. to identify business operations which have a higher risk of a compliance breach, often due to the type and location of the activities carried out. These areas receive additional focus and MANAGEMENT APPROACH support including further training and guidance. Compliance We make reference throughout this report to the management and ethics risks are also reviewed as part of our annual approach to addressing SITA’s material issues – detailed corporate risk management process. in the 'About this Report' section. Many of the aspects are incorporated into standard business practice such CSR TARGETS as corporate policies and established processes. These ensure that we always act responsibly and in compliance SITA defines a set of targets for corporate social responsibility with all national and local laws in areas such as labor, at the start of each reporting period. These are agreed by health and safety, anti-bribery and corruption, ethics and the CSR Executive Review Board, and shared on our intranet the environment. In addition, local country policies are where they are available for all employees. The environmental implemented where required. targets form part of our environmental management system, under the ISO14001 framework. SITA adopts a precautionary approach with regards to Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Three environmental targets had reduction goals, while two Development. Through alignment to the UNGC, certification to had no change. At year end, all five environmental targets ISO14001, ongoing management and a corporate risk register, were exceeded. A further target was set for volunteering the company addresses aspects related to corporate social days, and this was also exceeded during the year. In addition, responsibility. SITA’s Internal Audit and Risk Management a target was defined around product sustainability, and team conduct reviews of the register on a quarterly basis, and the definition of an approach that could articulate SITA’s the reports are shared with our SLT as well as the Audit and contribution to reducing the environmental impact of aviation. Risk Management Committee (see 'Our Organization', page Work commenced in this area during 2016, and will continue 4). The economic and operational aspects of the business are into the following year. CSR targets Indicator 2016 Target Status year end Water usage across three key sites No increase on 2015 Reduction of 4.4% Track paper consumption in major sites No increase on 2015 Reduction of 3%* Electricity consumption in offices where the ability is 0.4% decrease Reduction of 10.5% present for measurement Energy intensity per square meter 0.5% decrease Reduction of 5.3% Emissions intensity per square meter 0.5% decrease Reduction of 5% Product sustainability Define methodology Ongoing Number of volunteering days recorded 200 days 223 days Achieved or exceeded Ongoing *includes an additional site reporting data 8 CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER HIGHLIGHTS 7,000 →→ Through our online Learning Portal, →→ A responsible procurement all employees can access training online course is available and is that covers areas of human rights compulsory for all purchasing staff THE NUMBER including SITA-specific courses on and recommended to all staff. A OF SUPPLIERS the Code of Conduct: Best Practices course on identifying modern slavery WE WORK WITH and Ethics and Compliance Training. ACROSS THE will be released in 2017, and will be mandated for key employees. GLOBE ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE business practices. The self-certification is being updated to reflect the increased focus on modern slavery and the current Wherever we are in the world, we are committed to doing legislative requirements. business the right way by acting honestly and fairly, complying with laws and regulations and adhering to policies and HUMAN RIGHTS procedures. Our Integrity, Compliance and Ethics (ICE) Program is endorsed by our CEO and the SITA Board, and SITA’s Code of Conduct clearly states the expected behaviors acts as an umbrella program bringing together compliance of those who work with us. Harassment in the workplace is activities on anti-bribery and corruption, trade controls, data strictly prohibited. This includes any behavior toward another protection and competition. person based on that person’s race, color, gender, age, disability, religion, nationality, or sexual orientation, which is Raising awareness of and educating employees on unacceptable and personally offensive to the recipient. compliance, ethics and the applicable laws and regulations is a fundamental part of our compliance governance. All Our SITA office in India has a sexual harassment policy and employees are required to complete mandatory e-learning complaints committee to deal with any concerns, with all on our Code of Conduct every two years. Targeted mandatory local employees notified of the policy, the committee, and e-learning on anti-bribery and corruption, as well as on trade the requirements on behavior. They have the company’s sanctions, is provided to employees on a risk-based approach, assurance that any complaints will be handled promptly supported by face-to-face training whenever possible. and thoroughly. Our employees can raise questions and report concerns using The nature of our business means that while we are ever a web-based reporting system, anonymously if preferred. cognizant of the risks of human rights abuses, they are an All reports are investigated promptly and thoroughly, and area of low-risk for our organization. Our responsible supply feedback on results of the investigation is provided in a timely chain self-certification references human rights – specifically manner. Where appropriate, disciplinary action up to and in the areas of non-discrimination and harassment, child including dismissal is taken, and/or additional guidance and labor, human rights, and sourcing from conflict countries. To training provided. SITA does not tolerate retaliation against date we have received no responses that have given anyone making reports in good faith. Any retaliation will be us concern. treated as a violation of our Code of Conduct. Modern slavery: We do not consider there to be a high risk of modern slavery, including but not limited to child labor, OUR SUPPLY CHAIN forced or compulsory labor, or loss of freedom of association and collective bargaining, in any of our operations. All SITA’s procurement reaches across the globe with around employees have contracts in place, and SITA does not retain 95% of spend with 1,300 key suppliers. Supplier selection is original identification documents for any purpose. Freedom of primarily based on the value for money principle. However, we movement is exercised for all employees across all sites always consider quality, timely delivery, reliability, warranty, and countries. safety, security, CSR and after-sales services and support when making a procurement decision. We expect all our suppliers to comply with SITA Security Requirements and to DATA PROTECTION AND embrace the social and environmental principles set forth INFORMATION SECURITY in our Supplier Code of Conduct. More information on our At SITA we respect and protect the privacy of our people, supplier requirements is available at: www.sita.aero/others/ customers, third parties, business partners and others, only supplying-sita using personal data when needed to operate effectively or to comply with the law. SITA’s Corporate IT Policy outlines the From time to time we ask a sample of our suppliers to rules, standards and guidelines for the use and management complete an online self-certification against a set of criteria of our IT resources. Our information security office monitors aligned to the UNGC 10 principles. The responses allow us and manages the security of our infrastructure, while keeping to look at the practices in our supply chain, and to evaluate employees up to date on threat awareness. whether they are meeting our expectations on responsible CSR REPORT 2016 9 BETTER TOGETHER OUR PEOPLE employees work part-time in line with local statutory “Anyone considering a role with SITA rights. Employee entitlement to parental leave also meets or exceeds statutory requirements in all countries where should know that they will have the we operate. opportunity to develop and grow their career while working with a supportive HEALTH AND SAFETY management team and one of the most We are committed to providing a safe and professional work dedicated and diverse set of co-workers environment to protect the health and wellbeing of our that they will ever encounter.” people. Our workforce operates primarily from local office environments, meaning risks of accident and injury at work Cassandra Brown, Senior Territory Manager, SITA Global Services, Atlanta and of occupation related diseases are relatively low. Our standards and processes are documented in a Master Health, Safety and Security Policy which serves as a basis for site policies and procedures that comply with local regulations. WORKING AT SITA All new hires at SITA receive mandatory health and safety More than 4,700 employees in 125 countries around the world training. Formal joint management-worker health and safety create success together at SITA, providing the information committees are in place in major locations including in the technology and networking solutions that keep the air UK, France, Canada, South Africa, and Australia. Employee transport industry flying high. We maintain high standards entitlement to sick leave meets or exceeds statutory of labor conditions for all our personnel, whether directly requirements in all countries where we operate. employed, contract, or engaged through our offshore partners. We meet and exceed the requirements of local laws SKILLS AND DEVELOPMENT and regulations where we operate, as well as International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. In 2016 our staff recorded, on average, 32.6 hours of training, up slightly from 31 hours the previous year. An We do not discriminate based on trade union membership or upgrade to our Learning Portal training system made non-membership and have collective bargaining agreements self-service courseware available on mobile devices for in place fully or partially in 10 countries representing the first time. Training frameworks are in place to support 8.3% of SITA’s directly employed workforce. Roles at SITA SITA “professions” or areas of functional expertise including are generally full-time. As a global principle, there is no Project Management, SGS Academy for our service distinction made between benefits provided to full-time management profession, Sales Excellence, Technology employees and to part-time employees. 1.9% of SITA HIGHLIGHTS →→ Throughout January 2016 a new →→ Inspired by the Letterkenny →→ We provide first aid training in all LifeBalance program brought a LifeBalance program, the SITA our major locations to our “people range of health activities to our Madrid office launched “A Healthy who help” – employee volunteers Letterkenny employees including Office” which included “Fruit who support local health & safety physical health checks and advice, Tuesdays” and workshops on committees with emergency help a fitness program, life coaching and ergonomics, laugh therapy and when needed. motivation, mental health promotion stress management. and mindfulness training. 10 CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER Employee turnover Training hours by gender and employee category TOTAL JOINERS LEAVERS Women 507 595 non-supervisor 28.3 Women supervisor 37.3 BY GENDER JOINERS LEAVERS Men WOMEN 129 168 non-supervisor 31.6 MEN 378 427 Men supervisor 41.3 BY AGE GROUP JOINERS LEAVERS 50+ 59 173 30-49 274 298 Performance review by gender and employee category* UNDER 30 174 124 Women non-supervisor 16.3% BY LOCATION JOINERS LEAVERS Women MEIA 66 69 supervisor 2.7% EUROPE 234 303 Men non-supervisor 57.8% ASIA PACIFIC 59 61 Men AMERICAS 148 162 supervisor 13.6% Sickness absence 585 WOMEN Voluntary turnover rate by gender (5,324 days) 2016 1,894 1,309 MEN (8,691 days) (14,1014 days) 4.8% Parental leave 77 114 75 110 75 110 WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN Total number of employees that took Returned to work after parental Total number of employees who parental leave in 2016 leave ended still employed after twelve months of return *This figure takes into account employees who may not have completed performance reviews due to parental leave, medical leave or time of joining. CSR REPORT 2016 11 Employees by location 12 0 1,000 United States 900 United Kingdom 521 India 336 Canada 301 Switzerland 296 Singapore 253 1,47 Czech Republic 195 0 BETTER TOGETHER CSR REPORT 2016 France 181 Ireland 152 1,1 40 United Arab Emirates 103 2 Australia 93 Germany 91 Part time 26 Secondment 16 Jordan 88 5 Gender: Women Men 1,477 Brazil 87 Americas 33 Total employees by region, gender 7 South Africa 80 China 76 Lebanon 67 Total employees by gender, employment type Mexico 66 Italy 49 Egypt 46 Netherlands 43 Hong Kong 35 Employment contract: and employment contract Russian Federation 35 Fixed Term 634 Denmark 31 Indonesia 31 54 0 11 Malaysia 30 Indefinite term 3,615 Full time 3,699 Spain 28 Belgium 28 651 6 These visualizations include SITA and SITAONAIR employees plus students / graduates, 111 and employment contract Bangladesh 22 Asia Pacific Malta 22 Taiwan, Province of China 21 Argentina 20 Indefinite Term Pakistan 20 Colombia -19 Japan 19 Oman 18 Thailand 18 1,62 6 Chile 17 Fixed term 94 MEN Turkey 17 371,2 Korea, Republic of -15 Secondment Saudi Arabia 14 Morocco 13 Europe Romania 11 but excludes SITA Bureau Services (SBS) and CHAMP Cargosystems. Costa Rica 10 1,747 119 2 Nepal 10 Employees 4,709 46 Fixed term WOMEN 51 Total Employees 985 Full time Poland 10 Jamaica 9 0 Peru 9 Bulgaria 8 1,004 Indefinite term Curaçao 8 Ghana 8 Qatar 8 Offshore 66 Part time Vietnam 8 1 Secondment Philippines 8 FTE 2,124 8 89 Ecuador 7 Nigeria 7 08 8 Sweden 7 2 Tanzania, United Republic of 6 Middle East, India Israel 5 901 93 New Zealand 5 10 362 Contractors Norway 5 Trinidad and Tobago 5 and Africa Austria 4 67 Students / Graduates BETTER TOGETHER HIGHLIGHTS →→ A “Girls in Tech” career event for a →→ Active since 1999, SITA’s European →→ All our major locations and most local girls’ school and a discussion Works Council (EWC) agreed a of our medium and small locations session on “Unconscious Bias” new charter in 2016 to further engage outplacement services to were on the agenda during a week support information exchange and support continued employability dedicated to diversity and inclusion consultation with staff from member following severance. SITA Montreal in October 2016. European states. 28% 47% 200+ OF ROLES OF LEADERSHIP EMPLOYEES OVERALL WERE ROLES WERE RECEIVED LONG FILLED BY INTERNAL FILLED BY INTERNAL SERVICE AWARDS CANDIDATES CANDIDATES Management, and Product Management as well as a and in most countries we significantly exceed statutory dedicated Management Leadership Excellence (MLX) program requirements.Read more about EEO at SITA at: www.sita. to develop SITA leaders of the future. aero/about-us/careers During 2016, our customer e-learning platform, SITA Three employee resource groups (ERGs) were established University, expanded to include all SITA solution training for in 2016 in our Americas region. The SITA WE (Women customers and SITA employees alike. This has enabled more Empowered) ERG serves as a resource for women at SITA, effective knowledge transfer on our products and solutions to positively influence the work environment, build an to our people and reduced the need to develop and maintain internal support system for women colleagues and promote training materials for different audiences. Now with over professional and leadership development. The group 8,000 students, SITA University is set to grow significantly into is open to all employees and meets regularly to network new areas and become a differentiator for SITA. and plan events and programs including workshops, speaker events, charitable fundraising, and mentoring and Over the past two years our Passenger Services organization coaching opportunities. has adopted a “Temporary Assignments” scheme to allow SITA staff to experience job rotation to gain new skills, The SITA Military Support ERG is a resource for veterans and perspectives and in many cases a new career. Every newly family members of veterans and serving military members. requested role (contract or permanent) is reviewed and an Through social and fundraising events, this group, with internal candidate is sought before opening a position for colleague, family and local support, provides direct assistance recruitment. Employees can try a role in another area of the to military support organizations such as the USO (United business on a full or part time basis without risking their Service Organization) and raises awareness of issues facing existing position. Not only has this approach been great for service personnel and their families. morale, it has demonstrably improved skills and interworking and enabled the business to adapt to the changing needs The SITA Pride LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and of the market without significant recruitment challenges Transgender) ERG was created to support a population and costs. with developing and maturing issues within the workplace. Through social media, information campaigns, and community based charities, this group and their allies are connected DIVERSITY virtually to each other for sharing ideas, concerns, and to find and provide support within the community. SITA is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer. We do not discriminate based on age, race, color, creed, religion, In 2016, SITA entered the fourth year of an Employment Equity national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, program in Canada which monitors how four designated disability, marital status, protected veteran status, or any groups – women, Aboriginals, persons with disabilities, other characteristic protected by state or federal law. Working and visible minorities – are represented. The latest report hours and leave entitlement, including parental leave, are pertains to the 2015 full year and confirms our compliance allocated as per local laws in all territories where we operate, with the reporting requirements of the Canadian Employment Equity Act (EEA). Azerbaijan 4 Iran (Islamic Republic Of) 4 Kuwait 4 Sint Maarten (Dutch Part) 4 Sri Lanka 4 Venezuela 4 Zambia 4 Ethiopia 3 French Polynesia 3 Hungary 3 Kazakhstan 3 Kenya 3 Mongolia 3 Myanmar 3 Portugal 3 Ukraine 3 Antigua and Barbuda 2 Aruba 2 Cambodia 2 Cameroon 2 Cape Verde 2 El Salvador 2 Greece 2 Maldives 2 Mauritius 2 Mozambique 2 Papua New Guinea 2 Paraguay 2 Republic of Serbia 2 Slovakia 2 Sudan 2 Togo 2 Tunisia 2 Uganda 2 Algeria 1 Angola 1 Bahrain 1 Brunei Darussalam 1 Burkina Faso 1 Burundi 1 Chad 1 Congo 1 Congo, The Democratic Republic 1 Croatia 1 Cyprus 1 Eritrea 1 Fiji 1 Gabon 1 Grenada 1 Guinea 1 Guyana 1 Korea, Democratic People's Rep 1 Lao People's Democratic Rep 1 Libya 1 Mali 1 Mauritania 1 Reunion 1 Senegal 1 Suriname 1 Syrian Arab Republic 1 Turkmenistan 1 Uzbekistan 1 Yemen 1 Zimbabwe 1 CSR REPORT 2016 13 BETTER TOGETHER SITA AND THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental targets are shared with all staff on our SITA retains a strong commitment to intranet. Each of the sites where we capture data has an online environmental statement that shows metrics, including understanding, managing and reporting energy consumption, energy intensity and emissions intensity its environmental impacts. by quarter. Where available, water consumption and paper use is also reported. In addition, each statement includes the ways that environmental impacts can be reduced at that site, Throughout SITA’s business we have implemented activities for example by outlining the recycling services available. Our that support our intent to reduce our environmental impacts. corporate environmental policy is available for all employees, These impacts are generated through a number of aspects, and sets out our expectations for responsible behavior. including energy consumption from our operations, business Our offices in London, Geneva, Rome, Singapore, Atlanta and travel, use of IT equipment, and materials use in our offices. Montreal are all certified to ISO 14001:2005 (Environmental SITA started to collect environmental data in 2011, and now Management Systems), with the move to ISO 14001:2015 tracks and reports activity across 19 sites in 17 countries. planned for the 2017-2018 period. Currently around 47% of our While we have a wide presence across the globe, many of office based employees are covered by the standard. our operations are in premises where we are a tenant, and We started measuring water consumption in three sites utilities form part of the overall service contract. Where we (Atlanta, Singapore, Prague) in 2015, and recorded a reduction are able we collect exact information, but in some multiof 4.4% in water use across these sites in 2016. We have been tenanted sites we are assigned a proportion of the tracking paper consumption across 24 sites and were able to overall consumption of utilities. demonstrate a 3% reduction over the last 12 months. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ENERGY We set targets against our energy, water and materials Across the 19 sites where we can capture data, the energy consumption for the year. Our performance was good overall, consumption was recorded as 24,375,828 KwH. This represents with reductions exceeded against the targets (see 'CSR at a reduction of 10.5% against the previous year’s consumption. SITA', page 8). Influencing factors have included continued The energy was used for electricity and heating or cooling improvements in our offices – either during refurbishments or our offices. moves to increasingly energy efficient buildings. The energy intensity for the year was recorded as 479 KwH/ The implementation of multifunction printers with default SqM, and is a decrease of 5.3% against 2015. The intensity is double-sided monotone printing has also contributed, as calculated by dividing the energy consumed (as above) by the has the use of more energy efficient equipment across our floor space in square meters occupied at each site. corporate estate. Work started on a product sustainability initiative, and this continues into 2017. 14 CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER HIGHLIGHTS →→ Around 68% of our office based employees are based in locations 15 19 where we track and report on our THE NUMBER OF LOCATIONS environmental activity. People at LOCATIONS WITH WITH ONLINE these sites can see our progress VIDEOCONFERENCING ENVIRONMENTAL through environmental statements on SUITES STATEMENTS the company intranet. 11.4% 4.4% since 2011 REDUCTION 10.5% IN WATER since 2015 CONSUMPTION 27,242,174 24,375,828 3% REDUCTION IN PAPER CONSUMPTION 24 2015 2016 THE NUMBER OF SITES WHERE Energy consumption (KwH) WE TRACK PAPER USAGE 5.3% since 2015 LONDON 10.1% GENEVA MONTREAL since 2011 ATLANTA ROME SINGAPORE 506 479 6 ISO 14001:2004 CERTIFIED SITES CERTIFIED TO ISO14001 LOCATIONS COVER 45% OF SITA'S 2015 2016 WORKFORCE Energy intensity (KwH/SqM) CSR REPORT 2016 15 BETTER TOGETHER DURING THE YEAR WE MADE SOLID PROGRESS AGAINST OUR ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS. EMISSIONS Emissions are captured from two sources; those from energy 3.8% consumption of our operations (at offices) and emissions as a result of business travel. The total emissions for the organization for the year was 25,993 tonnes CO2e. Overall a emissions reduction in emissions was reported of 3.4%. 2% increase in reduction overall since 2015 Emissions from energy consumed in our operations was air travel 11,731 tonnes CO2e for the year, a reduction of 10%. DEFRA emissions since 2015* 17.3% (2014) GHG factors are used for the calculation of emissions reduction in emissions from from our operations from energy consumption, except operations for the UAE, Lebanon and Jordan where the International since 2011 Energy Agency (2014) factors were used. We break down the greenhouse gases into carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). The intensity of emissions from operations is calculated by Our travel suppliers provide a report on the annual emissions normalizing the tonnes of CO2e emitted by the number of for 95% of the business travel undertaken by our people. In square meters occupied. In 2016, the intensity ratio for our 2016, this was 14,262 tonnes CO2e, and represented 19,736 office operations was 230 tonnes CO2e / SqM, a reduction of flights, including domestic, continental and intercontinental 5% on the previous year. As outlined in the section on energy, routes. This is an increase of 2% on the previous year. this is mainly due to changes in our premises. As an organization that supports nearly every airline and airport in the world, air travel is an essential part of our MANAGING IT EQUIPMENT RESPONSIBLY business as a provider to the air transport industry. We have robust control measures in place to prevent unnecessary SITA’s environmental commitment includes the responsible travel. This is supported by a suite of online collaboration and and appropriate management of end-of-life IT equipment. conferencing tools that enable our teams to work together This is both from our own operations and where equipment across the globe. is part of a customer project. Working with a small number of selected specialist providers, 2016 saw over 86,000 kg of equipment recycled in 78 countries – from Afghanistan Source of emissions to Zimbabwe. This includes computers, servers, monitors, networking equipment and associated peripherals. 2015 2016 Emissions from energy 13,027 11,731 consumption (tonnes CO2e) Emissions from aviation 13,961 14,262 6,660+ (tonnes CO2e) PIECES OF IT EQUIPMENT WERE Total emissions 26,988 25,993 RECYCLED IN 2016 *normalised to reflect a common 16 CSR REPORT 2016 baseline percentage of flights recorded BETTER TOGETHER 25,993 CO2e TOTAL EMISSIONS (Tonnes) 11,725 (Tonnes) CO2* 0.53 (Carbon Dioxide) (Tonnes) CH2 AIR TRAVEL (Methane) 14,262 5.62 (Tonnes CO2e) (Tonnes) N2O (Nitrous Oxide) CO2e** (Carbon Dioxide equivalent) Greenhouse gas from operations and business travel *Sites where SITA measures energy consumption (68% of offices) **Represents 95% of all global air travel CSR REPORT 2016 17 BETTER TOGETHER SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES London: On World Kidney Day, SITA London raised 630 GBP (US$1050) through a silent auction for the Southampton Children's Hospital Kidney Awareness Fund and a bake stall for the West London Kidney Patients Association. Montreal: A sponsored stair relay race and a waffle sale in Montreal raised CAD$839 (US$625) for community Letterkenny: 22 SITA organization Centraide. Letterkenny employees undertook a 10-hour bag pack at the Tesco Letterkenny supermarket and raised EUR1540 (US$1720) for Vancouver: SITA Vancouver Special Olympics' Ireland. staff wore jeans to work for the Cure Foundation’s National Denim Day and Paris: Together with family raised CAD$170 (US$130) for and friends, SITA colleagues breast cancer research. strolled the streets of Paris in a sponsored treasure hunt that raised EUR215 (US$240) for diversity Atlanta: The SITA Veterans organization “Accueil et Employee Resource Group Culture”. raised over US$1,700 for the Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport USO. Geneva: Geneva staff took part in an Institute for Women in Aviation Worldwide challenge for International Women’s Day, folding 526 paper planes in 15 minutes. Since 2011, SITA employees have been Frankfurt: SITA Frankfurt continued its active support enabled and encouraged to of SOS Kinderdorf with a take a fully-paid day each volunteer visit to the charity’s allotment for day year to support charitable of weeding, watering, and garden tidying. and community causes through our Value in Volunteer Action (VIVA) program. Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo: 15 SITA Brazil employees joined the Run and Walk against Breast Cancer, raising BRL975 (US$267). 18 CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER 223 volunteer days taken US$145,487 raised by employees since 2011 for community-based projects Brussels: Working with Belgian charity Arc-en-Ciel, SITA Brussels organized a half-day aviation themed programe of games and activities at US$500,000 the Air Museum for a group of children from disadvantaged backgrounds. invested each year from 2015 Copenhagen: Our Copenhagen office in IT and education in Africa organized a holiday collection of clothes through the SITA Air Transport and donations – including 300 pairs of new socks – for homelessness support charity Community Foundation and soup kitchen, The Black Pot . Rome: Following the earthquake in central Italy, SITA Rome collected EUR300 (US$340) for the Italian Red Cross. At Christmas they organized a second event, a gift pack sale that raised EUR780 (US$815) Prague: Our Prague office held a to support small food businesses still recovering blood donation event, collecting from the quake. about 20 liters of blood in total. Hong Kong: SITA's Hong Kong office took part in hunger awareness event, “Skip-A-Meal”, and raised HKD4,650 (US$600) for World Vision food projects worldwide. Beirut: Our Beirut office organized a food and clothing collection and donation campaign in cooperation with the Red Cross, resulting in 20 boxes of food and supplies packed and delivered by SITA volunteers. Dubai: At Ramadan SITA Dubai staff launched operation #shoeboxlove, filling 40 boxes with non-perishable food, toiletries and long distance phone cards for expatriate workers. Kerala: The SITA team in Trivandrum, Kerala, India raised INR 65,000 (US$1,000) for the local Amman: Staff from our Trinity Balabhavan student Amman office visited the hostel, and made an Talbieh camp in Zizia, in-person delivery of beds, bringing with them a delivery pillows, and other of heaters, blankets, and food supplies for the 41 supplies for local families in children resident there. difficult circumstances. Singapore: 28 SITA Singapore colleagues made a volunteer visit Johannesburg: On Nelson Mandela together at the Willing Hearts International Day, SITA opened its Kitchen, cooking 5,000 meals for 5th fully functional computer lab at less fortunate in their community. Namedi Secondary school in Soweto, and to mark the occasion our staff volunteered to serve Sydney: A Sydney team spent the lunches for all the learners. day volunteering at Foodbank, the largest food relief organisation in Australia, picking and packing food orders of up to 2 tonnes. CSR REPORT 2016 19 BETTER TOGETHER EDUCATION IN AFRICA This was accompanied by a ‘Connect’ learning device built The SITA Air Transport Community using a RaspberryPi, which creates a local area wireless network, giving computers in the ICT classes access to 64GB Foundation has helped around 15,000 ENERGY CONSUMPTION of learning resources. The Connect devices are enabling SITA’s main environmental impacts have been identified as students to date in Africa, giving them students to study independently, and at their own speed. energy consumption and subsequent emissions related to access to IT and education. Teachers also benefit from using the devices to produce normal business operations, use of materials (such as paper, teaching materials and handouts easily. The Connect devices print toners) and emissions from business air travel. In addition, provide long-term sustainability as they can easily be SITA has some locations with on-site diesel storage and this is The SITA Air Transport Community Foundation was uploaded with new content. recorded as an environmental aspect. established with the SITA Council, driven by an aim to bring meaningful and sustainable impact to individuals and “Students and teachers' ICT knowledge has been increased, This is less that reported in the previous year. While we were not communities in Africa by providing access to IT and education. teachers have started to use computers in their day to day able to collect data for some sites that were included in the 2014 Since its first year of operation in 2015, the Foundation has activities, and students reading habits have increased.” data when we consider the overall intensity factors a decrease is given opportunities to young people in Ethiopia, Uganda, SchoolThroughout shown. Principal the year the benefits of the implementation Zimbabwe and South Africa. It is supported in its projects of low energy lighting, reduced floorspace and more energy by partnering with the charities ComputerAid International, INCREASED efficient equipmentACCESS TOrealized. continue to be ICT INInUGANDA July we completed PEAS, and the Wits Foundation. a refresh on our offices in Atlanta which saw our floorspace reduce. ICT labs were fourfloorspace In 2016This underhas reduction construction in Uganda, not been calculated in the MAKING TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBLE bringing overall the total intensity to 11 since reports, work but will began in be applied in 2015. These the 2016 report IN ETHIOPIA labs are against secondary theatfull schools year data. (154) in rural areas, and are brand new buildings. The project includes installing solar power, During the year, IT equipment was provided for the computers, networking equipment and furnishings. The Information, Computing and Technology (ICT) rooms at 25 foundation also funded computer training for teachers at rural primary schools in Amhara, Ethiopia, that the foundation each of the schools. Student confidence and skills in using funded in 2015. As part of the follow up monitoring of the computers are increasing, and many of the schools are project, new IT needs were identified, and in 2016 each offering after school computing opportunities. school received a projector and screen, printer, headphones and speakers. 20 CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER HIGHLIGHTS: THE SITA AIR TRANSPORT COMMUNITY FOUNDATION IN NUMBERS 4 25 100 COUNTRIES RASPBERRYPI ICDL WHERE PROJECTS CONNECT DEVICES SCHOLARSHIPS ARE ACTIVE DELIVERED FUNDED C700 43 200+ PCS INSTALLED ICT LABS TEACHERS EQUIPPED TRAINED EMPOWERING YOUNG WOMEN The memberships are enabling young entrepreneurs (aged IN ZIMBABWE 18-35) who have some skills in digital hardware, software development, business development and digital content A project at the University of Zimbabwe saw 100 PCs installed development to have access to a shared innovation space, in computer rooms at seven female student halls of residence meeting rooms, fast internet connectivity, and mentors to – enabling the students to have safe 24/7 access to computing increase their knowledge and experience. facilities. In addition, 100 female students were given the opportunity to gain an IT qualification by completing four key “This is a chance to look at the modern things that are taking modules of the International Computer Driving Licence. This place in the ICT sector. When we speak digital we’re speaking is helping to improve confidence and skills, and to give an about hardware, software and content and how they all come advantage in their future careers. Funding has also allowed together in an increasingly connected world.” janitors at the halls to take the training to provide additional JCSE director Professor Barry Dwolatzky support for the students. “Taking ICDL was a dream come true for us. I’d definitely BETTER TOGETHER recommend it. Almost everything now is computerized so it During the year, a set of Partnership Principles were agreed will be an advantage to every aspect of our lives.” by the governing body of the foundation, the SITA Council. These were put to good use, as we were delighted to welcome STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT IN SOUTH AFRICA Mindtree as a partner to the foundation in 2016. They are supporting us with an annual contribution, which will help us At the University of the Witwatersrand, 21 students have to expand the scope of our work and to positively impact more benefitted from grants to help them continue their studies. young people in Africa. The students – four women and 17 men – are studying subjects including; Aeronautical Engineering, Business Through 2017, the foundation will continue to work with our Information Systems, Computer Science, Electrical and charity partners to support existing projects in Ethiopia, Information Engineering, and Information Systems. In addition Uganda and South Africa, while beginning a new program to the two students who graduated in 2015, a further five for secondary schools in Zimbabwe, and supporting the students completed their studies in 2016 and will graduate construction and equipping of ICT labs in Zambia. early 2017. See more at www.sita.aero/csr “I’d like to thank SITA so much for the funding. SITA has been that silver bullet, and really given me the opportunity to focus on my studies – and I’m truly grateful for that.” Letlotlo Khoathane, Business Information Systems The opening of the Digital Technology Innovation Zone at the Tshimologong Precinct during the year saw 18 SITA funded memberships activated. Tshimologong is a versatile and connected space for Braamfontein’s digital startup scene in Johannesburg. Coders, developers, artists, and digital makers can make use of the precinct’s facilities. CSR REPORT 2016 21 BETTER TOGETHER EDUCATION AROUND THE WORLD INDIA 2016 also marked the sixth year of our learnership program in South Africa. Each year SITA provides fully paid oneWe continued to fulfil CSR requirements set down in the year learnership contracts to enable young people from India Companies Act through an education sponsorship previously disadvantaged backgrounds to complete technical of SOS Children’s Villages in the amount of INR 14,400 IT-related accredited programmes as well as gain work to support 75 orphaned children. We also began a new experience at our office. 64 learners (42 women and 22 men) education sponsorship of Khushii (Kinship for Humanitarian have completed the program to date. In 2016, we engaged Social & Holistic Intervention), a national non-governmental 11 students (nine women and two men) on the learnership organization working on poverty alleviation, in the amount of program. All the learners graduated; nine entered a higher INR 420,000. level IT learnership program, and two secured jobs within the IT industry. IRELAND Our education programs in South Africa form part of our commitment to Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment In 2016, our higher education program in Letterkenny (B-BBEE), a South African code of good practice to advance welcomed eight students from Ulster University and Queen’s historically disadvantaged people in the country’s economy. University Belfast on the intern placement scheme and a SITA is rated as Level 3 on the ICT sector B-BBEE Charter further 11 students on the graduate stream from universities Scorecard with 110% procurement recognition. including LYIT, Ulster University, and Maynooth. 2016 marked the fifth year of our Skills @ Work partnership with Finn Valley College, where we work with secondary school RUSSIA students aged 16 throughout the academic year on activities including team building, a working day at SITA, interviewing Our cooperative education program with Moscow State training and finally mock interviews. University of Civil Aviation (MSTU CA) continues to develop and attract students from Russia and beyond. From 20 students in 2014, its inaugural year, the program catered to around 100 SOUTH AFRICA students as of the end of 2016, and includes monthly lectures on our products by SITA subject matter experts, SITA learning On 18 July 2016, coinciding with Nelson Mandela International collateral, and participation in university science events. Day, we officially opened our fifth SITA-sponsored computer lab at Namedi Secondary School. The lab comes fully Read more about how SITA invests in the future through equipped with 40 PCs, a server, smartboard, and a printer. education at: www.sita.aero/about-us/corporate-socialSITA also funded teacher training. We maintain an ongoing responsibility/education relationship with the schools we’ve helped support through the computer lab program and work with the schools to identify top performing students for ICT scholarships. HIGHLIGHTS 64 5 100 YOUNG PEOPLE COMPUTER STUDENTS WHO HAVE LABS OPENED IN LEARNING ABOUT COMPLETED SOUTH AFRICA SITA PRODUCTS LEARNERSHIPS IN IN RUSSIA SOUTH AFRICA 22 CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER GRI INDEX GRI G4 DISCLOSURE UNGC COP LINKAGE LOCATION COMMENTARY G4-DMA No COP requirement Page 8 Strategy and analysis G4-1 No COP requirement Page 2 Organizational profile G4-3 No COP requirement Page 4 G4-4 No COP requirement Pages 4, 6 See www.sita.aero/solutions-and-services/ G4-5 No COP requirement Page 4 solutions G4-6 No COP requirement Pages 4, 14 G4-7 No COP requirement Page 4 G4-8 No COP requirement Page 6 Pages 4, 6 G4-9 No COP requirement SITA Group Consolidated Employment numbers do not vary seasonally Financial Statements 2016 G4-10 Principle 6: Labor Pages 11, 12 G4-11 Principle 3: Labor Page 10 See www.sita.aero/others/orders-andG4-12 No COP requirement Page 9 deliveries G4-13 No COP requirement Page 4 G4-14 No COP requirement Page 8 G4-15 No COP requirement Page 8 See www.sita.aero/about-us/working-forG4-16 No COP requirement Page 7 thecommunity/ Identified material aspects and boundaries Page 2 G4-17 No COP requirement SITA Group Consolidated Financial Statements 2016 G4-18 No COP requirement Page 2 G4-19 No COP requirement Page 3 The reported data for energy consumption, emissions from operations, and paper G4-20 No COP requirement Page 2 consumption includes four sites shared with subsidiaries (CHAMP Cargosystems and SITA Bureau Services), representing 65 employees. G4-21 No COP requirement Page 2 G4-22 No COP requirement Page 2 G4-23 No COP requirement Page 2 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 No COP requirement Page 6 G4-25 No COP requirement Pages 3, 6 G4-26 No COP requirement Page 3 G4-27 No COP requirement Pages 6, 7 http://www.sita.aero/resources/key-it-trends Report profile G4-28 No COP requirement Page 2 G4-29 No COP requirement Page 2 G4-30 No COP requirement Page 2 G4-31 No COP requirement Page 1 See www.sita.aero/resources/sita-social G4-32 No COP requirement Page 2 G4-33 No COP requirement Page 2 CSR REPORT 2016 23 BETTER TOGETHER GRI INDEX Governance See www.sita.aero/about-us/sita-boardG4-34 No COP requirement Page 5 council-members G4-35 No COP requirement Page 8 G4-36 No COP requirement Page 8 See www.sita.aero/about-us/sita-management G4-37 No COP requirement Page 8 G4-38 No COP requirement Page 5 G4-39 No COP requirement Page 4 Selection of the governance bodies (SITA’s G4-40 No COP requirement Page 5 Board and Council) are directed by the Articles of Association for SITA SCRL. G4-42 No COP requirement Page 5 G4-45 No COP requirement Page 3 G4-46 No COP requirement Page 4 G4-47 No COP requirement Pages 4, 8 G4-48 No COP requirement Page 8 G4-49 No COP requirement Page 9 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Principle 10: Anti-corruption Page 9 MATERIAL ASPECTS LOCATION UNGC COP LINKAGE COMMENTARY Business integrity G4-57: Page 9 Principle 10: Anti-corruption G4-58: Page 9 Data protection and Page 9 No COP requirement information security Electronic waste Page 16 No COP requirement Employees: talent G4-LA9: Page 12 Principle 6: Labor acquisition and retention G4-LA10: Pages 10, 11 G4-LA11: Page 11 Environmental management G4-EN3: Page 14 Principle 7 & 8: Environment and compliance G4-EN5: Pages 14, 15 G4-EN6: Pages 14, 15 No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with G4-EN29 environmental laws and regulations were received in the reporting period. No grievances about environmental impacts G4-EN34 were filed in the reporting period. 24 CSR REPORT 2016 BETTER TOGETHER Labor and working practices G4-LA1: Page 11 Principle 6: Labor G4-LA2: Page 10 G4-LA3: Pages 10, 11 G4-LA6: Page 10 G4-LA12: Pages 5, 12, 13 G4-LA13: Page 11 G4-HR5: Page 9 G4-HR6: Page 9 G4-EC1: Page 6 Local economic contribution SITA Group Consolidated Financial Principle 1: Human Rights Statements 2016 G4-EC3: Page 6 SITA Group Consolidated Financial Statements 2016 http://www.sita.aero/solutions-and-services/ Operational excellence and services-support/sita-global-services Page 5 No COP requirement customer satisfaction http://www.sita.aero/solutions-and-services/ services-support/managed-services Product and service Page 5 No COP requirement http://www.sita.aero/innovation innovation Reducing greenhouse gas G4-EN16: Page 16 No COP requirement emissions G4-EN17: Page 16 G4-EN18: Page 16 G4-EN19: Page 16 G4-EN21: Page 17 G4-EN30: Page 2 Responsible procurement Pages 9, 16, 17 Principle 7 & 8: Environment Working with local http://www.sita.aero/about-us/corporateG4-SO1: Pages 7, 13 No COP requirement communities social-responsibility/community-involvement CSR REPORT 2016 25 Geographic Offices For further information, please contact SITA by telephone or e-mail: Americas +1 770 850 4500 info.amer@ sita.aero Asia Pacific +65 6545 3711 info.apac @ sita.aero Europe +41 22 747 6111 info.euro @ sita.aero Middle East, India & Africa +961 1 637300 info.meia @ sita.aero www.sita.aero/CSR CSR@sita.aero Follow us on www.sita.aero/socialhub © SITA 2017 Printed by Technique Print Group using their environmental print technology. Printed on Forestry Stewardship Council® (FSC®) accredited paper stock.
