United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Sustainability Report 2016 We Promote Sustainability Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategie 1 Contents 3 // FOREWORD Profile of NRW.BANK and Key Performance Indicators 11 // STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility 19 // PROMOTION REPORT Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients 28 // GREEN BOND NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2016 45 // ECO-BALANCE Climate and Environmental Protection 54 // HUMAN RESOURCES Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees 68 // CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Showing Commitment to Society This is an unofficial translation of the Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2016 (German Sustainability Report 2016) and is provided for convenience purposes only. In the event of any ambiguity, the German text will prevail. Foreword by the Managing Board Dear Readers, Sustainability is a key factor for the social acceptance of a company – and hence for its economic success. Being the development bank of North RhineWestphalia, we are obliged to operate sustainably by law and by our statutes. But we also understand sustainability as a source of motivation – we operate sustainably out of conviction as we support the State of North Rhine-Westphalia in its long-term economic, social and environmental development. Since 2004, we have documented the progress made and the impacts of our efforts in our Sustainability Report. In 2009, we additionally signed the ten internationally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact, which are incorporated into our day-to-day work. We have since reported annually on the progress achieved – and for the second time, we are doing so in a separate Sustainability Report. The contents of this year’s report already comply with the requirements of the German Sustainability Code, which means that we have taken another important step by increasing transparency even further in line with the provisions of EU Directive 2014/95/EU. The term “sustainability” is used increasingly often these days and it is interpreted in many different ways. To us, however, sustainability is much more than a buzzword – it is what we do and strive for every day. Climate and ­environmental protection is a guiding principle for our work as a development bank. Since many years, we have operated resource-efficiently in order to protect the environment and the climate. For example, in building, renovating and management of our buildings we endeavour to use the most state-of-the-art construction and technical standards available. Our banking operations have been carbon-neutral for many years already. The basic rule is that where we cannot avoid emissions, we fully neutralise them through the acquisition of certificates. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Foreword 3 NRW.BANK also attaches great importance to fairness, partnership and esteem in dealing with its employees and is committed to mutual respect, openness and non-discrimination. This way, we create an attractive environment, high motivation and a productive internal climate. At the same time, we also understand sustainability as a social mission. Balancing work and family life and supporting education for young people are important goals of NRW.BANK. With our wide range of promotion products and services, we offer the right product for any promotion purpose in North Rhine-Westphalia. Geared to sustainability, NRW.BANK’s promotion business continued to grow strongly in 2016. A volume of new commitments of € 11.2 billion marks a new record in the history of the Bank. As in the previous years, a focus was placed on the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises including new business start-ups as well as housing construction and infrastructure in municipalities. In 2016 we also added offerings for innovative companies as well as business start-ups in the digital sector to our range of products and services. With our annual Green Bond issue investors have been given the opportunity since 2013 to invest in ecological and sustainable investments. Since then, we have issued four Green Bonds worth a total amount of € 1.75 billion. These funds are exclusively invested in sustainable projects focusing on climate and environmental protection. In addition, the Wuppertal Institute has calculated the greenhouse gas emissions that have been saved by the projects selected for the 2016 Green Bond. Over the 10-year term of the NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2016, the projects avoid roughly 3.4 million tons of CO2 equivalents. The result underlines the positive impact on the environment of these projects. The present Sustainability Report will give you a detailed overview of our internal efforts and the progress made as well as the diverse measures and the current promotion programmes for sustainable operation in North RhineWestphalia. We hope this provides you with an interesting read and look forward to communicating with you. The Managing Board of NRW.BANK Eckhard Forst Gabriela Pantring Michael Stölting Dietrich Suhlrie Chairman of the member of the member of the member of the Managing Board Managing Board Managing Board ­Managing Board Sustainability Report 2016 >> Foreword 4 Profile of NRW.BANK and Key Performance Indicators NRW.BANK is the state development bank of North Rhine-Westphalia. Its Municipal financing also forms part of NRW.BANK’s public mission. The mission is to support its owner, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, in the Bank is the ideal partner of the North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities, completion of its structural and economic policy tasks. In its three fields which it supports with advisory services and promotion products also in of promotion “Economy”, “Housing” and “Infra­structure/Municipalities”, times of low interest rates. NRW.BANK uses a wide range of promotion tools – from low-interest promotion loans to equity financing to advisory services. It cooperates with In the previous year, NRW.BANK for the first time published its Sustain­ all banks and savings banks on a competition-neutral basis. The clients of ability Report as a separate report. This year’s report even more strongly NRW.BANK benefit from favourable conditions as well as from long maturireflects the criteria of the German Sustainability Code. The progress made is ties and fixed interest periods. The Bank secures access to promotion loans presented in an even more transparent manner and the course has been set through optional liability releases for on-lending house banks. for future reports to meet the requirements of EU Directive 2014/95/EU, whose transposition into German law the German Bundestag decided in The Bank is a strong and reliable partner to small and medium-sized enterMarch 2017 by adopting the Act on the Implementation of the CSR R ­ egulation. prises in North Rhine-Westphalia and supports them with the right products in any phase of their lifecycles. In the context of its social housing promotion activities, NRW.BANK advises the approval authorities of the responsible municipal or local governments as well as prospective developers and owners on the possibilities to make social housing construction modern, flexible and profitable using suitable promotion programmes. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Foreword 5 Key performance indicators € 142.1 billion in total assets reported by NRW.BANK as of 31 December 2016. € 11.2 billion 100 % of the unavoidable CO2 emissions resulting from NRW.BANK’s in net new commitments in FY 2016 mark a new promotion record. 12 ­business activity are offset by certificates to make the Bank c­ limate neutral. In addition, 100% of its electricity years comes from renewable energy sources. have passed since NRW.BANK started reporting on 500 sustainability. Inspiring the development bank to continuously million develop its sustainability philosophy further. € was the amount of the fourth NRW.BANK.Green Bond issued in November 2016, bringing NRW.BANK’s total Green Bonds issuance to € 1.75 bn. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2016 >> Vorwort 6 Sustainability balance Economic performance indicators 2016 2015 2014 Unit Financial performance indicators Total assets 142,066 141,175 143,843 €m Equity capital pursuant to the German Commercial Code 17,983 17,982 17,933 €m Net interest and net commission income1) 738 700 568 €m Administrative expenses 215 210 215 €m Operating result 465 364 381 €m Cost income ratio 31.6 36.6 36.1 % Non performing loans ratio 0.2 0.5 0.7 % Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 41.76 42.58 40.09 % Leverage ratio2) 11.63 11.80 – % Liquidity coverage ratio >100 > 100 – % NRW.BANK.Green Bonds Volume 500 500 500 €m Maturity 10 10 4 years Focus Energy Energy Energy Second Opinion oekom oekom oekom oekom-Rating3) pending Approved (B+) Approved (B+) CO2-savings per year4) 685 540 400 t/€ m Fields of promotion (new commitments) Housing & Living 6,792 5,148 4,278 €m Seed & Growth 3,028 3,344 3,178 €m Development & Protection 1,341 1,185 1,441 €m Sustainability Report 2016 >> Foreword 7 Sustainability balance Social performance indicators 2016 2015 2014 Unit Employee structure Number of permanent employees 1,301 1,271 1,233 employees Women in % of total workforce 52.4 52.8 52.1 % Share of women in management positions 31.6 30.3 27.2 % Part-time employees in % of total workforce 28.8 24.9 23.8 % Turnover ratio 3.7 3.1 2.6 % Average period of employment 16.4 16.6 16.6 years Average age 44.6 44.5 44.4 years Additionally: temporary employees 34 53 66 employees Additionally: apprentices/trainees 37 38 50 employees Vocational and further training Participation in internal seminars 762 866 650 employees Participation in external seminars 373 361 372 employees In-house trainers 172 191 190 employees Balance of work and family life Part-time employees 375 316 294 employees Executives working part-time 34 24 22 employees Employees on passive parental leave5) 40 40 50 employees Corporate citizenship Total 0.8 0.7 0.7 €m Science & Education 49 49 47 % Society & Social Affairs 31 14 14 % Arts & Culture 20 37 39 % Sustainability Report 2016 >> Foreword 8 Sustainability balance Environmental performance indicators 2016 2015 2014 Unit Greenhouse gas emissions6) Total emissions 2,330 2,220 2,106 t CO2 thereof direct emissions (Scope 17)) 412 626 707 t CO2 thereof indirect emissions (Scope 27)) 818 940 579 t CO2 thereof indirect emissions (Scope 37)) 1,100 653 821 t CO2 Emissions per employee 1.7 1.5 1.6 t CO2 thereof offset8) 100 100 100 % Building energy Total electricity consumption 5,846,930 5,381,110 5,802,897 kWh thereof from green electricity 100 100 100 % Electricity consumption per employee 4,148 3,747 4,287 kWh Total heating energy 5,406,170 4,846,170 4,433,420 kWh Heating energy per employee 3,836 3,374 3,276 kWh Business travel Total kilometres travelled 4,565,586 4,584,672 4,324,270 km Kilometres travelled per employee 3,239 3,192 3,195 km Paper Total paper consumption9) 42,936 44,077 46,620 kg Paper consumption per employee9) 30.5 30.7 34.4 kg thereof recycled paper 63.4 71.1 53.0 % Waste Total waste10) 227.0 249.9 210.4 t Recycling ratio 53.2 55.3 48.3 % Waste per employee 161 174 156 kg Full-time equivalents For the calculation per employee 1,409 1,436 1,353 employee Sustainability Report 2016 >> Foreword 9 Sustainability balance Ratings 2016 2015 2014 Creditworthiness ratings (long-term) Fitch Ratings AAAs AAAs AAAs Moody‘s Aa1s Aa1s Aa1s Standard & Poor‘s AA-s AA-s AA-s Dagong Europe AA+s AA+s AA+s Sustainability oekom research imug MSCI ESG Vigeo Prime (C) Positive (B) AA not public 1) As of fiscal 2016, interest effects from provisions not related to the banking business (mainly provisions for pensions and provisions for additional benefits) are no longer recognised in net interest income but in other operating income. The prior year figures were adjusted accordingly. The figures for 2014 still reflect the old valuation method. 2) Pursuant to Disclosure Report 3) oekom research rates sustainability bonds on a 12-points scale from “excellent” (A+) to “largely non-transparent” (D–). “Approved“ status (Bor better) is assigned to green bonds that qualify for green portfolios. 4) The savings of the Green Bonds 2014 and 2015/2016 cannot be compared due to different calculation methods. 5) As of 31 December. Does not include employees who work part-time during parental leave. They are shown under “Part-time employees”. 6) The conversion factors correspond to the 2015 VfU Update. To facilitate comparability with the previous years, the figures for 2014 were also determined using these conversion factors, which has resulted in deviations from the report 2014. 7) Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category (Scope 1): all direct emissions. – Emission category (Scope 2): all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources. – Emission category (Scope 3): all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. 8) NRW.BANK offsets its CO2 emissions through the purchase of certificates from wind park projects in developing countries. 9) Printing and copying paper, excl. printed matter, envelopes and marketing materials 10) Only office waste, excl. kitchen and other waste Abbreviations: CO2: carbon dioxide; kg: kilogramme; km: kilometre; kWh: kilowatt hour; m: million; t: tons Sustainability Report 2016 >> Foreword 10 // STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Transparent, responsible and conscientious dealings with its ­owner, its customers, its employees and society form the basis of the sustainable operations of NRW.BANK. The Bank is committed to living up to its corporate responsibility and to evolving it in a far-sighted manner across all areas of the company. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategie 11 Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility In accordance with the law under which it was founded as the development NRW.BANK’s promotion activities are geared to funding projects of proven bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK accepts its corporate responeconomic viability while taking its customers’ interests into account and sibility. Its activity is geared to the principle of sustainability, which it has paying particular attention to environmental protection needs. Projects with defined as follows: “Sustainable development is development that meets the unacceptable environmental impacts or unacceptable negative impacts on needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations social development are excluded from NRW.BANK’s support to the extent to meet their own needs”. that such exclusion is permissible within the legal framework under which NRW.BANK operates. NRW.BANK sees sustainability as a central guiding principle and a key criterion in taking decisions on business policy. This credo is reflected in In the fiscal year 2016, NRW.BANK set up a Sustainability Working Group, all phases of NRW.BANK’s corporate activities, starting from its strategic which is charged with pushing ahead the Bank’s sustainability efforts. It is and business policy decisions to the shaping of its range of products and planned, among other things, to develop and adopt sustainability guidelines services down to the implementation of specific financings, its capital market which ultimately outline NRW.BANK’s approach to sustainability and support activities and its offering of consulting services. its ongoing evolution. NRW.BANK understands the economic, environmental and social dimen­sions The Sustainability Working Group has also been tasked with anchoring the of sustainability as being inextricably linked. In accordance with its sustain­ processes that have so far been implemented in the context of the “Principles ability strategy, NRW.BANK specifically promotes such funds ­projects and of Corporate Responsibility at NRW.BANK” of 7 December 2012 even more programmes which are designed to improve living conditions, social developstrongly in the organisational structure and the overall strategy of NRW.BANK. ment as well as environmental and climate protection in North Rhine-Westphalia. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategy and Governance 12 Objectives By developing new and expanding existing promotion products, the Bank In the context of the planned sustainability guidelines, NRW.BANK will supports the North Rhine-Westphalian government’s structural and eco­ set itself objectives that will push ahead the sustainable development of nomic measures as well as its energy and climate protection targets. The NRW.BANK and have a positive influence on the future of North Rhinefurther development of its promotion offerings is based on trusting comWestphalia munication and close coordination with the responsible state ministries The corporate objectives agreed between the Supervisory Board and the The annual financial report and the Sustainability Report are the most Managing Board are divided into objectives of general importance which important communication tools used by NRW.BANK to supply its stakeholare to be achieved over a long to medium-term period and objectives to ders with transparent information about its corporate responsibility. The be achieved within twelve months. These are derived from NRW.BANK’s sustainability portal on the Bank’s website provides additional information. overall strategy, which in turn follows the general principle: “The Bank‘s NRW.BANK continuously expands the information offered and added a new activities are guided by the principles of sustainability. The details are page about its Green Bond programme back in 2013. outlined in the Principles of Corporate Responsibility at NRW.BANK.” Interest groups The promotion strategy plays a big role in NRW.BANK’s overall strategy. It defines the objective of promoting measures for the protection of resources, Guarantor the increase of efficiency and the development of renewable energy. Another Employees objective of NRW.BANK is to support the state of North Rhine-Westphalia in achieving its environmental policy objectives. End Borrowers Rating Agencies Stakeholder Dialogue House Banks The essential cornerstones of the sustainability efforts pursued by Initiatives/NGOs NRW.BANK include transparent and responsible relations with its owner, Suppliers customers, employees and society at large. NRW.BANK lives up to this Media commitment based on its Public Corporate Governance Code. In addition, ... Investors NRW.BANK has defined the core elements of its corporate mission in its corporate mission statement. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategy and Governance 13 Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility CO2-neutral banking 100% green electricity Recycled paper ENVIRONMENT Responsible employer  Vocational and further training  Job & Family certification SOCIETY  Award-winning health management Corporate citizenship Education Start-ups ECONOMY Infrastructure Innovation Municipalities SMEs Environment/ IN ADDITION Climate/Energy Housing Sustainability ratings from: imug, MSCI ESG, oekom research, Sustainalytics, Vigeo Signatory of: Diversity Charter, Green Bond Principles, UNEP Finance Initiative, UN Global Compact, VfU e. V. Green Bond Programme Second Opinion from oekom research Impact analysis by Wuppertal Institute Green private placements possible Launch of a Green Bond investment portfolio Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2016 >> trategie und Governance 14 In performing its tasks, NRW.BANK is guided by the principle of sustainaperformance and integrity. The Bank is committed to compliance with bility. This is firmly anchored in its statutes (section 5, para. 1) and the Act regulatory and statutory provisions as well as with internal requirements, on NRW.BANK (section 3, para. 1) and thus underlines the importance of which forms the basis for such trust. this topic. Sustainability is also a general principle of overriding importance in the Bank’s strategy. Compliance-related topics are implemented in accordance with the Minimum Requirements for Risk Management (MaRisk), the Anti Money Laundering Statutory Framework and Internal Regulations Act (GwG) and the Securities Trading Act (WpHG). As a matter of course the Bank complies with the statutory provisions ­applicable in Germany. NRW.BANK has additionally formulated its own The Compliance Department, which forms part of the Risk Control unit, is “Principles of Corporate Responsibility”. They contain rules on cultivating the central body that is responsible for addressing these tasks. The Bank sustainable relations with customers, employees and society as well as has appointed a Compliance Officer (MaRisk, WpHG) as well as a Money special aspects resulting from the framework conditions of NRW.BANK Laundering and OP Risk Officer as well as deputies for exercising the varisuch as “Verständigung II”, public mission and house bank principle. ous Compliance functions. They report directly to the Managing Board and are bound by instructions only from the latter in performing their tasks. In addition, the Bank has developed internal policies addressing various aspects of sustainability at NRW.BANK. Its tasks primarily include: development, communication and review of the Bank-wide Compliance/Money Laundering Prevention framework, managing Labour Standards and Human Rights the compliance risk whilst taking other risk types into account, such as Compliance with human rights and with the labour standards that are reputational and operational risks. In addition, they carry out Bank-specific applicable in Germany as well as the rejection of child and forced labour are risk analyses to assess the appropriateness and effectiveness of the principles, a matter of course for NRW.BANK at all its locations and has been anchored resources and processes and refine and update them. They assist the in its Principles of Corporate Responsibility. ­Managing Board in all compliance-related matters and regularly report to the latter. Equal Opportunities and Principle of Non-discrimination To offer its employees a fair and good working environment, the Bank The development bank pursues a preventive approach to raise awareness attaches importance to mutual respect and avoiding discrimination. This of compliance matters. It has established a set of detailed, written internal is why equal opportunities and the principle of non-discrimination are laid Compliance Regulations as well as mandatory regular training courses on down in the Principles of Corporate Responsibility and in special internal compliance, money laundering prevention and other criminal acts for all its guidelines. employees. Compliance and Money Laundering Prevention Both locations of NRW.BANK have the same risk profile. The business model of NRW.BANK hinges on its owner, its employees, customers, business partners and the public trusting in its expertise, Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategy and Governance 15 Data Protection All purchases are made in accordance with the applicable regulations of public To ensure that data are handled responsibly and confidentially in the con­ procurement law and, in particular, with the North Rhine-Westphalian wage text of its business activity, NRW.BANK has regulated all activities in the area law for public procurement (TVgG-NRW). of data protection and banking secrecy in a set of written policies and instructions. NRW.BANK is fully aware of its role model function for sustainable procure­ ment and consistently implements environmental, economic and social The Bank meets its statutory training obligations relating to data protection sustainability in the procurement process. Compliance with a number of and information security towards its staff. essential sustainability aspects is mandatory under the Restriction of Com­ petition Act (GWB), the TVgG-NRW and the Minimum Wage Act (MiLoG ). Corruption Prevention This includes compliance with requirements relating to minimum and Besides its regulations on compliance, anti money laundering and data collective wages, environmental protection, energy efficiency, promotion of protection, NRW.BANK’s set of written policies and instructions also include women, work-life balance as well as social criteria (ILO Core Labour Stan­ general instructions and regulations relating to other criminal acts as defined dards). in section 25h of the Banking Act (KWG). These are addressed at all emplo­ yees of the Bank and also include the prevention of corruption. The Bank places orders which exceed the EU thresholds in accordance with the Procurement Regulations (VgV) as well as the Construction Contract NRW.BANK has also established effective processes for receiving and Procedures (VOB/A). The Bank additionally performs an audit in accordance pursuing reports of suspicious behaviour. In the event of infringements or with section 8 of the North Rhine-Westphalian Anti-Corruption Act (Korrup­ the detection of other criminal acts, the central function established in the tionsbG) before placing orders worth € 25,000 or more. This way, the Bank Risk Control unit in accordance with section 25h KWG takes action. It receives can rule out bribery, fraud, influence peddling, restrictive agreements and potential reports and coordinates the entire process relating to reports of other forms of corruption. suspicious behaviour and risk notifications relating to money laundering and other criminal acts. Charges are filed by the Legal unit only in consul­ NRW.BANK has decided to implement a structured procurement process tation with the central function. also for orders that do not exceed the EU thresholds for tenders. There was no evidence of infringements or reports of suspicious behaviour In the context of its procurement policy, the Bank integrates environmental at NRW.BANK in the reporting year, nor were any fines or non-monetary aspects also into the procurement of office materials as well as the ordering penalties imposed on NRW.BANK. and logistic processes. An example is the carbon neutral sending of mail through NRW.BANK’s participation in the “GoGreen” programme of Sustainable Procurement ­Deutsche Post DHL Group. In the fiscal year, NRW.BANK won 2nd place in NRW.BANK is committed to the economic, economical, efficient and sustain­ a sustainability competition organised by its office materials supplier. able procurement of goods as well as construction and other services. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategy and Governance 16 In the reporting year, NRW.BANK again demonstrated its commitment to It implements the collectively agreed results for its employees under assuming responsibility towards society at its two locations in Düsseldorf ­collective agreements. This is done on a voluntary basis for the majority of and Münster, where the Bank promoted the employment of disabled people employees not covered by collective agreements. by commissioning workshops for disabled to provide such services as laundry and cleaning. Initiatives and Memberships In accordance with its Principles of Corporate Responsibility, NRW.BANK Public Corporate Governance Code also contributes to tasks identified outside its own business activity. The Being a development bank, NRW.BANK is very much committed to transBank is a signatory of the following sustainability-relevant initiatives and/or parent and responsible action towards the public, its guarantor and owner the voluntary commitments for sustainable corporate activity developed by as well as investors, customers and employees. This commitment is based on the latter: the Public Corporate Governance Code, as last amended on 1 January 2014, with which the members of the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board and German Diversity Charter the Board of Governors fully identify with. Building on this basis, the Bank Green Bond Principles publishes an annual Public Corporate Governance Report to inform about UNEP Finance Initiative material corporate governance developments. This report is contained in the UN Global Compact Annual Report and is additionally published as a separate document on VfU e. V. NRW.BANK’s website. As an ordinary member of the Association of German Public Sector Banks For many years, the Bank has implemented transparency and responsibility and the European Association of Public Banks, NRW.BANK actively particiin its dealings with its target groups. In early 2006, NRW.BANK was one of pates in working groups and panel discussions on sustainability and green the first publicsector companies in Germany to adopt a Public Corporate bonds. Governance Code and to officially commit itself to this standard of corporate governance. Sustainable Products NRW.BANK continuously optimises its business activities with regard to Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining sustainability and has anchored these efforts in its principles. The focus The Bank’s staff council represents the interests and needs of the emplois placed on the core business segments and, hence, on the integration of yees of NRW.BANK based on the North Rhine-Westphalian State Staff the individual sustainability issues in its promotion products in order to Representation Act. In 2016, the staff council again monitored compliance “design sustainable promotion for clients”. with applicable laws, regulations, collective bargaining agreements as well as labour agreements and informed the employees of both head offices at Special attention is paid to sustainability risks and to compliance with the the annual staff assembly. Principles of Corporate Responsibility also when launching new products. The Bank has established an internal process in the context of which each Being an institution under public law NRW.BANK is subject to the collective new promotion product of NRW.BANK is checked for compliance with bargaining agreement for the private sector and the public banking industry. sustainability values. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategy and Governance 17 Responsible Marketing The Bank is firmly committed to treating customer information confidentially. The Bank’s Data Protection Officer is involved in all SUSTAINABILITY dialogue-based marketing measures based on customer data to ensure ­R ATINGS responsible marketing. In compliance with the provisions Rating agencies specialising in sustainability have rated NRW.BANK’s performance in fields such as of the TVgG-NRW, NRW.BANK environment, society and governance for several years. In 2016, the Bank again scored good ratings. considers important aspects of corporate responsibility when Rating agency oekom research AG, for instance, rates the sustainability of issuers on a scale from making purchases or placing orders A+ to D–. NRW.BANK scored a “C” rating, with the additional “Prime” rating thus classifying the in the context of its marketing Bank as a sustainable investment. This means that the Bank’s rating is only three notches below the activities. best sustainability rating “B” in the peer group. The Bank’s advertising materials In the 2016 imug sustainability rating of bank bonds, NRW.BANK ranks within the top quarter of also reflect its commitment to the 42 German financial institutions analysed and is among the TOP five of the 13 development sustainability and include, for banks analysed. instance, articles made from recycled or renewable, biodegradable In addition, DZ BANK awarded NRW.BANK with the “sustainability seal” in its “EESG” rating. materials. Sustainability oekom research imug MSCI ESG Sustainalytics Vigeo Prime (C) positive (B) AA not public not public Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategy and Governance 18 // PROMOTION REPORT NRW.BANK’s products and services are designed to secure the standard of living and to improve climate and environmental protection in North R ­ hine-Westphalia. In addition, the Bank supports a balanced social ­development in the North Rhine-Westphalian regions. The aim is to strengthen the stability of society. Accordingly, all of NRW.BANK’s promotion and development activities make a contribution to the development of enterprises and m ­ unicipalities in North Rhine-Westphalia. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategie 19 Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients Sustainable behaviour is a key objective of NRW.BANK’s business policy have been approved on to NRW.BANK. The house banks are liable to and means the equal consideration of social, economic and environmental NRW.BANK for potential credit defaults and bear the full default risk for objectives and ethical matters. Most importantly, the sustainability objective promotion loans they channel through. shapes and guides NRW.BANK’s promotion offerings. To ensure that the house banks are willing to act as conduits also in the case For its promotion business the Bank uses the full range of lending tools of insufficient collateral, NRW.BANK optionally offers liability releases for and also steps in when banking and lending expertise is required for the house banks, resulting in the house banks and NRW.BANK sharing the risk. promotion process. The main instruments used include low-interest promotion loans, risk assumptions and equity financing. In 2016, NRW.BANK Commercial promotion loans are extended directly only in case of a market committed promotion funds totalling € 11.2 billion. This represents yet failure or significant market inefficiencies. As defined in the NRW.BANK another increase on the high of € 9.7 billion recorded in the previous year. law municipal loans and commercial loans to central, regional and local For detailed information on the promotion business, please refer to the governments as well as to public-sector special-purpose associations and chapter “The Promotional Business of NRW.BANK” in the financial report. social housing promotion programmes are typically extended directly by NRW.BANK. Apart from the provision of funds, forward-looking and requirement-oriented promotion increasingly requires customer-oriented advisory services. Focus of the Promotion Business NRW.BANK has therefore built its advisory services and solutions into a NRW.BANK’s promotion business is qualitative and theme-oriented. Up to second, equally important pillar of its business. the end of 2016, NRW.BANK distinguished between three fields of promotion: “Seed & Growth“, “Development & Protection” as well as “Housing & Partnership and Cooperation Living”. Since the beginning of 2017, the promotion s­ ervices are provided NRW.BANK cooperates with other financial and development institutions in the three fields of promotion ”Economy”, “Housing” as well as “Infrain a spirit of partnership. NRW.BANK conducts its commercial promotion structure/Municipalities”. These fields of promotion are divided into various business in cooperation with the banks and savings banks in a competitionpromotion themes. ­Objectives and measures defined for each of these neutral manner based on the “house bank principle”. According to this promotion themes are put into practice using specific promotion products. ­principle, the Bank has no direct contacts with its clients but extends its promotion loans via banks and savings banks, which act as intermediaries. The latter check the loan and promotion applications and pass those that Sustainability Report 2016 >> Promotion Report 20 “We are a strong partner to North Rhine-Westphalia, in particular when it comes to expanding and upgrading its infrastructure in a susInfrastructure NRW.BANK Wind power tainable way. This way we help shape a livable ­development: Energieinfrastruktur: generators: future for everybody in the state”. € 2.1 bn € 471 m > 80 Eckhard Forst “All aspects of our promotion business are geared to sustainability. We support SMEs NRW.BANK.Universalkredit und in all situations by giving them the right kind NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit: of promotion to ensure that no good idea goes unrealised because of lack of access to € 2.1 bn funding”. (5,700 enterprises) Michael Stölting “Our sustainable promotional business makes it possible for us to issue green bonds on an NRW.BANK.Green Bonds: annual basis. The projects financed by these bonds are characterised by their favourable impact on the environment”. € 1.75 bn (since 2013) Gabriela Pantring “Private investors and the housing sector have stepped up their investments in social housing again. This way, we create affordable Social Housing Promotion: housing with a view to the future”. € 1.1 bn Dietrich Suhlrie 11,149 promoted residential units Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2016 >> Förderbericht 21 NRW.BANK’s offerings in the field of promotion “Economy” cover the full The field of promotion “Infrastructure/Municipalities“ covers ­f inancing and lifecycle of small and medium-sized enterprises. Besides the general supply advisory services supporting the solid capitalisation of municipalities and of capital for SMEs, the Bank has placed a focus on the effective promotion the implementation of infrastructure projects. NRW.BANK promotes both of investments in the protection of resources or in increasing corporate public and private projects for the improvement of infrastructures. Among energy efficiency. Targeted support for start-ups and innovations is another other purposes, its products effectively support infrastructure measures special promotion theme of NRW.BANK. designed to implement Germany‘s nuclear phase-out. An integrated approach is required to consider environmental protection Net New of New Commitments by New Fields of Promotion in € millions aspects and implement the nuclear phase-out. These tasks therefore relate to all three fields of promotion of NRW.BANK, albeit with different facets and promotion measures. “Energy Transition/Environmental Protection” is Economy Infrastructure/Municipalities 3.210 a cross-sectional theme addressed by all fields of promotion and had a total 5.205 volume of € 1.8 billion in 2016. Performance Indicators in the Promotion Business Housing 2.746 NRW.BANK’s objectives are primarily geared to providing the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, with long-term support in performing its structural and economic tasks. Due to NRW.BANK’s public mission as the development bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, development and promotion is the primary The field of promotion “Housing” comprises NRW.BANK’s offerings for the business objective and the net volume of new commitments ­represents a promotion of new housing construction and the modernisation of existing key performance indicator used for controlling purposes. This performance housing stock. When buildings are modernised, special attention is paid to indicator comprises the commitments for promotion funds made in the energy efficiency aspects as well as to barrier-free design and suitability current fiscal year. Defined budget values exist for this and all other key for the elderly. In this context, the social housing promotion programmes performance indicators and are regularly subjected to plan/actual com­ play a special role. The respective promotion measures are geared towards parisons as well as scenario and forecast analyses in order to provide appropthe state of North Rhine-Westphalia’s annual housing promotion programme riate control stimuli. (Wohnraumförderungsprogramm, WoFP) which breaks down the state government’s general promotion policy concepts into concrete promotion NRW.BANK additionally records other special promotion-typical per­ measures. formance indicators for its performance business. The number of funded residential units, for instance, is a performance indicator for its social housing promotion operations and is reported regularly. In the various special programmes of the Bank for the promotion of environmental protection, innovations and society, suitable additional promotion-related information such as the purpose of the funded environmental projects is documented in addition to the promotion volume. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Promotion Report 22 The use of promotion funds is always linked to certain promotion conditions, often difficult for innovative companies to raise loans because of a lack of whose compliance is secured by NRW.BANK especially in cooperation with unencumbered collateral. the house banks. Compared to more broadly based programmes, the Bank’s special programmes are characterised by comprehensive promotion condiNRW.BANK supports seed financings of business start-ups and young tions in that they offer higher promotion amounts. companies in high-technology sectors by offering equity-strengthening solutions through its Seed and Venture Funds, which have a combined Economic Development volume of € 180 million. These funds make an important contribution to NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit and NRW.BANK.Universalkredit are the two reducing the high market inefficiencies in the German venture capital market, programmes with the highest volumes. Under these programmes, interestthus providing important stimulation for innovation and the future competisubsidised loans in the total amount of € 2.1 billion were granted to some tiveness of North Rhine-Westphalia. In the venture capital segment, the Bank 5,700 enterprises for investments and working capital in 2016. acts as a co-investor to finance newly established technology-­oriented companies in sectors such as information and communication technology, NRW.BANK.Gründungskredit is targeted at business start-ups and young biotechnology, cleantech, medical engineering and microsystems technology. companies. More than 1,300 start-up and growth projects received funding The seed funds operate on a fund-of-funds basis. Currently NRW.BANK under this programme in 2016, with loans totalling approx. € 305 million. invests in ten regional seed funds, which, in turn, have made investments Micro start-ups with credit requirements of up to € 25,000 receive custoin 85 high-tech start-ups. mised promotion through the NRW/EU.Mikrodarlehen. As this programme focuses on the viability of the concepts and the personality of the founder, Industry Structure in % projects may be financed also without proof of equity capital or the usual NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds and NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds collateral required for bank loans. This makes it possible for formerly u­nemployed people to set up their own businesses. Others 12 For several years, the NRW.BANK.Innovationskredit has helped to promote Microsystems the implementation of new, technologically advanced products or production Technology 5 Biotechnology 42 processes in the SME sector. In 2016, NRW.BANK further expanded its range of loans for the promotion of innovations by launching the programme Medical NRW.BANK.Innovative Unternehmen. The aim was to offer special promotion Engineering 13 also for the proprietary development and production of innovative products, Information Cleantech 11 processes and services. The new promotion programme offers favourable and Communication terms and conditions as well as an obligatory 70% liability release for the Technology 17 on­-­lending house bank. This structure takes account of the fact that it is Sustainability Report 2016 >> Promotion Report 23 In the reporting year, NRW.BANK launched NRW.SeedCap Digitale Wirtschaft, a new product for the promotion of innovations. Under this programme, the Bank makes available equity capital or near-equity funds for start-ups from GREEN IT COMBINES the digital sector in parallel to investments by business angels. The new offering complements the win NRW.BANK Business Angels Initiative, in the context of which the Bank helps capital-seeking innovative companies gain ­ECONOMY AND ECOLOGY access to business angels. The NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit is a central offering to support the nuclear Ecological thinking starts at phase-out and to promote environmental protection in the field of economic your own front door – this development. The loan offers strongly interest-subsidised terms for investis the motto of Green IT, a ments with clear ecological merits. To qualify for promotion, borrowers ­systems house based in Dortmust prove that their projects will increase energy and resource efficiency mund. The company aims for permanently by at least 20% and 6%, respectively. Replacement investments zero emissions and produces with lower efficiency increases are eligible for promotion only on the basis its own electricity for its IT of certified environmental protection processes (e.g. PIUS Check or environand print environment. mental management system). Installed in front of the company building, an 18 square metre photovoltaic system called “smartflower” generates electricity for in-house consumption. It produces 4,000 Kwh of electricity per year, which corresponds to the consumption of an average household of four. The company has been offering green IT solutions since 2012. Besides hardware and software, the focus lies on ecological consulting and services. The combination of economy and ecology plays an important role, as environmentally-friendly IT systems and their energy-efficient use effectively help reduce carbon emissions. Green IT is supported by NRW.BANK, e.g. via the Regional Economic Promotion Programme (RWP) of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Promotion Report 24 Housing Promotion ENVIRON­ NRW.BANK was able to extend the volume of social housing promotion loans to € 1.1 billion in 2016 (2015: € 0.7 billion) and provided affordable, MENTALLYhigh-quality housing for low-income earners. This ensures that families with FRIENDLY HEAT children or handicapped people continue to find affordable housing also in conurbations characterised by rising rents. A total of 11,149 residential FROM THE units were funded in 2016 within the scope of social housing promotion. The majority of the promotion of new housing within the social housing ­SEWAGE WORKS promotion accounted for € 892 million for more than 7,600 rent-controlled and occupancy-controlled rental housing. Other areas of interest in the promotion of new housing were the creation of nursing homes, the construcA concept that is unparalleled in Germany is being implemented tion of dormitories for students and people with disabilities, as well as the by GAG Immobilien AG in the Stammheim district of Cologne. new construction of owner-occupied housing. Here a large-scale sewage works supplies environmentallyfriendly heat for an entire settlement. Indicated by the example of GAG Immobilien AG in Cologne, those measures related to energy efficiency improvements are priotized, which are mainly Building on the idea to “use heat that is already there”, the used in the case of existing buildings. NRW.BANK also supported the innovative project was developed by GAG Immobilien AG in acquisition of owner-occupied residential property, measures of urban cooperation with Stadtentwässerungsbetriebe Köln and redevelopment as well as the reduction of barriers in the existing housing ­RheinEnergie AG. The sewage gas in the digesters of the nearby stock with regard to demographic change. NRW.BANK offers low-interest sewage works has been used to generate electricity and heat capital expenditure loans for nursing homes and facilities operated by since quite some time. As the latter exceeds the sewage works’ not-­for-profit entities. These loans can be used, for instance, to finance own requirements, 40% of the heat remained unused. This modernisation and refurbishment projects or to fund the conversion of surplus is now supplied to the Stammheim ­settlement. It comconventional care facilities into alternative nursing and care concepts. prises 1,700 existing dwellings as well as 18 new buildings with 300 dwellings and a residential group for people with Low-interest loans are granted under the NRW.BANK.Gebäudesanierung dementia that were built between 2012 and 2015 with support programme to support projects for raising energy efficiency as well as from NRW.BANK’s social housing pro­motion programmes. barrier-free refurbishment measures for privately owned buildings. The use of the previously unused heat allows for savings of To master the challenges arising from the refugee crisis, NRW.BANK offers 4,100 t of carbon emissions per year and has another positive the North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities especially low-interest and longoffers the North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities especially term financing solutions. Funds are available for the acquisition, construction side effect: as the heat from the sewage works is cheaper, the or modernisation of refugee accommodation. Promotion funds of roughly operating costs charged to tenants remain stable. € 220 million were committed in 2016 and used to build 19,350 new places for refugees and modernise some 900 existing ones. The newly built refugee accommodation in the Gievenbeck district of the city of Münster is a good Sustainability Report 2016 >> Promotion Report 25 example of the positive effects of NRW.BANK’s promotion activities, as Infrastructure and Municipal Promotion environmental aspects were considered in its design. To support the expansion of the infrastructure in North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK offers both customised, individual financing solutions and A special component of the rented housing promotion programme of the standardised promotion programmes. Individual financing solutions are Social Housing Promotion unit provides effective incentives for investors provided for both corporate financings and project financings. In 2016, in the housing sector to create refugee housing. In this context, the Bank NRW.BANK’s “Social Infrastructure” competence centre extended loans granted loans of approx. € 152 million to help finance some 1,430 new totalling roughly € 604 million, of which € 516 million was used to finance dwellings in 2016. the modernisation of four university hospitals in North Rhine-Westphalia. HOUSING FOR REFUGEES To provide the many refugees with accommodation for their initial stay, the City of Münster opted for a sustainable and flexible alter­native. Using a loan from the NRW.BANK.Flüchtlingsunterkünfte programme, the city built a two-storey timber building in the Gievenbeck neighbourhood. All units have their own kitchenette as well as a bathroom. They can accommodate a total of 100 people. In choosing the location, special attention was paid to a good social infrastructure to offer refugees the best possible conditions for successful integration. The timber frame construction method is sustainable and economical solution at the same time – the prefabricated timber buildings are ready for turnkey handover after a construction time of only three months. At the same time, operating costs are kept at a very low level thanks to the fact that the building shell and energy technology are made to high standards. But it is not only the protection-seekers who live there for the time being who benefit from the timber buildings. Going forward, it will be possible, for instance, to convert the buildings into accommodation for students. This way, the challenges in the housing market are mastered in an innovative and forward-looking manner. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Promotion Report 26 Infrastructure improvements require both public and private investments. Trusting Customer Relationships The NRW.BANK.Moderne Schule programme is specifically targeted at public Potential recipients of promotion loans increasingly inform themselves investors. It offers municipal school operators and school associations independently about available promotion options and hence expect promolong-term loans for the construction and modernisation of school buildings. tion banks to provide targeted and objective information about promotion In 2016, the Bank financed 38 projects under this programme, e.g. to support funds. NRW.BANK has therefore optimised its Internet presence on an the inclusion strategy of the State of North Rhine-West­phalia. The projects ongoing basis over the past years. had a total volume of approx. € 55 million. NRW.BANK.Infrastruktur is a programme designed to raise private capital for low-interest financing of As the digitalisation trend continues, the demands made by customers on the projects in a wide range of different fields such as environmental protection, availability of information and the customer-friendliness of the application urban development, social affairs or education and qualification. In addition, procedure increase as well. To meet the changing requirements, NRW.BANK NRW.BANK has launched special programmes to promote, for instance, the conducted a survey among its existing customers and visitors to its website preservation of buildings listed as public historical monuments, the expanin 2016 to find out what they want from and expect of a digitally positioned sion of Internet broadband services in North RhineWestphalia, solutions development bank as well as possible new digital service and information for flood management and control as well as investments in sports facilities. offerings. The survey was complemented by talks with house banks in their role as distribution partners of loans according to the house bank principle. Investments in plants for the generation, storage and distribution of energy This way, NRW.BANK accepts the digital challenges and prepares to accomare promoted under the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur programme. In 2016, modate the expectations of its customers. promotion loans with a total volume of € 471 million were granted under this programme, which were mainly used to finance wind turbine generators, partly in citizen wind farms. In total, more than 80 new wind turbine generators were financed in North Rhine-Westphalia. The loans were refinanced almost exclusively via the NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2016. For several years, NRW.BANK has actively supported the renaturation of the River Emscher through its promotion activities. In 2016, the Bank extended long-term loans totalling € 144 million for this purpose. In addition to these infrastructure development and promotion programmes, NRW.BANK again was a reliable partner to the North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities in 2016. Its municipal loans and liquidity loans to North RhineWestphalian municipalities made an important contribution to ensuring the municipalities‘ ability to act. The Bank moreover supports the municipal sector with a wide range of advisory services. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Promotion Report 27 // GREEN BOND Green Bonds issued by NRW.BANK allow ­investors to participate in ecological projects. Which in turn generate sustainable yields for the Bank investors. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategie 28 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2016 In 2013, NRW.BANK was Europe’s first regional agency to successfully launch a green bond. Since then the Bank’s annual Green Bond issues have established a close link between NRW.BANK’s environmentally oriented promotion programmes and its own funding activites in the international capital market. Focus on climate protection Climate benefits to be maximised by allocating projects While the proceeds from NRW.BANK’s regular bonds are also used to to the portfolio based on the highest carbon footprint support the social and economic aspects of its development business, the reduction funds raised through the Green Bond programme are exclusively used to Borrowers should agree to the transparent disclosure refinance previously identified ecological projects based in North Rhineof their project Westphalia which provide a special climatic and environmental benefit. Loans and the issue itself are closely linked; they originate in the same calendar year All projects are “live” No risk of “green default”. The maximum term of the issue is determined by the shortest loan maturity Internal designation of the loans is made by the sustainability Green Bond Principles define the framework officer NRW.BANK Green Bonds are Use of Proceeds Bonds Loan portfolio remains unchanged during the term of the issue Projects are selected by the Green Bond Team One-off reporting is sufficient In selecting the loans of the asset pool, NRW.BANK applies the oekom research confirms the sustainability of the projects following criteria: (second opinion) All selected projects have to support North RhineNo “green washing”! Westphalia’s climate and sustainability strategy as well as Wuppertal Institut prepares impact analysis the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Reporting about the projects and their environmental benefits Eligible fields include “Climate Mitigation” and is transparent “Climate Adaptation” NEW: green private placements are possible! Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 29 To be eligible for selection under the Green Bond programme, projects must have a commitment date in the current calendar year and match the GREEN BOND PRINCIPLES defined themes. The focus is on contributing to the state of North Rhine Westphalia’s climate protection policy and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals as well as supporting adaptation to the unavoidable implications of climate change. This is why all funded measures serve to NRW.BANK has been an official member of the Green Bond ­reduce and avoid adverse environmental impacts on the climate (mitigation) Principles (GBPs) of the International Capital Market Associaand to deal with the consequences of climate change (adaptation). As the tion since 2015. focus is on the protection of the climate, the projects are selected on the basis of the highest expected CO2 savings. Green bonds permit to raise capital for, and invest in, projects which create an environmental benefit. This market has grown The liquid Green Bonds of NRW.BANK are issued exclusively in euros in strongly in the past years. The GBPs are voluntary guidelines order to create a green euro benchmark curve in the long term. This will promoting transparency and disclosure as an important basis enable the Bank to illustrate a potential price difference between the green for the integrity of the green bond market. Essential elements NRW.BANK curve and the regular NRW.BANK benchmark curve. include, in particular, the provision of information about the use of the funds, the selection of the project, the evaluation process, Since 2014 the ecological benefit and quality of the projects selected for the administration of the proceeds as well as the subsequent the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds have been analysed and assessed by oekom reporting. research, an independent sustainability rating agency. This second opinion has confirmed their consistently sustainable concept and compliance with The principles thus give guidance to potential green bond the requirements of the Green Bond Principles. issuers and at the same time support investors by making available information for the assessment of their green bond investments. The GBPs were published at the beginning of 2014 and have been updated annually since then. The concept underlying NRW.BANK’s Green Bonds meets the standards laid down in the GBPs. Consequently it was only logical for the Bank to join the GBPs. More information about Green Bond Principles. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 30 Focus on the Environmental Impact NRW.BANK has assessed the ­environmental impact of its Green Bonds since 2015 with the aim to publish the CO2 emissions that have been saved and/or avoided by investing in its Green Bonds on an annual basis. For the analysis of the positive effect of the Green Bond 2015 on the environment, NRW.BANK found a competent partner in Wuppertal Institut. GREEN BOND AWARDS Besides second opinions, oekom research rates green bonds. The rating is based on the sus­ tainability standing of the issuer, transparency, external audit arrangements as well as the The latter prepared the analysis in ­sustain­ability quality and impact of the underlying projects. Since 2016 oekom has also rated the ­ accordance with the recommen­ NRW.BANK.Green Bonds and assigned “approved” status to them. The sustainability rating dations of the Harmonized Frameagency assessed the 2014 and 2015 issuance on a twelve point scale from “excellent” (A+) to work for Impact Reporting, which “largely non-transparent” (D–) and awarded a b+ rating. were developed by multilateral development banks under the This places both issues in the top quantile of the more than 140 green bonds rated by the agency. umbrella of the GBPs. This frameAny rating above B– denotes “approved” status, meaning that oekom believes that a bond is a work permits the preparation of suitable addition to a green-oriented portfolio. oekom research particularly appreciated the high a transparent and comparable environmental benefits of the projects selected for the NRW.BANK Green Bonds as well as the impact analysis of green bonds high degree of transparency. As a result, the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds received oekom’s “Sustaias recommended by the GBPs. nability Bond Approved Label”. Its cooperation with Wuppertal The “Climate Bond Initiative”, an NGO with a good standing in the green bond market, rated Institut enabled the Bank to publish NRW.BANK positively, too, naming the Bank as a pioneer (“First Regional Development Bank”) its first detailed impact analysis for of the green bond market in 2015. the NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2015 in 2016. According to this analysis, Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 31 the issue avoids 2.7 million tons of CO2 equivalents over its 10-year term. Based on a total issue volume of € 500 million, 540 tons of CO2 equivalents are saved per € 1 million each year. NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2016 In the past fiscal year an internal selection process identified eligible projects from the water and energy areas with a total volume of € 523 million. At approximately € 410 million, the focus was once again on energy projects. Some € 113 million was invested in water projects, in particular the Emscher 2020 project. For details of this biggest single water management project in the EU for the implementation of the European Water Framework Directive please refer to NRW.BANK’s Sustainability Report 2015. Energy 78% Water 22% Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 32 NRW.BANK has unambiguously designated the selected projects as its Green Bond Asset Pool 2016 and earmarked the selected loans internally. The earmarking process is subject to the Bank’s internal audit scheme and is therefore regularly scrutinised. oekom research confirmed the sustainable and environmental benefit of these projects by declaring a positive result in its second opinion. Field Field Topic Number of Projects Funded Promotion Volume in € m Water Adaptation River renaturation 1 113.4 Energy Mitigation Renewable Energy 31 372.1 – thereof wind power onshore 27 317.0 1) – thereof wind power Offshore 2 51.4 – thereof photovoltaic 2 3.7 1) Energy Mitigation Energy efficiency 744 27.8 – thereof manufacturing sector 2 2.0 – thereof building modernisation 742 25.8 Energy Mitigation Low carbon transport 1 10.0 1) In contrast to the information provided in the second opinion, a project replacement in accordance with the “Use of Proceeds” resulted in the substitution of photovoltaic systems (€ 2 million) by onshore wind turbine generators (€ 2 million). Based on this asset pool, NRW.BANK successfully issued its already fourth Green Bond, the NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2016, in November 2016. This bond with a volume of € 500 million and a term of ten years was the first ­issue of a European agency after the US elections. NRW.BANK guarantees its investors that over the entire term of the Green Bond 2016 its proceeds will be used to refinance projects in the fields of water management, renewable energies, energy efficiency and low carbon transport. In addition to the issuance of the Green Bond, the asset pool permits private placements. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 33 Total Volume of NRW.BANK.Green Bonds Issuance to date € 2013 2017 250 million 19 % Energy 81% Water oekom rating: Approved (B–) € 2014 500 million 2018 74 % Energy 26 % Water oekom rating: Approved (B+) € 2015 500 million € 1.75 billion 2025 81% Energy 19 % Water oekom rating: Approved (B+) € 2016 500 million 2026 78 % Energy 22 % Water pending NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2016 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2015 CO2-savings per year CO2-savings per year € € 1 year 1 million 685 t CO2 1 year 1 million 540 t CO2 € € 1 year 500 million 1 year 500 million 342,500 t CO2 270,000 t CO2 10 3.4 million t CO2 10 2.7 million t CO2 years years Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 34 Environmental Impact Analysis In the past fiscal year, Wuppertal Institut again determined the positive 3.4 MILLION TONS OF CO2 environmental effect of the selected projects in the field of “Climate Mitigation” with a total volume of € 410 million. The remaining approximately € 113 million in the field of “Climate Adaptation” were exclusively used for EQUIVALENTS SAVED the renaturation of the River Emscher. NRW.BANK determined the progress made as a result of the Green Bond funding in close cooperation with the “Emschergenossenschaft” water management association. It has been calculated that these projects have avoided greenhouse gas emissions of 3.4 million t of CO2 equivalents over Field “Climate Mitigation” the 10-year term of the Green Bond. This is equivalent to the The projects financed in the field of “Climate Mitigation” by the CO2 storage capacity of a managed forest four times the size NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2016 help reduce or even avoid negative environof Berlin. Measured by the size of the Green Bond asset pool mental influences on the climate. The projects relate to of € 523 million, 685 t of CO2 equivalents are saved per € 1 expansion of renewable energy (wind energy and photovoltaic), million per year. energy efficiency measures of enterprises and low carbon transport as well as refurbishment of residential buildings. CO2 Equivalents Avoided through a € 1 Million Investment over a Ten Year Breakdown of Project Financing Volume in the Field Period (based on the Investment Volume of € 410 Million) in tons “Climate Mitigation” (€ 410 million) in % 10.000 9.000 9.185 Low Carbon Transport and Renewable Energy Efficiency 3 8.000 Energy 91 Building Modernisation 6 7.000 6.000 5.000 4.000 3.000 2.000 1.000 0 140 129 Renewable Low Carbon Building Energy Transport and ModernisaEnergy tion Efficiency Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 35 Most of the emissions are avoided by renewable energy projects. The 82 Field “Climate Adaptation” onshore and offshore wind farms funded by the € 372 million produce an About € 113 million of the Green Bond 2016 were used to refinance measures estimated 3,700 GWh of electricity per year. The promotion portion (9%) taken by the “Emschergenossenschaft” water management association as corresponding to the Green Bond asset pool results in the avoidance of part of the conversion of the River Emscher. In 2016, the funds permitted to 3.4 million t of CO2 equivalents based on a 10-year term. About 90% thereof implement various water management measures – all with the aim to create are accounted for by the onshore wind farms in North Rhine-Westphalia a sustainable ecologically renewed riverscape in the Emscher region. made possible by the funds of the Green Bond. The focus is currently still on the completion of the large modern Emscher An amount of € 3.7 million of the Green Bond asset pool relates to the expansewer (Abwasserkanal Emscher, AKE). As the sewer has meanwhile been sion of the largest photovoltaic site in Germany (see also project examples). largely completed – especially 43 km of construction phase 30 from DortOver the total term of the Green Bond 2016, another 33,500 t of greenhouse mund-Deusen to Bottrop – it is now being continued from Oberhausen to gas emissions are saved by it. the estuary of the Emscher in Dinslaken. The construction of this modern sewer is an essential precondition for the renaturation of the River Emscher € 25.8 million were invested in the NRW.BANK.Gebäudesanierung programitself, which will be redeveloped into an as near as natural riverscape in me. Over its 10-year term and based on a promotion portion of 90%, this the following years. Just like its already ecologically revitalised tributaries, permits to save another 3,300 t of CO2 equivalents. the Emscher will then not only give nature a new chance, but also offer the people living in the region a space for leisure activities. This is already A new project category of the Green Bond programme is “Low Carbon illustrated by the new ditches created and the 23-km stretch of the upper Transport”. In 2016, NRW.BANK provided € 10 million to purchase eight Emscher from Holzwickede to Dortmund renaturated with the help of funds energy and climate-efficient trams (Variotrams) in Bochum, which help from NRW.BANK.Green Bonds in previous years. avoid about 1,100 t of greenhouse gas emissions over a period of ten years. In 2016, the construction of the new sewer system of the Emscher moreover An amount of € 2.0 million of the asset pool of the Green Bond 2016 is involved the conversion of the large Emschermündung sewage treatment invested in measures for improving the energy efficiency and resource plant into a modern regional sewage treatment plant taking future sustainable efficiency in enterprises. These result in 600 tons of avoided greenhouse energy recuperation and resource management into account. The project gas emissions over the total term of the bond. also includes the construction of the three large pump stations in Gelsenkirchen, Bottrop and Oberhausen, The stations ensure the routing of the Details as well as information on the precise method and presentation of the sewage stream of the large Emscher sewer on the intermediate stretches in results in accordance with the Harmonized Framework for Impact Reporting free fall up to the sewage treatment plant at the estuary in Dinslaken and/or can be found in the impact analysis prepared by Wuppertal Institut. the Rhine. Further considerable progress was made here in 2016. The pump stations are also planned and constructed sustainably. They are characterised by minimum energy consumption, a high-quality design that blends into the urban environment and direct participation of the citizens including in the form of design workshops. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 36 Environmental aspects are taken into consideration already when inviting One of these ecological cornerstones, “Holtener Bruch”, will be created bids for the individual construction phases. They are directly included in in proximity to the underground pump station in Oberhausen. Modern the assessment of the bids and the awarding of the contracts. technology in the form of the pump station and sewer and the ecological renaturation will thus go hand in hand. One is the precondition for the The conversion of the Emscher tributaries in the affluent regions was also other and together they represent the new riverscape. pushed ahead. Examples include the Mühlenbach in Borbeck, the Berne in Essen, the Ostbach in Bochum, the Nettebach in Dortmund and the Läppkes An equally important aspect in this context is the construction of the new Mühlenbach in Oberhausen. Emscher estuary in Dinslaken and Voerde. The Emscher, which until now flew straight into the River Rhine via a large dropping structure, will here ­ 338 km of the 429 km of new modern sewers to be constructed in the be diverted to the north and become a meandering stream which flows freely Emscher region have been built to date. Of the 326 km of new renaturated into the Rhine without the barrier effect of a drop. There will be natural water stretches 124 km have been completed and left to develop according exchange between the two river systems. This will permit a generous to their own dynamics. Various water stretches are developing so favour­ ­relocation of the dyke. With a flood control volume of 1 million m³, the ably that a new urban biodiversity has started to emerge. Emscher estuary will not only contribute to the flood protection system of the Rhine, but also enrich the adjacent about 25,000 ha large Ramsar bird The conversion of the Emscher realised with funds from the Green Bonds is sanctuary “Unterer Niederrhein” with its diverse meadow landscape. More­ therefore also a main theme for the “European Green Capital – Essen 2017” over, this meets the call for “more space for rivers” for sustainable and of the Emscher metropolis Essen. natural flood protection through larger flood areas. This is ultimately made possible by the Green Bond funds and the sewer alongside the Emscher, Biodiversity is Increasing which creates the general systematic precondition for this measure. In 2016, the construction of the last pump station for the Emscher sewer began in Oberhausen. The new sewer permits to convert the Emscher from a sewage river into a new riverscape of enhanced ecological value. Particularly valuable in this context are the so-called “ecological cornerstones” along the River Emscher where the river is given ample room for its own dynamic developments. These areas have been designated as the “new nuclei” of the Emscher region’s new biodiversity. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 37 Green Bond-projects NRW.BANK.Green Bond funding is used to promote sustainable energy provision and manufacturing methods. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 38 7.700 tons of carbon dioxide per year are saved by the solar farm in Herzogenrath compared to the conventional production of energy. Solar Farm Solar Harvest in Herzogenrath H ­ erzogenrath EWV ENERGIEUND The solar farm in Herzogenrath and its new extension supply electricity for more than 4,500 households, which, WASSER-VERSORGUNG GMBH, purely arithmetically, corresponds to one third of the city. With the beginning of the sunny months in April, the N.S.W. ENERGY GMBH, solar farm extension Solarpark 2 and its “big brother” Solarpark 1 can generate a peak output of approximately STADT HERZOGENRATH four megawatts and ten megawatts, respectively. Compared to the conventional production of energy, this reduces carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 7,700 tons per year. It would be possible to produce enough solar power for the entire city of Herzogenrath: Additional sites on the land of the former sand pit are already included in the www.ewv.de ­zoning plan – another four megawatts could be generated on them. The Solarpark 2 was financed with the help of € 3.7 million from the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur promotion programme and thanks to its inclusion in the Green Bond Asset Pool 2016. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 39 42 Variotrams more for Bochum and Gelsenkirchen. Local Transport Attractive Local Public Transport BOGESTRA AG Climate-friendly mobility: In September 2016, BOGESTRA AG started to deliver 42 new trams of the Variotram type, of which eight were delivered by the end of 2016 as part of the Green Bond Asset Pool 2016. These energywww.bogestra.de efficiently produced trams improve passenger comfort through such features as air conditioning, an information system and video surveillance. The electric trams permit emission-free local mobility and feed the energy generated during braking back into the battery. At the same time, the ample space they provide for passengers ensures extremely low CO2 emissions per passenger. Funds from the NRW.BANK.Infrastruktur promotion programme were instrumental in putting on track this low carbon project with an investment volume of € 110 million. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 40 30.000 households are supplied with renewable energy from the largest wind farm in North Rhine-Westphalia. Wind Farm Dahlem Largest Wind Farm in North Rhine-Westphalia WINDPARK DAHLEM-BAASEMER WALD For the investment of € 50 million into North Rhine-Westphalias largest forest wind farm, DunoAir relied on funding GMBH & CO. KG from the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur promotion programme. The municipality of Dahlem and its citizens participate in the wind farm via various value-added models. Municipal initiatives and associations receive the lease income of at least € 55,000 per year and system. This is not the only reason why the construction of the wind farm www.dunoair.com in the middle of the forest was largely accepted by the residents: The public was informed well in advance by politicians, the municipal administration and the investor DunoAir Windpark Planung GmbH, and involved in the planning process. The electricity produced by the wind power generators in the forest of Dahlem-Baasem is fed into the public grid and up to 30,000 households (arithmetically) in the Euskirchen district are supplied with environmentally friendly electric power since the beginning of 2017. As this wind energy project complies with the selection criteria of the Wind Energy Generation Standards of the Climate Bond Initiative (CBI) and the sustainability criteria of oekom research, it was eligible for inclusion in the Green Bond Asset Pool 2016. In connection with the impact analysis of the Green Bond 2016, Wuppertal Institut calculated that the annual CO2 emissions saved by the wind farm amount to some 38,000 tons. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 41 25% less energy are required for the hot dip galvanising process of Seppeler Groups’ plant. Hot Dip Galvanising New Production Line cuts Energy Costs SEPPELER GRUPPE Hot dip galvanising in a closed circuit: Seppeler Group headquartered in North Rhine-Westphalian Rietberg has built a new production line at its Osnabrück plant. In connection with these conversion measures, the old tank was www.seppeler.de replaced. Thanks to a working length of 8.60 meters and a depth of 3.50 meters, the new tank permits to galvanise parts weighing up to 4,000 kilograms, while saving 25 percent of energy compared to the old line. The trick: Via a heat recovery system, the heat produced by the furnace of the production line is also used for the drying tunnel. In addition, the residual heat is used for the pre-treatment of the parts. € 2 million of the € 3.7 million invested in the closed production circuit were funded by the NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit promotion programme. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 42 124 km renaturated already of the River Emscher. 326 km are planned. Emscher Conversion Ecological Cornerstone with a Focus on Biodiversity EMSCHER­ GENOSSENSCHAFT It is the largest infrastructure project in North Rhine-Westphalia: In 2016, approximately € 115 million in Green Bond funding was invested in the conversion of the River Emscher. Among other things, the Emschergenossenschaft water management association began with the construction of the last pump station for the Emscher sewer in www.eglv.de Oberhausen. This sewer permits to convert the Emscher from a sewage river into a new riverscape of enhanced ecological value. Particularly valuable in this context are the so-called “ecological cornerstones” along the River Emscher where the river is given ample room for its own dynamic developments. These areas has been designated as “new nuclei” of the Emscher region’s new biodiversity. One of these ecological cornerstones, “Holtener Bruch”, will be created in proximity to the underground pump station in Oberhausen. In total, 124 kilometres of the 326 kilometres of the Emscher have already been renaturated. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 43 Outlook The Bank’s aim is to establish an NRW.BANK.Green Bond investment NRW.BANK is committed to promoting the further evolution of the green portfolio with a volume of at least € 200 million by 2020. To qualify for this bond market and to supporting it through its own contributions. To conportfolio, bonds have to meet the GBPs and publish corresponding reports. sistently implement this objective while at the same time making a contriIn addition, the environmental benefit of the bond must be determined by bution to the protection of the climate and the environment, the Bank a second opinion or certificate meeting the standards of the Climate Bond added two further components to its Green Bond programme in the past Initiative. NRW.BANK will preferably invest in climate protection and climate fiscal year. adaptation projects and report on the CO2 savings achieved by these invest­ment activities in the next sustainability reports. NRW.BANK.Green Bond Private Placements Since the end of 2016, NRW.BANK has offered sustainable investors ­additional green private placement options. In order to meet the various investor needs, not only does the bank offer private placements in euros but in many other currencies as well. Projects from the fields of water and sewage, electric mobility (including electric buses), energy efficiency, renewable energies as well as heat insulation were eligible for refinancing. With this offer NRW.BANK meets the increased investors’ demand for this product and thus has the opportunity to consider further high-quality green assets. NRW.BANK.Green Bond Investment Portfolio In the past fiscal year, NRW.BANK furthermore made the organisational preparations for building up a Green Bond portfolio as of 2017. The Bank will then not only issue own green bonds in connection with its NRW.BANK.Green Bond programme, but also consider them for its own investments. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Green Bond 44 // ECO-BALANCE Since many years, NRW.BANK has been committed to the responsible use of our natural resources and the protection of our environment and climate. The Bank verifies the sustain­ability of its activity on an ongoing basis to ensure that it continues to improve. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategie 45 Climate and Environmental Protection NRW.BANK actively supports the political and social sustainability efforts Data Collection and Reference Values and is doing everything possible also within the Bank to conserve resources As the data are collected in accordance with the VfU standard, they can be and ensure sustainable operations. The Bank thus helps to implement the compared with data of companies applying the same standard. The basis is North Rhine-Westphalian government’s guiding principle of “sustainability”. formed by the VfU’s revised guidelines in conjunction with the conversion factors of the 2015 update. The data presented here is an extract from the NRW.BANK uses resources consciously and sparingly in order to minimise 2016 eco-balance. the generation of carbon emissions from its business operations. It is the Bank’s declared objective to vigorously cut the use of resources and to offset The number of employees provides the basis for the formation of relative unavoidable impacts to the extent possible. To ensure that the positive trend environmental performance indicators (consumption per employee). Partin its environmental performance indicators continues, the Bank pays time employees are added up to full-time employees, and external tempo­rary attention to resource-efficient and energy-efficient technology, uses district employees are covered for the duration of their employment. The exact heat and energy-efficient IT hardware in all its buildings and sources 100% number of days worked was recorded for the first time ever. certified green electricity from run-of-river hydropower plants. Staff numbers of 1,4091) for 2016, 1,4361) for 2015 and 1,3531) for 2014 were For the past 10 years, NRW.BANK has published an eco-balance in accor­ taken as the basis. The decline in staff numbers against the previous year is dance with the standards of the VfU. essentially attributable to the more precise recording method. Scope and Period of Reporting To calculate water consumption per employee1)/day the number of working To prepare its eco-balance for 2016, NRW.BANK has determined the environdays was fixed at 250 days. mental impacts resulting from its business operations. The Bank operates at two locations in Düsseldorf and at a building complex in Münster. Building Energy Resource-efficient energy sources such as certified green electricity from The reporting period corresponds to the calendar year. The consumption and run-of-river hydropower plants and district heat from combined heat-andflow data (input and output) were collected for the period from 1 January 2016 power units are the most important elements of NRW.BANK’s sustainable to 31 December 2016. Information relating to space, vehicles and employees building management efforts. These high environmental standards are is stated as of the reporting date 31 December 2016. implemented at all of the Bank’s locations. In addition, the photovoltaic systems in Münster produced roughly 20 MWh of electricity to cover the Bank’s own requirements in 2016. Overall, NRW.BANK makes a point of using energy-efficient technology. 1) rounded to full employees Sustainability Report 2016 >> Eco-Balance 46 Climate and Environmental Protection 100% Certified green electricity Run-of-river hydropower plant No use of fossil energy Cogeneration plants Travel guidelines (district heat) A n n u al re p 7 or 00 Video-and phone 2 tin 100% Modern environmental ce ­conference systems g technology in new and refurbished Sin carbon-neutral d ard Eco-balance of Da NRW.BANK an Sustainable procurement Grey water in ta st ­sanitary facilities co lle Vf U c ti o on t a c c o rdi n g Recycling paper Green IT Carbon-neutral dispatch of mail (GoGreen) Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2016 >> Strategie 47 Energy Consumption 2016 2015 2014 As in the previous years, the reporting of short-haul and long-haul flights, multi-leg flights1) were broken down into segments. kWh kWh kWh Heating energy The expert assistance regularly provided by the Bank when it comes to selec– total 5,406,170 4,846,170 4,433,420 ting new company cars is another success factor in the constant ­reduction – per employee/year 3,836 3,374 3,276 in the average carbon emissions of the Bank’s vehicle fleet. To determine Electricity the average carbon emissions of the fleet, the Bank used the information – total 5,846,930 5,381,180 5,802,897 provided by the manufacturers as well as the latest information published – per employee/year 4,148 3,747 4,287 by the Federal Motor Transport Authority. The respective figure declined from 136.2 g/km in 2015 to 131.6 g/km in 2016, which represents a reduction by 3.4%. In 2016, NRW.BANK’s consumption of thermal energy was up by 11.5% on the previous year. The increased consumption related to all locations. Average CO2 Emissions of the Company Cars in g/km Specific per-capita consumption rose by 13.7%. Electricity requirements were up by 8.7% on the previous year in absolute 140 terms and by 10.7% per employee. 138 135 136 The increase in both thermal energy requirements and electricity consump­ tion is within the usual range of variation and is attributable to climatic and 130 132 use-specific circumstances. 2016 2015 2014 Business Travel NRW.BANK’s success hinges on good contacts with its clients and the maintenance of its business relationships. Business trips are therefore indispensable. However, NRW.BANK has issued travel guidelines to minimise the environmental impact of employees’ travelling activity. The ­recommendation to use video and telephone conferences and to travel by local public transport or rail is an important factor in reducing emissions from business trips. 92.3% of the trips on Deutsche Bahn’s rail services are classed as carbon neutral due to Deutsche Bahn’s carbon mitigation programme and are included in the CO2 balance at a reduced conversion factor. The remaining 7.7% are business trips by local public transport and the Thalys (altogether 76,663 km), which are counted at the full conversion factor for carbon 1) Multi-leg flights comprise transfer flight and main flight emissions. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Eco-Balance 48 Employees of NRW.BANK travelled a total of 4,565,586 kilometres on The breakdown of the travel activity by means of transport in 2016 remained business trips in 2016, which is equivalent to 3,239 kilometres travelled per relatively stable compared to the previous years. At 60.2%, cars accounted employee. Compared to the previous year, total kilometres travelled thus for most of the business trips, followed by rail (20.1%) and air travel (19.7%). declined by a negligible 0.4%, while kilometres travelled per employee rose by a moderate 1.5%. Paper For the 2016 eco-balance, NRW.BANK recorded all paper used in the offices including printed matter (e.g. letterhead), envelopes and communication Business Travel 2016 2015 2014 materials (e.g. annual reports, brochures, flyers, etc.). For the first time, km km km the paper grades of the envelopes were also determined in order to present Rail 915,722 866,653 870,804 a complete picture of all paper grades used. Road1) 2,748,430 2,723,420 2,660,988 Short-haul flights 342,905 430,117 328,557 Total consumption in 2016 amounted to 57.8 t (2015: 61.5 t), while consumpLong-haul flights 558,529 564,482 463,921 tion per employee came to 41.0 kg (2015: 42.8 kg). Total 4,565,586 4,584,672 4,324,270 The consumption of office paper, i.e. excluding envelopes and printed Km per employee 3,239 3,192 3,195 matter, was as follows: 1) total kilometres travelled on business trips with the Bank’s cars, rental cars and private vehicles Paper Consumption1) 2016 2015 2014 kg kg kg Share of Means of Transport in % Total 42,936 44,077 46,620 Kg per employee 30.5 30.7 34.4 100 1) Office paper, excl. printed matter, envelopes and marketing materials 12 12 11 8 9 8 75 61 60 60 Office paper consumption declined by 2.6% in absolute terms and remained 50 almost stable in per-capita terms, at 30.5 kg. 25 Besides the quantity consumed, the quality of the paper used is also an 20 19 20 important item in the eco-balance. To determine the share of recycled paper, 0 all paper types used (excl. envelopes) were analysed. 2016 2015 2014 Rail Road Short-haul flights Long-haul flights Sustainability Report 2016 >> Eco-Balance 49 Paper Grades 2016 2015 2014 Process and Drinking Water 2016 2015 2014 % % % Total consumption 22,266 m³ 20,669 m³ 21,281 m³ Recycled paper 63.4 71.1 53.0 Daily consumption per Primary fibre paper, ECF1) employee1) 63.2 l 57.6 l 62.9 l (inkc. wood-free) 12.8 5.6 24.1 1) To calculate water consumption per employee, the number of working days was fixed at 250 days. Primary fibre paper, FSC and PEFC2) 23.8 23.3 22.9 1) Elemental chlorine-free (ECF) Waste 2) Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification The 2016 eco-balance covers the following waste types: paper (incl. docuschemes, (PEFC) ments shredded), mixed packaging, food residues, waste fats, green waste, glass, residual waste, sludge from the company’s own water treatment, In the context of an optimised reporting, NRW.BANK decided, for the first mixed scrap, electronic waste, data carriers, bulky waste, oily waste and time, to fully determine the paper grades of all paper used. Based on these fluorescent lamps. complete data for 2016, which also include envelopes, recycled paper accounts for 60.2%. Over the coming years, the data reflecting the change Taking all waste types into account, the Bank produced a total of 389.8 t of in the recycled paper ratio will become more meaningful, though. waste (2015: 403.5 t). This is equivalent to 276.6 kg of waste per employee (2015: 280.9 kg). Water Water is a precious resource and NRW.BANK is actively promoting its sparing Compared to the previous year, the total waste volume decreased by 3.4%, use. The Bank’s sanitary facilities use grey water from the air scrubbers the waste volume per employee declined by 1.5%. and recooling systems and thus ensure that this water is reused. When retrofitting or buying new technical equipment, water-saving technology The following table shows the amounts of waste produced exclusively as a is considered besides other environmental aspects. result of the banking activity and excluding waste primarily produced in conjunction with the operation of the kitchen: The following figures show the total water consumption, which also includes the water consumption of the kitchens at the locations in Münster and at Kavalleriestraße in Düsseldorf. Absolute water consumption was up by 7.7% on the previous year, while consumption per employee increased by 9.7%. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Eco-Balance 50 Waste Volume 2016 2015 2014 CO2 Emissions 2016 2015 2014 t t t kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 Waste paper 53.5 56.4 55.4 Electricity 41,339 38,648 39,460 Document shredding 61.4 78.4 43.0 Heating energy incl. Residual waste 108.4 111.7 108.9 emergency power diesel 1,057,644 940,157 870,750 DSD (“Green Dot”) 3.6 3.4 3.2 Business travel 1,049,567 1,055,711 1,006,615 Total1) 227.0 249.9 210.4 Paper 65,443 69,247 74,071 Kg per employee 161.1 174.0 155.5 Drinking water 15,653 14,530 14,960 Recycling ratio1) 53.2% 55.3% 48.3% Waste 100,655 101,645 100,399 Total emissions 2,330,301 2,219,939 2,106,255 1) excl. other and kitchen waste CO2/employee 1,653 1,546 1,556 Offset by climate certificates 2,330,301 2,219,939 2,106,255 In 2016, the total waste volume resulting from the banking operations (excl. Total 0 0 0 kitchen waste, etc.) was down by 9.2% on the previous year in ­absolute terms and by 7.4% in per-capita terms. This drop is primarily attributable to the reduced amount of shredded files. The moderate decline in the recycling ratio by 3.8% is also due to the reduced amount of shredded documents. CO2-Emissions by Producers in % 100 2016 was the first year in which the residual waste disposed of by Abfall8 8 9 wirtschaftsbetriebe Münster (awm) was analysed separately. According to 75 45 48 48 the waste management company, 14.0% (2.1 t) of the waste disposed of by NRW.BANK as residual waste was recycled, which is why this percentage 50 was counted towards the recycling ratio. 45 42 41 25 Greenhouse Gases NRW.BANK’s CO2 balance covers all the above-mentioned environmentally 0 2 2 2 relevant consumption figures and wastes of NRW.BANK as well as the 2016 2015 2014 quantity of emergency power diesel used are summarised in a single perforElectricity Heating energy Business travel Other mance indicator. This performance indicator is an important variable for assessing the Bank’s environmental performance. The conversion factors used to determine the carbon emissions correspond In 2016, NRW.BANK’s CO2 emissions totalled 2,330 t, which is equivalent to to the 2015 VfU Update. To facilitate comparability with the previous years, 1,653 kg CO2 per employee. This represents a 5.0% increase on the previous the figures for 2014 were also determined using these conversion factors, year’s total emissions; emissions per employee rose by 6.9%. This change which has resulted in deviations from the report for 2014. is essentially attributable to the increased consumption of heating energy. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Eco-Balance 51 Direct and Indirect CO2 Emissions at NRW.BANK in 2016 According to VfU (Update 2015) Greenhouse Gas Sources Scope 11) Scope 21) Scope 31) Total kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 Electricity – renewable 39,625 39,625 – photovoltaic plant 1,715 1,715 Heating energy – district heat 817,954 230,843 1,048,797 – emergency power diesel 7,478 1,369 8,847 Travel – rail 4,186 4,186 – rail, carbon-neutralised 17,788 17,788 – road, company car 404,513 306,672 711,185 – road, rental car 195,797 195,797 – short-haul flights 58,503 58,503 – long-haul flights 62,108 62,108 Paper – recycled paper 38,280 38,280 – primary fibre paper (ECF, TCF, FSC, PEFC) 27,162 27,162 Water 15,653 15,653 Waste – waste incineration 97,175 97,175 – special waste 3,480 3,480 Total 411,991 817,953 1,100,357 2,330,301 kg CO2/per employee 1,653 1) Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category (Scope 1): all direct emissions – Emission category (Scope 2): all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources – Emission category (Scope 3): all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Eco-Balance 52 Avoiding Preferred to Offsetting The CO2 emissions of 2,330 t produced in 2016 were voluntarily offset by Since 2013, NRW.BANK has consistently aimed to make its banking the Bank through the purchase of certificates from a wind farm project in ­operations carbon-neutral. In this context, top priority is attached to Inner Mongolia (China). ­avoiding emissions from being generated in the first place. To achieve this aim, the Bank has implemented the above-described measures for many The analysis also covers the emissions resulting from postal communication years – including the use of certified green electricity, environmentally with the Bank’s clients. Since 2015, NRW.BANK has dispatched its mail via friendly district heat, recycled office paper and grey water from air scrubbers the carbon-neutral GoGreen programme of Deutsche Post DHL Group. In and cooling systems as well as providing expert assistance when it comes 2016, 610,000 letters were mailed under this programme. Carbon emissions to choosing new company cars. resulting from this transport totalled 22.8 t. Due to the Bank’s participation in the GoGreen programme, these emissions were neutralised with the Unfortunately, not all emissions can be avoided in spite of these savings help of climate protection projects. efforts. In 2013, NRW.BANK therefore decided to neutralise unavoidable emissions caused by its banking operations with the help of certificates from the NRW.BANK Climate Certificate Programme. These certificates stem from climate protection projects in developing and emerging c­ ountries and help to achieve the highest possible CO2 savings in relation to the financial expenses incurred in the process. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Eco-Balance 53 // HUMAN RESOURCES As a public-law institute NRW.BANK has a special responsibility to act as a role model for a sustainable human resources policy. This comprises all aspects from offering future-proof training to balancing work and family life to ensuring equal opportunities and ­implementing a modern health management. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategie 54 Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees The knowledge, commitment and performance of the staff are important As the new training scheme was very well received by school graduates, factors which underpin the long-term success of the Bank’s business activity. NRW.BANK was able to quickly recruit eight suitable candidates for its The strategic objectives of the Bank’s Human Resources activities therefore commencement in summer 2016. Another eight young people were signed include winning and retaining qualified employees and preserving their up for the dual-track study courses “Bachelor of Arts, Banking & Finance“ performance to ensure that NRW.BANK can successfully fulfil its tasks as and “Bachelor of Science, Business IT”, which are organised in conjunction the development bank for North Rhine-Westphalia now and also in future. with Hochschule für Oekonomie & Management in Düsseldorf. Together with the three trainee programmes that started in 2016, NRW.BANK was In the context of the Bank’s human resources strategy, this overriding goal thus able to fill all planned apprenticeships/traineeships. involves three fields of action which ensure that all activities and measures support the accomplishment of the strategic objectives: securing junior Given that NRW.BANK trains young people to cover its own requirements, staff, facilitating development and maintaining employees’ performance. permanent employment contracts are offered to all apprentices who complete their apprenticeships with good results. Of the 17 apprentices who The high relevance of these goals is not least reflected in the fact that the completed their training in 2016, 15 have signed permanent employment strategic fields of action and the medium and long-term objectives derived contracts. In addition, two trainees assumed permanent roles in the Bank from them form part of the Bank’s overall strategy. after successfully completing the programme. Securing Junior Staff In view of the age structure of NRW.BANK’s workforce, the Bank continues “Securing junior staff” sums up NRW.BANK’s commitment to training young to pay great attention to its objective to “secure junior staff”. The Bank wants people and improving their qualifications. To ensure that junior staff can its trainees and apprentices to replace at least part of the employees who integrate smoothly into the Bank’s existing workforce, their training is will retire from the Bank in the coming years. carefully aligned with the Bank’s needs in general and the individual departments’ needs in particular. This constant balancing leads to changes in the Facilitating Development number of apprenticeships and traineeships as well as to amendments in In order to ensure their long-term retention, NRW.BANK offers its junior terms of the course curricula and the job roles the young people are trained staff – as well as all its other employees – numerous development opportufor. As a result of this regular review process, NRW.BANK changed its nities and prospects. clerical apprenticeship programme from “office communication assistants” to “banking clerks” in summer 2016. The required practice stints in sales This includes challenging tasks which encourage professional and personal are organised in cooperation with savings banks in the region. growth as well as the possibility to get to learn new topics and to assume responsibility. Of course this needs to be complemented by the prospect of earning higher salaries in the future. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 55 NRW.BANK offers its employees a wide range of development opportunities by filling vacant positions according to the motto “internal promotion is preferable to external hiring”; this means that vacant positions are advertised publicly only if and when no suitable candidates can be found among the employees or the trainees. Award-winning In 2016, vacant positions were therefore mostly filled internally: 89 employees successfully applied for internally advertised positions and were able vocational training to assume new tasks. Given that internal transfers usually result in new vacant positions, consistent internal hiring offers employees numerous professional development options within the Bank. In the reporting year, two apprentices completing their training as office communication assistants in Münster were Apart from vacancies resulting from people leaving the Bank or going into among the best of the year in their discipline. In recognition retirement, new jobs were created at NRW.BANK as a result of diverse of these good results, NRW.BANK was again named one of regulatory requirements. This increase in the number of positions could not the companies offering the best vocational training in North exclusively be covered by apprentices and trainees or employees ­returning Rhine-Westphalia by the local Chamber of Commerce. from parental leave. As a result, the Bank filled more positions than in the previous year with people formerly employed under temporary contracts NRW.BANK was also voted one of the companies offering the or with external applicants in 2016. best vocational training in a survey conducted on behalf of Focus Money magazine under the title “Germany’s best proviVacant Positions Filled in 2016 ders of vocational training in 2017”. Scoring 98 of 100 points, the development bank was ranked second among the 45 participating (savings) banks. External Hiring 41 Internal Transfer 89 The survey was conducted by Faktenkontor GmbH on behalf of Focus Money. The criteria covered by the survey included the possibility to combine the training with a professionally Permanent Employment of qualified degree course, remuneration and additional benefits, Temporary Staff 22 successful completion of the training, exam results and the percentage of apprentice/trainees taken over by the company. Employees Returning from Employment after the The survey was methodologically supported by Prof. Dr. Werner Parental Leave (excluding Completion of Training Short Leaves 27 Programmes 17 Sarges, a psychologist and expert for management diagnostics and Professor Emeritus for Quantitative Methods at Universität der Bundeswehr in Hamburg. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 56 As in the previous years, NRW.BANK actively supported the restructuring its subsidiaries in ministries and companies of the State of North Rhineof Portigon AG. Among the staff externally hired by the Bank in 2016 were Westphalia. This resulted in the transfer of seven additional former six former employees of Portigon AG. In addition, the Bank arranged em­employees of Portigon AG to different state ministries. ployment opportunities for former Portigon staff outside NRW.BANK and Age Structure 1) in % 21 18 15 12 9 6 3 0 up to 20 21–25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 over 60 years years years years years years years years years years 2016 2015 2014 1) Excluding employees on parental leave as well as employees under temporary contracts Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 57 Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees Prevention Occupational health management Flexible working arrangements Regular hazard analyses Balance of Work and Family Numerous health offerings Child care support Sabbatical m il y L if e n d Fa He ka a lt or h W f Pr eo ot nc ec B a la ti o n Tr a i n i EMPLOYEES rT ra i n ng in g Job rotation he pp rt On-the-Job study courses and Fu O or other qualifications and degrees tu n it i e s m Professional seminars Attractive educational offers a nd Estee Permanent employment contract Personal development trainings Excellent company offering vocational training “Fairness at Work” convention High job safety Filling of vacant positions according to the motto “internal promotion is preferable to external hiring” Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2016 >> Personal 58 Age-related resignations will remain at a similar level in the coming years After the initial training, NRW.BANK assists employees in obtaining the as a result of the workforce’s age structure. Forward-looking planning above-mentioned qualifications and degrees by bearing (part of) the study ensures that measures to retain expertise within the Bank are taken at an and examination fees and releasing employees from work for exams and early stage. In accordance with the Bank’s strategic objective, these foretheir preparation but also by organising networks and learning groups. In seeable resignations will be used to offer junior staff suitable career deve2016, 16 employees obtained a degree with support from the Bank. Among lopment opportunities. them were mostly former apprentices or trainees of the Bank but also several externally hired employees. Six Master’s and five Bachelor’s degrees as This future-oriented planning also includes employee interviews as part of well as five other degrees reflect employees’ great interest in these on-thethe performance review process. At least once a year, the Bank’s executives job study courses made possible by the Bank. hold interviews with their employees to give them feedback on their accomplishments and performance in the past year and to plan the tasks for the In addition, NRW.BANK offers its employees a comprehensive range of next year. Building on these interviews, future development opportunities seminars for professional and personal growth regardless of their age, their and the steps required to implement them are discussed as well. gender and their role within the company. Most of these seminars are held internally1). Over time this form of training has proven to be a great success Life-long Learning and has met with a very positive response from all employees due to the Knowledge and experience are indispensable when it comes to grasping high quality of courses offered and how pertinent they are to the Bank’s and mastering new challenges. NRW.BANK provides a wide variety of HR needs and requirements. Since several years e-learning and blended learning development measures to support its employees in this respect. Apart from courses have been offered not only for statutory and compliance-related classical seminars and support in completing degree (bachelor or master) subjects but also for foreign language and IT skills as well as behavioural courses, this also includes job rotation schemes and other temporary and methodological competence. ­assignments. 1) Internal seminars are all events organised exclusively for the Bank’s employees at NRW.BANK’s special request and whose contents and concepts closely meet the Bank’s specific requirements and needs; such seminars may be held by in-house or external trainers. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 59 NRW.BANK’s comprehensive catalogue of regular seminars covers a range of Internal professional further training increased compared to 2015 as a professional subjects both at basic and specialist level, aspects of metho­do­ result of regulatory and other legal changes. logical and behavioural competence as well as structured and multi-layered leadership skill acquisition. This catalogue has been developed and refined By contrast, the number of internal IT seminars declined notably against in recent years, with current professional subjects being added in response the previous year. This was due to the fact that the introduction of new to actual demand on an ongoing basis. software had resulted in increased training requirements in 2015. For its executives, NRW.BANK offers a multi-part systematic executive Internal Seminar Attendance by Topic development programme, completion of which is mandatory. In addition to an entry module, there are two follow-up modules for more experienced 900 executives. All modules comprise several days of training which are spread 189 192 over a longer period of time to enable participants to process developments 600 157 29 248 and improve the transfer of learnings into practice. Compulsory training 170 139 on labour and collective bargaining law as well as different systems and 300 86 402 350 316 processes used at NRW.BANK complement the entry module. 0 In order to support an ongoing consideration and discussion of leadership 2016 2015 2014 issues, the Bank regularly offers optional workshops on related topics to all Specialist Management IT Methods/Behaviour former participants of the last module. Since 2015, joint work in these workshops has focused on the defined “principles for communication, cooperation and leadership at NRW.BANK”. The principle of “appreciating each other” as a basis for cooperation was the starting point and was followed by “agreeing clearly defined objectives” and “assuming responsibility” in 2016. In the coming years, the workshops will be continued to provide the participants with a more in-depth and personal insight into these principles and help them put them into practice in their day-to-day leadership efforts. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 60 Supplementary measures enabling executives to handle special leadership In 2016, NRW.BANK also expanded its range of e-learning courses relating situations round off the executive programme. to behavioural and communication skills, which can be used flexibly in terms of time and location. Annual fluctuations in the number of executives attending this programme are primarily due to the number of newly appointed executives because it Numerous training measures on communication, presentation and business is intended that they should participate in this programme shortly after etiquette support the Bank’s increasing focus on the provision of consulting having assumed their new responsibilities. services for politicians, municipalities and enterprises. Apart from the seminars for executives, there are other selected offerings In addition to the extensive range of internal offerings, the employees of tailored to the needs of certain groups of employees. Since 2012, for instance, NRW.BANK may, of course, also take part in seminars organised by external there has been a workshop series targeted at employees aged 50+. These providers. Similar to the previous years, 88.5% of these external seminars workshops address issues such as knowledge, relationship, conflict and were professional seminars on special topics which are only relevant for a change management specifically from the point of view of people with a long limited number of employees, which means that it would have been unecoprofessional and life experience. They also focus on measures and strategies nomical to organise them internally. to strengthen participants’ performance. Ratio of Internal and External Seminar Attendance Since 2009, NRW.BANK offers women a strategy workshop that teaches them how they can position themselves in order to achieve greater success 100% in their careers. In addition, another seminar gives inspirations and strategies 373 361 372 for more efficient and less stressful handling of the dual roles typically 75% fulfilled by women, namely as members of the workforce on the one hand and as household/family managers on the other. 762 866 650 50% 25% 0% 2016 2015 2014 Internal External Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 61 Equal Opportunities and Fair Working Conditions special challenges resulting from the dual burden of job and family, this Since many years, NRW.BANK has pursued a policy of supporting the aspect was added to the range of executive seminars last year. Moreover, the ­balance of work and family life and promoting equal opportunities. This Bank initiated an intensive discussion about the opportunities and risks of policy received the “berufundfamilie”certification in 2015. mobile workplaces. The results of these talks will be implemented by the Bank in 2017. The self-management of working time, the individual and flexible part-time The equal opportunities statistics for 2016 confirm the high acceptance and ­models and part-time executive positions success of the support offered to date. As a growing number of employees were assessed equally positively as the are taking advantage of the flexible and individualised working hour s­chemes, various child and dependent care supports, the percentage of part-time employees climbed to 28.8% as of 31 Deceme.g. in the form of day care facilities at ber 2016 (2015: 24.9%). The average working hour percentage of women both locations of NRW.BANK, the emerand men working part time amounted to 67.0%, and 84.3%, respectively. gency and holiday care services and the At 10.3%, the percentage of executives working part time stayed at the tax-free child care allowance. prior year level. These comprehensive offerings especially for children below school age In 2016, NRW.BANK pushed ahead with its efforts to increase the share of assist young families in balancing work and family life. The past years‘ women in executive positions and to fill more higher positions with women. trend towards a fast return of young mothers and short parental leaves of As of 31 December 2016, the share of women with leadership responsibility fathers continued in 2016: 69.2% of the mothers returned to work after a up to and including the Managing Board stood at 31.6% (2015: 30.3%). This period of parental leave of twelve months or less. In addition, 21 fathers positive trend is due to the consistent motivation as well as targeting and made use of the option to take parental leave, a few of them for more than promotion of young female staff at the Bank since many years. According two months. This corresponded more or less to the previous year’s figures. to the guidelines for the filling of executive positions, women moreover have to be increasingly considered for such positions. In the context of the certification, NRW.BANK decided to take further measures to improve its family-friendliness. Last year, the Bank pooled the many existing documents and information to make it easier for employees to access such information. In order to raise executives’ awareness of the Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 62 Development of the Percentage of Women and Part-time Employees in NRW.BANK’s Equal Opportunities Manager also helps improve the developExecutive Positions in % ment opportunities for women. She is involved in all measures that have or may have an impact on the equal treatment of men and women in the Bank. 100% This applies in particular to social, organisational and personnel-related 31.6 30.3 27.2 measures including job offers, selection processes and job interviews. She 75% also participates in the preparation and updating of the Equal Opportunities 69.7 72.8 Plan, which comprises all pertinent measures, and reports annually on its 68.4 50% implementation. In addition, she advises and assists all employees in equal treatment issues. 25% 10.3 10.3 9.5 NRW.BANK’s Equal Opportunities Officer also serves as the designated 0% complaint recipient within the meaning of the German Equal Treatment Act. 2016 2015 2014 Should, in spite of the measures taken, an employee be disadvantaged or Men Women thereof working part-time harassed because of their ethnic background, gender, religion, belief or handicap, age or sexual identity, they may contact the complaints unit. As in the previous years, no incident was reported to the complaints unit in 2016. Since 1 November 2016, the Managing Board of NRW.BANK has been composed of four members. Besides former members Michael Stölting and A fair and adequate remuneration system is one of the working conditions Dietrich Suhlrie, the Supervisory Board appointed Eckhard Forst as new that have a notable impact on the satisfaction and the loyalty of the emploChairman and Gabriela Pantring as member of the Managing Board of yees. NRW.BANK. Since its inception, NRW.BANK has, in consensus with its owner, focused its remuneration system and remuneration parameters on the promotion and development tasks performed by it. Accordingly, its remuneration strategy Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 63 is derived from the overall Bank strategy taking into account its statutes, Maintaining Performance corporate culture and values. The resulting remuneration principles ensure Occupational Safety and Strategic Health Management that the remuneration system Good working conditions and exemplary health and safety policies form part of NRW.BANK’s corporate responsibility towards its employees. Since is aligned with the Bank’s overall strategy and supports its many years, the Bank has implemented this in the context of its strategic implementation, health management system which has been expanded continuously since is consistent with the principle of a competition-neutral development 2006. Services range from a company doctor to a social worker offering bank under public law whose primary objective is not the generation confidential help to a variety of offerings revolving around such topics as of profits preventive medicine, nutrition and sports. is based on consistent and transparent rules and ensures that the remuneration matches the requirements. For NRW.BANK, health means much more than just the absence of illness. Its health promotion activities therefore aim to encourage healthy behaviour For a detailed presentation of the remuneration system and the variable and reduce avoidable strains in the workplace. Therefore, the focus is on remuneration, please see the Financial Report 2016. the question “what keeps people healthy in the long term”? In the context of its Ideas Management programme launched in 2007, An important tool to identify strains in good time is a systematic hazard NRW.BANK has encouraged its employees to submit and implement ideas analysis. All employees are regularly asked about potentially hazardous for improvements and cost savings that go beyond the possibilities of the circumstances and stress factors at work. In order to obtain a more comindividual job or the team. In the past this has already resulted in a number prehensive picture, the focus is placed on varying topics when the survey is of improvements for which premiums were awarded. repeated. Thanks to the collaboration between the responsible persons – especially the Occupational Safety Officer, the company doctor, the staff NRW.BANK also promotes the social and political commitment of its workcouncil, the Social Officer, building management as well as the managers force. Employees who assume political honorary posts or actively support and executives – any strains identified by the survey are usually eliminated social purposes may be released from work or receive time compensation in an unbureaucratic way. for these activities. Starting 2017, the Bank will support honorary work also financially as part of its corporate citizenship. The excellent quality of the health protection measures has been confirmed by Unfallkasse Nordrhein-Westfalen. After analysing various aspects of health and safety at NRW.BANK, assessing the implementation of specific measures and evaluating the latter, the occupational compensation fund for North Rhine-Westphalia assigned the Bank to the highest rank of its award Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 64 scheme in recognition of its “excellent organisation of safety and health” at For 2016, the Working Cycle chose “Fit life, fit job” as the main topic of the end of 2015. The safety measures are also reflected in the low accident the year, placing a focus on maintaining and increasing physical fitness numbers, which have been between approx.15 and 20 for many years. 2016 and well-being. The introductory lectures held by a sports scientist were was the only year to see the number of accidents climb to 28, of which eight ­attended by a large number of employees and were followed by a medical alone happened in January 2016 because of bad weather. Nearly all of these check-up by NRW.BANK’s company doctor. Based on the results of these accidents are commuting accidents – mostly bicycle or car accidents – and check-ups, the doctor then composed an individualised set of recommennot work accidents in the narrow sense of the word. ded measures for the participants. NRW.BANK has established two working groups to address the health The “Weight Watchers at Work” courses illustrated the importance of a protection issue to the benefit of all employees: healthy and balanced diet for physical well-being. For the duration of the courses, the staff restaurant offered one dish per day which was based on The Occupational Safety Committee advises the Bank on all matters the Weight Watchers’ formula to show how tasty a healthy and balanced of occupational safety as well as accident prevention. Its members diet can be. comprise representatives of the Bank, the staff council, the company doctor, the representatives of the severely disabled, a Safety Officer The measures offered in the field of “Exercise” were designed to show and the Occupational Safety Officer. participants how to maintain a healthy back and to increase their level of activity as important factors for their physical well-being. An individualised The Health Working Circle further develops the strategic health back analysis highlighted tense areas, their potential causes as well as m ­ anagement and decides concrete measures. In addition to the human counter-measures. Specifically designed “Fit Back” courses provided resources staff responsible for health management, the bi-annual practical tips for effective exercises that can easily be integrated into ­meetings are attended by the company doctor, the social counsellor, ­every­day life to strengthen your back. In the further course of the year, the Occupational Safety Officer, the representatives of the severely NRW.BANK encouraged its employees to obtain the official “German disabled as well as a representative of the staff council. To ensure that Sports Badge” by organising preparatory training events as well as the the services provided by the staff restaurant can also be reasonably eventual official tests. integrated into the development and implementation of the health protection measures, the circle of participants was extended to the Since 2016 NRW.BANK has additionally offered its employees the possibility catering services in 2015. to lease a bicycle by converting part of their salary. This offer has been met with great interest, with as many as 62 employees applying for a leased bicycle in the first three months up to 31 December 2016. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 65 All health management offerings are open to all employees regardless of their Flexible Annual Working Hours role, length of employment or age. While most activities are free of charge, NRW.BANK offers its employees very flexible agreements to reduce their some – e g. Weight Watchers at Work in 2016 – are available against a small regular working hours. In addition, the Bank provides two more possibilities payment. that allow employees to increase the flexibility of their working time. All current occupational health and safety measures as well as NRW.BANK’s Since 2013, NRW.BANK has offered its employees the option to take up to future plans are detailed in the annual health report which is available to all two months of unpaid leave of absence in addition to the paid vacations. The members of the workforce. number of employees who make use of this option has increased year on year. In 2016, 19 employees took advantage of this offering, most of them for Preventive check-ups, no matter how expertly planned and performed, two months. This offer is used by both men and women of all ages across cannot entirely prevent illnesses. NRW.BANK’s post-illness reintegration all functions, including executives. management system – a voluntary offering aimed at defining individualised measures matched to the working environment through personal talks with In 2016, the Bank introduced another possibility for employees to make their employees affected by illness – helps employees to restart work after long annual working time more flexible. Against a corresponding reduction of illness and to stabilise their health in the long term. The Bank is very much their pay, employees can take up to ten additional days off per year. This aware of the sensitive personal issues touched by this process and attaches offering was announced at very short notice in 2016, when it was used by the utmost importance to ensuring absolute confidentiality and data proas many as 49 employees. The first part of 2017 has already seen this numtection. ber double to 102. This is another very flexible and individualised solution allowing employees to better balance their private and professional life. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 66 NRW.BANK Personnel in Figures 2016 2015 2014 absolute in % absolute in % absolute in % Active employees, total 1) 1,301 100 % 1,271 100 % 1,233 100 % by sex – women 682 52.4 % 671 52.8 % 642 52.1 % – men 619 47.6 % 600 47.2 % 591 47.9 % by company location – Düsseldorf 898 69.0 % 874 68.8 % 829 67.2 % – Münster 403 31.0 % 397 31.2 % 404 32.8 % by type of employment – full time 926 71.2 % 955 75.1 % 939 76.2 % – part time 375 28.8 % 316 24.9 % 294 23.8 % by function group – management (incl. Managing Board) 234 18.0 % 234 18.4 % 232 18.8 % – specialists/project workers 523 40.2 % 473 37.2 % 428 34.7 % – case workers 437 33.6 % 454 35.7 % 471 38.2 % – secretaries 47 3.6 % 48 3.8 % 45 3.6 % – non-commercial functions 54 4.2 % 54 4.2 % 51 4.1 % – special functions2) 6 0.5 % 8 0.6 % 6 0.5 % by remuneration – collective pay 840 64.6 % 834 65.6 % 812 65.9 % – non-collective pay 461 35.4 % 437 34.4 % 421 34.1 % Average age, total 44,6 44,5 44,4 Average years of employment 16,4 16,6 16,6 Departures, total 48 3.7 % 39 3.1 % 32 2.6 % – due to termination 21 1.6 % 9 0.7 % 10 0.8 % – due to age 27 2.1 % 30 2.4 % 22 1.8 % In addition: temporary employees 34 53 66 In addition: apprentices and trainees 1) excluding employees on parental leave, app– trainees 3 1 2 rentices and trainees as well as employees – apprentices 34 37 48 under temporary contracts – thereof new apprenticeships 16 12 16 2) as of 2016: exempted staff representatives, – completed apprenticeships 17 20 25 previously also: Equal Opportunities Officer, Occupational Safety Officer, Remuneration – hiring ratio (unlimited) 88.2 % 90.0 % 84.0 % Officer Sustainability Report 2016 >> Human Resources 67 // CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP NRW.BANK is aware of its social responsibility. Every year, it supports projects from the fields of “Science & Education”, “Arts & Culture” as well as “Society & Social Affairs” that contribute to society and the quality of life in North Rhine-Westphalia. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Strategie 68 Showing Commitment to Society NRW.BANK also lives up to its corporate responsibility through its contriAt the beginning of each fiscal year, NRW.BANK submits a budget for all butions to public and community life in North Rhine-Westphalia. Suitable activities planned in the context of corporate citizenship to the Executive measures are supported in accordance with the Bank’s “Guidelines for and Nomination Committee for approval and explains the investments Corporate Citizenship and Other Services” adopted by the Supervisory planned to date. Board. After the end of each fiscal year, NRW.BANK provides the Executive and The Bank is committed to making its decisions on grants and sponsorships Nomination Committee with a detailed report on the use of the corporate transparent and comprehensible. citizenship funds. The Bank has established a formal internal process for this purpose. As part of its commitment to society and under its remit as a development bank, NRW.BANK endeavours to shape a subsidiarity-based and projectAll requests received regarding the sponsorship of projects are documented related collaboration with its partners on a medium to long-term basis in centrally by the Bank, voted on using standardised assessment criteria and order to create the required continuity. The Bank strives to ensure the social submitted to the Managing Board for decision on a quarterly basis. In and regional balance of its activities in North Rhine-Westphalia. exercising its senior responsibility for the allocation of funds, the Managing Board bases its promotion resolutions on these decision-making requests. In 2016, NRW.BANK’s investments in donations, sponsorships and memberships in North Rhine-Westphalia totalled € 800,000. The individual projects One essential precondition for approval is that the resources made available are presented on the following pages. In addition, the Managing Board by NRW.BANK exclusively benefit projects in North Rhine-Westphalia. decided to support employees’ volunteering efforts. Starting from 2017, an amount of € 500 per employee, but no more than a total of € 20,000 per year, The Executive and Nomination Committee is the highest controlling body will be made available for this purpose. for the allocation of the funds available for corporate citizenship purposes. The corporate citizenship budget is divided into the following categories: “Science & Education”, “Arts & Culture”, “Society & Social Affairs”. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Corporate Citizenship 69 Science & Education InteGREATer e.V., Cologne The Bank’s concept of corporate citizenship calls for the promotion of “InteGREATer” is an organisation of people from immigrant backgrounds creativity and ideas as well as education-related topics for a young target aged 17 to 32 who work voluntarily to attend events, discussions and lectures group. The Bank consequently focused on sponsorships related to education where they speak of their personal and successful educational career. This in North Rhine-Westphalia in 2016. The following projects from the field of way they want to motivate students to aim for successful graduation from “Science & Education” were sponsored by the Bank: school and encourage them for their future careers. The underlying motto of InteGREATer is: “We made it, so you can make it too”!” Competence Center Begabtenförderung, Düsseldorf The aim of the Competence Center Begabtenförderung is to promote highly Arts & Culture talented students aged 11 to 18 from Düsseldorf with a focus on career In 2016 NRW.BANK’s sponsoring activities in the field “Arts & Culture” counselling, the development of skills and the conveyance of values, while continued to focus on the promotion of young talent. at the same time supporting their logical and critical thinking as well as communication skills. For this purpose, the children and youth participating Concerts by Young Artists and Corporate Volunteering in the annual programme meet experts for specialist talks and workshops. The Bank continued to support cultural events at its two locations by making The courses are designed to meet their special interests and to challenge available its premises: As part of the biennial “summerwinds” festival for them intellectually. woodwind music, the “Amstel Quartet” performed in NRW.BANK’s staff cafeteria in Münster in July 2016. As in the past, the Bank organised the Klasse in Sport – Initiative für täglichen Schulsport e.V., Cologne event in cooperation with Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Westfälischen “Klasse in Sport” is designed for primary schools offering full-day care, Kulturarbeit e.V., Münster. preferably in socio-economically disadvantaged regions. The association wants to optimise school sports and improve children’s health. Current For the eighth year in a row, NRW.BANK organised two evening concerts in examinations and feedback talks with schools that have participated for many September 2016 in the foyer of its Düsseldorf building in cooperation with years confirm the positive effect of qualified exercise sessions during reguthe “Düsseldorf Festival”: one by the Alexander Wienand Trio and the other lar school hours and breaks on the children, their social behaviour and by the Arne Jansen Trio. their embracing of an active lifestyle. Exercise has a positive effect on their readiness to learn and, most importantly, on their cognitive performance. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Corporate Citizenship 70 NRW.BANK employees volunteered at all concerts, serving beverages and Society & Social Affairs snacks to the guests. The proceeds of approximately € 1,300 were once NRW.BANK attaches special importance to promoting responsible behaviagain donated to music schools in North Rhine-Westphalia in favour of the our in socially relevant areas. programme “JeKits – Jedem Kind Instrumente, Tanzen, Singen”. The purpose of JeKits is to provide access to playing musical instruments, dancing and Eine Welt Netz NRW e. V., Münster singing as an aesthetic experience for groups of children. In 2016 NRW.BANK continued to support the “Eine Welt Netz NRW” ­initiative which organises projects to strengthen kids’ and youths’ awareNRW.BANK.Kunstkalender ness of our world. The “Eine Welt Mobil”, a white van packed with teaching For the twelfth time in the series, NRW.BANK invited young photographers materials for year 3 and older school children, responds to strong demand to submit their application for the design of the NRW.BANK.Kunstkalender. from schools for on-site support. The teaching units introduce school The theme chosen for the 2017 edition of this annual calendar was ­children to such topics as climate change, energy consumption, fair trade, “NRW as the Business Location of the Future, Focus on Digitalisation: the rain forest and responsible garment production. ­Making the Invisible Visible” and numerous impressive entries were received. NRW.BANK awarded the first prize to Hanna Zänker from Düsseldorf. Christmas Activity “Leuchtende Kinderaugen” Sebastian H. Schroeder from Cologne and Anna Domnik from Bielefeld Marking the ninth year of this Christmas activity, NRW.BANK employees finished second and third, respectively. once again supported charitable institutions looking after children and youths in 2016. Stars on which children from socially deprived areas had Förderverein Kunstraum Fuhrwerkswaage e.V., Cologne written their Christmas wishes were hung from two large Christmas trees 2016 saw the fifth edition of the “new talents – biennale cologne”, which at the Bank’s two head offices. The employees fulfilled these wishes and attracted more than 10,000 interested visitors. Some 60 young university donated presents for pupils of Gemeinschaftsgrundschule Stoffeler Straße graduates from the fields of media/arts, film, composition, choreography in Düsseldorf-Oberbilk as well as Melanchthonschule in Münster-Coerde. and design were given the opportunity to present their skills and to establish important contacts. As part of the “new talents biennale”, NRW.BANK again Apart from the Christmas presents, the employees donated an additional sponsored the “Long Day of New Talents” event, with all exhibitions open amount of roughly € 4,500 to facilities of “Lebenshilfe” in Düsseldorf and till midnight. Münster for inclusive projects with children of crawling and kindergarten age. In 2017, this amount will be doubled by NRW.BANK, so that the two facilities will receive a total amount of approx. € 9,000. Sustainability Report 2016 >> Corporate Citizenship 71 LOOP gemeinnützige Kinderund Jugendhilfe GmbH, Düsseldorf Besides the measures described above, which merely serve as examples, LOOP Kinderund Jugendhilfe offers flexible and individualised assistance – NRW.BANK supported many other projects in the areas of “Science & also with the help of volunteer workers – to children, youths and young adults Education“, “Arts & Culture” as well as “Society & Social Affairs” in 2016. and their families. Two projects were financially supported by NRW.BANK. More information and an overview of the individual projects can be found here. “LOOP-Familien – Jedem Kind ein Zuhause” is targeted at children and youths who can no longer live with their parents because of In accordance with the “Guidelines for Corporate Citizenship and Other ­psychological and physical violence. They are placed with carefully Services” set by the Supervisory Board, NRW.BANK makes neither direct selected families with at least one pedagogically educated parent nor indirect donations to political parties or party-related foundations in where they learn how to live an independent adult life. 2016. Moreover, the Bank places no advertisements in their publications. “LOOP@Home” is a project which provides young people who can no longer live with their parents for various reasons with a new, safe home in own supervised residential units. NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Münster Concept, Design S. 41 Hans Gerritsen; S. 42 SepKavalleriestraße 22 Friedrichstraße 1 vE&K Werbeagentur peler Group; S. 43 Emschergenos40213 Düsseldorf 48145 Münster GmbH & Co. KG, Essen senschaft, Klaus Baumers; S. 45 Phone + 49 211 91741-0 Phone + 49 251 91741-0 ­silver-john/Fotolia.com; S. 54 Jacob Fax + 49 211 91741-1800 Fax + 49 251 91741-2921 Photo Credits Lund/Fotolia.com Cover: tatomm/Foto­lia.com; Investor Relations www.nrwbank.de S. 3/S. 21 Christian Lord Otto, Phone + 49 211 91741 5555 info@nrwbank.de Düssel­dorf; S. 11 weerachaiphoto/ nachhaltigkeit@nrwbank.de twitter.com/nrwbank Fotolia.com; S. 19 adiruch na chianginvestorrelations@nrwbank.de mai, Lukassek, obelicks/Fotolia.com; Responsible (V. i. S. d. P.) S. 24 Green IT; S. 25 GAG ImmobiCaroline Gesatzki, lien; S. 26 NRW.BANK/Lokomotiv Head of Communication S. 28 Tom Wang/Fotolia.com; NRW.BANK S. 39 EWV; S. 40 BOGESTRA; Sustainability Report 2016 >> Corporate Citizenship 72
