UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FEBRUARY 2016 TO FEBRUARY 2017 Landscape Architecture, Environmental Planning & Management P. O. Box 14371 00800, Nairobi Tel: +254729987935. Fax: 020 4442666 Email: info@lariaklandscapes.com. Website: www.lariaklandscapes.com INTRODUCTION Lariak Landscapes Limited is a firm offering independent Landscape Architecture, Environmental Planning and Management services from inception to implementation. MISSION STATEMENT Our Mission is to:  Create and maintain landscapes of distinction while showing sensitivity to the environment;  Provide and deliver value to clients;  Build the profile of landscape architecture in the region;  Create and nurture a creative and respectful work environment where team spirit is encouraged and individuals are empowered to make decisions and take pride in their work. CORE VALUES Our Core values are:  Distinction  Delivery  Client Satisifaction FIRM OVERVIEW Lariak Landscapes was established in 1990 as Lariak Consultants and is located at Davard House, Cedar Road in Westlands, Nairobi. The firm has completed many projects of varied magnitude while others are ongoing. The staff at Lariak Landscapes Ltd comprises of a Landscape Architects, Assistant Landscape Architects, Site Supervisor, Administrator and Landscape Technicians capable of undertaking tasks in Building Design, Landscape Architecture, Environmental Planning and Management. FIELD OF SPECIALISATION Lariak Landscapes Ltd has over the years developed particular in-depth expertise in a number of specialized fields: Service Specialization Project preparation Project identification Pre investment studies Studies Feasibility studies Analysis and evaluation studies Planning Project planning Master planning Design Preliminary design Appraisal Final design Contract documentation Cost estimate and bidding evaluation Project management Time and Cost control Implementation Operation and maintenance advice Design of maintenance methods CEO STATEMENT I am pleased that I express our unwavering support for and commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 principles in the thematic areas of Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. We, at Lariak Landscapes Limited, are committed to making a difference by implementing these principles as part of our strategy and embed the same in our business culture and day to day operations. As part of our first communication of Progress, we enclose a brief description of our organization and actions we have taken over the past year to support the Global Compact’s 10 principles. When each of these three elements of vision, concern for; excellence, people and the wider environment is present, business is transformed from a tool for making profits into a creative, humane experiment for improving life. Robert Kariuki Chief Executive Officer Lariak Landscapes Limited EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Since signing up for the United Nations Global Compact, Lariak has taken steps to address the 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. This document has been prepared as a Communication on Progress (COP) and addresses the four broad areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS Lariak Landscapes Limited recognizes that the most important people are the employees and is committed to achieving the business objectives through the employees. We believe that our success is a direct result of our employees operating the business. The Company recognizes its obligation to conduct its activities in full knowledge of and compliance with the requirements of the Employment Act and other statutory legislations in Kenya. Lariak supports human rights of its staff through the following actions: Compensating and rewarding equitably based on performance. Compensating and rewarding equitably based on other resources used from employees. Maintaining a safe working environment. Treating employees with utmost consideration, respect, dignity and understanding. Forbidding use either directly or indirectly of forced/child labour. By allowing employees to exercise freedom of association through signing a Recognition Agreement with a Trade Union and engaging in Collective Bargaining Agreement. Lariak Landscapes Limited does not subject persons to sexual, physical or emotional harassment, any form of discrimination and child labour. LABOUR Lariak Landscapes is an equal opportunity employer and advertises vacancies in the organization publicly. In line with the Global Compact elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, we, believe in selecting and recruiting candidates into the organization based on qualifications, experience, skills, competence and aptitude. We provide training and opportunity for growth in an enabling environment, to employees, and interns from all over the world. Lariak landscapes Limited undertakes its employment procedures in accordance to the Kenyan Constitution, Employment act of 2007 CHAPTER 226. The company offers the rights of every employee such as Leave benefits: sick leave, annual leave, maternity leave; outlined hours of work, basic minimum conditions of employment and agreed wages. Social Security and Health Taxes Lariak Landscapes ensures all social security and health taxes are paid, as every employer must pay Social Security contribution as their employees, which include National Social Security Fund (NSSF) and National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) as per the constitution of Kenya; the National Social Security Fund Act CHAPTER 258 and The National Hospital Insurance Act CHAPTER 255. Workers Compensation Businesses with employees are required to have Workers' Compensation in case of injury, according to the Work Injury Benefits Act of 2007. Lariak Landscapes Limited is bound to compensate injured workers fairly according to the level of injury and the conditions that led to the injury. Persons with disabilities Employment should not disregard person with any form of disabilities whatsoever. This is followed according to the Bill of rights of 2010, and the Occupational Safety and health act, No. 25 of 2007, a matter of which, Lariak Landscapes Limited follows very closely. ENVIRONMENT Lariak Landscapes Limited champions for environmental sustainability in day to day activities. Ways in which the company protects the environment are:  Conducting environmental assessments and site analysis before the beginning of every project so as to guide on the design process.  Production of Landscape Design Statements, inclusive of the environmental assessments, design process, planning and zoning considerations, materials to be used during landscape implementation, as well as outcomes of the overall design.  Restoration of degraded special areas like wetlands, mine fields, and brown fields using landscape Architecture  Use of local materials during landscape installation, and plant materials native to the site. We discourage introduction of invasive species of plants to a site.  Reduction of use of fossil fuels and harmful pesticides during landscape installation and maintenance. We encourage use of organic methods for soft landscape installation.  Recycling waste generated on sites so as to reduce carbon footprint. ANTI CORRUPTION Lariak Landscapes Limited does not accept false documents, bribes or any other illegal material, so as to favour employment to a specific individual. The company too does don’t engage in illegal activities, bribery or extortion of money, so as to get jobs and contracts Lariak Landscapes Limited only uses, genuine products it everyday business activities. It is also our mandate to report any corruption cases to the relevant authorities. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Lariak Landscapes Limited recognizes that its social, economic and environmental responsibilities to the community are integral to the business and this is demonstrated through the following actions:  Member of Laikipia Wildlife Forum – Dealing with community work on general conservation inclusive of forests in Laikipia District  Rhino Ark involved in the Aberdare Forest Restoration and Resolving human wildlife conflict – Fundraising through participation in the Rhino Charge over the last 12 years.  Ngong’ Forest Sanctuary Assisted in design services  Tree is life -Board member. Deals with community based afforestation and conservation projects.  The Mater Heart RunDonated funds and run for a cause towards the treatment of heart diseases in young children.
