Communication on Progress 2016 About the document DATE March, 2017 VERSION 1.0 Introduction TenneT has committed itself to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact since 2015. We implemented the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in our supplier Code of Conduct, our company code and our business processes. With this communication on progress we report about the progress we have made on the Ten Principles in 2016. Additionally, we identified the relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and make a reference the relevant sections of our Integrated Annual Report 2016. Statement of the CEO I am pleased to confirm that TenneT reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, TenneT Holding B.V. J.M. Kroon Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress 2016 – Publication date 8 March 2017 1 Communication on Progress For each principle a reference is made to the relevant section of our Integrated Annual Report that describes our progress. The annual report can be found online; http://annualreport.tennet.eu/2016/annualreport. The way TenneT manages Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in general is described in the CSR Reporting Principles of our annual report. UN Global Compact Principles Description of practical actions and measurement of outcomes can be found in the sections Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Risk Management and Internal the protection of internationally proclaimed human Control – Fraud and Integrity rights; CSR Reporting Principles Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Risk Management and Internal human rights abuses. Control – Fraud and Integrity CSR Reporting Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Employees of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and CSR Reporting Principles compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; CSR Reporting Principles and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Employees respect of employment and occupation. CSR Reporting Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a Environment precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and Environment diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against Risk Management and Internal corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Control – Fraud and Integrity bribery. Communication on Progress 2016 – Publication date 8 March 2017 2 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) From the seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the relevant SDGs for TenneT have been identified. Our contribution to each of these goals is described in our integrated annual report. For each goal a reference is made to the relevant chapter in our report. Sustainable Target to which TenneT makes a contribution Reference to Development relevant section Goals annual report By 2030, increase substantially the share of Markets renewable energy in the global energy mix By 2030, enhance international cooperation to facilitate access to clean energy research and technology, including renewable energy, energy efficiency and advanced and cleaner fossil-fuel technology, and promote investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient Markets infrastructure, including regional and transborder Society infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all By 2020, sustainably manage and protect marine Environment and coastal ecosystems to avoid significant adverse impacts, including by strengthening their resilience, and take action for their restoration in order to achieve healthy and productive oceans By 2020, promote the implementation of Environment sustainable management of all types of forests Communication on Progress 2016 – Publication date 8 March 2017 3
