UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress July 2017 TM WORLD LEADERS IN SYNTHETIC TURF GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress TABLE OF CONTENTS Communication on Progress July 5, 2017 EXECUTIVE LETTER CORPORATE PROFILE COMPANY HISTORY PROMOTING THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 & 2 : Protection of human rights LABOR RIGHTS Principle 3 : Freedom of association and collective bargaining Principle 4 : No forced or compulsory labor Principle 5 : No child labor Principle 6 : Eliminate discrimination ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 : Precautionary approach to challenges Principle 8 : Promote greater responsibility Principle 9 : Develop and diffuse environmentally-friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 : No Corruption, extortion and bribery GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress EXECUTIVE LETTER July 5, 2017 Dear Stakeholders, This past year, Act Global has centered on bringing new focus to our mission: “With a foundation of innovation, integrity and quality, Act Global strives to positively impact society and maximize land use through the use of synthetic turf.” At Act Global, we are innovating more, to change the way the world uses synthetic turf. Our planet has added more than 2 billion people in the last 25 years alone. As a society, we are traveling more, producing more waste and filling up landfills, expanding city spaces and using more natural resources. Act Global is focused on creating synthetic turf solutions which address these issues, protect our resources, and enhance land use for business, leisure, sports and communities. The opportunities for artificial turf to enhance land use are expanding, and to meet these needs requires constant product development, responsible business practices, advocacy and education. It is our goal to be a leader in promoting responsible industry practices, while doing so in a sustainable, environmentally-conscious manner. This will be the ninth year that Act Global is a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact. It our responsibility and privilege to maintain honest, positive business practices, and the principles set forth by the United Nations Global Compact will continue to guide our future decision-making. Best Regards, John Baize Chief Executive Officer Corporate Profile GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress We are a dynamic, global synthetic turf company committed to BE MORE. Our mission to “Be More” is ingrained in every facet of our business, every employee and throughout our value chain. With a foundation of innovation, integrity and quality, Act Global strives to positively impact society and maximize land use through the use of synthetic turf. Innovate more. Protect more. Advancing turf products and Investing in green-friendly services, with a focus on research, technologies, enhancing development and a vision to innovate. safety and promoting sustainable practices. Play more. Give more. Enhancing sports, community Supporting charitable and spaces, and leisure activity global aid organizations through synthetic turf. around the world. Corporate Profile GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress As one of the WORLD’S LARGEST producers of synthetic turf, we take quality seriously. Manufacturing facilities on 3 continents Installations in over 80 countries Manufacturing facilities on 3 continents Installations in over 80 countries ISO 9001 Quality Act Global adheres to strict international standards proven to increase quality. We maintain state of the art operations to ensure each order is of the highest quality, and our team manually inspects every turf roll coming out of production. Strict quality controls, reporting and annual audits keep our operations lean, clean and accountable. Corporate Profile GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 6. Obtain client and user feedback, and adjust product strategy accordingly TECHNOLOGY LEADERS 4 Full range of synthetic turf for A vision to sports, landscape, aviation and landfill capping solutions INNOVATE. 4 Long-term investments in 3. Source the new manufacturing centers, PRODUCT RANGE finest raw materials in-house R&D laboratory, and and suppliers testing equipment Patented technologies Our sports turf has been used in community 4 ISO 9001 Quality Certification fields to elite professional stadia. 4 Certified Synthetic Turf Council Manufacturer 4 Complete environmental, Artificial grass provides natural looking, ASTM, EN/DIN, UV and low-maintenance landscape solution. Lisport Durability testing 4 Cross optimization of global resources, trends and technologies with local support Patented aviation turf enhances safety and operations for airports. Patented synthetic turf capping system offers protection for long-term cover of landfills. Corporate Profile GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Inspired by nature, engineered to exceed. Verified by Testing Natural Grass Benchmarks We start with the best NATURAL GRASS BENCHMARKS and latest SAFETY DATA, considering a variety of markets, needs and regulations. Designed to PERFORM 4 Grass fibre and system testing that exceeds TYPICAL ASTM REQUIREMENTS 4 Melting point, breaking strength, tuft bind, strength, elongation, dtex/denier, thickness, width and environmental 4 UV and artificial weathering 4 Instron tester for tensile strength 4 Extended Deltec Lisport testing up to 140,000 cycles GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress COMPANY HISTORY About Act Global Promoting the United Nations Global Compact 4 Founded in February 2004 as Global Sports Systems We are proud to call ourselves partners with the United 4 Management team with extensive industry Nations Global Compact. Our goal as a world leader experience in each functional area in synthetic turf industry is to educate and encourage 4 Sales in over 80 countries through exclusive other companies in the industry to gather the basic distribution partners principles to action for continued communal growth. 4 Excellent reputation for quality, strong relationships, integrity and expertise 4 We will maintain a current copy of our latest 4 Worldwide industry and charitable partnerships Communication on Progress archived on our 4 Only company holding all five certifications company website www.ActGlobal.com, for the —FIFA Preferred Producer for Football Turf, FIH public to view and download. Preferred Supplier, World Rugby Preferred 4 We display the United Nations Global Compact Producer, Synthetic Turf Council Certified Support logo in our marketing materials and efforts Manufacturer and ISO 9001 4 Act Global is committed to building personal relationships with customers, and promoting our support of the Global Compact through 2016 CORPORATE MILESTONES these relationships. 4 Achieved status as FIH Preferred Supplier 4 We hope to inspire others to make a difference 4 Partnered with WFSGI and completed audit in the world by administering the principles of the 4 Joined the US Green Building Council Global Compact in their own business. 4 Completed a FIFA Goal project in the British Virgin Islands 4 Renewed commitment to organizations such as World Rugby and Synthetic Turf Council 4 Acquired the UBU and Turfscapes turf brands 4 Donated turf for 2016 Homeless World Cup in Glasgow, Scotland Dedicated to saving water and Found throughout reducing use of pesticides NFL and university through artificial grass stadiums in the US landscaping GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Overview of Global Compact Communication on Progress # Principle Implemented Comment No issues 1-2 Human Rights Yes Support to CARE Passed WFSGI audit Labor Rights Freedom of association No issues Yes 3 and collective bargaining Passed WFSGI audit No issues Labor Rights No forced 4 Yes ISO 9001 Certification or compulsory labor Passed WFSGI audit No issues Support to World Vision 5 Labor Rights No child labor Yes Donations to FOMO and Field of Dreams Uganda Passed WFSGI audit No issues Support of World Vision Micro Loan Program 6 Labor Rights -Eliminate discrimination Yes Homeless World Cup Sponsor Passed WFSGI audit Developing recyclable technologies Environment – Precautionary Educating on environmental benefits of Yes 7 approach to challenges synthetic turf Passed WFSGI audit Support of Conservation International LEED credit education Environment – Promote greater responsibility Yes 8 Joined US Green Building Council Passed WFSGI audit LiteEarth environmental solutions Environment – Develop and diffuse Yes Developing recyclable friendly technologes 9 environmentally-friendly technologies Passed WFSGI audit No issues 10 Anti-Corruption Yes Passed WFSGI audit GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS Principles 1 and 2 foster an open culture by encouraging regular communication amongst employees. Businesses should support and respect ACT GLOBAL SUPPORTS HUMAN RIGHTS the protection of internationally proclaimed ORGANIZATIONS human rights and make sure that they are not complicity in human rights abuses. Act Global annually contributes to CARE, a humanitarian organization that ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: fights global poverty in part by providAct Global advocates human rights and equal opportuing economic opportunities to women nities worldwide. We display posters and have educain particular. Our goal with CARE is to tional materials available for all employees regarding provide resources needed for survival the Occupational Safety & Health Association, Employin the hands of those individuals most adept to make a ee Rights, and Workers Compensation. We maintain change in their immediate community. With our donaa comfortable, safe and professional working environtions, the women, mothers, and wives are able to proment for our employees and partners, and full-time vide value to their families and friends while developing employees are offered medical insurance benefits. We a sense of empowerment. MEASUREMENT: We have implemented feedback systems to allow employees to express any concerns or feedback to leadership. With regular communication and proper training of business ethics we confirm no human rights are violated. GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3 Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of Businesses should uphold the elimination of the right to collective bargaining. all forms of forced and compulsory labor. ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: Act Global upholds a zero tolerance policy to all forms of forced and compulsory labor. To avoid miscommunication regarding labor expectations, responsibilities, wages, and schedules are formally outlined for each employee. We openly invite employees to provide feedback and suggestions, and treat all our worldwide partners with the same open courtesy and respect. ACT GLOBAL RECERTIFIED FOR ISO 9001 WITH ZERO ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: COMPLIANCE ISSUES Act Global continues to uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to colTo achieve ISO 9001 recertification, an independent, lective bargaining. We do not discriminate on grounds third-party audit found zero complicance issues is the of membership in a labor union. Act Global fosters an areas of manufacturing quality, labor practices, employopen environment and welcomes open dialogue and ee training processes and customer service. association among team members, without interference from our management. “For a company to truly achieve a culture of quality, it takes team members MEASUREMENT: with skill, commitment and passion to Our company policies clearly indicate our compliance make it happen. We maintain open lines of with these issues. Act Global will engage open discommunication and a comfortable working cussions and formal reviews of work environment to environment to motivate employees and ensure these policies are continually met. encourage growth.” GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress LABOR STANDARDS continued... ACT GLOBAL SUPPORTS WORLD VISION MEASUREMENT: MICRO LENDING PROGRAM International partners and employees undergo an interview process to ensure they can comply with our The World Vision Micro Loan program takes a holistic company standards and those set forth by the United approach to combat the root causes of poverty, by Nations Global Compact. ISO 9001 holds company providing a path to a self-sustaining income. The micro accountable via a third party audit. loans help entrepreneurs establish business, create jobs, and develop infrastructure in regions which have historically struggled with access to basic resources. Once repaid, the loans are then redistributed to anPrinciple 5 other entrepreneur in the same community, creating a ripple effect to help break the cycle of poverty and build Businesses should uphold the effective a thriving, sustainable economy. According to the World abolition of child labor. Vision website, a $100 micro loan can provide $7,150 of economic impact to a community over 10 years. ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: Child labor is cruel and inhumane and our company does not tolerate this type of behavior. All of our employees are hired within the legal working age and do so by consent of both parties. We establish a comfortable working environment to ensure our employee’s happiness. Act Global lends support to World Vision, a Christian humanitarian organization dedicated to working with children, families and their communities worldwide to reach their full potential by tackling the causes of poverty and injustice. ACT GLOBAL SUPPORTS FRIENDS OF MULANJE ORPHANS Friends of Mulanje Orphans (FOMO) is a communitybased programme which houses, feeds and educates orphans in Malawi. Act Global director Chris Clapham has been involved with FOMO for 8 years, and this year Act Global sponsored FOMO teams in a U-14 football tournament. During a recent visit, the children danced, laughed and listened to talks from Chris and the Malawi National football coach. Act Global is both humbled and inspired by those who dedicate their lives to helping others! GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress honest relationships, and our worldwide network of LABOR STANDARDS continued... partners and suppliers in over 70 countries are truly an extension of the Act Global family. We also have offices stationed in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Malaysia, France, Poland, Cyprus, Australia, Canada, as well Texas, Arizona and Georgia, USA. We treat every person, in every regional market, with a mutual respect. With this understanding between our valued stakeholders and Act Global we are able to develop an open line of communication and acceptance. We do not discriminate against race, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction, social origin, age, disability, HIV/AIDS status, trade union membership, and sexual orientation. Our employees and contractors are hired based on their skills and ability to do the job. ACT GLOBAL DONATES TO FIELD OF DREAMS UGANDA Act Global helped sponsor a recent Field of Dreams mission trip, which supports the children of Uganda through the vehicles of sports and education. ACT GLOBAL WAS THE OFFICIAL HOMELESS WORLD CUP SPONSOR IN 2016 MEASUREMENT: With a mission to inspire life change through football, Our hiring guidelines and practices clearly outline our the Homeless World Cup brings together individuals policies against child labor. We implement a strict from around the world for a week of football and fellowevaluation process when working with outside suppliship. Act Global is honored to be the official synthetic ers and partners to ensure their practices align with turf donor for the event, which has impacted the lives these standards. of more than 1 million homeless individuals around the globe. Principle 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in MEASUREMENT: respect of employment and occupation. We will maintain documentation of all complaints and issues. ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: To be a successful global company, Act Global accepts and embraces diversity. We believe in building lasting, GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT Sustainabile practices Act Global Principle 7 has put in place: Businesses should support a precautionary SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING approach to environmental challenges. 4 Established recycling program at our manufacturing facilities reclaim every by product of turf ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: production fibre, turf, backing, cardboard, Sustainability can be described as meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of plastic and wood. future generations to meet their own needs. For Act 4 Segregated waste facilities to facilitate recycling. Global to be sustainable, we must simultaneously 4 Responsibly sourced raw materials. maintain a profitable business, be conscious of staff 4 Detailed records of environmental testing for and company needs, be forward thinking in our green lead, mercury, zinc, cadmium, chromium, tin, technology, and prevent detrimental harm to the envitoxicity, EOX and DOC. ronment. We strive to ensure that the environmental 4 Implementing robust inventory and project impact of all our activities is minimised, while balancing the needs of stakeholders, communities and employtracking process to minimise waste and ees to ensure satisfaction. improve efficiencies 4 “Switch Off” labels on all electrical equipment, independent A/C units and light switches. 4 Replacing IT equipment at end of life with energy star rated equipment 4 Low energy lighting 4 Using recycled paper for marketing materials and documents GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT continued... SUSTAINABLE PARTNERSHIPS ACTIONS TAKEN & ACHIEVEMENTS: 4 Provide ongoing monetary support to environmental Act Global regularly communicates to its stakeholdorganization Conservation International ers and the public regarding the importance of environmental soundness, best practices in energy 4 Participate in environmental causes such as and resource efficiency, waste reduction, renewable Carbonfund.org’s Million Tree Challenge resources, and the use of cleaner production. 4 When general contractors and architects purchase and install our synthetic turf products When general contractors and they can gain LEED credits. architects purchase and install our 4 Engaging with local communities, such as local synthetic turf products they can gain football team sponsorship LEED credits. Established by the US Green Builders Council, the Leadership in Environmental Design (LEED) organization designates products as “green friendly” by obtaining points MEASUREMENT: through environmentally-conscious organizations. Detailed records of all our environmental testing for lead, mercury, zinc, cadmium, chromium, tin, toxicity, Act Global also continues to support environmental EOX and DOC. We confirm these results to the general organizations such as Conservation International. public by placing labels on all our artificial turf rolls. We are beginning to monitor energy consumption to benchmark and improve company use. MEASUREMENT: Principle 8 Act Global makes measurable monetary donations to global environmental organizations. Records of LEED credit projects, energy consumption and water conUndertake initiatives to promote greater sumption maintained. environmental responsibility. GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT continued... MEASUREMENT: Xtreme Grass is 100% recyclable. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyfriendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: Based on feedback from partners, industry affiliations Businesses should work against corruption in and with a focus on sustainability, Act is committed to all its forms, including extortion and bribery. research and development to expand our green-friendly technologies. ACTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS: Act Global does not condone any form of corruption, 4 Our latest product development, Xtreme Grass, extortion and bribery. With clear lines of communicais designed to be 100% recyclable at end of life. tion we confirm that we only work with those individuals and companies that share the same value systems as 4 Synthetic turf promotes greater utilization of Act Global. It is our policy to limit the amount of gifts land, as you can achieve more with the same that can be given or received by an employee or professurface space. Our LiteEarth product provides sional partner. We do not tolerate corruption or bribery an aesthetically pleasing, functional final closure in any shape or form. for landfill, coal ash deposits and other land reclamation projects. 4 We are conducting ongoing research and development for offering products with greater recyclability. MEASUREMENT: Any policy or ethical violation that is detected by an employee is immediately reported to management and documented. MEMBER SINCE MAY 17, 2017 ACT GLOBAL WFSGI CODE OF CONDUCT GUIDING PRINCIPLES APPROVED BY THE WFSGI GENERAL ASSEMBLY IN MUNICH, GERMANY, ON 23RD JANUARY 2016 INTRODUCTION The World Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry (WFSGI) was formed in 1978 to promote the world’s sporting activities, to standardise the size of equipment and the rules of sport, to improve the standards of quality for sporting goods and to promote responsible and sustainable practices in sporting goods internationally. Today the WFSGI consists of a diverse global membership including brands, manufacturers, retailers and national & regional sports federations (“members”). The ideals of the WFSGI are the ideals of sport, and the organisation seeks to promote fairness, honesty, mutual understanding and high ethical standards. WFSGI is committed to fostering a sports industry in which members actively build business partnerships with those who share the values of sport and take responsibility for making the values real through active engagement. WFSGI members recognize the important role they play in the global economy and their influence on the social and economic conditions under which sporting goods are produced. That influence is exercised both through their actions as employers, and, far more profoundly, through their decisions as customers of companies that serve as suppliers of goods and services (“suppliers”). For the purpose of this Code “employer” refers to both members and suppliers when they are responsible for employees. The Principles of the WFSGI Code of Conduct are based on relevant Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and internationally accepted occupational health and safety standards. The purpose of the Code is to guide WFSGI members in the standards and practices expected in the workplaces that they operate or contract from. WFSGI also acknowledges that companies operate under different legal, economic, social and cultural environments and these differences merit understanding and respect. Never the less, the WFSGI Code of Conduct applies to all WFSGI members, their suppliers and any authorised sub-contractors involved in the production process. I. LEGAL COMPLIANCE Member companies and their suppliers must operate in full compliance with national and local laws, rules and regulations relevant to their business operations including but not restricted to employment, environment and health and safety. II. WORKING CONDITIONS Local industry standards should prevail when higher than the local legal requirements. In countries where the legal requirements fall short of internationally recognised standards, it is recommended that members should apply the following minimum criteria: 1. Forced Labour Employers shall not use forced labour, whether in the form of prison labour, indentured labour, bonded labour, or otherwise. No employee can be compelled to work through force, the threat of force, or intimidation of any form. 2. Non-discrimination No person shall be subject to any discrimination in employment, included in hiring, salary, benefits, advancement, discipline, termination or retirement, on the basis of gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, political opinion, or social or ethnic origin. Foreign or domestic migrant labour shall be treated on an equal basis with local employees. 3. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining The rights of workers to join (or not to join) organisations and associations of their own choosing without penalty and interference, and to bargain collectively shall be recognised and respected. Where the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining is restricted under law, the employer shall consider the development of parallel means for independent and free association and bargaining. 4. Wages and Benefits Employees shall be fully and legally compensated for all hours worked. In all cases, wages must equal or exceed the minimum wage or the industry wage, whichever is higher and all legally mandated benefits including insurances, holidays and leave shall be provided. In addition to their compensation for regular hours of work, employees shall be compensated for overtime hours at the rate legally required in the country of operation or, in those countries where such laws do not exist, at a rate exceeding their regular hourly compensation rate. 5. Hours of Work Employees shall not be required, except in extraordinary business circumstances, to work in excess of 60 hours (including overtime) per week, or the local legal requirement, whichever is less. Overtime work must be voluntary. Employees shall be allowed to at least twenty four (24) consecutive hours rest within every seven day period. 6. Regular Employment Employees shall be employed on the basis of a recognised employment relationship established through national law and practice. Obligations of employers shall not be avoided through the excessive use of temporary contracts, subcontracting or apprenticeship schemes. 7. Child Labour No person shall be employed at an age younger than 15 (or 14 where the country of operation allows), or younger than the age for completing compulsory education in the country of manufacture where such age is higher than 15. All legal requirements for employees under 18 shall be followed and no person under the age of 18 shall be engaged in hazardous work or conditions, or any work at night. 8. Health and Safety A safe and hygienic working environment shall be provided, and occupational health and safety practices which prevent accidents and injury to health arising out of, linked with, or occurring in the course of work or as a result of the operation of employer facilities shall be promoted. This includes safe buildings, fire protection, electrical safety, safe use of hazardous substances and correct use of personal protective equipment. Lighting, heating and ventilation systems should be adequate. Employees should have access to adequate sanitary facilities and potable water at all times. The workplace shall have safety and health policies and procedures that are clearly communicated to the all employees. All standards shall apply to employee residential facilities, where provided by employers. 9. Harassment or abuse Every employee shall be treated with respect and dignity and has the right to a workplace free from physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or abuse. III. ENVIRONMENT Members and their suppliers shall aim for progressive improvement in their environmental performance. This includes: • Responsible use of natural resources such as energy and water • Responsible management and reduction in the use and disposal of hazardous chemicals • Reducing, minimizing and avoiding pollution and waste including solids, liquid and air emissions • Designing and developing products, materials and technologies according to sustainable principles • Integrating principles of sustainability into business decisions and practices IV. SUBCONTRACTORS Members and their suppliers shall have full knowledge of subcontractors in their supply chain. All declared and approved subcontractors must comply with this Code. V. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Members and their suppliers recognise the economic and social impact of their work and commit to improving conditions in the wider communities in which they operate. VI. COMPANY SPECIFIC STANDARDS Members are encouraged to draw up their own specific code of ethical conduct, if they have not already done so, building on the above standards. VII. VERIFICATION & COMPLIANCE These Principles have been adopted by WFSGI to provide guidance for members and suppliers to ensure their business operates responsibly. Members shall take steps to ensure compliance with these standards in their own operations and in those of their suppliers. Where there are instances of non-compliance [e.g. significant and/or persistent breaches] whether found by internal or independent external monitors, members shall ensure timely and reasonable remediation of such non-compliance; and ensure that adequate steps are taken to prevent recurrence and/or occurrence in other organisations. WFSGI reserves the right to require members to report regularly on the steps they are taking to ensure compliance with this Code and responsible business practices more broadly. Act Global’s products and services are available through distribution partners in over 80 countries. CORPORATE CHICAGO EUROPE ASIA PACIFIC | MIDDLE EAST | AFRICA 4201 West Parmer Lane 20 West Kinzie Street Dinxperlosestraatweg 50 P.O. BOX 53191 Suite B 175 Chicago, Illinois 60654 USA 7122 AH Aalten Limassol 3301 Austin, Texas 78727 USA The Netherlands Cyprus SALES OFFICE AMERICAS California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Pennsylvania, Texas and Quebec, Canada ASIA PACIFIC Australia, China and Thailand EUROPE Cyprus, France, Netherlands, Poland and United Kingdom WWW.ACTGLOBAL.COM | EMAIL: INFO@ACTGLOBAL.COM | PHONE: +1.512.733.5300
