VA L U E S Truth Love Integrity TA B L E O F CEO LETTER L E AV E I T BETTER CONTENTS At Graebel, we have maxims: “duty of care,” “truth, love, and integrity,” and “we’re just getting We also encourage our suppliers to commit to sustainability. In 2015, we implemented an THAN YOU 2 started.” These are terms we integrate at every environmental stewardship award to encourage FOUND IT INTRODUCTION level of our enterprise, and it touches our and recognize suppliers for achievements in CEO Letter employees, our clients, and the public in a real, sustainable initiatives. tangible way. About Our Company For our full-time employees, we afford them 24 Why the UN Global Compact? As a global organization that relocates employees work hours per year to participate and celebrate BECOME Human Rights at Graebel to new areas of the world, we see our work as in community-driven volunteer activities. creating that human touch to a very stressful THE GLOBAL EMPLOYER 6 PEOPLE & situation – moving. That’s why we focus on our people, servant leadership, and embracing the These examples, alongside our c ommitment to hiring employees who make our company more OF CHOICE C U LT U R E principles of the UN Global Compact. inclusive, diverse, and innovative, help us foster a Employee Engagement community inside and outside the workplace. This set of beliefs can be seen through the lens of We know by developing these values in a The Client Corner high-level strategy, such as our redefined constructive, honest way, we will continue to Community Engagement mission, vision, and values that set meaningful strengthen our business and build a sustainable, goals for Graebel, such as “leave it better than you value-driven organization. Scholars-in-Action O P E R AT E I N found it,” “become the global employer o f choice,” Serving our Global Community and “operate in a safe and c ompliant manner.” With this communication, we express our intent to A SAFE & honor and implement the principles found in the COMPLIANT 12 E N V I R O N M E N TA L UN Global Compact. “ MANNER STEWARDSHIP Employee Engagement These tangible watermarks can be witnessed in our  Sustained Individual & community and operational work, positively contributing Community Actions to the advancement of education, the environment, and GRAEBEL Activate Energy Savings! We Have Standards human rights issues we address around the globe.” CO R P O R AT E Graebel Suppliers Compete for Prize These tangible watermarks can be witnessed in RESPONSIBILITY our community and operational work, positively 15 Here’s to the World Ahead, DUTY OF CARE contributing to the advancement of education, 2016-17 Spotlight on Richard Payne’s the environment, and human rights issues we address around the globe. Our partnerships with Certification the National Leadership Academy (education), This report is a reflection of the activities UN Global Compact the Boy Scouts of America (education and and results that demonstrate the Graebel Alignment Index environment), the American Heart Association commitment and willingness to “walk the (health and human rights), and the National Bill Graebel talk” and an affirmation of how our values Forests (environment) all address these integrate into everything we do. humane standards. 2 3 A B O U T O U R C O M PA N Y WHY THE UN GLOBAL HUMAN Graebel helps Fortune 500, Global 100, and other organizations with absolutely everything involved in C O M PAC T ? R I G H T S AT relocating their people. In a world where employees have ever higher expectations and businesses want a higher return on mobility, Graebel delivers a straighter line from A to B, a more inviting experience for everyone, and a new lever for business growth. This comprehensive approach is transforming workforce Some companies may struggle with this question. What GRAEBEL is the ROI of this report? How will it affect business mobility in 165 countries across six continents. engagements? Do we have the capacity to execute this Our human rights policy initiative without losing focus on our core responsibilities? follows the Universal All these questions came under some scrutiny here, but Graebel Companies has always believed that what’s good Declaration of Human for the earth and our global citizen base belongs on the Rights, and provides a Graebel Global Locations priority list. holistic set of principles that we stand for, which Additionally, as we undertook this initiative, more positive aspects emerged: internally, we were able to includes but is not limited consolidate and organize the beneficial efforts we perform to: the prohibition of operationally and through community service; publicly, child labor, harsh or we began to view this as an opportunity to celebrate inhumane treatment, and broadcast that work; and we came across research and anti-discrimination. that proved the need to establish and advance our LONDON BRUSSELS ethical practices. The following internal WAUSAU TORONT O BERLIN PRAGUE policies further prove DUBLIN SEATTLE NEW YORK ZURICH In 2014, a PwC study discovered that more than half of our commitment to a more recent college graduates seek work at companies that just and fair workplace. DENVER WASHINGTON D.C. have corporate social responsibility (CSR) values that align ATLA NTA SHANGHAI HOUSTON with their own, and 56% would consider leaving a company that didn’t have the values they expected. SINGAPORE This same workforce, millennials, has a strong appetite for working overseas: 71% expect and want to do a global Code of Business assignment during their career. Conduct and Ethics / Regional HQ EX-001 Satellite Offices These two stats encourage perspective from our company World HQ for two reasons: 1) We’re an international company that will relocate these millennials around the globe; and Human Rights / 2) We publicize our values and our positive working HR-017 environment, principles that the largest workforce looks for in a business. Holidays / HR-029 Moreover as a relocation company, we rely on environments which support global commerce, open 5 operation centers borders, and transparent laws and regulations. Human Prohibition of rights and a sustainable society allow us to expand Harassment Policy / our possibilities, and the UN Global Compact creates a HR-006 framework for all companies who believe in the prosperity and promise of the future. 2,460+ providers 10 satellite offices PTO Policy / HR-001 4 5 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT THE CLIENT CORNER Graebel’s 2017 engagement survey was conducted by CEB, the world’s leading research In late 2011, our Asia-Pacific (APAC) service center learned that a client was planning to and advisory services company. We compare our results against a Global Benchmark, move their service relationship back to HQ. That spurred us to identify an opportunity which includes: to better gauge client feedback and customer satisfaction scores. After a deep dive, we made some changes on the front lines, expanding our team and providing communication points to guide our clients. An overall average of all organizations across industry and geography; However, it wasn’t just tactics. We also adopted a client loyalty methodology that’s well known on a global scale, the Net Promoter Score (NPS). NPS is an index ranging from 0 300+ mid-sized global organizations; to 100 that measures the willingness of customers to recommend a company’s products or services to others. It also assesses customer’s overall satisfaction with a company’s 20+ industries; product or service and the customer’s loyalty to the brand. over 400,000 individual participants. This change ramped up competition among our team members to receive higher scores and led to better engagement with all of our clients in the process. APAC’s divisional NPS moved from 34 to 68 in five years, and our consultant satisfaction moved from 88 to 95. That client who took a hiatus from our APAC service center? They returned in just Results allow us to hear directly from our employees, providing us a granular spotlight on six short months, recognizing and applauding our new standards. Because we looked our achievements and where we can improve as a company. We believe these stats provide contemplatively and pro-actively within our organization, our internal practices became significant insight into our workforce. stronger, leaving an indelible mark on our team and clients. Say Graebel Say Graebel Say Graebel is a place of strong is a great is a place with great culture & values work environment customer service 74% 59% 75% Benchmark = 61% Benchmark = 53% Benchmark = 64% Female / Male Employee Ratio 68% Female 32% Male 6 7 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SCHOLARS-INJuliana Davis, an International Consultant, just completed her degree in International Management from Colorado State University. She hopes that this new academic rank will “open doors and opportunities” for Our employees have been actively involved in their communities for ACTION her, but mostly, she loved the educational experience and the seamlessness of applying for the program. decades. We’ve only just started to At Graebel, we offer our employees tuition Graebel’s support of our scholars is born out of our understanding that by helping our employees, we will capture their sweat and volunteer reimbursement to advance their careers. Available ultimately cultivate benefits for the entire ecosystem of our business. But it starts on the individual level, equity after establishing a Volunteer after three months of employment, this incentive is a and we’re proud of all our employees who work hard and study hard. Paid-Time Off (VPTO) policy in 2015 valuable resource for many scholars here. Last year with the intention to provide global 14 employees applied for funds, accounting for over capacity for our employees to enhance $23K distributed for academic pursuits. and serve in the communities they work and live in. Employees can donate their For Isaiah Dubas, International Operations Supervisor, time – up to 24 hours per calendar year he found his passion lies in the time-honored field – toward a charitable organization. of Accounting. Some of that time has been devoted to the following organizations: “It was an impetus to build my business acumen. I had the global knowledge through my [undergraduate] International Studies degree, but I felt my business American Heart Association knowledge was lacking.” Boy Scouts of America Accounting is in his family as well, his grandfather, whom he cited as his mentor, was an expatriate tax consultant, working for many of the Big Four auditors Cars 4 Christmas at one time or another. Cops Fighting Cancer Isaiah hopes to emulate his grandfather’s career by providing relocation management companies expert Florence Crittendon Services counsel in this area after he finishes his Master’s from of Colorado the University of Colorado Denver. Terri Serrano, International Accounting Clerk, Girl Scouts of America is double majoring in Accounting and Financial Management at Upper Iowa University. She cites Lumos Foundation “expansion of knowledge within the company and elevated confidence in calculations,” as benefits to National Leadership Academy her studies. Scholars-in-Action “ Organization for Aid to Refugees 2017 It was an added bonus (as of 6/1/17) 10 employees / $19,420.75 Ronald McDonald House coming to Graebel and finding out about this Rotary International benefit,” says Serrano. 2016 Special Olympics Susan G. Komen Race for 14 employees / $23, 828.67 8 the Cure 9 SERVING OUR GLOBAL COMMUNITY APAC (Singapore Office) Caring for our Elders Americas (Denver Office) The Singapore Office visited the Ministry of Social and Family Development in May 2016. The entire office participated in the packing of groceries at the food bank, and delivered the goods to senior citizens around the city. Race for the Cure HQ raised over $1,300 for the Susan Komen Race for the Cure event. EMEA (Prague Office) Here’s to the Next Generation Prague Squad Raises Money for Refugees Graebel sponsors and volunteers Through an annual office bake sale and office donations, the EMEA office raised money its staff at the National Leadership to support the Organization for Aid to Refugees. EMEA representative Vera Travnickova Academy, a four-day intensive for said, “We feel the refugee crisis is a problem in Europe, and the people and volunteers high school students that focuses who provide aid and help for them deserve our support.” on developing heart-led leaders through compassion to others and service to the community. Six Dragon Boat Festival – The “Relo-Gators” Graebel employees participated, serving as counselors and Our Prague team took to the waters of the Vltava River to participate in Rotary registration liaisons to ensure International’s Dragon Boat race, raising 15,000 CZK for the local community and operational efficacy and to serving as a great team building exercise. mentor students. Full of Heart We participated in our 8th Heart Walk in 2017, raising $11,450 in support of the American Heart Association. The funds go to support research on how to eliminate NEED heart disease, the number #1 cause of death in the world. Our cause honors the SECOND PHOTO late Ben Graebel, one of our company’s great leaders and visionaries. 10 11 10,000 TREES 45,000 LBS. OF 35% REDUCTION STAT S PLANTED SINCE 2015 ELECTRONIC WASTE RECYCLED SINCE 2010 IN ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION S U STA I N E D I N D I V I D U A L & Our environmental policy isn’t a static document. We believe that the health of our environment and the prevention of pollution are contingent upon active, operational improvement. COMMUNITY ACTIONS Over the past nine fiscal years, we’ve dropped our electricity consumption by 35%. This is equivalent to the following: Another Graebel saying: we’re just getting started. That’s a motivating ACT I VAT E stance, considering it’s nearly a 70-year old company. In corporate speak, that’s continuous improvement, and as stewards of the global environment, ENERGY we’re seeking ways to mitigate the impact of our operations, and Converting 27,516 lightbulbs from evangelize sustainable practices in our offices. incandescent to LED Our Denver office puts on a green fair annually, providing information on home energy options, electronic recycling, and commuter resources, S AV I N G S ! 164 cars being taken off the road for putting on a Green Jeopardy and a vegetable planting workshop, and promoting other CSR-related events, such as the American Heart one year Performance Metric Chart Electricity Consumption Per Year Association walk. Additionally, all the food truck vendors invited to the event are from the local community. 82 houses being taken off the grid for one year Year (kWh) On the operational level, we have a paperless employee orientation, recycling throughout the enterprise, and a car pooling program. 2008 3,148,146 Our most significant effort to date is helping to reforest 2,000 acres in Avoiding the use of 87,342 barrels of oil Deschutes National Forest in Oregon. Five years ago, a fire destroyed 2009 2,899,482 26,000 acres in an arboreal section called Pole Creek. We partnered with American Forests in 2015, planting 10,000 trees the past two years with 2010 2,576,568 a new goal of planting 6,500 trees this year. This contribution is not only We achieved these results by minimizing use through a massive carbon offset over time, trees contribute to the cleaning of air, infrastructural improvements such as: protecting water resources, and restoring habitats. 2011 2,168,987 2012 2,232,004 Installing motion sensors in restrooms and 2013 2,529,728 conference rooms to save electricity 2014 2,099,987 Replacing all desktop computers with 2015 1,906,920 energy-efficient laptops 2016 2,043,657 Installing new light timers throughout the building 12 13 n. a requirement that a person act toward others and the public with the watchfulness, attention, W E H AV E S TA N DA R D S caution, and prudence that a reasonable person Graebel actively seeks to identify and mitigate the impacts of its operations, and meets or exceeds all in the circumstances would use. regulatory requirements imposed upon the company. For the environment, our ISO 14001:2004 certification documents that we’ve implemented an Environmental Management System in accordance with defined internationally-recognized standards In non-legalese and at Graebel, acting with honesty and care for others means protecting for our Graebel Movers International Inc. (GMII) division in Denver. their valuable goods, their identity, their financial resources, and working with others who believe in that same mission. Compliance, customer care, and promoting corporate ethics FIDI-FAIMplus is the most stringent, all-encompassing quality program recognized for more than are core principles of ours, and it’s absolutely crucial to our line of business, with moving a decade as a supreme seal of quality by customers of the international moving industry. As part being the third biggest stressor in one’s life. of the accreditation, it requires service providers to have documented environmental policies that work to mitigate the negative impacts of their activities on the environment and promote sustainable Additionally, reputational risk is a growing concern for companies, especially those like practices. We’ve applied this certification to our GMII division. Graebel who work with many third parties. Many of the largest and most publicized recalls involve third parties, not the actual parent or umbrella organization. As we relocate people around the world, we’re dependent upon many other companies to ensure GRAEBEL SUPPLIERS COMPETE compliance, act appropriately, and get people from A to B in a responsible manner. FOR PRIZE We apply stringent measures to our supply chain and vendors to lower risk and gain trust in the marketplace. The Graebel Environmental Stewardship Award is given annually to a partner who demonstrates a unique commitment to sustainability. Effective programs incorporate many different facets of sustainability, encompassing anything from reducing one’s carbon impact to cutting consumption of electricity and natural resources, to encouraging recycling, carpooling, and much more. In 2016, Paxton Companies won the award due to significant operational changes that saw their facility reduce their heat usage by 45%, and prevent over 20,000 lbs. of material entering the landfill through the donation of reusable office equipment to a partner in Africa who requested the items. One unique initiative involved switching to the use of paper from eucalyptus trees, a less carbonintensive alternative to that of wood pulp. 14 15 SPOTLIGHT ON R I C H A R D P AY N E ’ S C E RT I F I CAT I O N Richard Payne was recently minted as a Certified Compliance and Ethics Professional – International (CCEP-I), passing the test for this certification in Prague. This elevates Graebel’s position as an ethically-forward organization, but we went straight to the source to ask how. In what ways does your recent CCEP-I certification What does duty of care mean for Graebel and help influence our corporate social responsibility? our partners? We actually have two Graebel employees, myself The industry we service, by its very nature and Murielle Arn, who have earned the Certified (relocation services and in particular moving), GMII is a member of TRACE International, a non-profit membership association Compliance and Ethics Professional Designation. deals with what is often cited as one of the most that specializes in anti-bribery due diligence reviews and compliance training for This domestic and international designation further stressful activities that people experience in their international commercial intermediaries. TRACE member intermediaries are shows Graebel’s commitment on a global basis lives. This is accentuated when an individual “pre-vetted” partners for multi-national companies seeking to do business with to champion ethical practices and compliance is moving globally and having to deal with new entities that share their commitment to transparent business practices. standards, and dovetails nicely with our countries, languages, and cultural norms. commitment to social responsibility. Our Supplier Security Policy affords protections for Graebel and its associated Given this fact, Duty of Care is the focal point of business personnel who work with vendors where sensitive information is exchanged It also allows Graebel to continually stay abreast of Graebel’s Mission and can be defined as: To be a between Graebel and the vendor. changing regulations and benchmark and network trusted fiduciary on behalf of our customers and with peers from around the globe. their employees to maximize their ROI, to develop GMII is a member of the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), and foster a network of partners who align with which seeks to safeguard the world’s vibrant trade industry from terrorists, our values and client needs, and to become the maintaining the economic health of the U.S. and its neighbors. The partnership How does Graebel’s commitment to Risk global employer of choice. develops and adopts measures that add security but do not have a chilling effect on Management impact corporate social trade, a difficult balancing act. C-TPAT is a voluntary government-business initiative responsibility? Duty of Care also is implicit in Graebel’s overall to build cooperative relationships that strengthen and improve overall international values of Truth, Love, and Integrity. Graebel strives supply chains and U.S. border security and the prevention of human trafficking. Graebel addresses Risk Management on an to create an environment of respect, honor, and enterprise-wide level, and establishes our internal care for all of those who we interact with, operate Graebel Relocation Services Worldwide (GRSW) performs SOC-2 compliance audits controls with our global partner network, which in a safe and compliant manner, and as Bill annually, which creates reports as it relates to security, availability, processing includes 2400+ providers. By incorporating and Graebel often cites, “leave it better than you found integrity, confidentiality, and privacy. They are intended for use by stakeholders (e.g., extending risk awareness into our everyday it. These principles apply to Graebel employees, customers, regulators, business partners, suppliers, directors) to provide insight into operations, we establish a culture that is a) aware but we infuse these values in our all interactions, Graebel’s operation, including: of risk and b) has the capacity to address it. whether that be with our partners/suppliers, Oversight of the organization clients, customers, or the public at large. Vendor management program We’re big on the term, “Always On,” a mantra that we are building into our employees’ and supply Internal corporate governance and risk management processes chain partners’ lexicon to help us identify risks Regulatory oversight on a continuous basis. By extending our Risk Management approach and by building in CSR best practices, we broadcast and, somewhat, demand ethical behavior, so that we can improve the quality of life for our workforce and their families. 16 17 6 U N G LO B A L C O M PAC T ALIGNMENT INDEX Policy & Implementation Alignment The following principles show our Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of 7 Compact (UNGC). 1 employment and occupation. As part of their commitment to the Global Compact, businesses have a responsibility Business Conduct and Ethics with Providers to uphold human rights both in the workplace and more broadly within their sphere Supplier Contracts of influence. Policy & Implementation Alignment Code of Ethics Policy & Implementation Alignment Global Diversity Policy 28 Global Human Rights Policy Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Global Prohibition of Discrimination and Harassment Mission / Vision / Values Management Review for ISO 14001:2004 PTO Policy Policy & Implementation Alignment Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy & Implementation Alignment 3 C-TPAT Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater FIDI-FAIMplus environmental responsibility. 9 Supplier Contracts Business Conduct and Ethics with Providers Graebel Companies Environmental Objectives Supplier Environmental Award Policy & Implementation Alignment 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Policy & Implementation Alignment Business Conduct and Ethics with Providers Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Supplier Contracts environmentally-friendly technologies. 5 Policy & Implementation Alignment ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (General) 10 Businesses should uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Business Conduct and Ethics with Providers Supplier Contracts Policy & Implementation Alignment UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015 Statement Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy & Implementation Alignment Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. FIDI-FAIMplus Supplier Contracts Business Conduct and Ethics with Providers TRACE International Supplier Contracts 18 19 WE’D LIKE TO THANK ALL THOSE WHO’VE CONTRIBUTED IN THE MAKING OF OUR F I R S T S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T. For questions or information, please e-mail marketing@graebel.com © 2017 Graebel Companies, Inc. All rights reserved. All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
