Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 2016 At your service and the service of the country Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | Contents 2/67 Contents Statement by the Chief Executive Officer 03 At the service of the team 26 #Efficient management to accompany growth 28 2016 in figures 05 #A diverse, professional team 30 #Training for professional growth 32 A bank for the future 09 #Safe working environment 34 #More responsible in our management: good corporate governance 10 At the service of the community 36 #More responsible in our activity: good banking and financial practices 13 #Committed to the country 39 #More responsible with society: our values define us 16 #Training, the key to the future 42 #Culture, within everyone’s reach 45 #Closer to people 50 At the service of the client 19 #Addressing social needs 52 #The client is key 21 #Improvements for greater client satisfaction 22 At the service of the environment 55 #Investments that bring value 24 #Constant improvements to environmental management 58 #Energy efficiency and emissions 62 #Optimizing consumption and improving waste management 64 This report has been drafted according to the provisions of GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, according to the most demanding level of the guide: “Compliance Exhaustive”. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | Statement by the Chief Executive Officer 3/67 Statement by the Chief Executive Officer Since our beginnings, corporate social innovative solutions in card payment services to responsibility has provided a solid base for our further extend our leadership in omnichannelling. commitment to the future, and 2016 has seen two major landmarks on that long road, with our The trend of growth in staff over recent years has joining the Global Compact and alignment of our continued, with 880 professionals in the Group in activity with the Sustainable Development Goals of 2016 from 35 different countries. the United Nations 2030 Agenda. We continue in our commitment to developing Through our way of working and the initiatives we talent through our summer professional internship pursue in the social, environmental and economic program which allows us to spot potential talent arenas, we seek to show our commitment to in university students who might one day join the Andorran society, the country and the whole world. Bank. Our tireless dedication to ensuring quality and excellence in banking practices has once again 2016 has seen two major landmarks: Josep Peralba Duró, been recognised with various awards. We have our signing of the Global Compact Chief Executive Officer of Crèdit Andorrà been chosen Bank of the Year in Andorra 2016 and alignment of our activity with the © Eduard Comellas by the publication The Banker, from the Financial Sustainable Development Goals of the Times Group. This award comes in recognition of United Nations 2030 Agenda our Bank’s trajectory and activity in 2016. At Crèdit Andorrà we are firmly committed to Over the years, we have focused our efforts on Andorran society, which is manifest in specific pursuing a differential factor through a constant initiatives we carry out in terms of education and desire to improve the way we provide services to culture, as well as a response to the social needs our clients. In 2016 we have improved our catalog that have arisen in recent years. of online services and mobile banking, developed new websites and improved usability while providing Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | Statement by the Chief Executive Officer 4/67 We channel our social action program through This set of initiatives describes a framework of Fundació Crèdit Andorrà, and we contribute to the sustainable development in which we can continue economic progress of our country with initiatives to make progress in balancing our banking and aimed at the corporate world promoted from the financial activities with professional, social and Bank. human development, as well as respect for the environment.  ood governance and social responsibility G As the sector’s leading bank, during 2016 we have have been the two great pillars continued to work rigorously and professionally to supporting the Group’s management maintain the confidence and reputation achieved throughout the years so as to be able to contribute On the environment, we continue to make progress to the proper operation of the sector and the in terms of internal management by adapting to Andorran economy. It is the Group’s will to grow the new ISO 14001 and the implementation of prudently, and in a sustained and sustainable measures to minimize our environmental impact. manner. As a country, we want to contribute to Andorra being a country committed to the fight against Good governance and social responsibility have climate change and a global role model in been the two great pillars supporting the Group’s sustainable mobility. management, which emanate from our cultural model and the values that guide our conduct with clients and society in general. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | 2016 in figures 5/67 2016 in figures The Group’s data in Andorra Equity Number €654 M €623 M | 2015 of branches 11 Solvency 11 | 2015 21.72% 21.82% | 2015 ATM network Liquidity 45 59.03% 45 | 2015 65.14% | 2015 Automated Earnings branches €65 M 44 €72 M | 2015 | 2015 Financial data Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | 2016 in figures 6/67 At the service of the country Loan Channel contracts investments (e-Crèdit and Initiatives to boost the 73.55% €2,817 Contact Center) local economy 68% | 2015 € 2,993 M | 2015 M +6.5% of users +5.8% of users | 2015 Initiatives to support 26.45% Unicef Card the community 32% | 2015 530 users 551 users | 2015 Community Investment 29% Clients in education 22% | 2015 Contribution by Crèdit Andorrà + clients €29,347 Investment 36% €29,314 | 2015 in society 44% | 2015 Carnet Jove 16PUNT30 Crèdit Estudis Investment in culture 35% 34% | 2015 €1 M +2.9% €1.2 M | 2015 of users +0.9% of users | 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | 2016 in figures 7/67 At the service of the country Power consumption Team 880 per employee people –0.9% –7.4% | 2015 Workforce in Andorra Paper consumption 510 people Women on the workforce –5.4% CO2 from energy consumption 481 people –5.7% | 2015 48% | 2015 44% 1,751.0 t International | 2015 1,411.4 t | 2015 workforce CO2 from travel 370 people Workforce 332 people | 2015 who received training 189.2 t 153.4 t | 2015 Permanent contracts 93% 93% 93% | 2015 94% | 2015 Average spending on training €688 /employee Environment €886/employee | 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | 2016 in figures 8/67 Creating value for VALUE ADDED STATEMENT economic and social development Our contribution to economic and social Clients Employees Suppliers development is a consequence of the impact Interest paid for products Worker pay (wages and other Purchases and services hired our activity has both directly and indirectly taken out by clients remuneration and bonuses) from third parties wherever we operate. The Bank’s business (deposits, pension funds, development generates economic value that retirement plans, etc.) 27.43% has a direct impact on the system and benefits 12.18% 18.44% our clients, shareholders, employees, suppliers and society as a whole. Community Shareholders Economic value created: Investment in social action, Provisions, depreciation, internal environmental reserves and dividend 276.749 million euros improvement, and taxes paid payments 2.58% 39.37% Clients Shareholders 12.18% 39.37% Suppliers 18.44% Employees Community 27.43% 2.58% Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | A bank for the future 9/67 A bank for the future #More responsible in our management: good corporate governance #More responsible in our activity: good banking and financial practices #More responsible with society: a global commitment Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | A bank for the future 10/67 The governance bodies responsible for the control and management of Crèdit Andorrà are the General Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors, #More responsible in our the Board’s Delegated Committee and the Executive Committee. management: good corporate governance Board of Directors Management team* During its session on July 1, 2016, the Board of In order to face the challenges that lie ahead and Directors of Crèdit Andorrà SA agreed to appoint better meet the needs of the economic and financial Mr. Antoni Pintat Mas as the new Chairman, and scenario, the organizational structure of the Group’s Mr. Jaume Casal Mor as Vice-chairman of this body. Management has been adapted, with two newly created divisions: the Andorra Banking Business Division and the Innovation, Marketing and New Channels Division. Antoni Pintat Mas Josep Peralba Duró José Luis Dorado Ocaña Chairman Chief Executive Officer Director of Investments Division Jaume Casal Mor Xavier Cornella Castel Josep Escoriza Martínez Vice-chairman Managing Director Director of Resources Division Rosa Pintat Santolària (chairman of the Executive Committee) José Ignacio García Fernández Member of the Board Ramon Lladós Bernaus Director of Private Banking America Division Maria Reig Moles Director of Corporate Services Division Agustí Garcia Puig Member of the Board Martí Alfonso Simón General Secretary to the CEO Josep Peralba Duró Director of Andorra Banking Business Division (Executive Committee secretary) Chief Executive Officer / Secretary Josep Brunet Niu Francesc Jordà Blanes Daniel Arqués Tomàs Director of Insurance Group Director of Management Risk and Financial Planning Vice-secretary (non member) Christophe Canler Division Director of Risk and Regulatory Compliance Division Frank Martínez Sánchez Sílvia Cunill Calvet Director of Private Banking Europe and New Director of Innovation, Marketing and New Channels Locations Division Division Note: December 31, 2016. *C  omprised of all members of the Executive Committee, plus the Chief Executive Officer. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | A bank for the future 11/67 Organisation chart (december 2016) Organizational chart BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Josep Peralba Duró *MANAGING DIRECTOR Xavier Cornella Castel *GENERAL SECRETARY INTERNAL TO THE CEO AUDIT DIVISION Agustí Garcia Puig Lluís Montoliu Picolo INSTITUTIONALS CORPORATE FUNDACIÓ LEGAL RELATIONS COMMUNICATION CRÈDIT ANDORRÀ SERVICES *CORPORATE SERVICES DIVISION Ramon Lladós Bernaus *PRIVATE *PRIVATE BANKING EUROPE AND *ANDORRA BANKING *INNOVATION, MARKETING AND *INVESTMENT *MANAGEMENT RISK *RISK AND BANKING *INSURANCE *RESOURCES LOANS DIVISION REGULATORY NEW REGIONS DIVISION BUSINESS DIVISION NEW CHANNELS DIVISION DIVISION AND FINANCIAL AMERICA GROUP DIVISION COMPLIANCE Frank Martínez Sánchez Martí Alfonso Simón Sílvia Cunill Calvet José Luis Dorado Ocaña PLANNING DIVISION Xavier Soro Ventura DIVISION Josep Brunet Niu Francesc Jordà Blanes Josep Escoriza Martínez DIVISION José Ignacio García Christophe Canler Fernández ASSET MARKETING AND MANAGEMENT CRÈDIT HUMAN UNITED STATES NEW CHANNELS ACCOUNTING ORGANIZATION ANALYSIS PREVENTION PRIVATE BANKING AND MARKETS ASSEGURANCES RESOURCES OF AMERICA PRIVATE BANKING PRIVATE BANKING COMMERCIAL NEW REGIONS EUROPE DIVISION ANDORRA DIVISION BANKING DIVISION DIVISION Frank Martínez Sánchez Carles Puig Sànchez Guy Bazile Brindjonc INNOVATION Esteban Estévez Zurita CA VINCLES BACK OFFICE MANAGEMENT INTERNAL MEXICO ACTUARIAL SYSTEMS APPROVAL CONTROL CONTROL CONSULTING SPAIN SWITZERLAND RETAIL BANKING CA LIFE CENTRAL CONTROL & CONSOLIDATION REGULATORY PANAMA INSURANCE OPERATIONAL RECOVERIES VALUATION AND HOLDINGS COMPLIANCE EXPERTS SERVICES CORPORATE LUXEMBOURG EASTERN EUROPE BANKING ERM RISK FINANCIAL CENTRAL PERU MANAGEMENT PLANNING PRIVATE BANKING ARCHIVE MIDDLE EAST BRANCH NETWORK URUGUAY EXTERNAL ASSETS MANAGERS * Members of the Executive Committee. * Members of Executive Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | A bank for the future 12/67 Risk management COMPREHENSIVE RISK MANAGEMENT We encourage forms of behavior and decision-making systems based on In the context of a shift in paradigm in the banking efficient risk control and management processes. Prudence in the way we and financial sector, at Crèdit Andorrà we work act allows us to identify, prevent and manage risks and opportunities in hard to ensure strict compliance with regulatory a disciplined and diversified way. This management style helps combine standards (Basel III, IFRS, etc.) relating to money banking and financial practices with a defined tolerated level of risk. laundering and fiscal transparency, which emerge as a result of commitments with the OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) and the European Union, which have culminated in the approval of automatic exchange of tax information, in force since January 1, 2017. One of our priority goals is to ensure good governance of the organization in order to protect the interests of clients, shareholders, employees and society as a whole. With this commitment, our model of corporate Internal Risk and Regulatory Compliance Division governance brings together a set of rules and Audit Department good practices for governance and management This division has been further strengthened thanks to the addition of new that are considered equitable, transparent and Led by an independent body in charge resources and enhanced functions, and will allow us to face the new challenges efficient, as well as representative of the values of of examining and evaluating the of supervision and control represented by Basel III, CRS, MiFID and our cultural model. suitability and efficiency of the systems, prevention of money laundering. the internal control mechanisms and Through the departments for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing the provisions of the entity, as well as of Terrorist Activities, Regulatory Compliance and Internal Oversight, and Global formulating recommendations and Risk Management, this division promotes effective risk control and ensures its verifying they are complied with. management according to the risk level defined by the Board of Directors. There is also the Comprehensive policy regarding investment and risk management, the Policy on regulatory compliance, the Policy on prevention of money and control laundering and terrorist financing, the Policy on investor protection, and furthermore, 2016 saw the approval of the Policy on personal data protection and the Standard for automatic exchange of tax information to meet obligations under the Law on automatic exchange of tax information that will come into force on January 1, 2017. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | A bank for the future 13/67 Crèdit Andorrà is the leading financial group in Andorra, which has been providing retail banking, private banking #More responsible and asset management products and services since 1949, in in our activity: good addition to the activities of the insurance group. banking and financial practices It is our Group’s wish to enjoy responsible growth through sustained and sustainable results, while respecting the values of traditional banking. Total turnover To this end, our management is focused on 15,885 16,576 | 2015 continuous improvement and quality in our services, allowing us to contribute to the dynamism of the Andorran economy through our activity. Assets under management Ordinary margin 13,068 239.33 13,583 | 2015 247.25 | 2015 Loan investments Operating margin 2,817 78.10 2,993 | 2015 107.52 | 2015 Profit 65.00 72.00 | 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | A bank for the future 14/67 Excellence in management, a constant challenge BANKING PRACTICES QUALITY IN PROCEDURES COMPREHENSIVE COMMITMENT AND MANAGEMENT TO SOCIETY Quality management Best bank in Andorra 2016 Crèdit Andorrà Investments Division: departments of Treasury and Capital Market, First bank in Andorra to sign the and Crèdit Andorrà Market Administration and Global Compact Control. WE SUPPORT Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management Best private bank in Andorra 2016 First private institution in Andorra to Global Investment Performance sign up to the SDGs to contribute to Standards (GIPS) achieving the United Nations 2030 Agenda Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management Best bank in Andorra in corporate HIGH LEVELS OF SOLVENCY Environmental management social responsibility AND FINANCIAL STRENGTH First bank in Andorra to enter the top 1,000 banks in the world for capitalization Ratings: BBB (long term) / F3 (short term with a stable outlook) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | A bank for the future 15/67 3 An Andorran financial group with a global vision 7 This year we have strengthened the European 8 private banking platform through Banque de Patrimoines Privés, the Group’s financial entity based in Luxembourg, with the opening of a branch in Portugal. This operation has allowed us to consolidate the European private banking 11 project in three regions through the Banque de 3 Patrimoines Privés (Luxembourg) and Banco Alcalá (Spain) banking licenses. 12 To the world, the assets of the Crèdit Andorrà 13 Financial Group are our four banking licenses and our presence in 11 countries offering wealth 4 management and insurance. 14 Banking and financial services Insurance 1. Crèdit Andorrà 15. Crèdit Assegurances 2. Banco Alcalá (Spain) 16. Financera d’Assegurances 3. Banque de Patrimoines Privés (Luxembourg and 17. CA Vincles Portugal) 18. ERM Risk Management (Spain) 20 4. Banco Crèdit Andorrà (Panama) 19. CA Life Insurance Experts (Spain) 5 5. Crèdit Andorrà and Banco Crèdit Andorrà (Panama) 20. CA Vincles (Chile) 6 representative offices in Uruguay 9 10 17 22 2 1 Social activity 19 16 15 24 18 Asset management and wealth 21 21. Fundació Crèdit Andorrà 23 management 6. Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management Partner companies 7. Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management Luxembourg 22. ENSISA / NEVASA (Grandvalira) 8. Crediinvest Sicav / Investcredit Sicav (Luxembourg) 23. SEMTEE (Caldea / Inúu) 9. CA Life Insurance Experts (Spain) 24. Crèdit Iniciatives 10. Gesalcalá, SGIIC 11. Private Investment Management (Switzerland) 12. Beta Capital Wealth Management (Miami) 13. CA México Asesores Patrimoniales en Inversiones Independientes (Mexico) 14. CA Perú Sociedad Agente de Bolsa Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | A bank for the future 16/67 We have raised our commitment to corporate social responsibility #More responsible to the highest international levels with the signing of the Global with society: our values Compact and adherence to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. define us Al vostre servei i al servei del país (At your service With a focus on quality, efficiency and effectiveness, and the service of the country) is our motto. We we carry out our activities with the utmost respect remain faithful to our vision and values to provifor our corporate values and management de services to all our clients and contribute to the principles—gaining us the confidence of our progress of the countries where we operate. clients, shareholders, employees and society as a whole. Our essence, the values of our cultural model ClientProactiveness GoalLeadership Clear, Teamwork People oriented and oriented transparent management innovative communication Clients Employees Community Environment Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | A bank for the future 17/67 A global commitment By signing up to the United Nations Global Compact, we have demonstrated our commitment to the 10 principles that are derived from this institution. Furthermore, we have expressed our willingness to work towards a more prosperous future for all through the Sustainable Development Goals. This will be the focus of our efforts, in the conviction that we can help transform the world, even from our position in Andorra. WE SUPPORT Crèdit Andorrà, first Andorran financial institution to join the Global Compact and first Andorran company to sign up to the Sustainable Development Goals Josep Peralba, CEO of Crèdit Andorrà, and Carlos Jiménez, head of the Office of Communications for Spain and Andorra with the United Nations Regional Information Center for Western Europe. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | A bank for the future 18/67 The six Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) relevant to Crèdit Andorrà Clients Employees Community Environment ClientProactiveness GoalLeadership Clear, Teamwork People oriented and oriented transparent management innovative communication The 10 HUMAN RIGHTS WORK ENVIRONMENT COMBATING principles of Principle 1. Businesses must CORRUPTION Principle 3. Businesses must uphold Principle 7. Businesses must maintain a support and respect the protection of preventive focus in facing environmental the Global internationally recognized fundamental freedom of association and effective challenges. Principle 10. Businesses must recognition of the right to collective work against all forms of Compact human rights within the scope of their area of influence. bargaining. corruption, including extortion Principle 8. Businesses must promote initiatives that favor greater and bribery. Principle 2. Businesses must ensure that Principle 4. Businesses must endorse the environmental responsibility. they do not act as accomplices in the elimination of all forms of forced labor violation of human rights. or labor carried out under duress. Principle 9. Businesses must encourage the development and dissemination Principle 5. Businesses must support the of technologies that respect the effective abolition of child labor. environment. Principle 6. Businesses must assist in abolishing discrimination in hiring and employment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the client 19/67 At the service of the client #The client is key #Constant improvements for greater client satisfaction #Investments that bring value Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the client 20/67 At the service of the client The values of Crèdit Andorrà #Client-oriented Sustainable Development Goals #Proactiveness and innovative The initiatives we pursue aimed at clients contribute #Goal-oriented directly to the achievement of SDG 8 and 9, while also impacting on 4 due to their cross-cutting nature. Principles of the Global Compact Principle 1. Businesses must endorse and respect the protection of internationally recognized fundamental human rights within their area of influence. Principle 2. Businesses must ensure that they do not act as accomplices in the violation of human rights. Principle 10. Businesses must work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the client 21/67 The client is at the heart of our business model. We are committed to providing #The client is key quality products and services that meet the changing demands of clients and maintain high levels of satisfaction. Creating products and services that are profitable and attractive Extending our range of products, promoting our value offering and Getting to know our clients better boosting multichannel contact with the client. Knowing about and detecting the needs of our current and potential clients. Driving digitalization of the bank Developing new digital products and channels in order to achieve a differentiated positioning. SATISFACTION INDEX Getting feedback from our 7.40 /10 8.18 /10 8.75 /10 clients to anticipate their needs and adapt to their habits, with a range of innovative products and personalised assistance. Business banking Retail banking Private banking client client client (October 2016) (October 2015) (October 2015) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the client 22/67 Crèdit Andorrà always aspires to stay at the forefront of new technologies. We provide individuals and businesses the channels and knowledge #Improvements for greater client to manage their finances responsibly and intelligently, satisfaction and we offer them the financial solutions that best suit their needs. Promoting multichannel contact We have continued to work hard to expand our leadership in multichannel contact, so that clients can interact and operate with the bank 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. To this end, we have improved IMPROVEMENT the range of online and mobile banking services, we OF SERVICE AND ACCESS TO E-CRÈDIT have increased usability of websites and we have innovated in card payment services. We have updated e-Crèdit to help in our clients’ daily lives, and allow them to manage their personal finances anywhere, anytime. Cards with the Watch video contactless payment system We have incorporated the contactless payment system into our cards. This technology allows the client to pay by simply holding the card near the card reader at the store. QUICKER: no need for PIN on purchases under 20 euros. MORE CONVENIENT: faster transactions. MORE SECURE: the client holds the card near the card reader. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the client 23/67 Innovation in products and differential services SECURE E-COMMERCE The new service provides a free authentication system associated with Crèdit Andorrà Visa and Mastercard cards. The system is based on 3DSecure technology that certifies the identity of consumers when shopping online, protecting payment information. Crèdit Andorrà is a pioneer in the country in establishing card security measures to minimize the risk of fraudulent use. HEALTH IS PARAMOUNT Aimed at retail banking clients, this campaign highlights the importance of having health coverage to meet basic needs, medical expenses We create environments that and emergencies. respond to changing client needs in terms of interaction, which At Crèdit Andorrà we offer a wide range of are characterised by immediacy, products for the client to choose the one that the need for information, is most appropriate to their personal or family personalisation and security situation. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the client 24/67 We share our commitment to partnerships and #Investments sponsorships with our clients, with initiatives in the form that bring value of discounts, promotions and lotteries. Club Piolet Carnet Jove Andorra Andorra Designed to promote saving Carnet Jove youth virtual among under-12s, this card pack with free app. Special only allows deposits to be discounts for youths with made. Carnet Jove Clàssic and Carnet Jove 16PUNT30 with €3,000 worth of savings. Unicef Andorra Automòbil Club Clients give an annual Andorra donation of €30, while Users benefit from discounts Crèdit Andorrà allocates 50% and promotions at over 6,000 of fees from using the card establishments in the RACC abroad plus a variable annual network of partners, as well contribution. as a wide range of financial and insurance products and services. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the client 25/67 Goals for 2016 To further strengthen publicity for events, sponsorships, campaigns and services promoted and offered by the Bank to clients. To continue to offer new and improved products and services. To continue to support the main economic sectors of Andorra to encourage the reactivation of the economy. To contribute to the digital transformation of the banking sector in Andorra expanding the services the Bank offers its clients and promoting our relationship with clients beyond the office. To improve the e-Crèdit online banking service. To improve the Borsa-Crèdit online Markets website. ACHIEVED To improve the mechanisms used to learn about and relate to clients (CRM). IN PROGRESS Goals for 2017 To improve the mechanisms used to learn about and relate to clients (CRM). To promote our value proposition (campaign, product and service launches, sponsorship management). To encourage use of multichannel contact by clients. To digitalize products and services. To digitalize our relationship with clients. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the team 26/67 At the service of the team #Efficient management to accompany growth #A diverse, professional team #Training for professional growth #Safe working environment Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the team 27/67 At the service of the team The values of Crèdit Andorrà #People management Sustainable Development Goals #Proactiveness and innovation The initiatives we pursue aimed at our team contribute directly to achievement of SDG 4 and 8, while also impacting on 3 due to their #Leadership cross-cutting nature. Principles of the Global Compact Principle 1. Businesses must endorse and respect the Principle 4. Businesses must support the protection of internationally recognized fundamental elimination of all forms of forced labor or labor human rights within their area of influence. carried out under duress. Principle 2. Businesses must ensure that they do not Principle 5. Businesses must support the effective act as accomplices in the violation of human rights. abolition of child labor. Principle 3. Businesses must uphold freedom of Principle 6. Businesses must support elimination association and effective recognition of the right to of discrimination in employment. collective bargaining. Principle 10. Businesses must work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the team 28/67 Management of our human capital plays a crucial role in meeting the Group’s overall objectives. To help in that management, we promote activities and #Efficient management projects that are based on the principles of quality, efficiency and effectiveness, to accompany designed to accompany business growth. growth In 2016, we carried out a project to adjust the size of the structure of our team with the aim of streamlining it in the light of the new regulatory environment in Andorra and the strategic challenges facing the Bank. Furthermore, leading on from the updates made to professional profiles in 2015, we have adapted the compensation structure (the economic remuneration structure) based on defined professional profiles within the Bank. A group of young people on paid summer internships. © Eduard Comellas Attracting and retaining talent students who might one day join the Bank. Recruitment from this group, mainly in support Our talent management strategy emphasizes the positions, is accompanied by training in money strengths of our employees and encourage their laundering and the banking code of ethics, among professional development within the Group. To this others. In summer 2016, we hosted a total of 42 end, we continue to foster internal development young people, and since 1978 we have offered through the Oportunitats Internes (Internal Job more than 1,000 internships. Opportunities) program, which has been further consolidated this year. In 2016, there have been 40 In addition to this, the Crèdit Andorrà headquarters internal movements of employees. has held several professional orientation days for high school students to offer tools and tips to help We commit to developing local talent through our them guide their future in the financial sector. summer professional internship program, which allows us to spot potential talent, in university Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the team 29/67 Internal communication for cohesion and after-work activities Internal communication is key to employee Once again, Bank employees were present at involvement in realizing business goals, promoting the Desman Trophy with two teams taking part in integration and enhancing their sense of belonging. activities to promote cohesion, teamwork, a spirit In 2016 we deployed the employee portal at our of competition and appreciation of the natural subsidiaries and held the third annual convention of environment. the Group’s frontline management. Participants at the Desman Trophy. © Eduard Comellas Social benefits of value Crèdit Andorrà is the only entity in the country in which the workers are shareholders. Employees, depending on the different companies making up the Group, also enjoy a series of social benefits, such as pensions plans, medical assistance plans and special conditions on products and services. Yearly convention. © Eduard Comellas Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the team 30/67 In 2016, the workforce at the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group has continued to grow in both structural and commercial staff, in part as a result of the opening #A diverse of the Portuguese branch of Banque de Patrimoines Privés. professional team 2014 2015 2016 Number of Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group employees 750 813 880 Number of Crèdit Andorrà employees (companies based in Andorra) 437 481 510 Percentage of employees Luxembourg by country 8% Switzerland 1% Spain Andorra 16% 58% Miami (EUA) 4% Mexico Panama 3% 6% Peru 1% Chile Uruguay 1% 1% Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the team 31/67 Crèdit Andorrà workforce in 2016 50% 55% 93% 98% Workforce Directors Workforce with Workforce between 36 from the local permanent working full 880 and 50 years old community of the country contract time Size of Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group in which the workforce subsidiary is located 120 58% New hires Employees of companies based in 48% Women in the Andorra 35% workforce New employees hired in Andorra 18% 35 Women in positions of responsibility Different nationalities on the workforce 48% New hires with Spanish nationality 40% 31% Women in intermediate positions Workforce with Andorran nationality 6% 8.4% 14.63 81% 54% Voluntary resignations Rate of workforce Average years at Retention rate Crèdit Andorrà after maternity 58% Women in the rest Workforce from the in workforce turnover (17.04 years or paternity leave of the workforce rest of Europe for men and (83% women and 11.97 years for 78% men) women) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the team 32/67 We are committed to training and professional development to enhance and ensure the talent of our team. Guiding increasingly demanding clients in an #Training for ever more complex regulatory environment makes human capital a strategic professional growth component for achieving excellence in service. We provide ongoing, progressive training to 74% of the total training provided employees, which is adapted to their individual role. corresponds to staff of companies based in In 2016, as an exercise in transparency and good Andorra, where the main subjects were languages governance, 100% of the Bank’s workforce received (36%), legal-juridical training (19%), finance and training on the code of ethics and prevention of banking (18%) and prevention of occupational money laundering. The aim is to extend this training hazards and others (14%). to subsidiaries throughout 2017. Type of training given Crèdit Andorrà’s Data (companies based in Andorra) in 2016 93% Workforce that received training 36% 19% 18% 14% Languages LegalFinance and Prevention of juridical banking occupational hazards and others €688 Average investment in training per employee 5% 4% 3% 1% 0.4% 26% Commercial and sales Organization and applications Skills development Management Products Training provided during working hours Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the team 33/67 Average training hours per employee according Extension of performance to gender and working category management to subsidiaries Performance management helps to identify, 2016 promote and strengthen employee skills to respond efficiently and effectively to current challenges and needs. The system offers a systematic, objective Senior Intermediate Rest of the Senior Intermediate Rest of the and comprehensive measurement of professional management positions workforce management positions workforce Both genders conduct and performance of all the people who Andorra make up the organization. 55.57 51.82 53.78 Spain 51.50 66.26 59.10 Luxembourg N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 26.4 82% Mexico Workforce subject 10 N/A 1 10 3.33 0.71 2 to the performance Miami (USA) 5.6 7 4.2 17.2 5.6 5 7.67 assessment system Peru 0 0 0 0 16 0 16 Switzerland 5 4 0 3 2 1 5.08 Uruguay-Panama 37.17 20.67 12.75 24.6 28.4 20.13 20.47 Chile 200 0 0 0 0 0 200 Portugal 7 7 0 7 16 0 8,5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the team 34/67 We promote a preventive policy of continuous improvement of health and safety conditions for all employees in a workplace that is adaptable and #Safe working suitable, going beyond compliance with current labor legislation. environment We have installed automatic defibrillators (AED) at all the branches and in the busiest areas and buildings, which has resulted in the company being awarded “Cardio Protected” certification. This initiative is part of the policies for prevention Sick leave and absenteeism and physical safety for clients and employees. Sick leave Absenteeism rate By gender Number of days lost Andorra 44 48 1,443 1,687 3.49% 3.95% Spain (1) 12 14 262 706 0.22% 0.26% Luxembourg (2) 68 73 134 346 4.09% 25.85% Mexico 0 0 0 0 1.67% 0.74% Miami (USA) 0 0 0 0 0% 0% Peru 2 0 0 0 0% 0% Switzerland 0 0 0 0 0% 0% Uruguay-Panama (3) 0 0 12 210 0.78% 5.65% Chile 0 0 0 0 0% 0% Portugal 0 0 0 0 0% 0% (1) The Spanish data only includes Banco Alcalá and ERM. (2) The Luxembourg data only includes BPP. (3) The Uruguay-Panama data only includes employees in Panama. Note: The absenteeism rate includes work accidents, in itinere work accidents, illness-related and long-term temporary disability. Sick leave due to maternity or paternity leave are excluded. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the team 35/67 Goals for 2016 Consolidation of the matrix model for performance assessment. Implementation of a variable remuneration policy in goal assessment. Extension of the cultural model to all geographical locations using performance assessment. Description, valuation and establishment of the professional classification of subsidiaries. Deployment of the Employee Portal on the intranet and publication of Oportunitats Internes (Internal Job Opportunities) for the entire group. ACHIEVED Resizing workforces according to the coverage needs in the 2015-2018 Strategic Plan. IN PROGRESS Goals for 2017 Description, valuation and establishment of the professional classification of Crèdit Andorrà subsidiaries. Deployment of the project to resize and improve the competitiveness of the Group and subsidiaries. Alignment of the variable remuneration policy with the levels of professional classification. Deployment of the Employee Portal on the intranet across the Group, and WeCrèdit, with the U Talk application on all employee phones. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 36/67 At the service of the community #Committed to the country #Training, the key to the future #Culture, within everyone’s reach #Close to people #Addressing social needs Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 37/67 At the service of the community The values of Crèdit Andorrà #Leadership #Clear, transparent communication Sustainable Development Goals #Proactiveness and innovative The initiatives aimed at the community contribute directly to achieving SDGs 3, 4, 8 and 13. Principles of the Global Compact Principle 1. Businesses must endorse and respect the protection of internationally recognized fundamental human rights within their area of influence. Principle 2. Businesses must ensure that they do not act as accomplices in the violation of human rights. Principle 8. Businesses must promote initiatives that favor greater environmental responsibility. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 38/67 Our desire to contribute to people’s welfare and progress is clear in specific initiatives in the areas of education, culture and social action promoted by Fundació Crèdit Andorrà since 1987. Consolidated global investment Through the Bank, we complement this commitment through initiatives aimed at the business sector and the promotion of activities that foster economic progress and environmental protection. Fundació Economic and institutional Environmental Crèdit Andorrà initiatives initiatives 25.84% 73.55% 0.61% 30.59% | 2015 68.36% | 2015 1.05% | 2015 Education Society Economic 56.77% | 2015 29.05% 34.72% stimulation 22.51% | 2015 43.46% | 2015 47.35% Fundació Crèdit Andorrà is the Others Culture largest private foundation in the 0.90% 35.33% Sports 43.23% | 2015 country, both in funds managed 0.13% | 2015 33.73% | 2015 sponsorships 52.65% and programs promoted Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 39/67 Our collaboration with economic and social stakeholders in Andorra results in a series of impacts that contribute to the strength and dynamism of #Committed the country’s main economic sectors. to the country #CreditAndorràAmbLaNeu The snow sector is a key economic driver in Andorra, and Crèdit Andorrà invests in it in three ways: strategic (we hold shares in ENSISA and NEVASA), competitive (we sponsor high profile events as the Grandvalira Women’s Alpine Skiing FIS World Cup, and we support the Andorran Skiing Federation) and training (through agreements with ski schools). > Promotion and sponsorship agreement for Grandvalira, Vallnord and Naturlandia. > Presentation of the 2016 Alpine Skiing World Cup in Grandvalira. > Sponsorship of the Andorran Skiing Federation Images from the Women’s Alpine Skiing World Cup. (FAE). © ANA As part of the agreement with the FAE, we provide economic collaboration with the alpine skiers that achieve certain goals for the FAE in terms of FIS points, World Cup ranking and European Cup ranking. In 2016, two riders benefited from these collaborations. Skiers from the Andorran Skiing Federation (FAE) © ANA Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 40/67 In cooperation with the business network We work in private and public initiatives aimed at providing support to the entrepreneurial sectors of the country and its businesses and associations. > Andorra la Vella Fair 2016. > Collaboration with the Pyrenees Business Meeting Association and sponsorship of the 27th Pyrenees Business Meeting. > Collaboration with the Andorran Family Business Association and sponsorship of the 15th Forum Andorra la Vella Fair. Michel Camdessus, at the Pyrenees on Family Businesses, views on impact, and the Business Meeting. © ANA 18th Program of Family Business and Quality. > Collaboration with Automòbil Club Andorra. > Sponsorship of the Program European Dialogs in Andorra, in collaboration with the Spanish Embassy. 18th Program of Family Business and Quality. Esther Barbé, professor of International © ANA Relationships at the Spanish Embassy. © ANA Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 41/67 Commitment to promoting tourism in a range of ways World Congress on Snow and Mountain Tourism Ibero-American Capital We have also supported a new edition of of Culture the World Congress on Snow and Mountain One of the pillars that underlies the Tourism, an initiative of the seven regions Andorran economy is tourism and retail. and the Government of Andorra, along with At Crèdit Andorrà we stimulate tourism the World Tourism Organization, aiming to by collaborating in events that attract build a permanent forum for debate on the tourists. One such case is the concert by development and sustainability of tourism in Peruvian tenor Juan Diego Flórez as part mountain areas. of the Ibero-American Capital of Culture Program, organised by Crèdit Andorrà As part of our Plan for Strategic Participation in and the Comú d’Andorra la Vella. the Country, Crèdit Andorrà continues to hold shares in Caldea and Grandvalira. The Raphael Simphònic show. © ANA Another act scheduled was the Raphael Simphònic show, in which Spanish singer Raphael joined the ONCA orchestra to offer his greatest hits. The concert was organised by the Comú d’Andorra la Vella, the ONCA Foundation, Fundació Crèdit Andorrà and the Andorran Government. Juan Diego Flórez. © Eduard Comellas Fallaires at the World Congress on Snow and Mountain Tourism. © World Congress on Snow and Mountain Tourism Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 42/67 At Crèdit Andorrà we support talent and the transformative potential of people. We are committed to young people’s education as a key element for #Training, the the economic, social and cultural development of the country. key to the future Young people, tomorrow’s guarantee This year, Fundació Crèdit Andorrà has awarded four new grants for postgraduate studies abroad. This year, the recipients of scholarships will study master’s degrees related to music, journalism, business administration and telecommunications engineering. 192 recipients of scholarships and 5 million euros invested since 1987 Since 2004, Fundació Crèdit Andorrà has an agreement with the University of Andorra with the goal of launching diverse educational projects, such as the postgraduate in Andorran law, higher professional studies cycle and midwife training. The four scholarship winners of 2016, Raquel Espunyes, Marta Mas, André Ribeiro and Carolina Bartumeu, together with Antoni Pintat and Josep Peralba. © Eduard Comellas Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 43/67 Business people and entrepreneurs, the country’s driving force One of the keys to economic progress in any country is to have a thriving, competitive business sector. This is why we promote lectures and workshops aimed at promoting entrepreneurship and dissemination of current issues of economic interest to businesses and entrepreneurs. EDUCATIONAL SESSIONS CONFERENCES Alfons Cornella. > Radical is Normal, by Alfons Cornella, founder and > Andorra as a part of the inevitable global energy © Eduard Comellas president of Infonomia, an innovation consulting transition, led by Mariano Marzo, professor of firm. Stratigraphy and lecturer in Energy Resources > Sessions on innovation and new technologies in and Oil Geology at the University of Barcelona. Andorra (INNTEC) promoted by the Innovation > Expectations on the equity markets, an analysis of and New Technologies cluster to show advances the current financial situation by Álvaro Guzmán, and trends, projects promoted, as well as founder and investments director of azValor products and services offered by companies, Asset Management. entrepreneurs and institutions in the field of > Application of the automatic exchange of innovation, new technologies and related sectors. information to border workers, by Daniel Arqués > Entrepreneurship up for debate, with the i Tomàs, partner and manager of Arqués Ribert participation of Marc Pantebre, president of Junyer Advocats. the Andorran Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Services, and Miquel Nicolau, rector of the University of Andorra. > Social entrepreneurship: a way to create value, as part of the 18th Program of Family Business and Quality. Conference on entrepreneurship. © ANA Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 44/67 Eudald Carbonell. Crèdit Andorrà Chair © Eduard Comellas in Markets, Organizations and Humanism, by the IESE In 2016, alongside the IESE business school, we launched a Chair for studies into joining up the academic perspective and the business reality. Under the direction of Professor Josep Maria Rosanas, the Chair organizes and promotes conferences, seminars and publications. PUBLICATIONS The future speaks to Justice in companies, government companies and you: Crèdit Andorrà control systems, by Natàlia Cugueró and Josep Global Fòrum Maria de Rosanas, collaborator and director of the Crèdit Andorrà Chair in Markets, Organizations and Crèdit Andorrà Global Forum, series of lectures by renowned Humanism, by the IESE, respectively. speakers to analyze the current situation and generate ideas, debates and opinions on topics related to the economy, education, health, energy and tourism, among others. > A triple milestone for the future of healthcare, by Núria Mas, Full Professor of Economics at IESE Business School and academic director of the Healthcare Sector Conference held yearly at IESE. > Humans: where are we going?, by archaeologist Eudald Carbonell, manager and vicepresident of the Atapuerca Foundation and codirector of the excavations at the Sierra de Atapuerca site. > Today’s traveller is digital, by Miquel Moyà, Industry Director Travel, Retail & Fashion at Google Spain. > Current situation of the welfare state and the future of social spending, by Guillem López Casasnovas, professor of Economics at Pompeu Fabra University. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 45/67 Aside from being the leading exponent of the country’s music, ONCA is committed to bringing its musical activity to all ages and groups, #Culture, within and acts in four major areas. everyone’s reach Musical creation ONCA The 2016 season of the National Classical Orchestra of Andorra Foundation (ONCA) continued in its goal to bring music to the people and help it reach as many people as possible, while maintaining high standards of quality. Performance of El fabulós viatge de l’Estel i el Domisol The emotion of the classics concert, at the National (The fabulous journey of Estel and Domisol). Auditorium of Music of Madrid. © Juan de los Ríos © ANA > Creating quality productions in various formats > Promoting the National Youth Chamber across the country, but also abroad. ONCA has Orchestra of Andorra (Jonca) with three played six chamber concerts, which featured the performances such as the Spring Concert, the participation of several international soloists such Meritxell Concert and the Santa Cecília Concert, as Enrique Telleria and Luís González. To enrich all of which give young performers in the country their orchestral repertoire, they have played the the chance to showcase their skills, as a source Suite for Strings by Frank Bridge, Symphony for of cohesion and musical training. Strings in A-flat major by Hans Rott, Melancholy by Enric Morera, as well as recovering Serenade for Strings in C major op. 48 by P. I. Tchaikovsky. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 46/67 Basket Beat The ONCA Foundation also hopes to expand the project “Community and social impact” with new projects: music and creativity (Xeridell and day center) Musica’t (EDES and IMPULS) and Basket Beat for young people at risk of social exclusion and prison inmates, in order to facilitate their integration and improve their welfare. Concert de Santa Cecília, by the JONCA. Music and creativity workshops. © Àlex Tena © ANA > Producing an attractive educational project > Bringing music to the entire population and that will help train new generations through helping certain underprivileged groups to training workshops aimed at members of Jonca, enjoy the many benefits it can offer. The pilot test teachers, music students and the general public. Musica’t launched in 2015, with two groups from The family-friendly program offers a series the Nostra Senyora de Meritxell School (Xeridell of musical shows aimed at children to raise and day center). awareness and bring young ones closer to this art form. They also aim to train the professionals involved and to invite new local musicians to take part— the goals of this year’s edition. This year, the program has managed to cross borders, with the Ocupacional Claror Workshop being held in Seu d’Urgell in Catalonia, under the title Tastet Workshop. Images of the first Basket Beat at the La Comella Prison. © ANA Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 47/67 A photo from the concert on January 1, 2016. Manel. © ANA © ANA ORDINO FESTIVALS ASSOCIATION > Ordino and Fundació Crèdit Andorrà New > Narciso Yepes Ordino and Fundació Crèdit Year’s Eve Concert. Following tradition, ONCA, Andorrà Festival. The 34th edition of the event conducted by Salvador Brotons, filled the National has seen five activities aimed at all audiences: Auditorium in Ordino with its performance of the fusion of strings offered by Blaumut and the waltzes. National Classical Orchestra of Andorra, the Va de Corda string trio, Spanish artist Bebe from Extremadura, the first Catalan musical parodying the Harry Potter saga with Un musical innominable (The Musical that Must Not be Named) and, last but not least, Manel. www.festivalnarcisoyepes.ad Bebe. © Sergi Pérez Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 48/67 Organ al fresco, with Raúl Prieto. Various scenes from the Andorra Sax Fest. Original map. © ANA © ANA INTERNATIONAL ORGUE&ND OTHER SPONSORSHIPS PROMOTION OF THE FESTIVAL EDITION OF PUBLICATIONS The 17th edition of the festival was once again More than 150 internationally renowned We have promoted publications that provide a hit with audiences, offering varied and quality saxophonists took part in the fourth edition of information about issues related to economic, legal artists under the title Càntics (Songs). This year has the Andorra Sax Fest, a festival sponsored by the and other Andorra-specific issues. One example seen two concerts held to commemorate the 25th Comú d’Andorra la Vella, Andorra Tourism Office, is the Carte Geographique de la Vallée d’Andorra, anniversary of St. Stephen’s organ, and both were Henri Selmer París and Crèdit Andorrà. For the the first documented source mapping the country, sold out. second consecutive year, ONCA was the orchestra published in collaboration with the National Archive responsible for accompanying the finalists of the of Andorra. 2016 edition of the Andorra Sax Fest International Competition. At Crèdit Andorrà we have collaborated with the Choir of Young Singers of Andorra, which this year celebrated its 25th anniversary. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 49/67 Promoting performing arts The Andorran National Cultural Foundation (ENA), the platform for performing arts in the country, is one of the institutions we have continued to support. They have presented a session that combined productions from various genres: vertical dance, Alícia meravellosa (Wonderful Alice), Heliceo, Contes Salvatges (Wild Tales), Fred (Cold) and Refugiats (Refugees). Alícia meravellosa (Wonderful Alice). Contes salvatges (Wild Tales). Vertical dance. Heliceo, concert per a sis ventiladors i un sol pilot © ANA (Heliceo, a concert for six fans and only one pilot). © ANA Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 50/67 In accordance with our commitment to contribute to people’s welfare and also the economic progress of the country, we annually sponsor popular sports #Close to people events in various disciplines. Sports for personal development SKIING MOUNTAIN GOLF MOTOR OTHERS Promotion of training and We contribute to enhancing > Collaboration with the > Andros Trophy 2016-2017 > Popular Race from Anyós sports through sponsorship summer sports taking place Andorran Golf Federation > Dakar 2016: this year Park to Massana of the most important skiing in the mountains (FGA) we have once again > Collaboration with Serradells events: > Crèdit Andorrà Pro-Am sponsored Albert Llovera, Swimming Club >A ndorra Ultra Trail Vallnord Tournament who completed the race in > Collaboration with Andorran > Borrufa Trophy >C asamanya Extrem Vertical > Mountain Golf Experience 35th position in the trucks Football Club Race Trofeu Crèdit Andorrà, Hermitage Tournament category. Watch video included in the international > Social Championship, Club > ECA and ECOA Sports Clubs Skyrunner Series calendar Watch video de Golf Principat > Andorran Skiing Foundation >U CI Mountain Bike World > Crèdit Andorrà GSeries > 2016 Pitch & Putt World Cup > Calendar of national Cup in Vallnord Pal-Arinsal in Xixerella Watch video children’s races Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 51/67 Senior citizens are an asset Through Fundació Crèdit Andorrà, we offer special care for the elderly by promoting active living and promoting their participation in society. We offer a wide range of activities and program covering expectations such as training and gaining awareness of aspects of daily life, promotion of culture and integration into society so that this collective can enjoy the benefits of new technologies. Excursion to Naturlandia. These activities are mainly centerd around L’espai, © Fundació Crèdit Andorrà the activities and social center for the elderly. > Computer workshops, new technologies, social networks, photography and theatre. L’espai’s theatre group performed the play Spot. > Language and Andorran history courses. > Conferences and workshops on health and nutrition, as well as physical activities, as part of the Healthy aging program. > Conferences on music and history. Related to music, this year also saw the Orchestra Instruments conference in collaboration with an ONCA musician. > Intergenerational workshops between grandparents and grandchildren. > Several guided hiking tours around Sorteny, the Tristaina lakes and snowshoe outings in Naturlandia. Christmas meeting. © Eduard Comellas Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 52/67 We aim to provide the latest advances in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases, as well as information about healthy habits and ways to improve quality of life. #Addressing social needs Up-to-date health > Celiac disease conference. Dietary therapy, by Ramon Tormo, a specialist Through Up-to-date health, Fundació Crèdit in diseases of the digestive system and Andorrà organizes conferences and workshops for head of the Children’s Gastroenterology people with diseases with a large social impact and and Nutrition Unit at Hospital Quirón in those around them. Barcelona. > Affective and effective communication with Adolescents conference, by Eva Bach, educator, teacher and emotional learning specialist. > Alzheimer’s: the challenge of prevention conference, by Dr. Agustín Ruiz, head of research at the ACE Foundation Healthy of the Catalan Institute of Applied habits Neurosciences. > 2nd Open Day aimed at people over 50 The program offers tips that are easy to incorporate into everyday life on food, health, who want to assess their memory in order physical activity and personal attitude. to raise awareness of the importance of early detection of Alzheimer’s disease. Issues addressed include such varied topics as the benefits of family meals, a balanced > Multiple sclerosis workshops. Continuity diet, the diet of athletes, health tips to improve posture, cholesterol, allergies and sun in the project. protection. People also receive recommendations to get active every day, to go skiing, to keep the body and mind in balance and to encourage healthy aging. > A la vostra salut (To Your Health), an informative program consisting of 56 chapters developed by several There is also an informational segment called A la vostra salut (To Your Health), which professionals seeking to promote healthy is broadcast by Andorra Televisió from Mondays to Fridays right before the midday and habits among the population through evening news programs, and also on the Youtube channel of Crèdit Andorrà. food, health, sports and personal attitude. Watch video Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 53/67 167 families Breaking down barriers Concòrdia program benefiting from Sport is a means of personal and social development Fundació Crèdit Andorrà has continued to provide the Food Bank promoted by the Andorra Special Olympics support to this international cooperation project Federation with the aim of enabling the social that covers maternity across various regions of integration of people with intellectual disabilities, on Spain and Andorra. an equal footing with other citizens. The program allows pregnant women in The Foundation has sponsored the sports federation geographical areas that do not have a tissue bank since 2007 with the aim of contributing to athletes’ to donate their umbilical cord. social integration and participation in national and international events, as well as in their organization. This year we sponsored the federation at the 7th International Ski Trophy held in March, and gifted 285 459 of food kg new skiing equipment to Special Olympics Andorra. women registered in the collected program Food Bank 558 births Fundació Crèdit Andorrà has continued to lend its support to this project, which provides assistance to people and families lacking resources. 192 For the second consecutive year, employees from umbilical the Bank have shown solidarity with food collection cords organized by Càritas Andorra for Christmas, and collected have contributed 889 staple food products. New equipment of the skiers of the Special Olympics Andorra. © ANA Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the community 54/67 Goals for 2016 To encourage healthy habits among the population through food, sports, personal care and education. To continue providing the population of Andorra with the possibility of assessing their memory. ACHIEVED IN PROGRESS To promote educational, social and cultural programs. Goals for 2017 To raise awareness among young people and teenagers through the publication of a guide on preventing eating disorders. To continue to contribute new content to current educational, social and cultural programs. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 55/67 At the service of the environment #Constant improvements to environmental management #Energy efficiency and emissions #Optimizing consumption and improving waste management Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 56/67 At the service of the environment The values of Crèdit Andorrà Sustainable Development Goals #Goal-oriented #Proactiveness and innovative The initiatives we pursue aimed at preserving the environment contribute directly to achievement of SDGs #Teamwork 12 and 13, while also impacting on 9 due to their crosscutting nature. Principles of the Global Compact Principle 7. Businesses must maintain a preventive focus that favors the environment. Principle 8. Businesses must promote initiatives that favor greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9. Businesses must encourage the development and dissemination of technologies that respect the environment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 57/67 Respect and conservation of the environment represent an important target for Crèdit Andorrà. As we aware that our activity generates a series of environmental impacts, we work hard to reduce our environmental footprint and strengthen our commitment to the environment. Main strategic goals of the Department for Environmental Management Reduction and recovery of waste Energy savings and efficiency Responsible purchase and consumption of materials The fight against climate change Environmental training and awareness-raising among employees, clients and society Sustainable at large mobility To offer products that bring environmental benefits Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 58/67 Crèdit Andorrà’s commitment to the environment is reflected in the Environmental Management System (EMS) in place since 2004, certified #Constant improvements in accordance with ISO 14001 effective across all offices and corporate to environmental headquarters of the Bank. management In 2016, we worked to adapt to the requirements of the new version of the ISO 14001:2015 standard; we have especially focused on aspects related to CRÈDIT COTXE VERD environmental communication and identification (GREEN CAR CREDIT) and management of risks and opportunities. This is a consumer loan linked to the Government of In this regard, we have extended environmental risk Andorra’s Engega plan, aimed at the purchase of assessment by incorporating environmental risks electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids. associated with credit transactions and investment products. As a result of this analysis, we have launched two new lines of credit: PRÉSTEC REGENERA (REGENERATION LOAN) We have also granted loans This offers favorable terms to finance projects that with special terms for financing comply with the Andorra Regenera certification criteria. environmentally sustainable This certification aims to promote projects involving projects savings in energy consumption, as well as contributing to the sustainability of the country and the welfare and quality of life of our society. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 59/67 Sustainable mobility and the fight against climate change Responsible products CRÈDIT COTXE VERD (GREEN CAR CREDIT) Linked to the Government of Andorra’s Engega plan, which offers grants to encourage the purchase of electric vehicles, we have created Crèdit Cotxe Verd, a new consumer loan aimed at Images from the Electric Mobility Conference. purchasing electric vehicles and plug-in © ANA hybrids. Committed sponsorship Social awareness We want to contribute towards Andorra’s commitment SUSTAINABLE CONFERENCE MOBILITY ANDORRA LA VELLA FAIR to the fight against climate change and sustainable Together with FEDA and the Comú d’Andorra As part of the Andorra la Vella Fair, we have mobility la Vella, we have taken part in the third edition of promoted various children’s activities related the Electric Mobility Conference, organised by to environmental conservation and reduction Automòbil Club Andorra. The event included a series and compensation of CO2 emissions (carbon of educational conferences to raise awareness of all footprint). the details of this technology among different groups of society. This initiative is in addition to sponsorship of the first hybrid bus in Andorra. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 60/67 Sustainable building Our commitment to the environment is also present General in the planning and design of the Bank’s offices and eco-efficiency criteria facilities. In 2016, we designed the client service offices in Encamp using eco-efficiency criteria for offices ENERGY EFFICIENCY in order to create a workplace that respects the Thermal insulation in the perimeter and environment, clients and the people who work roof of the offices, with finishings to there. ensure safety of the office activity and air-tightness of the building, to prevent the cold and heat from entering and leaving. The climate control system is based on highly efficient aerothermal energy with variable refrigerant volume (VRV). LIGHTING Keeping openings in the facade and maximizing surface lighting. LED technology offers high-quality lighting, with low consumption and longer life. FUNCTIONALITY The main areas are open plan with integration with the other parts of the offices: management offices, meeting rooms, service SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS areas and technical rooms. Materials that are easily taken apart and reusable. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 61/67 Professor Mariano Marzo. © ANA Internal communication Institutional Environmental Sustainable investment Creation of a themed community on the commitment awareness Crediinvest Sicav Sustainability Fund, intranet to involve Group employees in Collaboration with the United Nations Conference on Andorra as a part of which allows investment in equities the EMS initiatives. Environment Program Finance Initiative the inevitable global energy transition, in leading companies in the field (UNEP FI). led by Mariano Marzo, professor of of sustainable and environmentally Internal campaign to mark World Stratigraphy and lecturer in Energy responsible growth. The main areas of Environment Day, with employees able Resources and Oil Geology at the investment are companies related to to offset their CO2 emissions for a day. University of Barcelona, in collaboration water, renewable energy, agricultural with the Andorran Association of development and infrastructure. Contractors (Acoda). Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 62/67 We are committed to the fight against climate change and contribute to achieving SDG 13, “Climate Action”. #Energy efficiency and emissions Energy The main environmental improvements made ELECTRICITY DIESEL included installation of low energy lighting systems The increase in consumption reflects the higher Global electricity consumption has increased slightly (LED) at the headquarters and replacement of number of hours boilers were in use, to respond over 2015, mainly due to increased consumption at diesel heaters with a variable refrigerant volume to business needs and provide greater comfort to the headquarters arising from the change of use of (VRV) climate control system in the Encamp and employees and clients in terms of air conditioning. a large number of rooms, which have gone from Santa Coloma offices. intermittent use to continuous use, as well as an increase in the number of people working in the building. Electricity consumption per employee at the headquarters has decreased by 14%. Ròdol and ICA buildings, branch 2015-2016 offices and headquarters 2014 2015 2016 Trend MWh (G4-EN3) 5,002 4,909 5,115 4.2% Power consumption kWh/m2 of office (G4-EN5) 268.6 258.7 269.58 4.2% kWh/employee (G4-EN5) 10,005.0 9,262.5 9,175.3 –0.9% MWh (G4-EN3) 2,143 2,473 2,600 5.1% Diesel consumption kWh/m of office (G4-EN5) 2 161.32 181.39 198.82 9.6% MWh (G4-EN3) 7,145 7,382 7,715 4.5% Total energy consumption kWh/m of office (G4-EN5) 2 383.63 389.03 406.59 4.5% Note: data from October to September. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 63/67 Emissions CO2 emissions 2014 2015 2016 2015-2016 Trend Direct CO2 emissions (magnitude 1) Diesel (t of CO2) 584.89 674.99 709.64 4.9% Indirect CO2 emissions (magnitude 2) Electricity (t of CO2)(1) 895.45 736.37 1,041.38 29.3% Other indirect emissions (magnitude 3) Business trips 163.40 153.35 189.24 23% Waste generation (paper, cardboard, newspapers, plastic and toners) – 9.43 5.17 –82% Paper consumption (internal and for clients) – 116.30 116.24 –0.1% Water consumption – 3.57 4.09 12.8% Consum de tòners – 1.14 1.12 –2.2% Note: Data from October to September. (1) Source: Calculation of the electric emission factor in Andorra is obtained considering sources of electricity production and the country of origin. According to data published in the FEDA Sustainability Report 2015, of the 83% of electricity purchased outside of Andorra, 37% came from France (76% nuclear, 11% hydro, 4% wind, 2% coal, 1% fuel, 4% gas, 1% solar and 1% recovery) and 46% from Spain (22% nuclear, 11% hydro, 19% wind, 20% coal, 10% gas, 5% solar and 13% recovery). The remaining 17% was produced in Andorra, made up of 15% hydro and 2% energy generated at CTRASA. 2015-2016 Intensity of CO2 emissions 2014 2015 2016 Trend t of CO2 stemming from energy consumption/ 100 m2 of office space 7.9 7.4 9.2 19.4% t of CO2 stemming from energy consumption/employee 3.0 2.7 3.1 15.2% Note: Data from October to September. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 64/67 We aspire to implement organizational changes that serve as a model for more efficient management of natural resources, in line with SDG 12 #Optimizing consumption “Responsible consumption and production”. and improving waste management Water Ròdol and ICA buildings, 2015-2016 Installation of an air humidifier and emptying of branch offices and headquarters 2014 2015 2016 Trend the cooling tower circuits for maintenance tasks m3 9,136 9,029 10,358 14.7% at the headquarters explain the increase in water Water m /m of office space 3 2 0.49 0.48 0.55 14.7% consumption consumption over the previous year. m3/employee 18.27 17.04 18.58 9.1% 2015-2016 Materials Consumption of materials 2014 2015 2016 Trend t 45.77 45.75 45.52 –0.5% The introduction of electronic signatures has Paper* t/employee 91.54 86.31 81.64 –5.4% allowed us to save on paper, with the previous units 687 1,430 1,399 –2.2% analysis of the number of prints made using paper Toners units/employee 1.4 2.7 2.5 –7.0% in different divisions and departments of the Bank. Note: Data from October to September. (*) Includes paper consumed internally and given to clients. Waste 2015-2016 Waste generated 2014 2015 2016 Trend Treatment The fractional increase was due to an increase in kg 13,562 11,600 14,575 25.6% banking activity and change of use of some of the Office paper Recycling. Specialized facility kg/employee 27.1 21.9 26.14 19.4% spaces at the headquarters, which involved, among kg 1,785 3,112 4,636 49.0% others, cleaning and centralization of the archive. Cardboard Recycling. Specialized facility kg/employee 3.6 5.9 8.32 41.6% kg 1,856 2,120 2,596 22.5% Newspapers Recycling. Specialized facility kg/employee 3.7 4.0 4.66 16.4% kg 1,230 1,727 1,589 –8.0% Plastic Recycling. Specialized facility kg/employee 2.5 3.3 2.85 –12.5% units 480 613 278 –54.6% Toners Recycling. Specialized facility units/employee 1.0 1.2 0.50 –56.9% Fluorescent units 1,456 1,835 575 –68.7% Recycling. Specialized facility lamps units/100 m2 of office space 7.8 9.7 3.03 –68.7% Note: Data from October to September. (*) Includes paper consumed internally and given to clients. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 65/67 Goals for 2016 To conclude the study to include the Group’s activities, products and services that comply with the EMS. To carry out a study on paper use in different areas and departments in order to assess opportunities for minimization. To conduct a study to assess the implementation of improvements in the water and energy consumption monitoring system. To conduct a study to assess the possibility of reducing energy consumption connected with calculation centers. To improve EMS record management by implementing an IT tool. To continue striving to expand the EMS team via the addition of Business and Risk area managers. To conclude the implementation of the intranet’s new environmental section. ACHIEVED To certify the EMS according to UNE-EN ISO 14001:2015. IN PROGRESS Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 | At the service of the environment 66/67 Goals for 2017 In addition to working to achieve the goals set for 2016, which are in process, we also plan: To reduce the energy consumption associated with the data processing centers at the headquarters and the ICA by 30%. To replace the air conditioning system using cooling towers at the headquarters with a variable refrigerant volume (VRV) system. To replace monitoring software (consumption of water and electricity) at the headquarters with a tool that allows more accurate management while improving and optimizing consumption. To remove cleaning products used at the headquarters and replace them with an ozone disinfection system. To continue the internal campaign to raise awareness of CO2 emissions both internally and externally. To promote actions to contribute achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal on climate action. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 1/36 Global Reporting Initiative Scoreboard (G4-32) “Compliance – Exhaustive” option from the Global Reporting Initiativeʼs G4 Guide. Basic general content Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification 1. Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the 3-4 organizationʼs top-level manager. G4-2 Main effects, risks and 3-4, 12-13, 17-18 opportunities. 2. Profile of the organization G4-3 Name of the organization. 15 G4-4 Main brands, products 15, 21-24 and services. The Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group offers financial products and services belonging to private banking, retail banking and corporate banking. All the products and services it offers, insurances and asset management included, can be accessed by the public upon request at our branch offices or via the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Groupʼs website. Andorra >C ommercial Banking We provide solutions to customer needs and strive to provide a service with innovative and advanced products. Through our Retail and Corporate divisions, weʼre responding to the demands of each kind of customer, offering personal service with a friendly smile thanks to the most extensive branch network in the country. > Private  Banking. We provide a boutique service with the support of a global financial framework in the area of Wealth Management, with premium services for customers and differentiated and specialized treatment. The solidity of the Group in Andorra, reinforced by our presence in the financial markets of both Europe and America, helps us to establish long-term relationships with our investors. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 2/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-4 Main brands, products > Asset management. Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management is the Groupʼs investment fund management and and services (cont.). the oldest bank in the country. It offers discretionary, personalized management of portfolios and investment advice for Private Banking and Wealth Management customers, as well as the management of a wide range of investment funds. > Insurance Group. The Crèdit Andorrà Insurance Group is a leader in the Principality of Andorra, with products suitable for both individuals and companies. Weʼre present in the Andorran market via Crèdit Assegurances, the parent company which offers a wide range of life, risk and savings products, as well as the actuarial consultancy Vincles. In the world > Wealth Management. We offer global solutions for international private banking and wealth management, with an open architecture guided by our international financial platform which spans 9 countries: Andorra, Spain, Luxembourg, Switzerland, the United States (Miami), Mexico, Panama, Peru and Uruguay. With our boutique concept of banking, we provide a tailor-made customer service which is independent, specialized, multi-booking, flexible and includes personal care. > Insurance Group. We have a presence in Spain with ERM holding, offering comprehensive risk management as well as insurance services via CA Life Insurance Experts. We also have a presence in Chile with CA Vincles. Social activity > Fundació Crèdit Andorrà. Was founded in 1987 with the creation of a grant program as its backbone. Since then, it has progressively broadened its range of activities incorporating projects in three large thematic areas: education, culture and social programs. It is currently the countryʼs main private foundation, both in the number of programs carried out, as well as the resources assigned. > Crèdit Andorrà Chair in Markets, Organizations and Humanities at IESE Created in 2006 and under the direction of Professor Josep Maria Rosanas, its aim is to foster interaction between the business world and academia, as well as to encourage research, the social responsibility of firms and corporate governance. G4-5 Location of the Av. Meritxell, 80 organizationʼs main AD500 Andorra la Vella headquarters. Principat d’Andorra G4-6 Number of countries in 15 which the organization operates. G4-7 Form of ownership and Crèdit Andorrà SA is a public limited company whose corporate purpose is banking activities, which operates legal status. in the field of commercial and private banking and is subject to the rules and regulations governing all financial institutions operating in Andorra. Crèdit Andorrà SA is the parent of the Group and along with its invested companies, they make up the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. G4-8 Markets served. 15 For further information, see the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Groupʼs website. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 3/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-9 Scale of the organization. 13, 15, 30 Annual report 2016 (6-7 and 10-11) All products and services can be consulted on the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group’s website. G4-10 Total number of 30-31 employees. Workforce with permanent contract 2014 2015 2016 Andorra 99% 91% 89% Spain 100% 100% 97% Luxembourg 95% 98% 100% Mexico 100% 100% 100% Miami (USA) 100% 100% 100% Peru 100% 100% 100% Switzerland 100% 92% 100% Uruguay-Panama 100% 100% 97% Chile 40% 44% 100% Portugal – – 100% Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 99% 94% 93% Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 4/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-10 Total number Workforce working full time of employees (cont.). 2015 2016 Andorra 100% 100% Spain 89% 94% Luxembourg 87% 88% Mexico 100% 100% Miami (USA) 100% 100% Peru 100% 100% Switzerland 92% 83% Uruguay-Panama 98% 98% Chile 100% 100% Portugal – 100% Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 97% 98% Workforce according to gender and working category 2015 2016 Men 452 460 Senior management 113 119 Intermediate roles 77 78 Rest of the workforce 262 263 Women 361 420 Senior management 22 26 Intermediate roles 43 51 Rest of the workforce 296 343 Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 5/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-10 Total number Women on the workforce and in roles of responsibility of employees (cont.). 2014 2015 2016 On the In roles of On the In roles of On the In roles of workforce responsibility workforce responsibility workforce responsibility Andorra 40% 21% 43% 23% 48% 26% Spain 43% 21% 52% 24% 53% 21% Luxembourg 29% 0% 34% 0% 38% 10% Mexico 54% 50% 58% 67% 60% 67% Miami (USA) 42% 57% 42% 60% 39% 56% Peru 50% 40% 40% 67% 58% 75% Switzerland 20% 25% 33% 25% 25% 33% Uruguay-Panama 51% 38% 51% 38% 52% 53% Chile 20% 0% 22% 0% 20% 0% Portugal – – – – 38% 33% Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 43% 23% 44% 25% 48% 29% Workforce according to gender and age group 2016 Men Women 460 420 ≤ 25 years 18 25 26-30 years 34 51 31-35 years 50 65 36-40 years 73 82 41-45 years 77 80 46-50 years 65 60 51-55 years 70 32 56-60 years 47 17 > 60 years 26 8 Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 6/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-10 Total number Workforce according to nationality of employees (cont.). 2014 2015 2016 Andorra 31% 31% 31% Rest of Europe 51% 53% 54% Africa – – 0,1% America 17% 15% 14% Asia 1% 1% 1% Oceania – – 0,1% Directors from the country (by subsidiaries) 2014 2015 2016 Andorra 54% 59% 54% Spain 100% 100% 100% Luxembourg 7% 5% 5% Mexico 100% 100% 100% Miami (USA) 60% 0% 0% Peru 0% 25% 0% Switzerland 25% 25% 25% Uruguay-Panama 54% 54% 67% Chile 0% 0% 50% Portugal – – 100% G4-11 Percentage of employees Crèdit Andorrà does not currently have a collective agreement. Collective agreements must be launched by the covered by collective workers, a situation that has not arisen up until now. agreements. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 7/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-12 The organizationʼs Supply chain management is carried out in accordance with our corporate values. It anticipates all aspects supply chain. connected with corporate social responsibility and is based on transparency and mutual benefits so as to ensure safe, efficient and quality service provision. The Groupʼs main suppliers include companies that provide rented and owned property, office material, marketing and advertising, computer equipment, technological and communications services, security services and specific professional services, among others. In order to extend our commitment to the environment, the Bank anticipates green purchase options, as well as geographical location, price and quality. Likewise, it prioritizes suppliers from the Principality of Andorra (local suppliers), as well as other local suppliers from the territories where it operates. In 2016, the approximate value of purchases made by the Group amounted to €44,016 thousand euros. G4-13 Significant changes 10 during the period There were no significant changes in the location of suppliers or the share ownership. covered by the report. G4-14 Implementation of the 12, 57-58 precautionary principle. As a banking entity, global risk management is essential for Crèdit Andorrà. Therefore, risks are identified, measured and assessed and always taken into account with regard to all business decisions, always within a framework that improves the quality of the services provided to customers. Likewise, the aim of said management is to safeguard the Groupʼs solvency and warranty mechanisms, a process that ultimately consolidates us as one of Andorraʼs most dependable banking entities. G4-15 Support for external 14,16-17, 61 initiatives. G4-16 Association and Crèdit Andorrà: Andorran Banks Association (ABA), United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative organizations to which (UNEP FI) and Global Compact of the United Nations. the organization belongs. Banque de Patrimoines Privés: Association pour la Garantie des Dépôts Luxembourg (AGDL), Association des Banques et Banquiers (ABBL) and Association Luxembourgeoise des Fonds dʼInvestiseement (ALFI). Banco Alcalá: Asociación Española de Banca, and Asociación de Instituciones de Inversión Colectiva y Fondos de Pensiones (Inverco). Beta Capital Wealth Management (Miami): Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), National Futures Association (NFA), Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and NASDAQ. CA México Asesores Patrimoniales en Inversiones Independientes: Asociación Mexicana de Asesores Independientes de Inversiones (AMAII) and Club Catalán de Negocios. CA Perú Sociedad Agente de Bolsa: Bolsa de Valores de Lima (BVL), Cavali (Registro Central de Valores y Liquidaciones del Perú), Superintendencia de Mercado de Valores (SMV), Asociación Peruana de Finanzas (APEF), In Perú and Marca País Perú. Crèdit Andorrà and Banco Crèdit Andorrà representation offices (Panama) in Uruguay: Asociación Bancaria de Panamá. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 8/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification 3. Identification of material aspects and scope G4-17 Entities included The report covers the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. Crèdit Andorrà SA is the parent company of the in the report. affiliated companies mentioned in notes 2.4 (page 17), and 6.1 (page 36) and 6.2 (page 37) of the Annual Report 2016; combined they make up the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. In this regard, the information presented corresponds to the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group, excluding the data presented in the clients and environment sections, which refer exclusively to the Groupʼs companies located in the Principality of Andorra. The economic and financial information included was obtained from the Groupʼs consolidated annual statements. G4-18 Definition of the reportʼs The main objective of the CSR report is to provide a comprehensive view of the economic, social, content and scope of environmental efforts and those of the corporate governance of Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group, providing a each aspect. response to issues which are of interest to the persons and groups with whom we associate. To determine which issues are relevant for the 2015 edition of the corporate social responsibility report, we have carried out a process with diverse phases, as established in the GRI G4 Guide and according to Accountability standard AA1000. Since there have been no significant operational changes in 2016, the results of the materiality analysis carried out for the previous edition of the report are considered current and valid. 1. Identification. As a starting point, we have identified the most relevant issues for the banking, financial and insurance sectors, considering the long-term impact of our value chain and stakeholders. This exercise involved carrying out a sectoral benchmarking study on CSR best practices on a global level. Furthermore, on an internal level, the main strategic lines and values of the cultural model were considered, and on an external level, the following reference standards for sustainability were considered: the G4 Guide and GRI financial services sector supplement, standards of the Asset Management, Commercial Banks, Insurance and Investment of Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Governance & Accountability. The issues identified have been classified into six categories: sector (business strategy and economic management), ethics and integrity (good corporate governance and compliance), service (relationship with the customer and product responsibility), people (team management), environment (environmental management) and relationship with society (social action and involvement with the country). 2. Prioritization. For the prioritization of the aforementioned issues, and following the principles of Accountability and standard AA1000SES (2011) in our relationship with stakeholders, we have carried out a specific investigation using an online survey to rate the diverse issues according to their level of importance for the Groupʼs sustainable and socially responsible development. This valuation involved the participation of all of the groupʼs internal and external stakeholders. After the statistical analysis of the responses received, the level of importance of each issue was determined and shown on the materiality matrix. The level of importance given by the group to the issues is shown, as well as that given to them by stakeholders. Once the process is concluded and the aspects and level of importance determined, all issues with high importance for the entity and its stakeholders (high-medium and medium-high and medium-medium, respectively) are considered material. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 9/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-18 Definition of the reportʼs 3. Validation. In order to ensure that we offer a reasonable and balanced vision for the sustainable and content and scope of responsible development of Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group at the economic, environmental, social and each aspect (cont.). good governance level, the results obtained were analyzed in-depth internally and with the participation of members of management, and the departments and areas most directly related to the strategic issues of CSR. As a result of this vertical analysis, we also considered it important to determine the following aspects as material: internationalization, efficiency in resource consumption (electricity, paper, water, etc.), CO2 emissions, risk management, opportunities derived from climate change, and the management and minimization of generated waste. The report includes these material aspects with specific information from the perspective of management and indicators. Furthermore, information related to non-material issues is reported according to GRI G4 as this enables the groupʼs CSR efforts to be explained in a more detailed manner. The report includes these material aspects with specific information from the perspective of management and indicators. Furthermore, information related to non-material issues is reported according to GRI G4 as this enables the groupʼs CSR efforts to be explained in a more detailed manner. G4-19 Material aspects. Materiality matrix Low Medium High Leadership in Andorran banking Sustained and sustainable Help customers to make more economic results informed financial decisions Asset and operations risk control and comprehensive management Compliance and adaptation to Relevance for stakeholders regulatory and legislative changes Operating with maximum transparency, creating confidence and credibility High Business ethics and prevention of corruption, money laundering and fraud Ensuring the correct behavior of bodies and the governance of the entity Quality and efficiency in customer service Assegurar la privacitat i seguretat de dades dels clients Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 10/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-19 Material aspects (cont.). Materiality matrix Promotion of initiatives of value Proactivity and innovation for customers and society in products and services Responsibility in purchases from Creation of employment, suppliers management of workplace Offer products and services atmosphere and satisfaction Medium designed to provide environmental of employees or social benefit Management of talent, training Universality in care and service for all and personal improvement of customer segments employees Promotion of social progress with initiatives driven by Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Inclusion of social and environmental Business diversification Internationalization aspects in the group strategy Benefit programs for employees Consideration for social and Contribution to Andorraʼs Relevance for stakeholders environmental criteria in operations economic development and Technological innovation to improve that of the countries in which customer service the group operates Performance evaluation and professional performance methods Promotion of equality and balance between work and personal life Assurance of health & safety and wellbeing at work Local contracting and competitive salaries Low Management and control of environmental impacts Efficiency in resource consumption (electricity, paper, water, etc.) CO2 emissions and management of risks and opportunities resulting from climate change Management and minimization of waste generated Consideration of environmental criteria in the construction and remodeling of offices Establishment of links and alliances with territorial entities Low Medium High Relevance for Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group Sector ethics and integrity Service People Environment Relationship with society Material aspects in bold Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 11/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-20 Scope of each material Coverage and limit aspect within the organization. Internal External G4-21 Limit of each material aspect beyond the Asset manageSocial activity Banking organization. ment and wealth Partner Insurance Suppliers and financial Category and subject GRI and other aspects services management companies Clients Society SECTOR Sustained and sustainable Economic performance economic results Leadership in Andorran Andorran banking banking leadership* Asset and operations risk Audit control and comprehensive Risk control and management management* Internationalization Internationalization and business diversification* Proactivity and innovation Initiatives of value for in products and services customers and society* ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Compliance and Regulatory compliance adaptation to regulatory society and legislative changes Regulatory compliance product responsibility Operating with maximum Information transparency transparency, creating for markets and clients* confidence and credibility Business ethics and Combating corruption prevention of corruption, Business ethics* money laundering and fraud Ensuring the correct Good governance* behavior of bodies and the governance of the entity Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 12/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-21 Limit of each material Coverage and limit aspect beyond the organization (cont.). Internal External Asset manageSocial activity Banking ment and wealth Partner Insurance Suppliers and financial Category and subject GRI and other aspects services management companies Clients Society SERVICES Assisting clients to Labeling of products and make well-informed services financial decisions: Financial education* communicating with transparency and clarity, and providing financial education Quality and efficiency in Quality and efficiency in customer service client service* Ensuring the privacy and Health and safety reviews safety of client data IT security* PEOPLE Creation of employment, Occupation management of Employee satisfaction* workplace atmosphere and satisfaction of employees Management of talent, Training and education training and personal improvement of employees Performance evaluation Training and education and professional performance methods Benefit programs for Benefits* employees Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 13/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-21 Limit of each material Coverage and limit aspect beyond the organization (cont.). Internal External Asset manageSocial activity Banking ment and wealth Partner Insurance Suppliers and financial Category and subject GRI and other aspects services management companies Clients Society ENTORN Efficiency in resource Materials consumption (electricity, Energy paper, water, etc.) Water CO2 emissions and Emissions management of risks and opportunities resulting from climate change Management and Effluent and waste minimization of waste generated RELATIONSHIP WITH SOCIETY Promotion of social Local communities progress with initiatives in educational, social and cultural areas driven by Fundació Crèdit Andorrà G4-22 Restatements of No relevant restatements took place involving information contained in previous reports. In case any data has information from previous been reformulated, said fact is highlighted by the addition of a note explaining the cause for the reformulation. reports and causes. G4-23 Relevant changes to the There were no relevant changes in scope or coverage with regard to previous reports. scope and coverage of each aspect with regard to previous reports. 4. Involvement of stakeholders G4-24 Stakeholders linked to The Groupʼs stakeholders are: employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, communications media and the the organization. local community. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 14/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-25 Criteria for identifying The stakeholders identified by Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group are as follows: customers, the focus of the stakeholders. businessʼ decisions; shareholders, the Groupʼs owners; employees, the Groupʼs most important asset, essential for achieving objectives; the local community; where the Group wants to drive progress, and economic and social development; suppliers, for their importance in ensuring top-quality and reliable service; and communications media, for their capacity to inform and influence the general public. G4-26 Participation of Expectations of stakeholders Expectations of the Crèdit stakeholders. StakeChannels of communication regarding Crèdit Andorrà Andorrà Financial Group regarding holders and dialog Financial Group stakeholders G4-27 Key questions and problems that have General Shareholderʼs Meeting > Business and benefits that > Support for the development of arisen related to Annual and quarterly reports increase the value of the Group business projects the participation of Meetings > Transparency of corporate > Good image, perception and reputation stakeholders. Boardʼs Delegate Committee and financial information on to > Knowledge and involvement with corporate accountability the Group > Best practices of corporate > Operating with quality standards Accionistes governance > Contributing to the creation of value for the Group and attaining objectives efficiently > Professional development > Proactivity, innovation and adapting to change > Compliance with contractual commitments > Commitment to the values of the Group New intranet (WeCrèdit) > Compliance with contractual > Operating with quality standards Committees agreements > Contributing to the creation of value Meetings > Ethical and responsible for the Group and attaining objectives Special agreements behavior efficiently Employees > Professional development and > Professional development recognition > Proactivity, innovation and adapting to change > Compliance with contractual commitments > Commitment to the values of the Group Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 15/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-27 Key questions and Expectations of stakeholders Expectations of the Crèdit problems that have StakeChannels of communication regarding Crèdit Andorrà Andorrà Financial Group arisen related to holders and dialog Financial Group regarding stakeholders the participation of Corporate website and commercial > Personalized and friendly service > Satisfaction stakeholders (cont.). websites > Clear and transparent language > Loyalty Press room (corporate website) > Financial education > Collaboration Social networks > Ethical and responsible behavior Managers / branchesʼ network > Compliance with regulation On-line banking > Satisfaction for services and Customer support services products provided. Incident Clients Internal and external surveys resolution Regular conferences and > Compliance with current workshops for businesspeople and regulations the general public > Involvement with the country Advertisement and commercial communications Contractual communications Email and SMS Corporate website > Contributing to the countryʼs > Reputation Community (associations, Press room (corporate website) economic and social development > C ompliance with accorded Blog Research and that of the general public commitments Social networks > Respect for the environment and foundations, academia, Regular conferences and the local area workshops > Compliance with commitments Meetings with sector associations > Transparency and responsible public bodies, etc.) and associations from the region behavior > Compliance with applicable regulations Business processes > Collaboration for mutual benefit > Compliance with contractual > Compliance with contractual agreements Proveïdors agreements > Respect for Group commitments to corporate responsibility Corporate communications > Transparency and accountability > Adequate transmission and CommunicaPress releases and conferences > Complete information provision of information and Meetings with media > Interaction content tions media Social networks > Permanent collaboration Press room (corporate website) > Interaction 5. Report profile G4-28 Period of report. The 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report is the thirteenth report of its kind published by Crèdit Andorrà. The report covers the period from 1 January to 31 December, 2016, except the quantitative data in the section on the environment, which covers the year from 1 October to 30 September. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 16/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-29 Date of the last report. 2015 G4-30 Cycle of report submittal. Anual G4-31 Point of contact for comunicacio@creditandorragroup.com doubts related to the contact of the report. G4-32 Option “in accordanceˮ 2 with the guidelines the organization has selected and the GRI index. G4-33 Policy and practices for Lʼinforme no ha estat sotmès a verificació externa. external verification of the report. 6. Governing bodies G4-34 The organizationʼs 10-11 governing structure. The management and control of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group is distributed among the following bodies: > The  General Shareholdersʼ Board is the body in which shareholders participate, which, when duly assembled, has the competence to deliberate and adopt agreements by majority vote on matters submitted for its approval that the law and the corporate statutes have allocated to this body. > The  Board of Directors is the highest governing body of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. This body is responsible for directing, administering and representing the Group. >T he Board of Directorsʼ Delegate Committee, which includes the chairman, vice-chairman and CEO, is responsible for dealing with the most important matters in the management and operation of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. > The Advisory Board adds value as part of the international expansion process and performs advisory functions. > The  Executive Committee is the body responsible for defining and overseeing the Group strategy and performing the functions of management, direction and administration. G4-35 Process by which the The CEO, member and secretary of the Board of Directors, is responsible for strategic supervision of the Group superior governing body and overseeing execution of decisions made by the Board of Directors. The Bankʼs General Management and delegates its authority in Executive Committee are responsible for executing decision made by the Board of Directors and managing economic, environmental economic, environmental and social policies adopted by the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. and social matters. G4-36 Positions with All business lines and areas of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group are represented in the Executive Committee. responsibility in Members of this committee have the power to make decisions on the operation and organization of the entity. economic, environmental The entityʼs highest governing body is kept up to date on all economic, environment and social matters which and social matters. affect the group. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 17/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-37 Consulting process See indicators G4-26 i G4-27. between interest The Board of Directors determines information and communication policies according to shareholder input, groups and the superior the market and public opinion. governing body. G4-38 Composition of the 10 superior governing body Members of the Board of Directors do not carry out executive functions. These functions are the responsibility and its committees. of the CEO and the general manager. G4-39 Functions of the person The functions of the chairman and the CEO are different and complementary, with a clear division of who presides over the responsibilities. The chairman is the highest representative of the entity and the leader of the Board of Directors superior governing body. on which the CEO also sits. The CEO holds the highest executive office responsible for executing the strategy of the Group. G4-40 Appointment and For board members to be appointed, they must meet legal and statutory requirements required for the office selection processes for in question, and have appropriate professional knowledge and experience to exercise the duties of the office the superior governing and for good governance. The regulations of the Board of Directors stipulate that a minimum of one third of body and its committees. total board members must be Andorran citizens or residents with associated economic rights. Furthermore, all members must be people with recognized reputations as honorable professionals and businesspeople. Aspects such as diversity and independence are not taken into consideration. G4-41 Processes by which the 12 superior governing body The policy of corporate governance and established procedures are set out in the regulation of the Board of anticipates and handles Directors of Crèdit Andorrà, approved 19 November, 2008. This regulation is based on the legal framework, conflicts of interest. establishes the acting principles of the governing body and its functions, specifies the rights and duties of the directors and their personal responsibility when exercising the duties of their office, and clarifies conflicts of interest. The regulation of the Board of Directors also establishes norms and guidelines to follow to ensure that board members do not enter into situations of conflict of interest. To ensure all actions are carried out in strict compliance with established legal and company requirements, the Group uses its risk management and control model as an internal framework to ensure operational efficacy and efficiency based on appropriate control of risks and prudent business conduct that guarantees the reliability of financial information communicated internally and externally. G4-42 Functions of the superior In 2015, the Groupʼs CEO published the Strategic Aspiration Horizon 2020, a set of basic guidelines for the governing body and 2015-2018 Strategic Plan. senior management in The Board of Directors analyses and approves basic acting directives, determines the degree of compliance business activities related with strategic plans and proposals, and ratifies the Groupʼs code of ethical conduct. to the organizationʼs economic, environmental and social impacts. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 18/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-43 Measures to be Information is provided in meetings of the Board of Directors on the primary issues to address and strategic adopted to advance the business, economic, environmental and social matters. collective knowledge of the superior governing body in economic, environmental and social matters. G4-44 Process to evaluate There is no formal evaluation process. However, at least once per year, a report is submitted to the Board of the performance of Directors on the status of the Bankʼs policies, strategies related to the corporate social responsibility policy and the superior governing other matters. body in economic, environmental and social matters. G4-45 Function of the The organizational structure defined in indicator G4-34 stipulates that economic, environmental and social superior governing matters reported to the Board of Directors are to be supervised by the different management bodies and areas body in identifying and of the Bank. The management of these includes supervision of risks and opportunities as well as compliance managing impacts, risks with international agreements, codes of conduct and principles. To assist these bodies in performing their and opportunities in duties, support is provided by independent external advisers and by means of information from the organization economic, environmental itself, from meetings with Crèdit Andorrà directors. and social matters. G4-46 Function of the The Board of Directors is responsible for evaluating strategies and policies on risk, internal control and superior governing compliance with norms. Specifically, it defines the level of risk the organization is willing to accept; approves body in the analysis policies on risk management, internal controls and compliance; supervises compliance; and adopts appropriate of risk management measures to correct problems. processes in economic, environmental and social matters. G4-47 Frequency of the analysis Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group has a Regulatory Risk and Compliance Unit and Internal Audit Department, of impacts, risks and which report directly to the CEO. The Delegate Committee is also responsible for analyzing all risks at all opportunities related to levels from all perspectives that affect the organizationʼs activities on a quarterly basis, including economic, economic, environmental environmental and social risks and opportunities. and social matters. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 19/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-48 Committee responsible The General Technical Secretariat, part of the Corporate Communications Office, is responsible for for reviewing and coordinating and preparing the Corporate Social Responsibility report (CSR), including the materiality process. approving the This report is reviewed by members of the management team responsible for handling issues related to organizationʼs human resources, the environment, clients and marketing, and community relations (the Foundationʼs activity). sustainability report. One of the functions of the General Technical Secretariat is to monitor the performance of the organization in relation to CSR issues and to submit any proposals deemed appropriate on these matters to the Board of Directors. G4-49 Processes to The EC is responsible for reporting annual planning to the Board of Directors, including any critical issues it communicate important deems relevant or opportune. The EC meets monthly. concerns to the superior governing body. G4-50 Type and number of Critical issues of any nature (economic, financial, environmental, social, etc.) may be brought to the Board concerns communicated of Directors on a recurring basis if deemed necessary. The degree of progress in the Strategic Plan and to the superior governing results in economic, social and environmental matters are evaluated in meetings of the Executive Committee body. and meetings of the Board of Directors Based on this evaluation, decisions are made to continue or alter strategy. G4-51 Description of Compensation policies are planned by members of senior management. Senior management has a compensation policies remuneration policy including fixed and variable parts based on achieving quantitative objectives and for the superior performance, and attitudes in accordance with Crèdit Andorràʼs cultural values model. Severance governing body and compensation is subject to applicable law. senior management. G4-52 Processes to determine Criteria set out in the remuneration policy are followed to determine the amount of compensation to be compensation. received. The company uses the Hay Job Evaluation method to assess job roles by profile and pay scale and to classify all positions and categories and their associated salary ranges. G4-53 Consideration of the Criteria set out in the compensation norm, which establishes remuneration according to professional opinions of stakeholders qualification, is used to determine the amount of compensation to be received. on compensation. G4-54 Ratio of total annual This compensation of the information employee with the greatest is compensation and average confidential. annual total compensation of all personnel. G4-55 Percentage increase in This compensation. information is confidential. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 20/36 Indicator Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification 7. Ethics and integrity G4-56 The organizationʼs 12, 16 values, principals, and Crèdit Andorrà has its own code of ethical conduct, in line with the requirements of the Andorran National codes of conduct. Institute of Finance (ANIF). ANIF is the body that regulates all financial institutions in the Principality of Andorra with the aim of preventing certain undesirable practices and increasing the transparency and credibility of the Andorran financial system internationally. The Bank is also subject to Law 8/2013 on the organizational requirements and operating conditions of entities operating in the financial system, the protection of investors, abuse of markets and financial collateral arrangements, leading to the adoption of internal policies to ensure it is implemented correctly throughout the Group. G4-57 Internal and external Crèdit Andorrà has an Ethics and Deontology Committee to promote best practices and ensure compliance evaluation mechanisms with the code of conduct, which is available to all employees. This committee is responsible for managing and to promote ethical and resolving any doubts or queries that may arise related to the practical interpretation or application of the code. lawful conduct. In 2016, the Ethics and Deontology Committee received 33 consultations or requests for assessment from employees. G4-58 Internal and external The Ethics and Deontology Committee is the body that receives cases of possible violations of the code mechanisms for of conduct. It is responsible for analyzing unethical conduct and conduct that is beyond the scope of the reporting unethical established framework. It also has the power to approve, reject and issue penalties. The Ethics and Deontology conduct. Committee directs investigations of cases, which may entail the involvement of other bodies in the entity. In all cases, the confidentiality of the reporting party is guaranteed, except when this information is essential for conducting the investigation. In 2016, the Ethics and Deontology Committee reviewed a total of eleven cases. Specific basic contents Category: Economy Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification Economic performance G4-DMA Management focus To advance towards a new banking paradigm, we are focusing on prioritizing resources, optimizing investments and structures already in place, and investing in new projects. Also, in line with our ongoing policy to implement the best international practices and standards, we are moving forward with the more stringent solvency requirements of the new Basel III regulations and with the asset assessment and recovery system that incorporates the new International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 21/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-EC1 Direct economic value 8 generated and distributed. G4-EC2 Financial consequences Crèdit Andorrà believes that the risks of the direct impacts of climate change are minimal. Climate change has for the organizationʼs financial implications for Crèdit Andorrà. Financial implications are considered to be the direct consequences activities due to climate for Group entities as banking, financial, insurance and asset management institutions, and costs are change. considered to be investments or expenditures to improve environmental performance and to respond to the challenges of climate change. The risks are the impacts of climate change on Andorra and their repercussions on the countryʼs economy and risk from improper environmental management. The main opportunities are considered to be offering products to counter climate change and having a good reputation in the event of attaining environmental excellence. G4-EC3 Benefits programs. 29 The economic value of the benefits is confidential information. G4-EC4 Significant financial As a banking entity, Crèdit Andorrà does not receive public assistance. assistance received from the government. Leadership in Andorran banking No Management focus 15 GRI-DMA Risk control and management No Management focus 12 GRI-DMA Internacionalitzation No Management focus 15 GRI-DMA Materials G4-DMA Management focus 64 We have identified the principal eco-efficiency indicators resulting from our activities. These will be measured and controlled so that the measures needed to achieve the highest level of eco-efficiency in our environmental efforts can be implemented. This translates to minimizing the consumption of materials, principally paper, and other aspects. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 22/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-EN1 Materials used. 64 G4-EN2 Valued materials used. There has been no consumption of valued materials. Energy G4-DMA Management focus 60, 62 Electricity is Crèdit Andorràʼs main energy source. The rest is diesel used in heating systems, and, to a lesser extent, used in certain specific emergency situations such as use as a fuel in auxiliary startup equipment. G4-EN3 Energy consumed 62 within the organization. Annual energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 2016 2014-2015 Trend Electricity 18,009 17,673 18,414 4.2% Diesel 7,715 8,903 9,360 5.1% Note: Consumption is for the offices and buildings of Ròdol, ICA and corporate headquarters in Andorra. Data is from direct meter measurement. All fuel comes from non-renewable sources. No energy consumed comes from renewable sources. G4-EN4 Energy consumed External energy consumption, consumption that takes place outside the bankʼs facilities in which the energy No data is outside the is not provided through an agreement, comes primarily from the transport of employees to the workplace available organization. (commuting to and from work and corporate travel). for energy Data for CO2 emissions resulting from corporate travel are shown in indicator G4-EN17. consumption outside the bank. G4-EN5 Energy intensity. 62 G4-EN6 Reducing energy 60, 62 consumption. G4-EN7 Reduction of energy The products and services of Crèdit Andorrà are not subject to energy requirements. However, several requirements for initiatives are underway in the offices and corporate buildings to lower energy consumption: installing LED products and services. lighting systems in certain bank buildings and offices, reflective vinyl has been installed in the offices of the company headquarters to improve the workplace environment, and acquiring more efficient office equipment such as cooling equipment. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 23/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification Water G4-DMA Management focus 64 We have identified the principal eco-efficiency indicators resulting from our activities. These will be measured and controlled so that the measures needed to achieve the highest level of eco-efficiency in our environmental efforts can be implemented. This translates to minimizing the consumption of water in offices and corporate facilities and other considerations. G4-EN8 Total water 64 consumption by Data is from direct meter measurement. 100% of water consumed comes from a municipal water system. source. G4-EN9 Sources of water that Since Crèdit Andorrà has its offices in urban areas, all water is collected and discharged through the urban Does not have been significantly water network. For this reason, no impact on water sources or ecosystems is foreseen. apply. affected. G4-EN10 Percentage and total Crèdit Andorrà does not recycle or reuse water. Waste water is discharged into the public sewer system. volume of water recycled and reused. Emissions G4-DMA Management focus 60-61, 63 G4-EN15 Direct emission of 63 greenhouse gases (GHG) (Range 1). G4-EN16 Indirect emission of 63 greenhouse gases (GHG) (Range 1). G4-EN17 Other indirect emission 63 The of greenhouse gases calculation (GHG) (Range 3). of greenhouse gas emissions does not include messenger services. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 24/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse 63 gas (GHG) emissions. G4-EN19 Reducing greenhouse 60-62 There is gas (GHG) emissions. The Bank promotes different actions to prevent CO2 emissions, such as videoconferencing, which replaces no data for numerous trips by car, train and airplane. reductions of GHG emissions resulting from these initiatives. G4-EN20 Emission of substances Crèdit Andorrà does not emit substances that destroy the ozone layer, including those in the annexes of the Does not that destroy the ozone Montreal Protocol. apply. layer. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX and other Crèdit Andorrà does not emit NOX, SOX or emissions. Does not significant emissions. apply. Effluent and waste G4-DMA Management focus 64 G4-EN22 Total wastewater Since Crèdit Andorrà has its offices in urban areas, all water is collected and discharged through the urban Does not discharge. water network. apply. G4-EN23 Waste generated. 64 G4-EN24 Significant spills. Due to the nature of Crèdit Andorràʼs business activities, no significant spills have taken place. Does not apply. G4-EN25 Treated waste deemed Due to the nature of Crèdit Andorràʼs business activities, no waste considered hazardous according to the Does not hazardous. Basel Convention is generated. apply. G4-EN26 Water resources and Due to the nature of Crèdit Andorrà’s business activities, water discharges do not affect water resources. Does not related habitats. apply. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 25/36 Category: Social Labor practices and work with dignity Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification Occupation G4-DMA Management focus 28-31 G4-LA1 Total employees, 31 broken down into New contracts according to gender and age group groups of age, gender and region. 2016 Crèdit Andorrà Luxembourg Miami (USA) Switzerland UruguayFinancial Andorra Spain Mexico Peru Panama Chile Portugal Group Men 11 16 10 3 3 1 2 5 1 0 52 < 25 years 3 3 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 9 26-35 years 4 5 5 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 16 36-45 years 3 4 3 1 2 1 0 1 0 0 15 46-55 years 1 4 1 1 0 0 1 3 0 0 11 > 56 years 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Women 31 12 8 5 2 3 0 6 1 0 68 < 25 years 10 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 26-35 years 11 3 4 2 0 1 0 3 0 0 24 36-45 years 8 3 2 0 0 1 0 3 0 0 17 46-55 years 2 4 2 2 2 1 0 0 1 0 14 > 56 years 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Total 42 28 18 8 5 4 2 11 2 0 120 Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 26/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-LA1 Total employees, Rotation rate according to gender broken down into 2016 groups of age, gender and region (cont.). Crèdit Andorrà Luxembourg Miami (USA) Switzerland UruguayAndorra Spain Mexico Peru Panama Chile Portugal Financial Group Men 7.1% 10.6% 22% 16.7% 13.6% 40% 11.1% 6.9% 25% 20% 10.2% Women 3.7% 8% 16% 11.1% 14.3% 0% 33.3% 6.5% 100% 0% 6.4% Both genders 5.5% 9.2% 19.7% 13.3% 13.9% 16.7% 16.7% 6.7% 40% 12.5% 8.4% Voluntary resigning from the workforce 2014 2015 2016 Andorra 5% 2.5% 3.5% Spain 5.2% 12.9% 7.8% Luxembourg 19% 3.2% 15.2% Mexico 4.2% 11.5% 10% Miami (USA) 19.4% 13.9% 11.1% Peru 50% 0% 16.7% Switzerland 0% 0% 0% Uruguay-Panama 9.4% 5.7% 6.7% Chile 20% 44.4% 40% Portugal – – 0% Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 8.3% 5% 6.1% G4-LA2 Employee benefits. 29 Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 27/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-LA3 Labor reincorporation 100% of employees of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group have the right to maternity or paternity leave. and retention levels Retention rate after sick leave due to maternity or paternity after maternity or paternity leave. 2016 People who People who have People who have continue in the Job taken parental returned to their company after reincorporation leave job after leave 12 months rate Retention rate Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Andorra 6 13 6 13 6 13 100% 100% 100% 100% Spain 2 5 2 4 0 2 100% 80% 0% 40% Luxembourg 0 1 0 0 0 0 – 0% – 0% Mexico 0 1 0 1 0 3 – 100% – 100% Miami (USA) 0 0 0 0 0 0 – – – – Peru 0 0 0 0 0 0 – – – – Switzerland 0 0 0 0 0 0 – – – – Uruguay-Panama 0 3 0 2 0 1 – 67% – 33% Chile 1 0 1 0 1 0 100% – 100% – Portugal 0 0 0 0 0 0 – – – – Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 9 23 9 20 7 19 100% 87% 78% 83% Occupational health and safety G4-DMA Management focus 34 G4-LA5 Employees Crèdit Andorrà does not have occupational health and safety committees. represented in occupational health and safety committees. G4-LA6 Rates of absenteeism, 34 occupational disease, days missed and number of work-related fatalities. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 28/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-LA7 Employees with a Crèdit Andorràʼs business activities do not entail a high risk of occupational hazard for its employees. No high incidence or high position has been identified that has high risk of occupational illness. Prevention awareness campaigns are risk of occupational conducted. diseases. G4-LA8 Occupational health Crèdit Andorrà does not have labor unions. and safety issues covered in formal agreements with labor unions. Training and education G4-DMA Management focus 32-33 Training activity Average investment in training Workforce who received training per employee (€/employee) Training within working hours 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Andorra 100% 100% 100% 1,201 1,077 754 24% 24% 30% Spain 35% 76% 73% 398 379 506 58% 9% 0% Luxembourg 45% 95% 97% 2,847 1,085 1,123 97% 97% N. D. Mexico 21% 31% 100% 930 228 55 100% 100% 100% Miami (USA) 100% 100% 100% 296 436 599 22% 38% 67% Peru 13% 70% 8% 344 279 600 0% 61% 100% Switzerland 40% 100% 100% 713 317 333 100% 100% N. D. Uruguay-Panama 98% 98% 98% 229 522 416 81% 51% 92% Chile 100% 100% 20% 0 420 1,200 100% 78% 0% Portugal – – 75% – – 317 – – 100% Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 80% 93% 93% 1,037 886 688 29% 27% 26% Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 29/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-LA9 Average number of 33 No data is hours of training per available by year per employee. gender and occupational category for Andorra, Spain or Luxembourg. G4-LA10 Skills management 33 and lifelong learning programs that promote the employability of workers. G4-LA11 Employees who 33 receive regular Workforce subject to the effort evaluation system progress and professional 2016 development evaluations. Senior management Intermediate roles Rest of the workforce 2015 Global Men Women Men Women Men Women Andorra 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Spain 64% 67% 85% 100% 47% 33% 86% 60% Luxembourg 10% 11% 6% 0% 100% – 9% 9% Mexico 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Miami (USA) 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Peru 100% 100% – – 100% 100% 100% 100% Switzerland 58% 83% 100% 100% 40% 100% 100% 100% Uruguay-Panama 96% 97% 86% 100% 100% 100% 100% 95% Chile 33% 40% 100% 0% – – – 0% Portugal – 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 82% 82% 77% 65% 67% 82% 88% 84% Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 30/36 Society Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification Comunitats locals G4-DMA Management focus 8, 37-54 G4-SO1 Development programs 8, 37-54 and evaluation of impacts with participation of the local community. G4-SO2 Potential and real The management and control of risks is one of the priority objectives of the Group, and, as such, the Group significant negative has the required infrastructure, methods and internal controls. Policy and risk limits are established by the impacts for local Assets, Liabilities and Risks Committee. communities. G4-FS13 Accessibilitat en zones Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group has no activity in areas with low population density or disadvantaged areas. de baixa densitat de població o llocs desafavorits. G4-FS14 Initiatives to Crèdit Andorrà promotes different initiatives with the aim of improving the financial knowledge and culture of improve access to different groups in society, including senior citizens. financial services to disadvantaged groups. Combating corruption G4-DMA Management focus 12 G4-SO3 Business units analyzed 12 for risks related to The active struggle against corruption (including preventing money laundering, financing terrorism and other corruption. considerations) is part of the entityʼs corporate culture and is pursued by means of mechanisms extending to all of the Groupʼs business units. Analysis of risks related to corruption is regulated by law. Furthermore, the organization also has an internal audit department, which is part of the regulatory compliance unit, and manages risk. G4-SO4 Communication 28, 32 and training in anticorruption procedures and policies. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents No confirmed incidents of corruption have taken place. of corruption and measures taken. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 31/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification Unfair competition G4-DMA Management focus In accordance with its code of ethics, Crèdit Andorrà endeavors to compete in markets in an honest and fair manner. G4-SO7 Actions related to In 2016, there have been no actions related to monopolistic and anti-competitive practices. monopolistic and anticompetitive practices. Compliance G4-DMA Management focus 12 G4-SO8 Fines and non-financial In 2016, there have been no significant fines or penalties for failure to comply with the law in the provision and penalties for failure to use of products and services. comply with the law. Product responsibility Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification Health and safety reviews G4-DMA Management focus Grup Financer Crèdit Andorrà actua dʼacord amb els valors que recull el seu Model Cultural. Així, té el cThe Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group acts in accordance with the values outlined in its cultural model. It is committed to designing and developing products and services to meet the needs and demands of customers while providing universal and non-exclusive customer service aimed at financial inclusion. The Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group offers its clients a wide range of financial products and services of the highest quality, based on studying the real market situation and the needs of different client segments. In its relations with clients, it offers fair, personal and local service based on trust, transparency and the confidentiality of information in accordance with current legislation and our clientsʼ internal rules and procedures. The Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group also provides reliable, professional and transparent counseling services founded on listening actively to customer needs. The Group is committed to promoting products through sales and marketing campaigns that respect human dignity and best business practices. Information on products is subject to ANIF regulation. Descriptions are available for all products that define characteristics and provide detailed information, including general risks. Descriptions of investment products which clearly entail some risk for the client, have a section specifically on risk. At Crèdit Andorrà, we pay special attention to the security of our offices, customer operations and confidentiality in our management of personal data. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 32/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-DMA Management focus To guarantee the security of our data systems, we have a series of internal rules to protect the information in (cont.). our custody effectively. The Information Security Department strives to minimize risks of non-compliance and ensure coordination between the different areas of the group. The vocation of this department responds to the firm commitment to extend all of our acquired knowledge in the area of IT security, to the remaining criteria related to documented information which must be considered as a critical aspect within the Groupʼs operations. Our governing principles are: >C  onfidentiality: ensures that information can only be consulted by authorized persons, and legal standards and requirements related to personal data protection and data privacy are complied with at all times. > Integrity: ensures that stored information is complete and corresponds with the real situation at all times. >A  vailability. Ensures that information is available on demand when needed to carry out required queries or operations. Furthermore, the bank has a protection and privacy policy which includes internal management protocols and procedures that ensure compliance with legal requirements on the subject of e-commerce and the processing of personal data. The provision of services is in compliance with Andorran legislation in general, and more specifically according to legislation on financial and banking services and products, under the supervision of the corresponding regulators. The remaining Group companies provide their services in compliance with the legislation applicable at the time and in the country in which the service is provided. Crèdit Andorrà promotes responsible, transparent and clear communication and information. This is one the Bankʼs key priorities and one of the most important considerations for customers and regulatory agencies. The objective of this is to help the client make well-informed financial decisions. We apply all current legislation on transparency and clarity of information to help our clients and to protect them. We offer all relevant information to our clients in a manner that is easy to understand and protect their interests at all times. G4-PR1 Products and services The Groupʼs quality management systems are ISO 9001 certified to ensure the quality of services provided for for assessing client products sold. health and security Our offices have security systems in place to minimize the risk of robbery and theft (equipment to capture and impacts. record digital images, exclusive access doors, etc.) The Group also has a director of security position. G4-PR2 Failure to comply with In 2016, there has been no record of any failure to comply with health and safety legal requirements on the health and safety legal impacts of products and services. All products provided are supervised by the Product Committee and the requirements on the Assets and Liabilities Committee by means of the institutional framework for the supervision of investment. impacts of products and services. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 33/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification Labeling of products and services. G4-DMA Management focus 21-23, 43 We are firmly committed to helping customers make more informed financial decisions, providing transparent information, accurate characteristics and conditions of our products and services, and providing financial education. Therefore, the bankʼs advertising rigorously complies with the standards of the respective countries in which we operate, considering aspects such as the protection of customer rights, advertising ethics and the use of advertising offering a clear and understandable message. Our commercial websites offer additional information on products and services to aid their comprehension. Aware of the importance of relying on a society with suitable financial knowledge, we hold different conferences and workshops on economic and financial subjects intended for business owners, entrepreneurs and different groups of society in order to promote financial education. Some specific examples demonstrating this idea are chats on personal income tax, to solve any queries from senior citizens on the application of the new tax or the income tax simulator for pensions. G4-PR3 Information on The Bankʼs products and services are subject to ANIF regulation on information and how products and products and services. services are marketed and sold, which guarantees the transparency of these procedures. G4-PR4 Failure to comply In 2016, there has been no failure to comply with regulations or voluntary codes related to information and with regulations labeling of products and services. on information and labeling of products and services. G4-PR5 Results of client 21 satisfaction surveys. Client privacy G4-DMA Management focus Crèdit Andorrà has the obligation to protect its clients’ and employees’ personal and private information to the fullest extent, in accordance with its Code of Ethics and applicable legislation on privacy, data protection and banking secrecy. G4-PR8 Complaints about In 2016, there have been no complaints about respect for privacy or loss of customer data. respect for privacy and losses of customer data. Regulatory compliance G4-DMA Management focus 12 Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 34/36 Focus of management and indicators Description Page or direct response Omissions External verification G4-PR9 Fines for failure to In 2016, there have been no significant fines or penalties for failure to comply with the law in the provision and comply with laws use of products. related to the supply and use of products and services. Audit G4-DMA Management focus Crèdit Andorrà strives to attain the best performance to risk ratio, and to prevent, minimize and mitigate factors which may pose a risk for the environment or the community as much as possible. It endeavors to ensure that its business activities are always in line with its corporate values, codes of conduct and the general principles of risk. Innovation in products and services No Management focus 15, 32-33 GRI-DMA Information transparency for markets and clients No Management focus 12, 14 GRI-DMA Quality and efficiency in customer service No Management focus 21-22 GRI-DMA Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 35/36 Table of contents of the Global Pact of the United Nations Links to the two principals of the Global Pact (2000) Principals of the Global Pact Equivalence with GRI content index Pages or direct response Human rights Principal 1 – Companies must endorse and respect the Human rights subcategory: all aspects. 16-18, 35, 42, 45-54 protection of basic human rights, internationally recognized Society subcategory: local communities. within their area of influence. Principal 2 – Companies must ensure that they do not act Human rights subcategory: all aspects. 16-18, 35, 42, 45-54 as accomplices in the violation of human rights. Work standards Principal 3 – Companies must respect the freedom G4-11 Currently Crèdit Andorrà does not have any collective labor of association and effective recognition of the right to Subcategory Work practices and a dignified job: agreements. A collective labor agreement is a possibility that has to collective negotiation. relationships between workers and management. be put forward by the employees themselves and to date, no such Subcategory Human rights: freedom of agreement has been proposed. association and collective negotiation. Principal 4 – Members must endorse the elimination of all Subcategory Human rights: work under duress. At Crèdit Andorrà, there are no operations that involve a risk of kinds of forced work or work carried out under duress. forced labor or compulsory labor incidents. Principal 5 – Companies must endorse the eradication of Subcategory Human rights: child labor. At Crèdit Andorrà, there are no operations that involve a potential risk child labor. of child exploitation incidents. Principal 6 – Companies must endorse the abolishment of G4-10 31 practices of discrimination in the workplace. Subcategory Work practices and a dignified job: The human resources policies of Crèdit Andorrà guarantee the all aspects. respect for diversity, equal opportunities and non-discrimination Subcategory Human rights: non-discrimination. on the grounds of gender, age, disability or any other reason. The principal of equality is present in our relationship with our employees: recruitment, training, promotion, working conditions, including remuneration, among others. Global Reporting Initiative scoreboard 36/36 Principals of the Global Pact Equivalence with GRI content index Pages or direct response Environment Principal 7 – Companies must maintain a preventative Category The environment: all aspects. 56-66 focus that favors the environment. Principal 8 – Companies must promote initiatives the favor Category The environment: all aspects. 56-66 more environmental responsibility. Principal 9 – Companies must encourage the development Category The environment: all aspects. 56-66 and dissemination of technologies that respect the environment. Anti-corruption Principal 10 – Companies must work against all forms of Subcategory Society: Fight against corruption 12, 28, 32 corruption, including extortion and bribery. and public policy. Design and layout: www.cegeglobal.com Legal deposit: AND.150-2017 ISBN: 978-99920-4-028-7 © Crèdit Andorrà WE SUPPORT www.creditandorragroup.com
