ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENTS INTRODUCING EWP 5 CEO Message 7 About EWP EWP is a public energy company. It takes its CSR into account 15 EWP’s Value Creation Process in all decision-making processes. This report is the eleventh 17 Environment for EWP’s Sustainability sustainability report intended to disclose the economic, Management social, and environmental efforts and outcomes in terms of corporate sustainability during the reporting period to all its PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY 21 Mid & Long-term Management Strategies stakeholders in the most transparent way. MANAGEMENT 23 Governance 25 Ethical Management In 2016, EWP has drawn six issues which were deemed most 28 Risk Management important by stakeholders through a stakeholder survey 29 Stakeholder Engagement and a materiality assessment. Regarding those issues, this report has reported on sustainability management of EWP. In 30 Materiality Assessment addition, it has attempted to reflect diverse perspectives and 31 Support for UN SDGs opinions by interviewing stakeholders for each issue. Lastly, it includes the roles and activities of EWP which has been RESPONDING TO 35 Stable Power Supply contributing to UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a MATERIAL ISSUES 41 Enhancement of Future Growth Engines new global agenda to create sustainable society by 2030. 51 Operation of Eco-friendly Power Plants 63 Happy and Safe Workplace 71 Win-Win Growth with Business Partners 79 Happy Growth with Local Communities APPENDIX 86 Data Center 90 GRI Content Index 93 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 95 UNGC Advanced Level 96 Awards 97 Participating Associations Reporting Guideline GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards Core Option Reporting Scope Head office, and five business operations in Dangjin, Ulsan, Honam, Donghae and Ilsan Reporting Period January 1, 2016 – December 31, 2016 Reporting Intervals Annual reporting (issuance of the previous report: August 2016) Inquiries Climate & Environment Team, Power Generation Division, Korea East-West Power http://www.ewp.co.kr | 070-5000-1544 3 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 4 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES INTRODUCING EWP 05 CEO Message 07 About EWP 15 EWP’s Value Creation Processes 17 Environment for EWP’s Sustainability Management 5 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 6 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Korea’s energy industry has seen a decline in demand for facility efficiency. In addition, we are striving to reemerge as an electric power due to the economic downturn, and we are met eco-friendly power plant that people can place their trust, by with a paradigm shift in the strengthening of environmental promoting pasture land cultivation from ash disposal grounds, regulations which include energy conversion policies, the Paris converting coal storage facilities, and implementing the marine Agreement, and fine dust issues. EWP is reaffirming its mission resource conservation project utilizing hot wastewater. to provide stable, economical and environmentally friendly power to citizens, while simultaneously securing competitiveness in In order to foster innovative leaders to head the energy industry Dear Stakeholders, the new energy industry to promote the sustainability of the paradigm change and to lead a “Great Company,” EWP is enterprise. Along with this, we are actively fulfilling our social currently establishing and implementing three major strategies responsibilities to be mutually engaged in the happiness of for human resource development: cultivating future-responsive citizens to reemerge as a corporation loved by the people. innovation, enhancing personnel capacity, and reinforcing I am deeply grateful for your keen organizational cohesion. To cultivate innovative leaders who 2016 was an important period for securing a foothold in new will lead future businesses, we have institutionalized leadership attention and support for the industries in accordance with the paradigm shift in the energy education with consideration for professional skills in each industry. As a result of continuous efforts to develop the position, and we are currently operating an integrated support sustainability management renewable energy business, EWP has completed the construction system for the establishment of book cafes in all workplaces of the Seongmun Biomass Power Plant, and has commenced and EWP's reading management for all employees. Moreover, efforts of EWP construction of Yeonggwang Wind Farm and Gyeongju Wind we are strengthening organizational cohesion through various Farm Unit 2. In addition, we will promote energy convergencetypes of organizational activation education for generational complexes such as Dangjin e-Dream Park and Ulsan e-Clean convergence. In addition, we are spreading the smart-office City, expecting to secure a facility capacity of 5,081MW of culture of our head office to all of our business operations renewable energy by 2030. Furthermore, in order to promote as the first public corporation to do so, establishing the EWP high value-added business by innovating and converging the style personnel development system, and leading with an company’s core technologies of power plant operation systems, organizational culture of collaboration and communication. technical manpower, and intellectual property with Industry 4.0 technology, we have newly established a specialized organization Publishing its 11th sustainability report from 2007, EWP has for power generation technology solutions, and continued to been making efforts to examine its economic, social, and develop products for both short-term and long-term solutions. environmental impacts on the local community. This year’s report transparently presented the activities and achievements EWP is actively responding to environmental issues arising of EWP, focusing on the six major issues identified by the voices from the Paris Agreement and fine dust, as demanded by of the public, our stakeholders. We ask for your continued Korean citizens. We have secured a reduction of 2.7 million support and encouragement of our efforts to open a bright tons of greenhouse gas emissions by the emissions trading future with the local communities of EWP. system, achieving the highest level within the domestic power generation sector. To achieve this, we promoted a variety of Thank you. measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as the introduction of high-efficiency power plants and the expansion of bio-energy, and actively participated in the development of new technology that includes CO2 separation membrane technology and the production of high-value carbon-utilizing compounds. Additionally, in response to an issue of national interest to preemptively reduce fine dust, we set a goal to reduce the amount December 5, 2017 of air pollutant emissions by 77% by 2030 compared to 2015, Acting CEO of EWP and plan to reduce pollutant emissions through the immediate reinforcement of environmental facilities and improvement of Park Hee-sung 7 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 8 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES About EWP Korea East-West As a power generation company (Joseon Electric Corporation) and two power distribution companies (Gyeongseong Power and Namseon Power) merged together in April 1961, the entire power generation and distribution processes were vertically integrated and operated by Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO). Power With the restructuring of the electric power industry in 2001, the power generation division was spun off from Overview History KEPCO into six power companies. As one of the six companies, Korea East-West Power (EWP) is now located in Ulsan Innovation City. Corporation EWP has been focusing on power generation as its core business. The total capacity of power generation Overview facilities in five cities stands at 11,170MW or 9.5% of the country's total power generation. EWP sells its 1898.01 1961.07 1982.01 2001.04 2014.06 electricity to KEPCO(Korea Electric Power Corporation) through Korea Power Exchange for final consumption Gyeongseong Power by consumers. In 2015, EWP produced a total of 52,104GWh of electricity. + Joseon Electric Corporation + Namseon Power Date of CEO Head Composition of Major Total foundation Office Shareholders Business Power Founded Hanseong Founded Korea Relocated the Founded Korea Output Electricity as Electric Power Founded Korea Head Office Electric Korea’s first power Corporation as a East-West Power to Ulsan Power Co., Ltd. Power company public corporation Innovation City 395, Jongga-ro, resource, power April 2, 2001 Vacant Jung-gu, Ulsan KEPCO 100% generation, etc. 52,104GWh Sales Electricity Capital Total Sales Net Sustainability Volume Sales Assets Profit Economic Environmental Social Award History CDM business for Won the Presidential KRW 4.1679 KRW 4.4790 KRW 8.9680 KRW 4.2109 KRW 467.6 2007 Won the award at BSC Hall of Fame photovoltaic power registered at UN Award at the 32nd National Quality Competition 46,620GWh trillion trillion trillion trillion billion (Based on separate financial statements) Won the grand prize at the Acquired eco-friendly Won the grand prize at the 2008 2007 Korea Technological Innovation Awards business and ISO 14001 certification Labor-Management Culture Awards Won the grand prize Organizational Won the first prize for CDM business for 2009 at the 2008 Korea CEO the longest breakdown-free hydropower Chart Executive Auditor operations registered at UN Technology Innovation Management Awards Auditor & Inspection Public Relations Team Won the grand prize Won the grand prize 2010 Won the 8th Division at the 8th Digital Innovation at the 2009 Korea Safety Grand Prize Award (3 consecutive years) Korea Green Awards Won the Outstanding Won the Won the Grand Prize Strategy & Management Group Business Developing Group Engineering & Safety Group 2011 Longest Run Award (Hosted by EUCG) at the 2nd Green Technology Awards Business Award hosted by the Ministry of Patriots and Veterans Affairs The Unit of the Year Award Won the grand prize of Won the Minister Planning & Strategy Human Resources & Administration Procurement Division Security Information Strategy New Business Development Overseas Business Power Generation Win-Win Technology 2012 (Hosted by Guam Power Authority) UN Global Compact for eco-friendliness of Gender Equality & Family Award Division Division Division Division Division Division Division The EUCG Certified as an outstanding Won the Prime Minister 2013 Best Performer Award business for the response to climate change Award for family-friendly policies Power Dangjin Ulsan Ilsan Honam Donghae Guam Generation Coal-fired Oil-fired & Combined Management Won the grand prize at the Coal-fired Coal-fired Branch Technology Won the 2013 Won the Minister Award Power Complex C.C Power Complex Power Plant Power Plant Heat & Power Plant Office Support SSC Development Center 2014 Transparent Management Grand Prize Korea New Growth Management Awards for for the cultivation of local technical talents green technologies Won the Korea Economic Won the special award at Won the Presidential 2015 Leader Grand Prize for win-win cooperation the Carbon Disclosure Project (2 consecutive years) Award for the cultivation of SMEs No. of Executives Managers Staff employees Total Certified as an outstanding Ranked the 1st in Climate Change 4 657 1,652 2,313 Employees Acquired Grade S at (As of June 2017) 2016 organization for quality competitiveness Competitiveness Index for 6 years, and won the special award Safe Korea Training (4 consecutive years) (7 consecutive years) at CDP for 3 consecutive years 9 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 10 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Domestic EWP accounts for 9.5% of the total domestic power generation, and the total facility capacity of its five power plants is Honam Coal-fired Power Plant Business 11,170MW. EWP’s electric power facilities include coal-fired power plants (bituminous coal and anthracite) accounting for 62.1%, combined-cycle power plants (LNG) constituting 26.6%, heavy fuel oil power plants amounting to 10.7%, and Although Honam Coal-fired Power Plant had started its first operation as a heavy-oil new and renewable energy power plants occupying 0.6%. power plant in 1973, it was converted into a coal-fired power plant in 1985 based on the government’s fuel diversification policy. Since two service-life extension projects were completed in 1999 and 2010, it has been contributing to Korea’s economic growth, supplying electric power to Yeosu National Industrial Complex and neighboring areas. Facility Capacity | Including 0.1MW of new and renewable energy 500.1MW No. of power plant units 2 Dangjin Coal-fired Power Complex Donghae Coal-fired Power Plant Dangjin Coal-fired Power Complex various state-of-the-art environmental pollution Donghae Coal-fired Power Plant can desulfurize without a desulfurization facility and prevention facilities and environmental monitoring systems. It is operating 500MW generate less nitrogen oxide through low-temperature combustion. In addition to its own supercritical power plant units 1 to 4, ultra-supercritical power plant units 5 to 8, and leading-edge anthracite CFBC technology, it has differentiated combustion technologies, high-efficiency ultra-supercritical power plant units 9 and 10, which correspond to a such as co-firing with bituminous coal and RDF co-firing which can respond to the nuclear power plant (1,020MW) for the first time in Korea. changes of the fuel market. It also operates Korea's largest woody biomass power plant that produces electricity using domestically-generated waste wood. Facility Capacity | Including 15.6MW of new and renewable energy Facility Capacity | Including 1MW of new and renewable energy 6,055.6MW 431MW No. of power plant units No. of power plant units | Including a biomass power plant 10 3 Ulsan Oil-fired & C.C Power Complex Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant Ulsan Oil-fired & C.C Power Complex was constructed to respond to a high demand for Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant produces electricity using heat recovery steam electric power during a period of the economic growth in Korea. It supplies electric power generators and provides local residents with residual heat for household heating. It is stably to Ulsan Petrochemical Industry Complex and generates power in two ways, steam supplying electric power to as many as 300,000 households and residual heat to about power and combined-cycle power, and operates DSS (Daily Start-up and Stop) or WSS 160,000 households for home heating. As the plant uses LNG which is a clean fuel, it (Weekly Start-up and Stop) for the stability of the power systems. In addition, it operates barely generates air pollutants, such as sulfur oxide or dust. In addition, the plant has Ulsan Combined Heat and Power Plant Unit 4 using clean fuel (LNG). installed low NOx burners to minimize the nitrogen oxide generation, and operated a fuel cell power generation facility (8MW). Facility Capacity | 3.3MW of new and renewable energy Facility Capacity | Including 8MW of new and renewable energy 3,275.2MW 908MW No. of power plant units No. of power plant units 7 2 11 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 12 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Domestic EWP has been involved in new energy projects in cooperation with private companies in order to stably supply electric New power and contribute to sustainable growth in the future. Also, EWP is constantly expanding the capacity of new and renewable energy. EWP will increase the percentage of this capacity to 20% by 2030 and produce a total of 5,081MW of Industry new and renewable energy. Project Chuncheon Group Energy Project · Operating capacity Construction capacity Total capacity (SPC) Chuncheon Energy Co. 470MW Chuncheon Group Energy 1,993.3 MW + 1,160 MW = 3,153.3 MW Capacity 470MW+129.9Gal/h (LNG) Share Ratio 29.9% Date of * Wood chips factory : 100,000tons/year 2017. 04 1MW Donghae Photovoltaic Power Completion 30MW Donghae Biomass Types Business POSCO E&C, Hanjin Heavy 40MW Donghae BIO-SRF Co-firing #1,2 Partner Industries & Construction, FI Coal-fired Biomass power Solar energy Wind power Fuel cell In construction 2.4MW Ilsan Fuel Cells (I) 1,190MW Bukpyeong Coal-fired LNG hydropower In operation 2.8MW Ilsan Fuel Cells (II) Power Project Project Constructing and operating 2.8MW Ilsan Fuel Cells (III) (SPC) Green Biomass Co. Capacity 100,000ton/year Project Dangjin Eco Power Project · Green Biomass Share Ratio 14.0% (SPC) Dangjin Eco Power Co. (Wood chips factory) Capacity 580MW X 2 1.5MW Suwon Sewage Treatment Date of 2013. 04. 18 & Photovoltaic Power Completion Share Ratio 34.0% Business Kyungdong Co., Bong Hwang Date of 2022. 03 Partner Industrial Co. Completion 1.3MW Dangjin Waste Business SK Gas, & Photovoltaic Power Partner Korea Development Bank Project Gyeongju Wind Power (I) · (SPC) Geyongju Wind Power Co. Project Seokmun Group Energy Project · Capacity 16.8MW (SPC) Seokmun Energy Co. 1.160MW Dangjin Eco Power Project Share Ratio 70.0% Capacity 38.9MW+52.2Gal/h (Bio-SRF) 1MW Dangjin Turbine Rooftop Photovoltaic Power Date of Share Ratio 29.9% 0.7MW Dangjin Material Warehouse 2012. 10. 28 Completion Date of & Photovolatic Power 2017. 01 1MW Dangjin Offshore Photovoltaic Power Business Dongkook S&C Co., Completion 5MW Dangjin Small Hydro Power (I) Partner Kolong Global Co. Business 3.2MW Dangjin Small Hydro Power (II) Kukin, FI 16.8MW Gyeongju Partner 38.9MW Seokmun Group Energy Wind Power (I) 30MW Dangjin Wood Pellets Co-firing #1, 2 25MW Dangjin Sewage Sludge Co-firing #3, 4 Project Bukpyeong Thermal Power Project · Project Yeonggwang Wind Power (II) · (SPC) GS Donghae Electric Power Co. (SPC) Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind Power Co. Capacity 595MW X 2 Capacity 40MW Share Ratio 34.0% Share Ratio 15.0% 20MW Yeonggwang Wind Power (I) Date of Date of 3MW Yeonggwang Jisan Wind Power 2017. 05 2015. 05. 28 Completion Completion 40MW Yeonggwang Wind Power (II) Business Business Unison Co., Kumho Petrochemical GS E&R, Samtan Co. Partner Partner Co., Daehan Green Energy Co. 0.5MW Ulsan Photovoltaic Power 0.1MW Ulsan Sunlight Sharing 0.1MW Honam Photovoltaic Power Photovoltaic Power 2.8MW Ulsan Fuel Cells Project Renault Samsung Motors Project Yeonggwang Wind Power (I) · 40MW Ulsan Bio Heavy Oil Co-firing #6 (SPC) Photovoltaic Power · (SPC) Honam Wind Power Co. 1.1MW Gwangyanghang Golden Logistics Busan Sinho Photovoltaic Power Co. Capacity 20MW Center Photovoltaic Power 2.3MW Gwangyanghang Terminal Authority Capacity 20MW Share Ratio 29.0% Photovoltaic Power 20MW Busan Sinho Photovoltaic Power Share Ratio 25.0% Date of 2014. 03. 01 Date of Completion 2012. 12. 21 Completion Business DMS Co., FI Business Partner KC Cottrell Co., FI Partner 13 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 14 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Overseas EWP is operating four power plants (876MW) in Jamaica and the U.S. in order to ensure a stable profit structure and Business power for future growth. In addition, EWP is carrying out various projects including coal-fired power plants, gas power plant, and new and renewable energy in Indonesia, Vietnam, Jamaica, etc. Under In operation development Vietnam United States Jamaica Vietnam Vung Ang-3 Guam Coal-fired Power Plant EWP RC, U.S. Biomass Power Plant Jamaica Public Service Capacity_1,200MW (JPS) Capacity_58MW Capacity_644MW Guam Cabras #3,4 PMC Jamaica Natural Gas Diesel Power Indonesia Capacity_80MW Plant Jamaica Capacity_94MW Gas Combined Cycle Indonesia Kalsel-1 Power Plant Coal-fired Power Plant Capacity_190MW Capacity_200MW Indonesia Gas Power East Plant Facility Timor Capacity_1,000MW South Africa Indonesia Kalselteng-3 Coal-fired Power Plant East Timor Photovoltaic Capacity_200MW and Wind Power Plant South Africa Capacity_10/30MW Polokwane Photovoltaic Project Capacity_90MW Type Projects Facility Capacity (MW) Business Type Jamaica Public Service (JPS) 644 Investment shares(40%) Biomass Power Plant 58 Investment shares(100%) In operation EWP RC, U.S. Natural Gas Diesel Power Plant 94 Investment shares(100%) Guam Cabras #3,4 PMC 80 PMC Indonesia Kalsel-1 Coal-fired Power Plant 200 BOOT Vietnam Vung Ang-3 Coal-fired Power Plant 1,200 BOT Indonesia Gas Power Plant 1,000 Undecided Jamaica Public Service (JPS) EWP RC, U.S. Guam Cabras #3, 4 PMC Under · Facility capacity: Jamaica Combined Cycle Power Plant 190 investment shares · Facility capacity: · Facility capacity: development Generation 71% (644.52MW) Biomass (58.2MW), Natural gas (94MW) 80MW (40MW x 2) East Timor Photovoltaic and Wind Power Plant 10/30 BOO Transmission and distribution 100% · Project period: · Project period: 2010.07~2016.12 Indonesia Kalselteng-3 Coal-fired Power Plant 200 BOOT · Project period: 2011.07 ~ present Biomass (2010.09~present) Natural gas (2011.05~present) South Africa Polokwane Photovoltaic Project 90 BOT 15 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 16 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES EWP Value EWP establishes mid and long-term management strategies, considering the trends of the energy industry such as a response to climate changes and supply Creation Process of new and renewable energy, along with economic, social, and environmental context. EWP is realizing balanced development and sustainable growth of local communities through its entire business processes, including R&D, power plant construction, fuel procurement, power generation, and facility management. FOR VISION 2030 Most Valuable Power Company MISSION We Make Energy for Happiness VALUE CREATION step. 01 R&D and Strategy Planning Values Created Development of new industry and power resources, and establishment of power supply plan 01. Stable supply of electric power 02. Enhancement of future growth engines · Forced outage rate: 0.062% · Net profit of Jamaica Public Service: 24 billion won · Diversified the sources of fuel supply in 7 countries · Capacity of new and renewable energy: 342MW EWP · An increase in the rates of operating profits 15.8 % · Annual sales of wind power plants 24.4 billion won Strategic step. 05 step. 02 Directions 03. Operation of eco-friendly power plants 04. Happy and safe workplace Facility Construction Enhancement Management BUSINESS Constructing thermal power plants and new · Accumulated GHG reduction according to the emission · No. of employees who have utilized flextime: 812 MODEL Predicting and preventing trading scheme: 2.7 million tons · No. of employees who have participated in education and of competitiveness failures and improving and renewable energy of the power power plants · Ranked the 1st in climate competitiveness index in the training: 38,586 outdated facilities generation business power generation sector · Air emissions reduction compared to the previous year 13 % · Total average score of safety culture maturity 4.03 points 05. Win-win growth with business partners 06. Happy growth with local communities Creation of future step. 04 step. 03 · Energy welfare support for the underprivileged: 1,613 households growth business · Established a win-win consultative group with marine Power Generation Fuel Procurement · Support for recovery from Typhoon Chaba: 265 million won equipment manufacturers Operating facilities in Procuring fuels environment-friendly, such as coal, · Raised 17.2 billion won for R&D funds · Created 14,133 jobs stable and oil, and wood chips · Small and medium-sized businesses’ export 1,235.3 billion won · Sustainability Index AAA Level economical way Enhancement of core competencies MEGA TRENDS A response to An increase Consumer-centered Cutting-edge Realization of climate changes in the supply development ICT-based sustainability according to the new of low-carbon technology Industry 4.0 management climate regime energy sources 17 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 18 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Environment for EWP’s ENVIRONMENTAL EWP’s Responses Sustainability Management Entering into the new climate regime · Expanding co-firing In accordance with the new climate regime, the Korean government For the sustainable growth of the electric power industry, EWP is responding power generation has set its goal to decrease CO2 emission by 37% compared to the aggressively to the changes in the domestic and foreign energy markets and in the and improving power BAU (business as usual) in 2030 and by 19.4% in power generation. As generation efficiency sustainability management trends in the economic, social, and environmental a result, EWP is expanding biomass co-firing power generation and (p.53) aspects. EWP is seeking measures to respond to the rapidly changing business improving power generation efficiency. environment, such as a slow increase in power demand and cutting-edge ICT development, and trying to resolve national issues such as climate changes and fine dust by operating eco-friendly power plants. Lastly, EWP will carry out its · Improving Resolving the national issues relating to fine dust corporate social responsibility to the fullest by seeking a plan for mutual growth environmental The government-energy industry consultative group was formed protection facilities with local communities and resolving employee grievances. to improve air quality. In 2015, the advisory group agreed to reduce (p.55) pollutants by 50% until 2030. EWP will achieve this goal by improving · Developing technology the performance of environmental facilities and replacing preexisting to rduce fine dust KOREA facilities with high-efficient facilities stage by stage. (p.47, 62) EAST-WEST POWERCORPORATION Increasing supplies for new and renewable energy · Carrying out a New and renewable energy is expected to reach 29% of the global power large-scale wind generation by 2040. In addition, the Korean government demanded power project (p.44) power generation companies to supply a certain percentage of the total · Constructing power generation as new and renewable energy. EWP is carrying out a biomass power large-scale wind power project and constructing biomass power plants. plants (p.44) ECONOMIC EWP’s Responses SOCIAL EWP’s Responses The global demand for energy led by non-OECD countries Listening to stakeholders’ opinions · Activities for Companies should go in the right direction based on internal and coexistence with According to EIA, U.S., the energy demand of OECD member countries · Expanding its power external stakeholders’ opinions for risk prevention and sustainable local residents will increase by only 18% by 2040, whereas that of non-OECD countries generation business growth. To sustain the safety of local residents and on-site workers, (p.58, 59) or developing countries will quickly grow by 71%. As the energy abroad (p.46) EWP conducts various activities for coexistence with local residents · Safety and health demand of developing countries is expected to skyrocket, EWP is and safety and health management. management (p.69) expanding its power generation business abroad. Increasing market share of Korean private companies Establishing a clean and transparent corporate culture · Developing higher · Strengthening the The electric power generating capacity of public corporations is As the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act has taken effect in 2016 value-added core ethical management expected to increase by 9% by 2025 compared to 2014, whereas that and the government has established anti-corruption policy, the technologies (p.48) promotion system of Korean private companies is expected to rise by 111%. Accordingly, · Developing energy public demand a cleaner and more transparent corporate culture. As and relevant activities EWP will develop core technologies and new energy businesses for businesses (p.48) such, EWP is establishing a clean corporate culture by providing anti(p.25-27) sustainable growth. corruption and human rights education and setting ethical norms. Entering ICT-based Power Generation Industry 4.0 Contributing to stimulating the regional economy · Establishing Mutual Industry 4.0, where the industries and cutting-edge ICT such as IoT, big · Working on Industry The companies are expected to resolve the current economic issues of Growth Model 4.0 data, and AI converge, is just around the corner. EWP is constructing 4.0-based solution Korea, such as the huge gap between leading companies and small or (p.77, 78) smart power plants by integrating its operational information and business (p.49, 50) medium-sized companies and high youth unemployment rates. EWP is · Creating quality jobs expertise and experience in power generation, including wearables, seeking and carrying out plans to stimulate the regional economy, by (p.83, 84) drones, and the VR failure simulation system, into ICT. pursuing fair employment and mutual growth with business partners. 19 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 20 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES PREPARING 21 Mid & Long-term Management Strategies 23 Governance 25 28 SUSTAINABILITY Ethical Risk Management Management 29 Stakeholder 30 Materiality MANAGEMENT Engagement Assessment 31 Support for UN SDGs 21 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 22 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Mid & Reorganization of strategies Systematic Performance Management Long-term The environment of the power generation industry is rapidly changing with the regulations on operation and construction of power plants due to a sudden increase in fine dust, the advent of the Fourth Industrial In order to achieve mid and long-term strategies, EWP has established and managed strategic tasks by each position. Management Revolution, including big data and loT. Due to such changes, EWP has reorganized its mid and long-term management strategies based on new strategies and ideas differentiated from preexisting strategies. Strategy and performance management by position EWP has collected a variety of opinions through external experts, CEO-led discussion, town meetings, Strategies and an employee survey, and established new management goals, by reflecting its future goals and the values of innovation. CEO · Establishing and sharing Director/Head · Business planning by Departmental Head · Managing a work plan Team Members · Establishing and carrying management policies group based on · Managing and distributing out detailed plans · Meeting by rank strategic direction performance goals to · Inspecting, managing · Town meeting · Distributing and individuals and reporting the · Management strategy managing performance · Internal discussion implementation plans meeting goals to groups · Weekly meeting Mid & Long-term Strategy and Performance Management Core Values Goals Strategic Directions & Strategic Tasks KPIs Efforts Performance in 2016 Result in 2016 Goals of 2030 · Improving facilities Cooperation and Integrity Creation Solution Enhancing competitiveness Unplanned loss rate · Preventing breakdown and realizing predictive maintenance · Forced outage rate 0.062% (the lowest since its foundation) 0.163% 0.1% provider of the power generation business 1,360 million won 200 for power · Establishing a master plan · Enhancement of power generation efficiency · Formed an alliance billion won Solution sales · Holding a technology seminar for generation · Development of power generation technology solutions customers and partners (4 companies including GE) (accumulated) technology · Enhancement of competitiveness of fuel procurement · Inspecting the bidding process Fuel cost reduction rate and introducing a new bid valuation system · Reduced the purchasing costs of bituminous coal by KRW 12.7 billion 9.8% 10% · Carrying out a large-scale wind · Started the 2nd stage of ua ble Power Facility Creating future growth business RPS* farm complex construction project construction of Gyeongju Wind 2.9% 10% Val Co (East) 600MW, (West) 140MW Farm and Yeonggwang Wind Farm capacity t m · Expansion of new & renewable energy business os p 22,800MW · Leadership in the development of new energy business · Expanding a new energy business M an · Expansion of new business at home and abroad Progress on new · Established infrastructure Demonstration Expansion of new (New and renewable model customized for each region 2030 Mission y energy business (Dangjin, Ulsan) of Ulsan “e-Clean City” construction business energy share 20%) Capacity in · Carrying out Jamaica’s long-cherished · Obtained the business right for WE MAKE Korea and foreign countries project (more than 10 years of constructing gas power plants) 190MW integrated gasification combined cycle 11,864MW 22,800MW ENERGY FOR · Conducting research projects · Developed salt water HAPPINESS Operating Enhancing core competencies Technology independence relating to new energy business, IT convergence, and clean energy battery-based ESS (for the first time in the world) 87points 100points profit · Securing of future technology competitiveness KRW 1 trillion · Cultivation of global core talents · Employing more skilled professionals · Employed six experienced · Stable creation of profits Core talent cultivation rate (lawyers, accountants, big data experts, etc.) professionals and three open-position employees 3.2% 4.5% Vision · Stable operation of power plants · Reduced facility's failure hours by 33% Operating profits with efficiency · Stable profits in Korea and abroad · 24 billion won of net profits from JPS** 672.1 billion won 1 trillion won · Implementing the safety grade Corporate Realizing sustainability management Maturity of safety culture system for overhauls and operating the support system by safety grade · Reduced safety accidents (2015: 12 → 2016: 3) Stage 4 Stage 5 integrity · Upgrade of security & safety management level 1 · Enhancement of corporate integrity · Adapting the Improper Solicitation · Operation of eco-friendly power plants Integrity and Graft Act · Diversifying ethical activities · Minimizing controversies over the Act · Expanding integrity culture Grade 3 Grade 1 · Overachieved the government goal Respect for Human Beings Passion and Challenge Greenhouse gas reduction rate · Establishing a 2030 companywide roadmap for GHG reduction for the 1st phase of the emission trading scheme (2.7 million tons) 2% 20% * Renewable Portfolio Standard ** Jamaica Public Service 23 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 24 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Governance The Board of Directors plays an important role in effective sustainability management of EWP. Through a regular BOD meeting, EWP is looking for ways for mutual growth with local communities and considering BOD Operations environmental and social issues as well as economic development of EWP. Holding a BOD meeting Through a BOD meeting, the Board of Directors can decide major issues such as management goals, Composition of the Board of Directors operational plans, and mid and long-term financial management plans, when over half of the registered directors show their support. However, directors who have a stake in an agenda of a BOD meeting cannot Non-executive directors account for over half of the Board of Directors of EWP for its business transparency. The exercise their vote and are not included in the number of registered directors. A BOD meeting is held Board of Directors (BOD) consists of 4 inside directors and 5 outside directors. To guarantee the independence of when the chairperson of the BOD or over one-third of the registered directors demand. the BOD, the senior non-executive director (outside) presides over the BOD meetings as a chairperson. BOD meetings in 2016 Organization chart of BOD BOD Number of Resolved Agenda Proposals BOD BOD agenda resolved meeting meeting after attendance revision Specialized Subcommittee Audit Committee Executive Recommendation Committee 13 times 47 cases 1 case 6 cases 88.8% Financial Risk Audit Committee Executive Management Debt Management Management Recommendation Efficiency Committee Committee Committee Committee Agendas relating to sustainability issues The board of directors In 2016, the BOD decided on major sustainability management issues as follows: the enactment of the Name Affiliation and position Career Term in office human rights management guidelines, equity investment for the project on the school photovoltaic Vacant CEO power station, Yeonggwang wind power construction project and the new gasification combined cycle power plants in Jamaica. Executive · (Former) Chairperson of Gyeongsangnam-do Provincial Council Kim Oh-young 2016.3.28-2018.3.27 Auditor · (Former) Chair professor at Kyungnam University Directors · (Former) Director of EWP Cooperate Partnership & Procurement Division Selection of Management Innovation Tasks Park Hee-sung Acting CEO · (Former) Director of EWP Audit & Inspection Planning Team Head of 2016.5.4-2018.5.3 Strategy & Management Group Deducted 46 For management innovation, CEO of EWP took an active part in selecting management innovation tasks Head of · (Former) Head of EWP Business Developing Group sustainability through a discussion with employees. In addition, he deducted 46 sustainability management issues Kook Jung-yang Engineering & 2016.5.4-2018.5.3 Safety Group · (Former) Head of EWP Dangjin Coal-fired Power Plant management issues such as future business and urgent/major tasks through an executive discussion and a management · (Current) Professor of Department of Political Science and strategy meeting and set up the direction of EWP innovation and the final tasks for “Business Innovation, Kim Kyoung-min International Studies at Hanyang University 2014.2.14-2017.3.29 Management Innovation, and Service Innovation.” · (Former) Policy advisor of the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy · (Former) Member of Chungcheongnam-do Provincial Council Lee Jong-hyun 2015.3.18-2017.3.17 · (Former) Vice-chairman of Korean Peasants Provincial League Communication with Stakeholders Yi Jae-guk Non-executive · (Former) Non-executive Director of KOTRA 2016.9.27-2018.9.26 CEO Letter and EWP’s CEO and executives are doing its best for on-site management by communicating with stakeholders Directors · (Former) Head of Overseas Business at Booyoung Housing Management Messages via a variety of communication channels. Through online and face-to-face communication, they deducted · (Current) Professor at Industry-University Cooperation Foundation of Yi Sang-gi Kyonggi University 2016.9.27-2018.9.26 57 times economic, environmental and social issues of stakeholders. · (Former) Director of KEPCO at Seoul Office · (Former) Full-time Vice-chairman of Korea Smart Grid Association On-site management communication channels and performance Mun Ho 2017.1.11-2019.1.10 · (Former) Vice-president of KEPCO Type Channel Purpose Performance CEO letter and 57 times Sharing management issues and management (increased by Director Appointment Procedure messages motivating employees 27% year on year) Online Collecting a variety of opinions through Regular The CEO is appointed with the final approval of the President of the Republic of Korea. Inside and outside communication SNS open communication communication directors except CEO are appointed by the CEO and the Minister of Strategy and Finance, respectively. Sharing information rapidly and cooperating Regular Messenger Director appointment procedure with others through communication communication Requested by the Ministry of Trade, CEO’s on-site CEO Encouraging employees and emphasizing Deliberated and decided by the Industry and Energy Appointed by the management 31 times Recommended by the Executive safety Ownership Steering Committee and President of the activities Recommendation Committee Requested by the Ministry of the general meeting of shareholders Republic of Korea Standing Strategy and Finance Auditor Face-to-face General Discussing with employees about issues 3 times communication discussion on new technology, new business, etc. Decided by the general meeting of shareholders Appointed by CEO Inside Director Discussion Resolving management issues and Appointed by the by corporate 4 times Recommended by the Executive Deliberated and decided by the Ownership Steering Outside seeking future development plans Minister of Strategy hierarchy Recommendation Committee Committee and the general meeting of shareholders Director and Finance 25 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 26 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Ethical EWP has achieved Excellent Level or higher in the evaluation of integrity and anti-corruption policies by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission for five consecutive years. In 2016, it conducted Implementation of Ethical Management Management emergency measures for improving integrity to prevent corruption and spread an ethical culture. Complying with the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act Operation of 24-hours EWP provided education on the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act education, and invited experts of Ethical Management System ethical monitoring the Act to help all employees understand the Act. Its in-house integrity instructors provided ethical management education for employees. In addition, EWP conducted simulation training through its online To achieve the goal of ethical management, EWP has established mid and long-term strategies and system three promotion tasks as below. report system “Red Whistle,” and its stakeholders wrote a pledge of compliance with the Act. Lastly, EWP is operating the 24-hours ethical monitoring system to set up a culture complying with the Act. Ethical Management System Goal To become an ethical corporation, growing and earning respect out of clean ethics A 24-hours Ethical Monitoring System Mid & Reinforcement of Internalization of a sense Establishment of a long-term prevention and precontrol of ethics by communication foundation for mutual Before Before work On-duty strategies of corruption and participation growth work Pledge of implementation Lessons from Complying with Diversification of Self Test others’ Spread of mistakes the Improper Solicitation participatory ethical an ethical culture and Graft Act activities 365 DAYS Promotion tasks · Improvement of systems · Implementation of · Consulting on integrity After Before relating to the Improper participatory ethical for coexistence work leaving work Solicitation and Graft Act activities · Reinforcement of cooperation · Removal of causes of · Development of game-type on ethics between public and Ten End of year Monthly Integrity corruption in advance education on ethics private sectors commandments Integrity certificate on message Integrity Awards of integrity Integrity Day Execution of Ethical Management Spread of an ethical culture Enhancement of ethical norms EWP, designated as an integrity consulting mentor organization of EBS by the Anti-Corruption and Since the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act took effect in September 2016, EWP strengthened its ethical Civil Rights Commission, provides integrity consulting to enhance the importance and awareness norms, such as the employee code of conduct and the guidelines for participatory integrity and ethical of an integrity culture. A total of four integrity consulting sessions were provided, and EWP improved activities, to improve a sense of ethics of all employees. In addition, EWP made the customer service and the integrity culture and systems of mentee organizations by sharing its best practices on integrity. complaint-handling manual for the prevention and management of risks on ethics. Furthermore, EWP appointed employees, who have been applied with the wage-peak system, as integrity Establishment and revision of ethical norms consultants for the first time among public organizations. The integrity consultants are providing integrity counseling and education at each office. In addition, EWP is contributing to spreading an ethical culture Ethical norms Establishment and revision in local communities by concluding an agreement for integrity work and holding the Integrity Festival Reinforcement of the regulations on remuneration for external Code of conduct for employees with private organizations. lectures and promotional gifts (a limitation in use) Guidelines for activities on Restriction on incentives provided to those who have violated the integrity and ethics code of conduct Diversification of participatory ethical activities Guidelines on request for Reinforcement of the standard amount of disciplinary action disciplinary action resulting from the receipt of financial or material benefits and treats 740 employees EWP provided various education activities on ethics such as a board game, quiz contest and integrity campaign, under the theme of the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act and anti-corruption. In addition, participated in 19 EWP introduced Clean Mileage* and attracted the active participation of all employees. In 2016, 740 Enhancement of ethical management organizations sessions on ethics employees participated in a total of 19 sessions on ethics. In March 2017, EWP held the Anti-Corruption Appointment of honorary To realize ethical management, EWP is operating the High-ranking Integrity & Ethics Committee, and Civil Rights Commission Workshop and shared its self-developed ethics education gamification. Ethics & Compliance Team and Integrity Inspection Team, and emphasizing the roles of the ethical inspectors and the management leaders, ethical practice leaders, and compliance officers of such organizations. In 2016, it * Clean Mileage: The mileage accumulation and incentive system of in-house integrity and ethical activities to attract employees’ participation and spread an ethical culture integrity inspection group newly appointed honorary inspectors and the integrity inspection group who were involved in an internal audit, consultation and anti-corruption monitoring. Ethical management organizations Leaders Organizations Outside consultants · High-ranking Integrity & · Ethical practice leaders · Honorary inspectors Ethics Committee · Compliance officers · Integrity inspection group · Ethics & Compliance Team · Personnel in charge of the · Integrity ombudsman · Integrity Inspection Team code of conduct ▲ Participatory activities about ethics 27 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 28 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Monitoring and Feedback on Ethical Management Risk Risk management for stable business operation becomes more and more important with the environmental changes in the domestic and overseas energy markets such as the slow growth of the domestic electric Management Monitoring of external evaluation power market, the increasing market share of private companies and the decarbonization of the global energy market. EWP is operating its companywide risk management system to prevent risk and responding Achieved Excellent Level EWP has achieved an Excellent Level or higher in the evaluation of anti-corruption policies by the to complex disasters through the Cyber & Disaster Safety Center. Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission for five consecutive years. Although EWP had received or higher in the the highest level from 2012 to 2015, it obtained Excellent Level due to four issues relating to budget evaluation of integrity execution and work instruction. EWP is making efforts to retake Level 1 in the evaluation of integrity and and anti-corruption anti-corruption policies in 2017, by analyzing the causes of the downgrade and preparing emergency Operation of the Companywide Risk Management System policies by the measures for improving integrity. To manage the practical risk of power generation businesses, EWP has improved risk factors, Anti-Corruption and Emergency measures for improving integrity considering the vulnerabilities of the power generation industry and social needs. It added companywide Civil Rights Commission Strategies Details risk and investment risk categories to preexisting categories (financial risk and operational risk), made crisis management manuals by field, and established scenarios by risk stage. Risk factors are being for five consecutive Establishing a trust-based · Operating Integrity T/F for internal integrity (Establishment consistently monitored and managed. years corporate culture listening to of HDCA platform*) and collecting opinions via various stakeholders’ voices channels such as VOC**, anonymous bulletin board, etc. Risk management process Realizing a clean organization by · Utilizing Red Whistle (anonymous report by business partners) Feedback (modification and improvement) promoting internal report · Providing incentives for whistleblowers, etc. · Introducing One Strike Out to punish corrupt employees Crisis Improving integrity by strengthening · Strengthening the management of the indices of the Potential risk management the integrity systems Crisis management internal evaluation, “Ethical Management Efforts” categories manuals by field · Declaring the five promises of executives Improving a corporate culture · Setting up Key · Enhancing the communication system between the directors · Business risks Identify Evaluate Solve through changes Risk Index of divisions and other employees · Financial risks · Establishing · Operational risks * HDCA platform: Hearing (listening carefully), Do (establishing measure), Check (checking on-site responses), and Action (improving a scenarios by Prepare Respond Restore Monitoring · Investment risks corporate culture) ** VOC (Voice of Customer): Management of customer feedback risk stage Monitoring of internal evaluation Results of self-evaluation Unit: Points In an EMDEX* diagnosis, EWP earned 93.3 points and maintained Prestige Maintenance Level**. As the of integrity Risk Management for Climate Change points slightly declined, EWP is monitoring and improving its integrity through a self-evaluation and a External Integrity of highintegrity ranking employees corruption risk diagnosis. As a result of precontrolling the corruption factors, it received 9.77 points in In order to respond to the new climate regime in advance, EWP implemented the countermeasure a self-evaluation of integrity which increased by 0.08 points year on year for external integrity, and 9.97 manual for climate change. EWP analyzed the risks from climate change and diagnosed the vulnerability 9.62 2014 9.88 points which increased by 0.06 point for the integrity of high-ranking employees. of each operation with the help of experts. 9.69 * EMDEX (Ethic Management InDEX): The ethical diagnosis indices developed by EWP on the basis of global standards such as ISO 26000 2015 9.91 and GRI sustainability reporting guidelines. ** Prestige Maintenance Level: The highest level among the five ethical management levels the level realizing responsible ethical management Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 9.77 2016 9.97 Analysis and Evaluation of Future climate Establishment prediction of current climate change / Risk of specific Human Rights Management climate change vulnerability evaluation action plans Method: EWP proclaimed the Charter of Human Rights Management to protect the human rights of all Method: Method: Method: risk Domestic and climate change vulnerability stakeholders. The Charter of Human Rights Management states nine basic principles including evaluation tool abroad adaptation scenario evaluation tool human-centered management activities, protection of human rights of the people, and prohibition option DB of discrimination against all stakeholders. In September 2016, EWP installed the Employee Rights Protection Committee with the Labor Union so as to respect human rights and protect employee rights. Furthermore, it announced a labor-management joint declaration and created the employee rights protection bulletin board for anonymous online counseling and reporting. Cyber & Disaster Safety Center Won the Grand Prize For the first time among power generation companies, EWP has established and operated the Cyber at the 1st Public & Disaster Safety Center for a quick response to and prevention of various crises, including cyber Organizations Online accidents, disasters and safety accidents. The center consists of the Integrated Disaster Prevention Security Awards Section responsible for onsite safety and disasters, and the Cyber Security Section responsible for cyber and information security. (The Minister’s Award by the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy) ▲ Proclamation ceremony of the Charter of Human Rights Management 29 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 30 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Stakeholder EWP is communicating with stakeholders associated with its value chain encompassing business development to power consumption. Materiality In order to deduct sustainability issues that stakeholders are most interested in and to include them in the 2017 Sustainability Report, EWP conducted a materiality assessment with executives, employees, Engagement Assessment power companies, government agencies, local governments, business partners, residents and press. Stakeholder Classification and Communication Channels Materiality Assessment Process EWP classifies stakeholders into value impact, value production, value cooperation and value consumption, based on the energy production-centered value chain, and collects opinions from stakeholders via various communication channels. Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Formation of the Materiality Determination Stakeholder Classification and Communication Channels sustainability assessment of key reporting management process issues Classification Definition Major players Areas of interest Communication channels issue pool · Securing competitiveness of the power Government, local industry · Parliamentary inspection and Value Affecting value governments, residents, · Local development and environmental communication portal EWP deduced 29 issues through Based on the 29 issues obtained in Based on the results of the survey impact creation environmental protection · Local council an analysis of the international Step 1, EWP drew up a questionnaire on sustainability management, organizations, press, etc. · Interest in current issues, and competition · Power generation company council, etc. standards, a global benchmarking, survey of sustainability management EWP selected a total of 15 reporting & cooperation a review of internal and external and conducted the online survey issues, considering the influence materials and a media analysis. with stakeholders for 9 days. on EWP and stakeholders’ interest. Employees · New corporate culture based on trust · CEO’s business presentation Value Employees, labor and communication participating in · Value proposition system and discussion production unions · Enhancement of corporate · Labor-management meeting and workshop value creation competitiveness Results of Materiality Assessment External · Joint participation and cooperation in · Win-win consultative group of small and EWP selected 15 reporting issues through materiality assessment conducted with 320 stakeholders. In Value employees power generation business Suppliers medium-sized businesses cooperation participating in · Diversification of power generationthis report, EWP shared about its actions dealing with these issues. · NAVER Band and Social Media value creation related businesses and cost reduction 1 Response to climate change 4.7 Customers · Stable supply of high-quality, economical 4 3 Impact on external stakeholders Value Shareholders (KEPCO), · The Korean government portal 2 An economical and stable power supply consumption sharing created citizens electricity · Website for open management, etc. 3 Expansion of new and renewable energy 5 2 · Information disclosure to the public 4.6 values 4 Improvement of safety of power plants 5 Management of air pollutants 6 Development of new business 4.5 1 Development of convergence power Survey on Awareness of Sustainability Management 7 generation technologies through R&D 4.4 8 Compliance with the environmental 8 regulations and policies By conducting a survey on awareness of sustainability management to the stakeholders, EWP collected their 9 6 7 9 Provision of a safe working environment 4.3 opinions about desirable future corporate images and sustainability issues on which EWP should focus. 11 10 Management of water quality and 10 15 12 the marine environment 4.2 Q1. Which sustainability issues should EWP focus on? 11 Shared growth with suppliers Reinforcement of anti-corruption and 12 New and renewable energy business integrity activities 4.1 68.6% 13 Securing of financial soundness Eco-friendly management 67.7% 14 13 14 Resolution of a conflict in local communities Impact on internal stakeholders Construction of new power plants 62.4% 15 Social contribution activities 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.0 Preparation for the Fourth Industrial Revolution 46.2% Safety management 29.0% Core Reporting Issues Expansion of the overseas markets 22.4% Ethical management 21.5% Key sustainability themes Key issues GRI Topic Stakeholders concerned Cyber and facility security 6.3% Material Issue 1. 2,13 Economic performance and indirect economic effects Government agencies and residents Stable power supply Material Issue 2. Economic performance, indirect economic effects and Government agencies and power Q2. What do you think is the most desirable corporate image of EWP? 3,6,7 Enhancement of future growth engines compliance (environment) companies Material Issue 3. 1, 5, 8, Materials, energy, water, discharge, wastewater, waste Government agencies, residents Company preparing for the future 56.1% Operation of eco-friendly power plants 10, 14 and compliance (environment) and environmental organization Company with happy employees 40.9% Employment, labor-management relationship, Company pursuing changes and innovation 40.6% Material Issue 4. EWP employees and employees 4,9 occupational safety and health, training, education, Happy and safe workplace of business partners Transparent and clean company 37.0% diversity and equal opportunity Open-minded company based on communication 33.0% Material Issue 5. 11 Procurement practices and indirect economic effects Business partners Competitive company 31.7% Mutual growth with business partners Company following vision and core values 30.0% Material Issue 6. 15 Local communities and indirect economic effects Residents and business partners Company protecting employees 25.1% Happy growth with local communities 31 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 32 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Support for The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the common goals the United Nations and the international society should accomplish from 2016 to 2030 so as to bring an end to global poverty and UN SDGs Goal 5 achieve sustainable development. EWP is contributing to sustainable growth and development by taking part in achieving nine SDGs and especially supporting SDG 5, 7 and 13. Gender Equality To give an equal opportunity for promotion to women, EWP has established four HR SDGs Goals EWP Efforts tasks to cultivate female managers and set up a goal to increase the percentage of female managers to 6% by 2018. EWP is maintaining the ratio of female employees over 15% when recruiting new employees, and has reduced the minimum service year Goal 2 · Farming abalone using hot wastewater · Providing supplementary feed by forming pasture for female employees so as to provide more opportunities. In addition, EWP provides Zero Hunger in the ash disposal site education on competency development and leadership for female managers, allows a three-year childcare leave, and expands the daycare centers in the offices. Goal 5 · Hiring and promoting based on gender equality · Implementing the female manager training system Gender Equality · Regularizing leader education for females Goal 7 Goal 7 · Developing a large-scale new and renewable energy · Integrating ESS(Energy Storage System) into new Affordable and and renewable energy Clean Energy · Implementing flextime and family-friendly policies Goal 8 and institutionalizing leadership education for senior managers Affordable and Clean Energy Decent Work and EWP is endeavoring to achieve SDG 7 so as to supply reliable, affordable, and · Implementing Smart Office Economic Growth · Creating jobs related to prospective business sustainable energy to all. It procures fuels required for power generation at the lowest prices in order to provide affordable energy for consumers. To produce more Goal 9 · Developing and operating new and renewable energy, including wind and photovoltaic power new and renewable energy, EWP is expanding its large-scale new and renewable Industry, Innovation energy business such as wind power and bioenergy. In addition, EWP conducted · Recyling wastes like coal ash and gypsum and Infrastructure the energy storage system (ESS) project for new and renewable energy for highefficiency energy and a stable supply of new and renewable energy. EWP is taking Goal 10 · Socially equitable employment of the handicapped and local talents the initiative in ensuring future sustainable by leading Power Generation Industry 4.0 based on the convergence of power generation technology and ICT. Reduced · Hiring women on a career break Inequalities · Proclaiming the Charter of Human Rights Management Goal 11 Sustainable Cities and Safe Communities · Managing and reducing air pollutants · Securing the technology for reducing fine dust Goal 13 · Over-achieving of the emission trading scheme's goals Climate Action Goal 13 · Providing greenhouse reduction consulting for SMEs · Implementing adaptation plans for climate change Climate Action · R&D on carbon utilization and CO2 separation EWP endeavors to achieve SDG 13 by minimizing the greenhouse gas emissions membrane modules from the power plants. To reduce GHG emissions by 20% of BAU as of 2030, EWP implemented 2030 mid and long-term greenhouse gas reduction strategies. Goal 14 · Operating wastewater treatment plant · Conducting post-environmental impact assessment Furthermore, EWP surpassed the reduction goals of the emission trading scheme, by incorporating co-firing of low-carbon new and renewable fuel and high-efficient Life Below Water facilities. Also, EWP is developing the technology that blocks CO2 from entering air and converting it into higher value-added compounds. INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES RESPONDING TO MATERIAL ISSUES MATERIAL ISSUE 1 MATERIAL ISSUE 2 35 Stable Power Supply 41 Enhancement Of Future Growth Engines MATERIAL ISSUE 3 MATERIAL ISSUE 4 51 Operation Of Eco-Friendly Power Plants 63 Happy and Safe Workplace MATERIAL ISSUE 5 MATERIAL ISSUE 6 71 Win-Win Growth with Business Partners 79 Happy Growth with Local Communities 35 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 36 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Employees Electric Power National and local Business Local Environmental MATERIAL ISSUE Corporations governments partners residents Organization 01 STABLE POWER FUTURE PLANS SUPPLY Concluding Ensuring stable Strengthening long-term contracts for Diversifying sources of supply of technical manpower stable fuel financing portfolios biomass fuels network procurement For national economic development and national welfare, it is essential to stably supply power by forecasting and preparing for a power demand. A blackout resulting from a wrong prediction of power demand or a breakdown of a power generation facility may significantly damage the quality of life of the people and the economic activities of companies. EWP is making efforts to conduct its major projects such as fuel procurement and power plant operation more efficiently and professionally, considering a stable supply of power as a top priority. INTERVIEW In 2016, EWP supplied power stably, recording the lowest forced outage rate since its foundation. To prevent breakdowns, EWP analyzed the pattern of those which OUR STRATEGY & EFFORTS have occurred three months before and after an overhaul when a majority of breakdowns would occur. Investing EWP focuses on managing power generation facilities, fuel procurement and financial structure soundness to supply power stably. It diversified fuel management resources and managing human resources, supplier countries to procure fossil fuels such as bituminous coal used for power generation in time. To minimize breakdowns of power generation we achieved the lowest forced outage rate. facilities in operation, EWP improved facilities causing long-term breakdown and developed the competencies of power plant employees. In addition, it is contributing to a stable supply of power through sound financial management, pursuing profitability, safety, and growth potential. Since the foundation, the operational management system of preexisting power generation facilities has been continued and taken root in EWP. However, the management system of new and renewable energy generation facilities such as newly introduced solar panels and wind power generation Stable operation of Stable fuel Sound financial facilities is still in its early stage. To enhance facility safety power generation procurement structure and efficiency, EWP is developing drones to inspect new facilities and renewable energy generation facilities thoroughly which cannot be easily accessed by people. Drones will be introduced in late 2017 and expected to contribute to a stable supply of new and renewable energy. OUR PERFORMANCES EWP will prevent breakdowns in early stages by enhancing 7 0.062 Diversification of the operational data inspection and analysis system of Decreased the the sources of fuel power generation facilities. We will ensure safer and more forced outage rate supply Countries by 89% year on year % efficient power generation facilities based on cutting-edge ICT to become a trustworthy power generation company for the general public. 15.8 Increased rate of operating profits Jeong Dong-hui by 12.1% compared to the goal % Deputy General Manager Power Generation Operation Team, EWP 101.3 Reduced the debt ratio by 119.6% compared to the goal % 37 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 38 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Stable EWP reinvestigated all causes of the past breakdowns and found that such breakdowns were caused by manpower, organizational factors, and its systems as well as facilities. As a result of diagnosing and Innovation of Breakdown Management Systems operation improving all issues, EWP recorded the forced outage rate at 0.062% in 2016, which is the lowest since Reorganization of OH management standards its foundation. Breakdown time before EWP decreased the breakdown time by reorganizing the preexisting OH* management standards. EWP of power and after an OH decreased by 94% changed a monthly electric installation inspection and a weekly facility analysis into a weekly electric installation inspection and a daily facility analysis, respectively. For a more thorough inspection, head Employee Competency Development generation office employees and experts now attend an OH meeting which used to be attended by OH employees year on year only. As a result of extending the OH period by 3 to 6 days to improve OH quality, the breakdown time Improving ability to respond to emergency situations before and after an OH decreased to 73 hours, by 94% year on year. facilities EWP established an emergency response system to share the current situations with other business operations via social media so that an employee who receives the information can inspect facilities * Regular inspection and maintenance work conducted to prevent the breakdowns of power plant units and to improve their performance swiftly and prevent similar accidents. As a result, EWP was able to prevent and unexpected stoppage through immediate notification to other business operations. Sharing breakdown cases EWP held a working-level staff workshop and a division head workshop to share and review the breakdown cases, the fundamental causes of breakdowns, etc. Furthermore, the management went Education for facility workers off on a lecturing tour to improve employees’ awareness of breakdown prevention and enhanced the Employee competency diagnosis index EWP formed the Remote Technology Support Group consisting of the head office employees, breakdown case management methods by digitalizing the breakdown casebook, etc. Unit: Points experts, facility workers and former facility workers, and held a weekly meeting and an emergency 2014 4.52 meeting whenever a breakdown occurred. EWP improved power generation technology knowledge 2015 4.65 2016 4.72 of facility workers by developing a total of 200 UCCs. As a result, EWP earned 4.72 points in the Improving Facilities Causing Long-term Breakdown employee competency diagnosis index. Breakdown of the main EWP tried to resolve chronic breakdown issues by focusing on improving the facilities where breakdowns Employee competency diagnosis index bodies of turbines / repetitively occurred. It conducted a customized diagnosis for power generation facilities, evaluated power plant units their deterioration and remaining life, and improved the main facilities of turbines such as rotors and connections according to the diagnosis and evaluation results. As a result, no breakdown has occurred Participants New employees New and transferred Transferred Effects ZERO employees (common) employees in the main bodies of turbines and power plant units in 2016. Furthermore, EWP tried to resolve chronic + + facility issues by reestablishing the planned maintenance and operation standards, and strengthened · Operation principles, · Solution for the tube monitoring systems such as temperature detection in order to improve CFBC tubes of Donghae · Handling equipments Enhancement maintenance predictive diagnosis Coal-fired Power Plant accounting for 21% of the total breakdown time. Forced outage has not occurred in the operation of technical Contents fundamentals · Organizing · Theories on operation skills (Total even once for the first time since the CFBC power plant was constructed. · Utilizing the facility dis-assembly procedures and facility 1,190 times) management system in the core facility Breakdown Prediction & Warning System By improving the preexisting warning system which ringed the alarm when reaching a certain level, Rational Organizational Operation EWP has introduced and operated the breakdown prediction and warning system that detects abnormal signs of power plants by analyzing data patterns. As a result of detecting the vibrations generated from Operation of a technology group Dangjin Power Plant Unit 8 at the very beginning and conducting predictive maintenance on Dangjin EWP is managing power generation facilities thoroughly by operating the best technology group. In Power Plant Units 1 to 8 immediately, EWP prevented 217 breakdowns. Analyzing and improving the addition, EWP classified technology diagnoses into 29 fields and strengthened the technology group by causes of breakdowns, EWP achieved higher levels than the global forced outage rate disclosed by the increasing experts. Experts reviewed technologies from a variety of perspectives and formed the facility NERC (North American Electric Reliability Corporation), recording the forced outage rate of 0.06% and inspection group, which visited the business operations quarterly and conducted an on-site inspection. the operating rate of 87.58% in 2016. Efficient personnel allocation in power plants Forced Outage Rate Operating Rate NERC* EWP Ulsan Combined A proper number of employees should be deployed so that power generation facilities can frequently be 4.93 4.87 Heat & Power Plant inspected and maintained during the peak season, especially in summer and winter, when the power 4.49 4.75 4.67 93.34 91.25 92.44 demand skyrockets. EWP efficiently prevented breakdowns by flexibly deploying 24 employees of Ulsan 90.69 Forced Outage Rate 0.88 0.556 87.58 Combined 1, whose utilization rate is low, in Ulsan Combined 2 which has difficulties in operation due 0.305 85.31 85.39 0.09% to high utilization rates and a shortage of manpower. As a result, the number of breakdowns of Ulsan 0.098 0.06 83.92 83.92 83.17 (Decreased by 81% year on year ) Combined Heat & Power Plant significantly decreased from 9 in 2015 to 1 in 2016. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 * The forced outage rate disclosed by the NERC (North American Electric Reliability Corporation) 39 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 40 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Stable Fuel Power generation fuels should be procured in time for a stable supply of power. EWP diversified bituminous coal supplier countries to procure the main fuel of power plants stably and established a Sound In 2016, EWP established the financial management plan and consistently made efforts to achieve the mid and long-term financial goals such as an increase in rates of operating profit, debt ratio management, Procurement financial cooperative system with suppliers who could provide fuels swiftly in emergency cases. and an expansion of new business investment. Fuel Procurement structure Mid & Long-term Financial Management Plan EWP is producing electricity using a variety of fuels such as coal, heavy oil and LNG. Since 2014, EWP has EWP has established and managed the mid and long-term financial management plan (2016-2020). By been generating power using wood pellets, one of new and renewable energy fuels. yielding stable financial performance, EWP will make efforts to achieve operating profits of 1.2075 trillion won, debt ratio of 113%, and assets of 19.899 trillion won by 2030. Unit: 10 thousand tons 1,596 1,589 1,583 Financial A competitive public company that maintains a sound financial structure and 1,498 1,430 vision achieves sustainable growth 168 1,342 Bituminous coal 162 161 Anthracite 131 119 Financial To achieve 1 trillion won To maintain proper To distribute investment 104 112 goal in operating profits debt ratios assets strategically 78 96 110 Heavy oil 52 60 71 104 LNG 66 Index Rate of operating profits: Asset growth rate: 51 21 45 Debt ratio: 113% or less management 12% or higher 3.5% or higher New and renewable energy 22 24 20 1 Wood pellet 15 15 Financial Expansion of growth 7 7 Securing of profitability Maintenance of stability strategy potential 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Securing of Profitability Efforts to Reduce Fuel Costs Rates of operating profits Unit: % Achieved the lowest EWP has been increasing the rates of operating profits by improving the profit structure. Improving EWP procures fuels according to the fuel procurement plan, according to the expected future power 2014 6.3 power plant units and turbines, EWP reduced the number of breakdown days by 61 days year on year bituminous coal costs demand. Based on the results of analysis of the procurement environment, EWP has achieved the lowest 2015 15.1 and consequently generated 28.6 billion won in sales. It made over 24 billion won in net profits through for seven consecutive bituminous coal costs for seven consecutive years. 2016 15.8 additional activities such as a revision of JPS license and a technology seminar. In addition, EWP years developed alternative fuels to reduce fuel costs. After such efforts, EWP earned additional 140.2 billion Composition of fuel costs Efforts for efficient fuel procurement won, more than the operating profit goal in 2016. Diversified the fuel supplier countries from the Asian market to the Bituminous coal costs (FOB) European market Maintenance of Stability Freight costs (Freight) Innovatively reduced unit prices by utilizing chartering Debt ratio Unit: % EWP is proactively managing its investment activities exposed to financial risk. In 2016, EWP reduced 2014 136.1 its investment by 541.5 billion won to construct Dangjin Power Plant Units 9 and 10. For systematic debt Special consumption taxes (Tax) Increasing alternative purchases between the types of coal 2015 121.8 management, EWP held a meeting of the Debt Management Committee 43 times to verify the validity of 2016 101.3 budget execution. As a result, EWP reduced the debt ratio to 101.3% by 20.5%p year on year. Quality costs (Quality) Incorporating quality costs into bidding prices Expansion of Growth Potential Diversification of Supplier Countries To increase its power generation capacity to 22,800MW by 2030, EWP invested 143.5 billion won which EWP diversified the sources of supply in preparation for potential risks which may occur in the fuel supplier increased by 25.4% year on year. EWP invested 176.6 billion won in future growth businesses such as countries, such as Australia, Indonesia, Russia and the U.S. EWP reduced the fuel purchase quantity from photovoltaic power and wind power complexes. This figure rose by 147% year on year. these countries and distributed it to new supplier countries like Columbia, South Africa and China. In 2016, EWP purchased a total of 14,030,000 tons of bituminous coal. Investment budget Unit: KRW 100 million Business type 2015 2016 2017 Reasons for variation Expanding new and renewable energy, and Reinforcement of Emergency Supply Chain Domestic 942 937 1,766 launching new energy industry from 2017 Budget reduction due to the validity test from In 2016, Australia and Indonesia which are the main supplier countries of EWP suffered from the railway Overseas 63 45 31 the government assistance system strike and rainfalls, and such situations were expected to disrupt a stable supply of fuels. To respond the Newly Solution 36 139 Carrying out tasks for core solution businesses situations preemptively, EWP established a cooperative system with three suppliers in China and Russia established as an emergency supply chain in order to procure fuels as soon as possible. Reinforcing R&D investments for new energy R&D 139 417 160 industry, and new and renewable energy 41 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 42 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Employees Electric Power National and local Business Local Environmental MATERIAL ISSUE Corporations governments partners residents Organization 02 ENHANCEMENT OF FUTURE PLANS FUTURE GROWTH ENGINES Implementation of R&D projects Development of Construction of 190MW gasification Continuous implementation of eco-friendly energy upon the Fourth combined cycle power large-scale new and and new energy Industrial plants in Jamaica and renewable energy industry Revolution completion of PF business As the demand for new and renewable energy and the social needs for the shutdown of outdated power plants are growing, it is urgent to endeavor for the future growth of the power generation industry. In addition, we need to respond to the rapidly changing market where the convergence of knowledge, technology and industry of the coming era of Fourth Industrial Revolution is occurring. Enhancing a sustainable power supply and national competitiveness by forecasting and preparing for rapidly changing energy paradigm is an important task of EWP for the sustainable future. INTERVIEW The New and Renewable Energy 2030 Plan announced by the Korean government is the policy to increase new and renewable energy to 20% of the total power generation OUR STRATEGY & EFFORTS by 2030. As part of our efforts, we should supply new and renewable energy accounting for 5% of the total power EWP is making efforts for R&D of new and renewable energy, new energy business, overseas power generation business and core technology in generation until next year. EWP is focusing on securing order to strengthen its future growth engines. EWP is pushing forward large-scale new and renewable energy businesses such as wind power and land for new and renewable energy development such as bioenergy so as to increase new and renewable energy generation, and making alternative plans for practical future power supply by enhancing new wind power and photovoltaic power, and working on Korea’s energy business development such as the energy storage system (ESS). In addition, EWP is improving its competitiveness by entering the overseas largest wind power project in the East Sea and West Sea power generation markets and strengthening the foundation for future growth engines by researching and developing key technologies. regions. However, renewable energy has limitations, such as irregular electricity production depending on weather Expansion of changes and securing of land. Therefore, EWP is utilizing Development Overseas power R&D of core biomass as another source of new and renewable energy. new and renewable of the new energy generation technology energy business industry business As woody biomass such as wood pellets and biomass-solid refuse fuel (Bio-SRF) has lower initial investment costs and produces more power than renewable energy, it has high values in power generation. On a trial basis, EWP OUR PERFORMANCES is building a 2,000ha forest in Indonesia with the Korea Forestry Promotion Institute. Once the site for afforestation 24 1,186 Net profit of Facility capacity of is secured in 2022, EWP will be able to supply fuel stably to Jamaica overseas business EWP Honam Biomass Power Plant that uses 520,000 tons Public of wood fuels every year. Service billion won Increased by 49% year on year MW EWP will make proactive preparations to improve the quality of life of the people by supplying clean energy in full 342 Capacity of new compliance with the new and renewable energy policies of and renewable the government. energy capacity MW Kim Myeong-geun Annual sales of wind farms 24.4 billion won Deputy General Manager Business Development Team, EWP 43 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 44 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Expand In addition to preexisting photovoltaic power facilities, wind farms and bioenergy power plants, EWP is developing large-scale new and renewable energy business. EWP is planning to increase the facility capacity Development of Large-scale New and Renewable Energy Business New & Wind power business of new and renewable energy to 20% (5,081MW) of the total power generation facility capacity by 2030. EWP is developing large-scale wind power business according to an increase in mandatory supply rates Renewable Road Map for New and Renewable Energy of the RPS. In 2016, EWP has completed construction of Honam Wind Farm, Baeksu Wind Farm and Gyeongju Wind Farm 1, and is constructing Yeonggwang Wind Farm and Gyeongju Wind Farm 2. In Energy EWP established the 2030 goals and the mid and long-term roadmap to systematically respond to increasing mandatory supply rates of new and renewable energy. EWP will increase the facility capacity addition, EWP is developing two projects for 1 Yeongdeok Hamaji power plant units, etc. Wind Power Projects Industry of new and renewable energy to 20% of the total power generation facility capacity by 2030. To achieve this, EWP is developing over 100MW large-scale new and renewable energy generation facilities. Capacity Annual sales REC* Project (MW) (100 million won) secured Mid and long-term roadmap for new and renewable energy Unit of accumulated facility capacity: MW Honam Wind Farm 20 68 36,358 Construction 5,081 completed Baeksu Wind Farm 40 112 65,059 1,449 3,751 Gyeongju Wind Farm 1 16.8 64 34,140 97 342 Yeonggwang Wind Farm 79.6 285 155,000 Under construction Gyeongju Wind Farm 2 20.7 83 41,000 IGCC* 400 400 Wind power 20 80 400 1,213 1,763 Electricity 11 power plants including 120 483 263,000 Photovoltaic power 7 31 589 1,049 1,589 business license Gadeoksan Wind Farm, etc. Bio 60 210 279 409 409 2 power plants including ▲ Gyeongju Wind Farm Under Fuel cells 5 11 170 270 510 468 1,884 1,026,000 development Yeongdeok Hamaji, etc. Others (ocean energy, etc.) 5 10 10 409 409 * REC (Renewable Energy Certificate): A certificate proving that a power generation company has produced and supplied electricity using 2012 2016 2020 2025 2030 new and renewable energy facilities. 1REC corresponds to 1MW (1,000kW). * Integrated gasification combined cycle Bioenergy business Compliance with RPS Due to social issues such as fine dust and climate change and the government’s coal reduction policy, 100% RPS The RPS is a system that obligates power generation companies with over 500MW power generation biomass is emerging as one of the most practical alternatives of the thermal power generation industry. implementation facilities to produce a specified fraction of their electricity from renewable energy sources. Since 2014, As such, EWP is expanding its bioenergy business using various types of biomass such as waste wood, in 2016 EWP has achieved 100% RPS implementation rate by consistently supplying new and renewable energy. cow dung, etc. For stable biomass fuel procurement, EWP stably procures woodchips by investing in EWP has established and carried out a stricter new and renewable energy facility procurement plan than wood chip manufacturers, and plans to create 20,000ha of forestry in Indonesia with the Korea Forestry the government’s standards. Promotion Institute. EWP is constructing and operating biomass power plants that produce energy by burning wood fuel. New and renewable energy generation facilities Unit: MW EWP has completed construction of Donghae Biomass Power Plant and Seokmun Group Energy Facility Biomass Power Plant. Later, EWP will construct Honam Biomass Power Plant and Saemangeum Cow Type Type Capacity capacity Dung Power Plant that produces energy using cow dung. Donghae Photovoltaic Power 1.0 Onshore wind power Yeonggwang Jisan Wind Power 3.0 Dangjin Photovoltaic Power 1.0 Ilsan Fuel Cell (I) 2.4 Bioenergy projects Honam Photovoltaic Power 0.1 Ilsan Fuel Cell (II) 2.8 Capacity Annual sales REC Ulsan Photovoltaic Power 0.5 Fuel cell Ilsan Fuel Cell (III) 2.8 Project Fuel (MW) (100 million won) secured Dangjin Waste Landfill Facility Donghae Biomass Korean 1.3 Ulsan Fuel Cell 2.8 30 365 234,281 Photovoltaic Power Power Plant woodchips Construction Photovoltaic Gwangyanghang Photovoltaic Power 2.3 Donghae Biomass (single firing) 30 completed Seokmun Group Energy Korean power 39 460 350,000 Dangjin Warehouse Photovoltaic Power 0.7 Donghae Co-firing 60 Biomass Power Plant woodchips Dangjin Offshore Photovoltaic Power 1.0 Dangjin Sewage Sludge (co-firing) 40 Woodchips Biomass Honam Biomass from overseas Suwon Sewage Treatment & Photovoltaic Power 1.5 Dangjin Wood Pellets 30 105 1,516 1,020,000 Power Plant afforestation ▲ Planning to construct biomass power plants Projected Ulsan Sunlight Sharing Photovoltaic Power 0.1 Ulsan Bio Heavy Oil 40 in Honam projects Gwangyanghang Golden Logistics Saemangeum Cow Solid cow 1.1 Ulsan Refined Oil 2.4 10 151 114,000 Center Photovoltaic Power Dung Power Plant dung fuel Marine Dangjin Small Hydro Power (I) 5.0 Total: 240 MW energy Dangjin Small Hydro Power (II) 3.2 * Based on EWP’s facilities 45 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 46 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Development EWP is developing and expanding its new energy business which is an alternative of the coal-fired power market. As a solution to meeting the needs of residents who live near a power plant, EWP is planning Overseas EWP is proactively developing and implementing its overseas power generation business to strengthen its future growth engines. In addition to the preexisting power plants currently operating in the U.S. and of New Power to construct a new and renewable energy power plant complex and developing technologies to stably Jamaica, EWP concluded new overseas contracts in Indonesia and Jamaica in 2016. supply high-quality new and renewable energy by enhancing its energy storage system (ESS) business. Energy Establishment of New Energy Business Generation Overseas Business Strategy Business Flagship Model Customized for Each Region Business For sustainable future growth, EWP is planning to ensure the overseas facility capacity of 500MW by 2020. In 2016, EWP endeavored to establish a foundation for stable profit creation with the goal of increasing the profitability of currently operating overseas power plants and implementing new construction business. EWP planned to construct a new and renewable energy complex, e-Dream Park on a 340,000m2 site in Dangjin. e-Dream Park includes a convergence power complex consisting of new and renewable energy Overseas business strategy business, new energy business, tourism business, an eco-friendly energy attraction relating to new and renewable energy and local tourism resources, and edutainment programs. Furthermore, EWP is Implementation 500MW in 2020 1,500MW in 2026 2,300MW in 2030 Goal planning to construct e-Clean City, which is a model customized for Ulsan where the EWP Head Office is located. In cooperation with local governments, residents and the central government, EWP will develop Financial Securing of stable profit structure of overseas business the future local industries, build an eco-friendly ecosystem, and establish the New Energy Business Goal Development Center. Financial Promotion of the development of new business using Management the existing network of the business operations 2016 An increase in profits of key businesses and successful implementation Energy Storage System (ESS) Business Business Goals of overseas construction business Implementation Focusing on ESS* business, EWP concluded a business agreement to promote new energy business of 66MW of “Peak with ten organizations and companies including the Ulsan Metropolitan Government, the Korea Energy reduction ESS” and Agency, etc. Furthermore, EWP carried out ESS MSP business by constructing 22MW of peak-reducing Improvement of Profitability of Overseas Power Plants “New and renewable ESS for Ulsan Power Plant and the metropolitan area in Ulsan. For the future, EWP plans to support and expand the consulting service for energy-usage efficiency. Efforts to reduce fuel costs energy+ESS” projects By applying ESS facilities to new and renewable energy whose power generation time is irregular, Net profit of Jamaica As 90% of the power generation facilities in Jamaica operated by EWP used oil (petroleum) that is EWP could capably supply high-quality power. EWP strengthened its future core competencies by vulnerable to oil price fluctuations as the primary fuel, there was a limitation in ensuring profitability. Public Service implementing the 44MW of “new and renewable energy+ESS” project. To diversify fuels, EWP began construction to convert a diesel power plant into a gas-fired combined 24 billion won cycle power plant with Jamaica Public Service (JPS). Also, EWP advised on fuel procurement and * A device or a physical medium that stores produced electrical power and supplies it when needed provided operational technology education of gas power plants to strengthen technology competencies of local employees. In December 2016, the fuel conversion construction work will be completed, and it is ESS MSP* business expected to reduce fuel costs by 26.5 billion won every year. Location of Companies with large energy Ulsan Power Plant, EWP installation consumption in Ulsan areas Reduction of power loss rates Capacity(MW) 2 20 EWP installed an IT-based power usage measuring system to reduce power loss rates and improve power utilities of Jamaica Public Service(JPS). As a result of intensifying a crackdown on electricity theft Progress Completed in March, 2017 Launched in August, 2017 in cooperation with Jamaican police, the power loss rate decreased to 26.82% by 0.22%p year on year and the electricity theft rate declined to 15.84% by 0.14%p. * Management Service Provider ESS project applied to wind power and photovoltaic power Overseas Construction Business Donghae Sewage Hoengseong Expecting to achieve EWP ensured a foundation for future profits by winning a project to build the 190MW Gas-fired Combined Gyeongju Baeksu Project Wind Farm WindFarm Treatment & Photovoltaic Photovoltaic approx. $4.3 billion from Cycle Power Plant in Jamaica. EWP will begin construction of the power plant in March and begin its Power Power Station abroad businesses operation in June 2019. The power plant will produce and sell electrical power for 20 years after the Capacity (MW) 11 18 5 10 completion of construction. EWP is expected to generate as much as $1.6 billion in sales by operating this power plant. Furthermore, EWP ensured an additional revenue stream by successfully winning a Selected Obtained electricity project conducted by Perusahaan Listrik Negara (PLN) to build and operate a coal-fired power plant Launched in Progress EPC* in Lease agreement business license in December 2016 in Kalimantan, the southern part of Indonesia. Kalsel Coal-fired Power Plant 1 will begin operations in January 2017 October 2016 March 2019. EWP is expected to generate about $2.7 billion in sales by providing technical support for * Engineering, procurement, and construction operation and maintenance and selling electrical power for 25 years. 47 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 48 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES R&D of Core EWP is developing generic technologies required for Power Generation Industry 4.0, as well as fine dust and carbon dioxide reduction technologies to cope with the new climate regime. In addition, EWP is Establishment of R&D Cooperation Network Launched R&D project Technology taking the initiative in developing new energy business by establishing an industrial-academia-researchEWP has established an industrial-academia-research-governmental cooperation network to utilize governmental cooperative system. on saltwater batteryexternal human resources, ideas, and technologies, and has been developing commercialization based ESS for the first technologies based on the network. EWP is conducting a total of three R&D projects including saltwater time in the world battery-based ESS, and taking an active part in technology development through support for power plant Establishment of Mid and Long-term R&D Strategies verification, R&D investment and technology transfer. With the R&D goal, “Ensuring future growth engines by developing higher value-added core technologies,” R&D projects EWP established three strategies. EWP has been developing technologies systematically according to the 2021 R&D Road Map. Technology to Salt water battery-based Solid fuel cleaning system Technology recycle coal ash as a energy storage system (ESS) of biomass power plants construction material Mid and long-term R&D strategies Improving the working Goal Ensuring future growth engines by developing higher value-added core technologies Developing batteries to environment and facility Utilizing coal waste as produce and store electricity Clean power plants Smart power plants Open power plants Description reliability by capturing and a concrete material using infinite seawater reutilizing fugitive dust as without processing instead of high-priced lithium ▲ Industrial-academia cooperation to fuel in the fuel storage · Industrial-academia-research-governmental establish the salt water battery-based ESS Strategies · Reduction of fine dust · Leading the Fourth Industrial cooperation Research · Coping with the new Revolution 2016~2018 2016~2018 2016~2017 · Domestic production of key components in cooperation period climate regime · Leading new energy industry with small and medium-sized companies EWP, small and mediumEWP, UNIST, Ensuring of generic Technical advancement Commercialization of core technology Business sized businesses, UNIST, EWP and small and and small technologies (~2016) (2017~2018) (2019~2021) partners KTC, KTR, and Ulsan medium-sized businesses and medium-sized Metropolitan Government businesses Road map · Establishment of infrastructure · Verification of core technologies · Creation of higher values through ommercialization · Selection and development · Development of R&D profit · Technology transfer and acquisition of engineering · On-site verification of 10kW · Support for of core technologies models fees in Ulsan Power Plant and · Provision of coal ash Roles on-site verification investment in R&D · Development of of EWP · Investment in R&D and · Provision of cell materials profit models technology transfer and components Clean Thermal Power and Responses to the New Climate Regime Improving the performance of Ensuring of fine dust reduction technologies Power Generation Industry 4.0 Technology Development denitration catalysts EWP diagnosed the performance of denitration catalysts that reduce nitrogen oxide generated when Leading Industry 4.0 To enhance its competitiveness in rapidly changing industrial markets, EWP is leading Power Generation by 8% petroleum or coal burns, and analyzed cases with Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) Research based on Information Industry 4.0 based on its technologies accumulated from an abundance of experience in constructing Institute and Korea Western Power. EWP has established and followed denitration catalyst management (Concentration of nitrogen oxides: and Communication and operating various types of power plants and cutting-edge ICT. EWP has successfully developed and standards, and applied for a patent on new catalysts. As a result, the concentration levels of nitrogen 47ppm→43ppm) oxides are expected to reduce from 47ppm to 43ppm and to improve the performance of denitration Technologies (ICT) applied the “ESS (Energy Storage System) for frequency control” to stably adjust constantly changing frequencies (60Hz) of power systems. EWP is currently developing 3D printers to produce metal catalysts by 8%. Furthermore, EWP decided to jointly develop new fine dust reduction technologies by components for power generation and IoT-based monitoring technology to detect abnormal signs of participating in the KEPCO Research Institute Steering Committee to reduce fine dust generated from power plants in advance. KEPCO and other power companies. EWP will focus on developing an automatic fine dust measuring Furthermore, EWP has established a joint R&D cooperation network with ICT companies* and created system and securing data by conducting the thermal power plants’ fine dust emission investigation and an IoT system for the operation, maintenance and safety of coal-fired power plants. EWP will realize a fine dust reduction technology development project. smart power plant with enhanced automation technology by applying cutting-edge ICT to Dangjin Power Plant Units 9 and 10. Development of CCS and NCCU technologies * Participants: EWP, SK Telecom, KEPCO KDN, and Korea Electric Power Industrial Development Won the grand prize at the Carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies to capture carbon dioxide generated from thermal Goals of Power Generation Industry 4.0 Technology Development power plants are being proactively developed all over the world. To improve its carbon dioxide capturing 1st Public Organizations technology, EWP has concluded an agreement with KEPCO Research Institute and other companies Establishment of a foundation Technology development Commercialization Global R&D Awards having generic technologies so as to separate and treat carbon dioxide waste at low costs and with (~2015) (2016~2019) (2020~) high efficiency. In addition, EWP is developing non-capture CO2 utilization (NCCU) technology to convert · Understanding of current · Application of technologies to · Verification of profit models technologies the power generation industry carbon dioxide into higher value-added compounds. This technology produces ingredients such as · Inroads into domestic · A review on economic · Ensuring of generic baking powder by reacting carbon dioxide with caustic soda (NaOH) without a capturing process. With and overseas markets feasibility and applicability technologies such technologies, EWP will generate about 300 billion won in accumulated sales and reduce over 350,000 tons of greenhouse gases for 20 years. 49 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 50 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES 01 Power Generation Technology Special EWP Plan Issue EWP is seeking to improve the values of the power generation industry through Power Generation Solution Business Industry 4.0-based solution business. To achieve this systematically, it is operating the Power Generation Technology Development Center consisting of 54 employees. EWP conducts monitoring by holding a project monitoring meeting and a head office executives’ meeting twice a month. 2017-2020 Leading Industry 4.0 Generating 22 billion won in annual sales EWP Strategy Take-off stage Securing of sales 2016-2017 · Developing mid and To provide the best quality solution products for customers, EWP is establishing a Power Generation Industry 4.0 cooperation system by concluding a technical cooperation agreement with private companies long-term products performance of · Developing domestic and and public organizations. EWP will take the initiative in innovating the power generation industry based short-term Foundation Fuel overseas markets on its accumulated expertise in power plant construction and key competencies of business partners. products establishment stage management · Increasing manpower solutions EWP Doosan Heavy GE · Implementation of business and Industries & establishment of a cooperative system Construction · Market analysis and development of short-term products · Implementation of Expertise in power plant Power generation Industrial internet differentiated marketing construction and design technology and solution platform, activities operation software development Asset Performance competencies Management System Improving the values of the power KEPCO KDN KEPCO Engineering & KEPCO KPS Construction Construction management generation industry by Power plant operation Company solutions 20% through solutions Electrical power and ICT Competencies of power Competencies of power experts, and expertise in generation facility design generation facility Industry 4.0-based technology maintenance solutions 2016 EWP Performance 2020In 2016, EWP launched performance management and facility diagnosis service for private power plants. It generated its first solution business sales of 160 million won by diagnosing the performance of outdatPower plant ed power plants and facilities of corporate customers. In addition, it recorded sales of 1.2 billion won by maintenance Stabilization stage winning a contract to establish an integrated facility management information system. EWP is working solutions on selling its expertise in construction of Dangjin Power Plant Units 9 and 10, including 4D systems. Once · Enhancing solution products a contract is concluded, EWP is expected to generate about 5 billion won in profits. · Expanding the domestic and What is power generation technology solution business? overseas markets · Reducing costs and Power generation technology solution business, first introduced by EWP, is new conceptual convergence business that improving profits applies cutting-edge ICT (IoT, ICT, big data, AI, etc.) to operational information collected from thousands of sensors 200 billion of power plants, on-site knowledge, experiences, and problem-solving skills. This business including technology consulting and operation service is a type of service business extended from the power generation industry, which is won in accumulated the main business of EWP. In June 2016, EWP formed the Power Generation Technology Development Center to lead sales over Power Generation Industry 4.0 and has been providing optimized solutions for numerous new private power generation 30 years companies, based on the convergence of power generation technology resources and ICT. Through this win-win growth structure, private power generation companies could ensure power plant operation and maintenance technologies at low costs and high efficiency while EWP could develop future growth businesses in the power generation industry. 51 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 52 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Employees Electric Power National and local Business Local Environmental MATERIAL ISSUE Corporations governments partners residents Organization 03 OPERATION OF ECOFUTURE PLANS FRIENDLY POWER PLANTS Retrofitting Converting into Developing and commercializing Strengthening greenhouse gas reduction business, coal-fired power plants high-efficient and carbon capturing, cost-efficient emission (performance low-carbon power trading strategies and storage and utilization improvement) plants competencies in the technologies Social concerns over environmental pollution are mounting due to abnormal weather conditions resulting from climate carbon market change, fine dust, etc. As the new government strengthened environmental policies, there is a growing emphasis on companies’ responsibility for the environment, such as reduction of greenhouse gases and management of air pollutants. In the rapidly changing environment, EWP is making efforts to operate eco-friendly power plants for the sustainable growth of the power generation industry. INTERVIEW With the intended nationally determined contributions (INDCs) submitted by each country as per the Paris Agreement, the burden of greenhouse gas reduction on OUR STRATEGY & EFFORTS the industrial world is now on the rise. As EWP, and the power generation industry as a whole, engages in largeEWP simulated mid and long-term greenhouse gas emissions and set a goal to reduce it by 20% of expected emissions as of 2030. In addition, EWP scale business activities and is directly related to carbon established enterprise-wide countermeasures against climate change in 2016 for a stable national power supply by preparing for various climate dioxide emissions, the national greenhouse gas reduction changes in advance. Furthermore, EWP is taking an active part in reducing fine dust by minimizing air pollutants and strictly managing fugitive dust, project is deemed as a corporate social responsibility. coal ash, etc. EWP also conducts various environmental projects such as formation of pastures and farming abalones for coexistence with residents. Furthermore, the current government selected fine dust reduction as one of 100 national projects. In such situation, EWP needs strategies to flexibly respond to the rapidly changing business environment. Environmental EWP has proper carbon dioxide and air pollutant Responses to Preservation Zero projects for management systems in place as a public organization climate of a clean environmental coexistence with changes environment risk representing the Korean energy industry. As part of its residents corporate social responsibility, EWP should pass down its environmental management tools which have been established and nurtured for a long time to its supply chain, OUR PERFORMANCES in order to make a lasting and positive environmental impact together. No.1 Accumulated greenhouse gas reduction according Climate change to the emission trading scheme competitiveness 6 consecutive The government is providing proactive support and index in the power years endeavoring to improve air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is expected that EWP shall grow as a generation industry company which can systematically manage environmental Five Voluntarily strategies and indices, and identify and supervise the supply chain’s environmental impact. participated in the Carbon consecutive Disclosure Project years (CDP) Kim Kyung-shin 2.7 Professor at Department 13 of Environment & Energy Engineering, million tons Air emissions Sungshin University reduction compared reduced (corresponding to 54 billion won) to the previous year % 53 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 54 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Responses EWP has been voluntarily participating in greenhouse gas reduction projects before the implementation of the emission trading scheme in 2015. Since then, EWP expanded the usage of low-carbon fuel, Support for Greenhouse reduction consulting for small and medium-sized businesses Since 2012, EWP has been participating in the mutual growth energy project to improve the energy to Climate improved facility efficiency, developed new and renewable energy facilities, etc. to fulfill the goals of the small and CO2 efficiency of small and medium-sized businesses and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. Through emission trading scheme. medium-sized this project, EWP is sharing its expertise in saving energy and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It Change 2030 Mid & Long-term Greenhouse Gas Reduction Strategies businesses to reduce has provided consulting for about 20 small and medium-sized businesses so far. In 2016, EWP provided consulting for five small and medium-sized businesses. emissions: 580 tons The government has set a goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 37% of BAU (Business As Usual) by 2030. According to this goal, the power generation industry should reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 19.4%, corresponding to 64.5 million tons. EWP has accordingly established mid and long-term Establishment of Countermeasures against Climate Change greenhouse gas strategies and the goal to reduce 9.78 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions. What is RCP Scenario? As environmental issues are becoming worse, there is a growing emphasis on the importance of (Representative Concentration 2030 mid and long-term greenhouse gas reduction strategies “adaptation,” along with the reduction of GHG emissions. In order to protect power plants from climate Pathways) Strategic goal To reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% of BAU as of 2030 change and to establish mid to long-term plans for safety of people and prevention of service halt, EWP As a future GHG scenario implemented established the “2016 Countermeasures against Climate Change.” EWP carried out vulnerability test and Strategic tasks Improving facilities Converting to lowExpanding new and Carbon capturing Ensuring of emission to the GHG policies in the global carbon power plants renewable energy allowance risk evaluation, and established the countermeasures according to the results of RCP Scenario. In the society, RCP Scenario calculates RCP 4.5 for carbon dioxide with future, EWP will re-diagnose climate change risks every 5 years and re-establish the countermeasures Retrofitting GHG reduction Replacing old accordingly. coal-fired power Developing and business, purchasing 540ppm in the air, and RCP 8.5 for Implementation power plants with Ensuring 20% of facility plants (performance commercializing emission trading carbon dioxide with 940ppm not tasks high-efficient capacity by 2030 improvement) and power plants CCS* and CCU** and strengthening being managed by GHG policies. Procedure for establishing countermeasures against climate change reducing service power competency Steps Methods Details 2030 reduction goals 720,000 tons 3.35 million tons 4.78 million tons 80,000 tons 850,000 tons · Analyzing attributes of each operation An analysis on and Climate change (geography, climate, etc.) * Carbon capture and storage ** Carbon capture and utilization prediction of scenario · Analyzing tendency of climate change, predicting climate change future climate change GHG Emissions Reduction Evaluation on · Collecting, evaluating and analyzing the vulnerability Vulnerability evaluation vulnerabilities evaluation tool · Selecting facility and areas for implementing Introduction of low-carbon new and renewable fuel of current climate the countermeasures Greenhouse gas Unit: 10,000 tons co-firing and high-efficient facilities Evaluation on future Risk evaluation · Setting up levels of climate exposure emissions climate change risks tool · Selecting and evaluating types of climate change risks EWP reduced a total of 970,000 tons of greenhouse gases by utilizing sewage sludge and low-carbon 2014 3,823 fuels such as woodchips and bio heavy oil. In addition, EWP reduced a total of 290,000 tons of greenhouse · Analyzing cases and costs of domestic and Establishment of Domestic and abroad 2015 3,795 abroad countermeasures gas emissions by increasing the efficiency of Dangjin Power Plant Units 9 and 10 and Ulsan Combined detailed plans adaptation option DB 2016 3,974 · Setting priority and establishing specific plans Heat and Power Plant Unit 4. EWP’s greenhouse gas reduction has already surpassed its goal, and its economic effect has reached 54 billion won. Efforts to reduce GHG emissions (new and renewable fuels) Differentiated Responses to Climate Change Reduction of Unit: 10,000 tons Dangjin Power #1-4 Donghae Thermal Power Plant Ulsan Steam Power Plant GHG emissions (Reduction of CO2 by 260,000 tons) (Reduction of CO2 by 420,000 tons) (Reduction of CO2 by 290,000 tons) according to the emission Voluntary participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) trading scheme · Sewage sludge, etc. of five · #1-2: 5% co-firing of woodchips EWP has been voluntarily participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for five consecutive years. local governments including · #3: 100,000 tons of biomass · Bio heavy oil (15% co-firing) 2015 182 the Seoul Metropolitan The CDP evaluates leading global companies’ efforts to reduce carbon dioxide. In 2015, EXP disclosed (single firing) 2016 88 Government (2% co-firing) more information including indirect greenhouse gas emissions. For three consecutive years, EWP was designated as an excellent company by the CDP, and its competitiveness to respond to climate change Accumulated : 270 Introduction of carbon utilization and CCS membrane technology was highly regarded. Since 2013, EWP has been developing a CCS membrane technology, along with non-capture CO2 utilization technology, which provides higher value-added compounds such as baking powder using carbon dioxide. ▲ Awards ceremony for Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Ranked 1st in Climate Change Competitiveness Index Through the membrane technology, carbon dioxide can be processed at a low cost and high efficiency. This technology is expected to reduce operating costs by 50% and decrease wastewater and installation space. EWP has ranked 1st in the climate change competitiveness index for six consecutive years. The climate change competitive index evaluates companies’ competitiveness to respond to climate change in five Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 aspects (climate risk, climate performance, market opportunity, policy cooperation and responses to Design in 2016 On-site test in 2017 Commercial design in 2019 climate) and rewards excellent companies. It was the result of the competitiveness of EWP’s activities to respond to climate change such as the operation of the climate change response system, the surplus A feasibility study Application test Development of separation achievement of GHG emission goal, and R&D for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. on construction, in Dangjin Power Plant membrane modules and and test-bed design (#5, 1MW) commercial technology 55 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 56 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Preservation EWP has installed and operated air and water quality preservation facilities, and managed wastes under its own standards, which is stricter than the legal criteria. Operating the Water Quality Management of a Clean Environmental Management System advanced wastewater Although wastewater generated during various processes contains water pollutants such as COD, SS, TN (total nitrogen), and TP (total phosphorus), EWP treats and purifies the wastewater using its treatment system Environment own advanced wastewater treatment system applied with stricter water quality standards than legal EWP is operating cutting-edge environmental protection facilities in order to minimize environmental standards. After this treatment process, wastewater is reused as processed water or discharged. pollutants which are generated during electricity production, and managing and disclosing environmental Water quality protection facilities management information in real time. Power Plant Facility type Treatment capacity (m³/hr) Environmental pollutant treatment diagram General waste water treatment 293 Flue gas Removal of Removal of Removal of Noise Indoor installation of turbines Dangjin Coal-fired Power Plant monitoring sulfur oxides dust nitrogen oxides prevention Turbines/Power plant units Desulfurization waste water treatment 197 Flue gas Electric Exhaust gas Households/ desulfurizer precipitator denitrizers Plants Ulsan Oil-fired General waste water treatment 190 & C.C Power Complex Desulfurization waste water treatment 8 SOx Dust NOx General waste water treatment 120 Honam Coal-fired Power Plant Recycling of resources Gypsum Ash Ash Wastewater Desulfurization waste water treatment 150 treatment plant Water temperature Wastewater monitoring Honam Coal-fired Power Plant General waste water treatment 30 Ash disposal site Coal Coal yard Discharged water Ilsan Combined Heat General waste water treatment 60 unloading & Power Plant Water quality Prevention of coal scattering inspection Legal water pollutants discharge allowances and 2016 discharge by power plant Unit: mg/ℓ Air Quality Management Usage of service water Unit: 1,000 tons Air quality protection Power Area COD SS Total Nitrogen Total Phosphorous Unit: tons facilities EWP installed air quality protection facilities such as desulfurizers, denitrification facilities and electric Plant (type) Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions 2014 12,055 precipitator. In addition, EWP has established stricter emission allowance standards than the legal 2015 10,267 Area B SOx Dangjin 90 4.7 80 1.9 60 5.9 8 0.055 standards to manage pollutants emissions. 2016 12,763 (Grade 1) 2014 13,755 Area B 2015 11,965 Air quality protection facilities Ulsan 90 6.1 80 3.9 60 7.1 8 0.034 (Grade 1) Unit: 2016 12,741 Wastewater generated 1,000 tons Efforts for Fuel Procurement Denitrification Facilities Dust Collector Special Area Power Honam 40 9.3 30 5.3 60 16.7 8 0.2 Plant No. of units No. of units No. of units (Grade 1) NOx installed Type installed Type installed Type 2014 3,161 2015 Special Area 2014 24,799 Wet limestone3,416 Donghae 130 2.3 120 0.5 60 2.1 8 0.005 Dangjin gypsum method Electric (Grade 3) 2015 21,552 10 10 SCR 10 2016 4,006 Thermal Precipitator 2016 Gypsum process Area B 21,965 Ilsan 40 2.8 10 1.8 60 7.1 0.5 0 Wet limestone(Grade 1) Ulsan 5 SCR Electric 3 gypsum method 3 Dust Thermal Precipitator Gypsum process 3 SNCR 2014 687 Hydroxide SCR Honam Electric 2015 651 Thermal 2 Magnesium 2 SNCR 2 Precipitator Management of Waste 612 hydroxide method 2016 Donghae Desulfurization in a Electric 2016 Waste Recycling 2 2 EWP recycles coal ash, synthetic resin, waste oil, etc. among 30 different kinds of waste generated from Thermal dry furnace Precipitator Rate 87% power plants. EWP is endeavoring to increase its resources recycling rates by developing new recycling methods. In case of non-reusable materials, EWP outsources their treatment to proper waste treatment Legal air pollutants emission allowances and 2016 emissions by power plant companies. SOx (Unit:ppm) NOx (Unit:ppm) Dust (Unit: mg/Sm3) Power Plant Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions Waste production and recycling Dangjin(#1~8) 100 21 140 68 25 5 Dangjin(#9~10) 80 22 70 47 20 3 Classification 2014 2015 2016 Ulsan Steam 150 56 150 129 20 7 Waste production (1,000 ton) 1,906 1,824 1,965 Ulsan Combined 1 35 80 46 15 Ulsan Combined 2 35 50 8 15 Basic unit quantity (ton/GWh) 37 37 38 Honam 100 70 140 116 25 3 Recycled Q’ty (1,000 ton) 1,851 1,635 1,706 Donghae 150 82 140 44 25 4 Donghae Bio 30 2 70 24 20 3 Recycled Rate (%) 97 90 87 Ilsan 35 80 34 15 57 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 58 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Management of Chemicals Environmental There have been many complaints from residents due to the environmental issues of power plants such as fugitive dust from coal yards, etc. In such situations, EWP prepared fundamental solutions by No usage of Use of hazardous chemicals and safety management Projects for establishing environmental model support projects for coexistence with local communities. hydrazine, methanol Although the chemicals required for power generation are not harmful to the environment, EWP replaced and chlorine dioxide some hazardous chemicals with alternative substances to ensure a safe workplace and minimize the risk of damage in case of a chemical accident. In addition, it has established and operated a chemical Coexistence Efforts to Prevent Fugitive Dust management system for systematic chemical safety management, and conducted a safety diagnosis of chemicals and dangerous articles, a self-inspection on facilities, etc. EWP is making efforts to prevent with Indoor installation of coal yards EWP built coal yards where coal and charcoal are stored indoors in order to minimize environmental Residents chemical accidents by establishing an emergency response process and conducting atmospheric issues for residents. EWP first constructed Dangjin Closed Type Indoor Coal Yard 3 in 2015 and is now diffusion modeling in case of a chemical accident. working on converting Coal Yards 1 and 2 into indoor coal yards. EWP will convert all its coal yards into indoor types by 2021 so as to reduce the environmental burden on residents. Use of hazardous chemicals Unit: ton Classification Dangjin Ulsan Honam Donghae Ilsan Indoor installation steps Hydrochloric acid 931 455 109 11 73 Caustic soda 963 1,378 1,793 26 62 Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 2015 2016 2017 2021 Ammonia 4,105 1,114 1,832 0 0 Ammonia water 0 0 0 0 195 · Conducted a preliminary Hydrazine · Constructed survey on · Conducted a Methanol Replaced with safe and normal chemicals Dangjin Coal Yards preliminary · Completed Closed Type 1&2 for indoor feasibility study construction Chlorine dioxide Indoor installation, and established of indoor coal Coal Yard 3 and formed the a basic plan yards Total 5,999 2,947 3,734 37 330 (August 2015) TF Team (November 2017) for indoor coal yards Off-site impact analysis and risk management planning To comply with the government’s chemical accident response policy, EWP drafted an off-site impact analysis plan and a risk management plan. According to the plans, EWP operates the accident prevention system encompassing facility installation, operation and emergency in order to preemptively respond to Formation of pastures the potential damages of a chemical accident for people and the environment. Strengthened EWP is contributing to vitalizing the rural economy by forming pastures in the idle land of the ash disposal competitiveness of local sites where coal ash is buried. In 2016, Dangjin Coal-fired Power Plant sowed rye seeds in about 20,000 m2 farmlands in cooperation with local livestock farms. As a result, residents’ environmental complaints livestock farms and Participation in Chemi-Cation Week 2016 relating to fugitive dust greatly decreased, and local farms saved about 200 million won by reducing the saved 200 million won farmland rent and replacing imported supplementary feed with alternative feed. As more and more people grow concerned about chemicals after the Oxy incident (the pulmonary toxicity of PHMG), the Korean government held Chemi-Cation Week* to communicate with the general public Formation of pastures about the harmfulness of chemicals and prevention of their use. In this event visited by about 20,000 people, EWP operated a PR booth to share information about eco-friendly chemicals management EWP (Host) Local Local and high-efficient operation of environmental facilities for safe chemical management and accident livestock farms government prevention. * The portmanteau “chemi-cation” formed from the words “chemicals” and “communication” means communication between the government, · Construction of the idle · Formation of pastures · Support for licensing and ▲ Chemi-Cation Week 2016 the industries and the public about chemicals. land of ash disposal sites · Use of supplementary livestock management · Permission for occupancy feed at low prices · Reinforcement of infrastructure and use of public waters for production of supplementary feed Noise and Soil Management In an effort to minimize noise from its power plant turbines and substations, EWP has installed and operated noise monitoring systems in real time. The systems issue alarms and immediately send out text · (EWP) Resolving environmental complaints messages to the personnel in charge when an extraordinary level of noise occurs. Upon the request of · (Farms) Saving about 200 million won by replacing imported feed with alternative feed, etc. the personnel, the Control Centers of power plants take immediate actions on noise sources, including steam discharge noise and opening of safety valves. As part of its efforts to prevent soil contamination, EWP carries out soil contamination inspections and leakage tests. An annual soil contamination inspection focuses on inspecting soil contamination, caused by oil due to the storage and handling of fuel for power generation. 59 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 60 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Recycling of Resources Zero EWP is making various efforts to prevent environmental risks. EWP is developing the competencies of working-level staff in response to the causes of risks deducted from an environmental process inspection Saving coal ash Environmental According to the Framework Act on Resource Circulation*, reclamation costs of coal ash disposal sites by power plant. In addition, it monitors the air and water quality of neighboring areas through a postreclamation costs by will be additionally incurred from 2018. To increase coal ash recycling rates, EWP developed low-priced, environmental impact assessment until the fifth year of power plant operation. 1.2 billion won Risk high-quality construction materials by improving the preexisting recycling method. EWP reduced the every year weight of construction materials by 15% and could save production costs by 30% with the new materials. Furthermore, EWP and Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST) worked on developing Inspection and Implementation of Environmental bottom ash** recycling technology for concrete. Diagnosis Process * The purpose of the Framework Act on Resource Circulation is to minimize waste by utilizing resources efficiently and to reduce the consumption of natural resources and energy by recycling waste and promoting proper disposal. EWP sought to improve its ability to respond to the environmental regulations by employing inhouse ** A type of coal ash generated from bituminous coal-fired power plants. Unlike fly ash which is recycled as an ingredient of cement, etc., lawyers and its diagnosis committee consisting of inhouse and external environmental experts conducted most bottom ash is buried. an environmental diagnosis process. Through this process, EWP took enterprise-wide environmental Recycling coal ash and technical advice, and improved the effectiveness of an environmental diagnosis by establishing an improvement plan and providing competency development training. Occurance of coal ash Recycling Results Environmental diagnosis process Developing Saving reclamation costs high-quality, by 1.2 billion won and Developing higher low-cost reducing 86,000 tons of GHG, Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 value-added construction by recycling 100,000 tons technologies materials of coal ash Establishing Review and Sharing of An environmental diagnosis committee improvement diagnosis risk diagnosis consisting of inhouse planning results and on all business and external by business reinforcement premises Recycling of gypsum and coal ash environmental experts operations of feedback Type 2014 2015 2016 Generation (1,000 tons) 467 495 509 Recycling (1,000 tons) 459 480 507 Gypsum Recycling rate (%) 98.3 97 99.6 Post-environmental Management Use Gypsum board, cement ingredient, etc. EWP is systematically managing the environmental impact on power plants by conducting an Generation (1,000 tons) 1,872 1,801 1,881 environmental impact assessment and by holding a power plant operation meeting during the service Recycling (1,000 tons) 1,844 1,616 1,699 life of power plants. In addition, EWP assesses air quality, noise, and soil of the neighboring areas of Coal ash Recycling rate (%) 98.5 89.7 90.3 power plants with the assessment agency’s support. The results are reported to approval authorities Use Concrete admixture, cement ingredient, construction fill materials, etc. such as the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. Post-environmental management procedure Recycling of Hot Wastewater Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Increased local EWP established environmental model support projects for coexistence with residents by commercializing Collection of reports Preparation of Report to approval fishermen’s annual abalone using hot wastewater discharged from power plants. As a result of farming abalone using hot Post-environmental impact assessment assessment reports (Climate & Environment authorities Team in Power incomes by 90 wastewater, its survival rate increased to 75%. The high survival rate of abalone increases farmers’ and planning (Business operations concerned) Generation Division) (Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) million won fishermen’s annual incomes by 90 million won. EWP will increase the use of hot wastewater by constructing farm complexes for bell peppers, tomatoes, etc. in the neighboring areas of power plants. The system of recycling hot wastewater Developed Current status of post-environmental impact assessment Commercializing Supply to technology of abalone fishermen Effects farming abalone Power Ulsan Combined2015.1 2016.1 2016.4 Dangjin #1-8 Dangjin #9-10 Donghae Plants cycle Power #4 · R&D for farming · Permitted to · Discharged · Increased local Assessment 1994.07-2017.12 2009.10-2021.06 2011.12-2018.07 2012.06-2019.07 abalone fishery abalone being fishermen’s period ▲ Abalone farm near Dangjin Coal-fired · Permitted to (Dangjin City) nurtured to incomes by 90 Diffusion of hot wastewater, air quality, noise, soil, seawater quality, Power Plant occupy and use · Operated abalone local water million won Assessment marine sediment quality, marine ecosystem, agricultural products, public waters (Dangjin Power · Discharged 50,000mi per year items terrestrial plants and eco-friendly resource circulation Plant) of abalone 61 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 62 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES 02 Understanding Fine Dust EWP’s Efforts to Special Issue Reduce Fine Dust Composition and sources of fine dust Agreement on the fine dust reduction goal with the government Fine dust is classified into inhalable coarse particles (PM10) and fine particles (PM2.5) depending on its According to the Ministry of Environment, the thermal power plants constitute 14% and 11% of fine dust in size. Fine dust is composed of sulphate/nitrate (58.3%) generated during the combustion of fossil fuels of nationwide and metropolitan areas, respectively. As thermal power plants are blamed as one of the causes of fine dust, the government and the energy industry formed a consultative group to improve air quality. automobiles, power plants and industrial processes, and carbon/soot (16.8%) resulting from the unstable Power generation companies agreed to reduce pollutants by 50% of the emissions of 2015 until 2030. combustion of fossil fuels. In addition to artificial sources such as fossil fuel combustion, automobiles, industrial production processes and biomass combustion, fine dust is generated from natural sources including yellow dust, volcanic activities, dust, pollen and scattering salt from waves. EWP’s fine dust reduction goal Size of Fine Dust Composition of Fine Dust Unit : % To achieve its own fine dust reduction goal, EWP has established and carried out a phased environmental facility and high-efficient facility replacement plan in consideration of power demand. Others 18.6% 2030 Companywide reduction of air pollutants by 77% (coal-fired power plants) Steps STEP 1. 2019 STEP 2. 2022 STEP 3. 2030 Sea sand 90㎛ Hair 50-70㎛ Goals 31%  compared to 2015 53%  77%  Minerals PM2.5 6.3% Preemptive •Dangjin#1~8: 1st stage of facility denitration catalysts •Dangjin #1~8, Donghae #1,2: Replacing and constructing Carbon and soot improvement Reduction •Donghae#1,2: Constructing high-efficient environmental facilities 16.8% measures denitrification facilities Sulphate, nitrate, etc. •Honam#1,2: Replacing •Honam#1,2: Replacing fuels and converting into biomass Fine dust 10㎛ Fine particles 2.5㎛ 58.3% denistration catalysts Effects on human health Fine dust affects human health in different ways depending on its size. Although fine dust with a diam15% Reduced air pollutants from coal-fired power plants by 15% Preemptive facility improvement EWP reduced air pollutant concentrations by 15% year on year by improving desulfurization and denitrification facilities. Furthermore, EWP improved the shapes of desulfurization facilities and resolved the blockage issues, and increased the reactivity by improving the types of denitration catalyst facilities. eter of over 50㎛ accumulates on or naturally settles into the ground, fine dust with a diameter of 2.5㎛ year on year through preemptive Improvement of environmental prevention facilities and performances facility improvement or less may penetrate into the blood vessels via the lungs, skin, etc. or cause circulatory disorders in the Air Pollutants Issues Improvements Performances human body. •Improved the shapes of desulfurization gas •Reduced sulfur oxides Blockage heat exchanger through prevention of of the heat (Former) Thermal double wave patterns  degradation Sulfur exchanger (Present) Single wave patterns, gap expansion (24ppm  21ppm) Types of emissions Secondary formation process of fine dust (PM2.5) Early oxides and •Strengthened quality of desulfurization gas •Ensuring credibility reduction frequent stage reheater structures of operating heat 60,000 Fine dust may be directly emitted as particles VOCS strategy corrosion (Former) Steel+ low alloy steel  exchangers through OH (Present) High alloy steel quality improvement from its sources or indirectly discharged through O3 photochemical reactions of gases, such as SOx, NO Blockage of •Increased reactivity of denitrification chemicals •Reduced emission of NOx, etc. In case of indirect emissions, precursors O3 O3 Energy from light RO2 Tons denitration by improving the type of denitrification catalysts nitrogen oxides Nitrogen catalysts (Former) Hive-shaped catalyst  (73ppm  63ppm) such as SOx and NOx resulting from fossil fuel NO2 HNO3 Secondary organic particles Planning to reduce fine dust oxides and (Present) Applied flat-surfaced catalysts •Ensured credibility of combustion are oxidized by reacting with water NH4NO3 precursors by 60,000 tons instability of •Prevented denitrification catalysts' blockage by operating denitrification OH NH3 combustion capturing large amount of ash facilities SO2 H2SO4 (NH4)2SO4 vapor, ozone (O3), etc. and these oxides generate secondary fine dust through reacting with ammonia H2O (NH3) in the air. Early reduction strategy Precursors Secondary formation of PM2.5 By moving forward the performance improvement work by five years, which is supposed to be conducted 25 Reactive factors, intermediate materials years after the completion of power plant construction, EWP plans to reduce fine dust precursors by 60,000 tons. 63 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 64 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Employees Electric Power National and local Business Local Environmental MATERIAL ISSUE Corporations governments partners residents Organization 04 HAPPY AND FUTURE PLANS SAFE WORKPLACE Personnel management based on the National Establishment of educational system Enhancing personnel management for Realization of response systems Managing the safety management to enhance job levels of business Competency Standards open contract by disaster type competence partners (NCS) workers EWP is raising the value of its employees based on respect for humanity, that is care and safety. It is a prerequisite for the growth of EWP to create a culture of respect for each other and improve the quality of the safety of employees through work-life balance. EWP also recognizes that it has the responsibility of ensuring the safety of its employees and business partners, as well as the safety of local communities through a preemptive and thorough safety management. INTERVIEW Many of the workers at power plants consist of partner companies’ employees. Ten-year statistical data on safety accidents show a high rate of such accidents among partner OUR STRATEGY & EFFORTS companies’ employees. EWP is devoted to securing the safety of the employees by entrusting industrial safety To create a happy workplace, EWP is practicing management that respects humanity promoting fair personnel management, competency management to external professional organizations. Above all, enhancement training and cooperation between labor and management. In addition, it is pursuing a family-friendly management that can help to provide sufficient information on safety and enhance safety employees maintain healthy work-life balance so that they can enjoy a happy family life. In addition, to protect the safety of its employees, EWP is consciousness, it has created and screened videos on the five preemptively preventing disasters and safety accidents that may arise in its power plants, and conducting safety and health management to support major safety regulations that emphasize the compliance with employees’ health maintenance and create a safe working environment. basic rules. In addition, EWP supports regular health check-ups, disease and stress prevention education for employees’ basic health Fair personnel Development Preemptive Safety and Thorough management, and assesses the risk factors in the working Family-friendly management of employees’ safety accident health disaster environment to strengthen safety in daily life. As part of management system competence prevention management responses national infrastructure, a public energy company’s power plants should preemptively respond to various disasters such as natural disasters and terrorism, and should exert special efforts to prevent secondary accidents including problems in OUR PERFORMANCES national energy supply. EWP has striven to prevent disasters by applying the higher standards than those recommended No. of employees who S 38,586 Disaster Response by the government, to earthquake-resistant design, sensing have participated in facilities and other anti-disaster measures. On the other hand, and Safety Drill for education and training four consecutive as part of post-disaster response measures, it is carrying out years grade increased by people comprehensive disaster drills for all employees to ensure 30% year on year rapid information dissemination and evacuation capabilities. 812 No. of employees who EWP will do its best to take responsibility in ensuring a happy have utilized flextime life for each employee and their families, and keep aiming increase by 16.1% year on year people at an accident rate of 0%, by upgrading the disaster safety system based on ICT. 4.03 Total average score of Kim Jong-ha safety culture maturity points Deputy General Manager entered Level 4 Disaster Management Team, EWP 65 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 66 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Happy Employing fair recruitment and personnel management system, EWP is creating a working environment free of discrimination. It is also continuously developing and operating a system to raise the quality of the Development of Employees’ Competence Workplace Strengthening capacity by position life of its employees, thereby increasing their satisfaction level of the welfare system. EWP institutionalized leadership training for senior managers as a regular program. Establishing reading management integrated support system, EWP was certified as a workplace with excellent Fair Personnel Management System reading management by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism for two consecutive years. Capacity-centered employment EWP manages its personnel management process based on NCS levels. Job descriptions and recruitment Leadership training system for senior managers criteria are disclosed to the public at the time of recruitment, and information with low relevance with demanded jobs, such as applicants’ photographs, education background, overseas training experiences, Leadership training for senior Previous training system Organization's needs etc. is not required to be provided in the application form. In addition, unfair applicants are excluded from managers (regular program) hiring, and their application forms are returned to them to maintain a thorough and fair capacity-centered Senior managers Employees eligible for promotion employment system. The new climate regime in effect Leadership training institutionalized ·Job grade 1: one-on-one coaching, ↓ into a regular program for those ·Carried out on a group training Need for future business at job grades 2 to 3 with four to six leaders Socially equitable employment one-time basis for ·Job grade 2: one-on-one coaching, working years: Sensibility, integrity, specific issues group training, e-learning ↓ transformational leadership → 17% higher local EWP classified the groups depending on their gender, educational levels, local talents and the ·Job grade 3: group training, e-learning Need for leadership of senior training satisfaction level of 99% managers employment rate than disadvantaged, and set out goals for each group. In 2016, EWP exceeded the goals for each group, while it the targeted rate achieved a 17% higher rate than it intended in the local employment. Improvement of competence development training Socially equitable employment system Employment goals Employment results Annual training results EWP restructured its educational organization into three departments to secure educational Budget (thousand won) Category System and efforts to achieve the goals Employment goals and results No. of participants infrastructure; it also encouraged the training staff to obtain the qualifications of human resource 2,680 managers and participate in the 2016 ATD International Conference and Exposition. In addition, · Implementation of employment quota system for gender equity 15% 2014 Women 24,628 · Employment in favor of women on a career break, etc. 23.6% through a mandatory annual survey on the entire curriculum, the evaluation and feedback of trainees 2,540 are reflected in training for improvement. As of 2016, the training period per employee is 211 hours, · Separate recruitment processes (to prevent college graduates 2015 29,735 20% High school graduates 4.5 times longer than that of Korean public institutions. The overall employee competence index from applying for the jobs requiring lower level of education) 20.3% 2,697 2016 38,586 score amounts to 4.76 points, which is increasing for the third straight year. All · Expansion of employment quota system and continuous implementation 35% applicants of the “College Students’ Energy Job Search” program 52.1% Local talents Relocated 10% Female manager fostering system · Preferential employment region 12.1% Women eligible Unit: persons Aiming at 6% of women among all managers, EWP has established the four areas of personnel for promotion 3% management as below. Disabled 30 3.4% 26 The · Separate recruitment process 23 disadvantaged · Preferential employment Fourareas of personnel management to foster female managers Employment 9% support 9.4% 2014 2015 2016 [Recruitment] [Promotion] Ensuring the pool of potential female leaders Giving more opportunities for women Female employee Unit: points Employment of women on a career break capability index ·Employment quota system: more than 15% · Requirement to set priority for promoting senior of newly recruited persons managers Women with Unit: persons EWP supports women on a career break by discovering the jobs suitable for a flexible working hour 4.71 ·Continuous increase in women among the · Reduction of requisite period for promotion: time-selective jobs 4.57 system within the scope of 40 hours a week. With the revitalization of the employment system for women 4.42 eligible for promotion (from job grade 3) priority for women 2014 7 on a career break, the number of EWP’s female workers in jobs with flexible working hours more than 2015 15 2014 2015 2016 [Training] [Work-family balance] doubled from 7 in 2014 to 20 in 2016. 2016 20 Support for the fostering of female leaders Creation of motherhoodand family-friendly culture Prevention of discrimination based on education level Proportion of Unit: % ·Competence enhancement training for 32 ·Lucky 7 Time-Out (Automatic lights-out system female managers female managers (at job grade 3 or higher) to encourage employees to leave the office on time EWP selects applicants through NCS-based competence assessment and criteria for determining promotions, and 4.9 ·Training to foster 54 female leaders for EWP ·Three years of parental leave salary grades ensure fairness as they have reasonably differentiated requirements between high school graduate and 4.3 future leadership ·Increase in daycare centers: 1 → 2 (Dangjin, Ulsan) 3.7 college graduate employees. Also, EWP is supporting high school graduate employees in their entrance into colleges or the in-house college to enhance their competitiveness. 2014 2015 2016 67 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 68 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Family-Friendly Management Safe Ensuring a safe workplace is one of the top priorities in the sustainable management of EWP. It is committed to creating a stable working environment through preemptive safety accident prevention, Improvement of flextime Workplace safety and health management activities and thorough disaster responses. Satisfaction level of EWP shortened the minimum interval for flexible commute time, from a weekly basis to daily basis, and flextime operation in increased the efficiency of telework through the use of a cloud system. Also, it has diversified the types of Preemptive Safety Accident Prevention the flextime introducing the four-day workweek, which is a compressed work system reducing working 2016: 90 points days. As a result, the number of employees using the flextime has increased to 812, which is up by 16.1% Safety management by maintenance skill level from the previous year. No. of employees who Unit: persons EWP has standardized the safety management for short-term workers, which had been carried out by its have utilized flextime Flextime operation results business partners, into a new safety management system tailored to the maintenance skill levels of each 2014 598 worker. In this system, field workers are classified into new workers with little maintenance experience, Working Type Definition 2015 699 the less skilled with a career shorter than 100 days and the skilled with a career longer than 100 days. 2016 812 Flexible commute time Working 8 hours a day and commuting at desired times Each group is provided with vests in different colors, and various tasks ranging from simple repair to Working 5 days a week at desired hours a day, instead of fixed 8 hours, Flexible work hours more important ones such as cost down operation are assigned to workers in each group, depending on within the scope of 40 working hours a week. their skill level. In addition, this system requires additional safety training at the workplace as well as Compressed work Working 3.5 to 4 days a week, and 10 to 12 hours a day legally mandatory ones, thereby raising safety consciousness. schedule At-home work Working at home instead of the office Smart work Working in other office spaces, such as a nearby Smart Work Center Strengthening of overhaul safety management Number of safety accidents Unit: cases EWP has improved its guidelines for overhaul* safety management to strengthen the safety management for its employees and the workers of its business partners. Based on a statistical analysis on past safety Priority given to employees’ rest 2014 22 accidents that showed a relatively high occurrence rate of safety accidents during overhauls (44.5%), it 2015 13 Employees’ satisfaction To create a culture that prevents any disadvantages to the employees who want to take rest or leave, EWP 2016 3 has revised its previous guidelines to give priority to “safety” in the process of an overhaul. In a case that level of the welfare has received a pledge on the efforts to lead such a culture from all employees. In addition, by collecting any failure of devices is detected through the inspection of witness points** by supervisors, the process and reflecting opinions from employees about leaves in the system, the number of employees who have is discontinued under the new guidelines. This has contributed greatly to the decrease in the number of system in 2016: taken extended leave increased by 49 persons from the previous year. accidents: only three accidents occurred in 2016, which is down 75% compared with 2015. 85 points * A regular inspection and maintenance carried out to maintain the performance of generators; prevent the failure of various devices; and Employees’ opinions and feedback on improvement of the leave system enhance the reliability and performance of equipment ** Identified points in the process of work that supervisors may inspect and review Employees’ opinions Changes in the system Employees who have Unit: persons taken extended leave ·Introduction and operation of compensation leave system Rest more than pay (100% compensation for overtime work) Strengthening of on-site safety communication 2014 555 Necessity of an 2015 554 ·Annual leave carried over to the next year (leave saving system) A TBM (Tool Box Meeting), where work plan and safety precautions are shared prior to the commencement extended leave 2016 603 of work, is conducted in different ways depending on each business partner and as a mere formality. To Application for a leave ·Deletion of the reason ffrom the application form without concerns ·Internal evaluation of leave usage rates, and the results reflected in the ensure that the importance of TBMs is not overlooked, EWP has standardized the process of a TBM in the about disadvantages KPI assessment for each team leader order of risk inference, announcement and sharing, work implementation and a closing meeting, while strengthening the provision of feedback by requiring a report in the case of insufficient response to an accident. This has contributed to active communication on the field conditions among workers and the Childcare support system enhancement of the awareness of safety accidents. Certified as a familyEWP has developed the Easing MOM (mind of mother) Package as a phased-support system to help friendly company three mother workers during the periods of their pregnancy, childbirth and childcare. In addition, it has secured the workforce that will replace mother workers who take time off. times from 2010 to 2018 No. of employees who Unit: persons Easing MOM (mind of mother) Package have taken parental leave Stages Pregnancy Childbirth Childcare 2014 21 2015 41 2016 54 · Shortened working hours · Before and after · Parental leave, and shortened for pregnant workers childbirth leave working hours for parents with Systems · Leave for regular fetal young children checkups · Part-time and at-home work · Baby shower · Naming service for a · Workplace ▲ On-site inspection of generating units Welfare newborn daycare center Benefits · Childbirth gift in money 69 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 70 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Safety and Health Management Thorough Disaster Responses Communicative safety management Reinforcement of response system to cope with accidents in power plants Accident rate of EWP EWP’s executive members direct construction during high-risk work in the process of overhaul and EWP has reinforced the CCTV surveillance system for disaster prevention with a total of 849 CCTVs in operations, which are monitored and managed by both the headquarters and the business operations. contracts in 2016: 0.19% participate in TBMs to strengthen communication about safety. In addition, EWP has shared safety management measures and raised awareness of safety through a CEO-led forum on safety with business In addition, by reinforcing the monitoring of hazardous facilities with the extended scope of monitoring operations and partner companies, and a joint CRO-led workshop for the personnel in charge of safety of toxic chemicals and hazardous material storage facilities, it preemptively responds to accidents. in EWP and partner companies. As a result, the accident rate of EWP contracts* was only 0.19% in 2016, Furthermore, EWP plans to improve the fire monitoring system operated by manpower into an automatic which exceeds the year’s goal by 63.5%. fire detection system and gradually expand it to all business opeations from 2017. * Accident rate of EWP contracts: The proportion of disaster victims per 100 employees Joint response system to cope with accidents around power plants S grade in the Disaster EWP has become the first power company to set up a joint use and management plan for disaster control Response and Safety resources in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Safety and Security and build a response process to cope with major accidents. In addition, Dangjin Coal-fired Power Plant signed a business agreement Drill for four consecutive with the Seosan Joint Inter-Agency Chemical Emergency Preparedness Center, Ulsan Oil-fired & years (2013-2016) C.C Power Complex concluded mutual support agreements with six companies including SK Gas. In addition, it established a public-private partnership system that supports fire trucks and an independent fire brigade for first responses in case of accidents, and strengthened this cooperation system through ▲ EWP executives participating in safety and health management periodic joint training. With these efforts, EWP received a grade of S in the Disaster Response and Safety Drill for for four consecutive years. Evaluation of safety culture maturity level Stockpile resource management of disaster control resources Maturity level of Unit: points EWP has used LSCAT* for the assessment of safety culture maturity levels of the employees at job grades safety culture Analysis of Affirmation Mutual support Spread to public from 2 to 4 in nine areas, including participation rate. In 2016, the overall average maturity score rose to disasters and of common agreements with institutions 2014 3.95 4.03, increasing by 0.06 points compared with the previous year and indicating the level of “mutual safety.” risks resources agencies (education) 2015 3.97 In this year’s safety culture maturity assessment, EWP achieved relatively high scores corresponding to 2016 4.03 the level of advanced companies in the categories of “the recognition of necessity, priority given to safety and the support of the management.” In the categories of “safety task participation and support,” the scores were higher compared with the previous year. Support for business partners’ safety management * LSCAT: a safety culture assessment tool jointly developed by the UK Health and Safety Executive (HSE) and the Centre for Hazard and Risk Management, Loughborough University Achieved the safety EWP supports its business partners in the acquisition of the KOSHA 18001 certification. It has supported the certification of all achievement of the certification of four partner companies including that of Dangjin Coal-fired Power Plant and Geumhwa PSC, thereby completing the certification process of all the resident partner companies of the resident partner Safety and health activities for employees EWP. In 2016, it provided the certification examination fee to its new business partner in Ulsan. companies EWP provided CPR training to enhance the capacity to respond to emergencies in the workplace, and healthcare professionals at each business operations offer personalized health management programs. Strengthening response to earthquake In addition, by organizing personalized counseling and health management plans for each disease and EWP expanded the earthquake alarm and status update service to be provided to its business partners holding experts’ lectures on the healthy lifestyle, it seeks to raise employees’ awareness on health. In as well as all employees. Also, EWP strengthened the standards for its earthquake response process addition, as part of the Three Zero Workplace Project that aims at a workplace free of smoking, obesity to be undertaken at the magnitude of 3.0. In addition, the one-phase earthquake response training and stress, EWP supports basic health check-ups, mental health care and exercise programs. was upgraded into the two-phase one from May 2016, and since the same year, EWP has reinforced earthquake resistance of its buildings by entrusting the establishment of seismic design standards to an outside service provider. ▲ Lectures by health experts ▲ Exercise program support ▲ Disaster Response and Safety Drills 71 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 72 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Employees Electric Power National and local Business Local Environmental MATERIAL ISSUE Corporations governments partners residents Organization 05 WIN-WIN GROWTH WITH FUTURE PLANS BUSINESS PARTNERS Nurturing Practical support Response to the Job creation startups, and small/ to shipyards and opening of the power for SMEs strong and venture marine transport plant service market to businesses industry the private sector As the domestic electric power industry market gradually becomes saturated and new industry trends form, EWP needs firm support from its business companies to achieve sustainable growth. Also, helping partner companies fully exert their capabilities is essential for the growth of the national economy and the local community as well as the growth of EWP. The stable growth of SMEs is soil and a base where a healthy corporate ecosystem can take root and grow. That is why EWP wants to create a culture of coexistence with its business partners pursuing win-win growth. INTERVIEW APEC has enjoyed an opportunity to cooperate with EWP in supplying optimal power generation facilities such as Dangjin Small Hydro Power Facility Unit 2 and Bukpyeong OUR STRATEGY & EFFORTS Marine Power Facility for the past seven years. In particular, EWP allowed us to use Dangjin Coal-fired Power Plant as a EWP is committed to fostering globally strong SMEs under the CEO’s philosophy that places emphasis on mutual growth with SMEs. It has provided demonstration complex to verify our technology through an systematic support through a dedicated task force for the win-win growth and taken the lead in supporting the R&D of SMEs for the manufacturing agreement on test-beds for SMEs’ self-developed products. of excellent SME products. Also, EWP’s program to assist export starter companies and Power Silk Road Project have been carried out to support its Furthermore, EWP issued us a certificate for the verified business partners in pioneering overseas markets so that they grow into leading export companies. technology in the name of EWP’s CEO. This helped us successfully pioneer domestic and overseas markets and gain the opportunity to generate new sales profits, and the securing of our own products also led to job creation. Systematic Strengthening core Support for SMEs' Sustaining SMEs' management of competencies of Overseas Market In January 2017, APEC joined the EWP project to develop Competitiveness win-win growth SMEs Opening a project management system (PMS) for energy storage devices to stabilize the output of marine power plants. This task for the development of a battery that can store and produce power using infinite seawater is expected to secure power quality of new and renewable energy such as OUR PERFORMANCES tidal power. 83 First public Domestic products replacing imported ones in power APEC hopes that EWP will maintain its active technologyintensive and strategic partnership alliances with SMEs so enterprise generation facilities as of 2016 % that they can continue to participate in such domestic and international projects and research. We will do our best to grow into a strong partner in engineering and overseas 1.2 business for EWP, as well as to contribute to the sustainable Exports of SMEs participating growth of the local community through this partnership. in EWP’s overseas market pioneering support project trillion won Simon N. Paik 10 CEO and President to have ever established Won the Award of Asian Power & Energy Corp. a win-win consultative Best Project Discovery group with marine equipment manufacturers for ten consecutive years years 73 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 74 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Enhancing EWP has built the Win-win Growth 4.0 model to reflect CEO’s willingness to grow together with business partners. It will devote itself to enhancing the corporate values of its business partners by focusing on Sustaining SMEs’ Competitiveness Value with the major four tasks of the model: Fostering Total Solution Providers, expanding high value-added R&D, Support for the demonstration and commercialization of SMEs’ products operating the EWP Win-win Growth Energy Valley and operating the New Export Platform led by SMEs. EWP invested KRW 950 million in the project and held a demonstration session of SMEs’ products twice during EWP Systematic Management of Win-win Growth the first and second half, respectively, helping them find markets for the verified products. In 2016, it awarded certification of performance to the SME products verified through demonstration of 18 cases and from 2011 to 2016, it purchased excellent certified SME products worth KRW 25.6 billion. The SMEs that participated in the project created new revenues of KRW 94.5 billion through the commercialization of their products. Organizations for win-win growth The Win-win Growth Center has a system that can pursue win-win growth with SMEs mostly in the Process of the power plant demonstration support project areas of R&D, engineering and construction technology. In addition, to establish and implement practical measures to accomplish such growth, EWP has run the Win-win Growth Committee composed of the Recruitment of Acquisition of CEO, the head office, business operations and the Association of EWP Partner SMEs. The committee companies participating Examination of Conclusion of Pilot performance in pilot installation pilot installation agreement on pilot installation certification and supports EWP’s company-wide win-win growth programs such as the provision of technical advice, (twice in 1H and 2H, feasibility installation on-site advance in domestic/ education and training on generating units and the procurement of SMEs’ products, thereby contributing respectively) overseas markets to the growth of SMEs. Organization and Roles of the Win-win Growth Committee Increase in localization rate of power generation facilities Win-win Growth Committee Localization rate of Unit % To help domestic companies in their development of equipment, EWP has identified the imported equipment power generation facilities used in its power plants that can be replaced by domestic products while leading high-value-added R&D for 2014 81 the increase in the use of domestic products in power generation facilities. With this, EWP has established an Business Association of EWP CEO Head office 2015 82 initiative for the expansion of R&D for the use of domestic products to secure the technological competitiveness operation Partner SMEs 2016 83 of EWP and SMEs. As a result, 83% of the existing imported products in the power generation facilities were Providing technical Collecting ideas In charge of the Purchase replaced by domestic products as of 2016. This also led to a cost saving of KRW 8 billion. advice to SMEs and and suggestions, overall process of consultations, education and training and participation company-wide win-win the procurement on generating units in problem-solving growth programs of SMEs, etc. to site personnel process Expansion of joint R&D with SMEs An R&D cooperation EWP has selected 4 core research tasks such as the replacement of foreign products with domestic Practical tasks for win-win growth fund of KRW 17.2 billion ones, new product development, new convergence technology, new business and new and renewable energy. It has also simplified the procedures needed for joint R&D applications and lowered the level of Through the surveys conducted with EWP employees and 132 partner SMEs, EWP extracted five required arrangement from a contract to an agreement to ease the burden on SMEs. In addition, EWP practical tasks to accomplish win-win growth: expanding the purchase of SMEs’ products, supporting discovered a total of 140 research projects from 2005 to 2016 with the establishment of a research and the development of joint R&D projects, expanding the support for overseas exporting, strengthening development cooperation fund of 17.2 billion won, which led to its winning of the Award of Best Project competitiveness of SMEs, and building infrastructure for win-win growth. In addition, EWP established Discovery at the 2016 Innovative Technology Show for nine consecutive years. the goals of each task and performance indicators to evaluate the efforts of fulfilling these tasks. Practical Tasks for Win-win Growth Introduction of gas-turbines designed for the use of domestic parts Localization rate of EWP has replaced the imported parts of the gas-turbines at its LNG power plants with the domestic Expanding Supporting Expanding Building the purchase the development the support for Strengthening infrastructure gas-turbines 78% ones. In particular, Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant has operated a gas-turbine designed for the use competitiveness of domestic parts to promote the commercialization of SMEs’ products. In addition, it has held an R&D of SMEs’ of joint R&D overseas for win-win (Saving KRW 11 billion) of SMEs technology exchange meeting and shared technology development cases for SMEs. The usage rate of products projects export growth domestic parts for the gas-turbines at EWP’s power plants increased from 56% in 2012 to 78% in 2016, resulting in a saving of KRW 11 billion in maintenance costs for foreign-made parts. Task performance included in the employee evaluation indicators Budget for win-win EWP rewards employees’ achievements based on the results of assessment using the win-win growth growth support task performance indicators such as strengthening competitiveness of SMEs, expanding the purchase of SMEs’ products and expanding high-value-added joint R&D projects. This leads to the enhancement of KRW 27.5 billion the employees’ consciousness of win-win growth and the rise in their willingness to accomplish related tasks. In 2016, EWP actively pushed forward with its goals for win-win growth with a budget of KRW 27.5 billion, which increased by KRW 5.6 billion over the previous year. ▲ Gas-turbine designed for the use of domestic parts at Ilsan ▲ Agreement on the power plant demonstration support project Combined Heat & Power Plant 75 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 76 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Strengthening Core Competencies of SMEs Support for SMEs’ Overseas Market Opening Support for entrance of marine equipment manufacturers Power Silk Road Project for supporting overseas market opening Purchase of business into power generation market Achieved USD EWP is carrying out the Power Silk Road Project, which supports its business partners with the process of vendor registration, finding overseas buyers and understanding overseas markets. It has conducted partners’ products worth EWP is systematically supporting its business partners by establishing a roadmap for the entry into the 19.52 million a questionnaire survey on overseas advancement for 150 power generation equipment manufacturers power generation market, and it is also cooperating with related local agencies in various ways through KRW 1.52 billion contracts through to establish a support system tailored to their overseas expansion, and concluded agreements with a win-win consultative group with marine equipment manufacturers. In addition, EWP has invested KRW 5.65 billion in R&D for supporting its business partners in their advancement into the power generation new market opening KOTRA, national agents and export councils to diversify its support for SMEs’ overseas markets. This led to contracts worth a total of USD 19.52 million from newly pioneered markets in India, Southeast Asia market, while purchasing their products worth KRW 1.52 billion. and the Middle East. Roadmap for EWP Power Silk Road Project Industry Innovation Movement 3.0 for building a growth ladder for SMEs Export leading Nurturing EWP Power Silk Road enterprises Participation of 80 EWP has led Industry Innovation Movement 3.0 to help SMEs improve their working environment and companies companies and operating systems. It has attempted to to support them in three areas: innovation of manufacturing condition, innovation of production management technology and smart factory implementation. A total achievements worth EWP: Support export fees + KOTRA: Management of export tasks of 80 companies have participated in Industry Innovation Movement 3.0 from 2013 to 2016, achieving New platform for Southeast Middle KRW 3.56 billion financial performance worth KRW 3.56 billion in financial performance. abroad export Asia China East India CIS* Strategies and support for Industry Innovation Movement 3.0 Selection screening Selection of 5 companies Establishment Recruitment Conclusion Performance Export promising of business plan of SMEs of agreements analysis Pool of global competent companies (companies with Solution Provider) companies ·Production site Support for growth ·Growth of SME ·Companies with innovation ·KPI improvement business great growth Export starter Pool of Export starter companies ·Production rate partners potential companies (2nd, 3rd partners of local SMEs and marine equipment companies) management ·Financial ·Reflection of ·Companies with technology performance productivity excellent ·Smart factory analysis innovation R&D capability implementation On-site Direct Market opening Support for growth R&D support verification purchasing support * Commonwealth of Independent States Win-win Supporters for nurturing startups and venture businesses EWP is operating the Win-win Supporters Program in order to revitalize the regional economy by strategically Cooperation with related organizations fostering startups and venture businesses. In cooperation with six organizations including the Ulsan Metropolitan Government and the Small & Medium Business Administration, EWP is endeavoring to develop Exports of participating To provide practical support to partner companies in their market pioneering, EWP cooperates with 90 startups and venture businesses as small hidden global champions. In particular, EWP and the Ulsan companies amounting to other power generation companies in organizing overseas energy exhibitions and export conferences inviting overseas buyers. In addition, EWP has also hosted field-trips to Vietnam buyers’ power plants Metropolitan Government raised a total of 9 billion won for funds by investing 1.5 billion won, which is the KRW 1.2353 trillion and export conferences, including purchase consultation for invited Indian buyers in cooperation with largest investment among public organizations. In consideration of the business features of startups and (up by 25.5% from the previous year) KOTRA, contributing to its business partners’ active overseas market pioneering. In 2016, 57 companies venture businesses, EWP established the supporting process, focusing on consulting, technical support and participating in the New Export Platform Project achieved exports totaling KRW 1.2353 trillion, which market support. In 2016, it found 35 startups and venture businesses with strong growth potential in Ulsan. increased by 25.5% compared with the previous year. Supporting process of win-win supporters Support for advancement into EWP’s overseas business Operations Consulting support: Technology support: Support for market opening: KRW 1.9 billion KRW 4.0 billion KRW 3.1 billion Exports totaling USD EWP is promoting the use of SMEs’ products in its four overseas power plants. It uses SMEs’ successful R&D products in these overseas business operations and provides local bidding information to help ·Support for vendor 1.6 million to Indonesia ·Expert advising on the ·Provision of overseas SMEs advance into overseas markets. In addition, it holds seminars for 83 partner SMEs on strategies export market test-beds registration and the U.S. for overseas market opening, while supporting registration as global EPC* companies and certification ·Overseas exhibitions and ·Local legal and accounting ·Acquisition of overseas export consultation acquisition fees; and operating Win-win Growth South Asian Office, to lower the barriers to overseas consulting standard certification and ·Market pioneering groups ·Establishment of step-byrecognition market entry. These efforts led to simultaneous advancement into Indonesia and the U.S. in 2016, which ·Support for export activities step export strategy ·Localization of products through local agents resulted in exports totaling USD 1.6 million. * EPC (Engineering Procurement Construction): a form of project where a contractor who won a large-scale construction contract or an infrastructure contract is responsible for all the activities from design to procurement of parts and material, to construction. 77 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 78 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES 03 Establishment of the Special Issue Win-Win Growth 4.0 Model Enhancement of Enterprise Values through the Win-win Growth 4.0 Model EWP named its newly developed Win-win Growth 4.0 model as “Value Enhancement with EWP,” which Operation of EWP’s Win-win includes the meaning, “EWP makes you happy.” Then it established the four strategic tasks and the 16 Growth Energy Valley practical tacks aiming at the enhancement of enterprise values. In June 2016, EWP held a launching ceremony for the Win-Win Growth 4.0 model inviting the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, Large · Development of new future energy industry & Small Business Cooperation Foundation, Korea Council of Medium Industry and EWP’s employees, to · Strengthening of external competitiveness Fostering Total Solution Provider of SMEs show the willingness of the management to promote win-win growth with SMEs. In addition, it organized · Fostering of local venture and start-up the Association of EWP Partner SMEs and consultative bodies on R&D and export, in order to boost its · Nurturing 30 World-class companies businesses effort to implement the model. · Nurturing solution companies in · Support for power generation starter power plant service enterprises’ capability enhancement · Nurturing core power generation facility companies Establishment of a Mid and Long-Term Roadmap · Operating a council for resolving current issues Foste rin for Win-win Growth str g of P on Pursuing the Win-win Growth 4.0 model, EWP is implementing a roadmap for the globalization and W g ss -cla E independence of its business partners, after the process of building foundation and enhancing their rld capacity by 2025. EWP plans to carry out 250 R&D projects; discover 80 R&D companies; and accomplish wo MEs KRW 1 trillion in exports of partner SMEs by 2030, to ultimately create 100 Total Solution Provider Enhancement S companies. Win-win Growth 4.0 Model Roadmap of corporate values Core tasks STEP 1. STEP 2. STEP 3. 2016 ~2020 2021 ~2025 2026 ~2030 di Fostering Total Solution 10 companies 50 companies 100 companies an a Exp ed-v Providers ng add 180 projects 200 projects 250 projects Es Expansion of lu high SM performance-oriented R&D eR &D Establishment of the EWP Win-win Growth Energy Valley 40 companies 60 companies 80 companies Expansion of high-added-value R&D 250 billion won 500 billion won 1 trillion won Operation of the New Export Operation of the New Platform led by SMEs · Expansion of performance-oriented R&D Export Platform led by SMEs · Support for demonstrations in domestic and overseas power plants · Enhancement of business partners’ R&D capacity · Operation of a consultative body on export · Expansion of R&D product purchasing · Support for domestic and overseas market pioneering · Support for market pioneering by target Win-win Growth 4.0 Model Reflecting Stakeholders’ Opinions countries · Advancement into overseas markets in connection with overseas businesses EWP is the only power generation company in Korea that has been running an organization dedicated to win-win growth for 13 years to pursue sustainable win-win growth with its partners. To build an advanced win-win growth model, EWP launched a task force consisting of 30 people from the head office, related departments of its business operations and outside organizations. The task force has identified the internal and external environment changes and government policies. In addition, it has hosted debates on win-win growth models and conducted surveys for EWP’s 500 partner SMEs and 2,000 employees to collect the opinions of the stakeholders to establish the model. INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 80 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Employees Electric Power National and local Business Local Environmental MATERIAL ISSUE Corporations governments partners residents Organization 06 Happy Growth with FUTURE PLANS Local Communities Expanding the scope of volunteer Facilitating projects Increase in social Establishment of services, and planning and for the resolution problem-solving eco-friendly energy execution led by each of conflicts projects welfare projects department What completes a company’s sustainable growth is the support and interest of the local community. Therefore, EWP actively communicates with the local community and carries out social contribution activities to meet its needs. Using the characteristics and expertise of the power generation industry and discovering and faithfully performing its unique role in the community, EWP participates in sharing activities and contributes to local economic growth. INTERVIEW EWP has actively participated in the cultivating of human resources to improve the rights of social workers in Ulsan. This has also contributed to the improvement of social OUR STRATEGY & EFFORTS services for beneficiaries including the disadvantaged. EWP has provided its auditorium for the annual Social Workers’ EWP implements the social contribution program, “Happy Energy Dream,” to become a trusted energy company that fulfills its social responsibility Conference that is held to enhance the self-esteem of through the practice of sharing. It transforms the conflicts with the local community into opportunities, pushes forward with strategies to grow with more than 2,000 social workers in the Ulsan area, and the the residents, and spreads a culture of co-prosperity and sharing, by reflecting the characteristics of EWP and the region in its activities. To effectively employees of EWP have participated in the social worker conduct social contribution projects, EWP conducts evaluation and reflects feedback in the plans. Also, through the discovery of future projects and training as speakers. It is very meaningful that EWP, a cooperation with SMEs, it continues to create quality jobs. company based in Ulsan, is supporting and encouraging social workers of the city. For corporate social contribution, it is important that the Implementation Win-win developNew job creation Quality jobs Jobs for Spread of a culture company and the beneficiaries of services are well matched for Social ment with local system and linked to future win-win of sharing so that the former can meet the latter’s specific needs. Contribution communities achievements business growth EWP actively supports small traders as one of its social contribution activities by encouraging all employees to visit traditional markets during the holiday season and purchase many goods. When Typhoon Chaba struck Ulsan OUR PERFORMANCES in 2016, EWP quickly recovered the electricity facilities in the affected areas and also participated in the blood No. of households 1,613 donation campaign in the city. These are some examples benefited from EWP’s that illustrate EWP’s continuous efforts to find and meet energy welfare AAA local needs. programs for the households disadvantaged I hope that the EWP’s Committee for Social Contribution will be launched as soon as possible so that many social groups 14,133 No. of newly Top rating created jobs can work with EWP under a more systematic system. KoBEX SM Korean Business Ethics Index 106% up from the previous year jobs Sustainability Management Kim Bok-hui for nine consecutive 265 Donation for the Secretary-General years restoration of Ulsan Association of Social Workers damages caused by Typhoon Chaba million won 81 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 82 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Happy EWP is committed to growing together with its local communities through sharing. EWP actively communicates with the local community and contributes to the society based on the characteristics of Energy Welfare Unit: households Win-win Development with Local Communities Sharing and the power generation industry to create a culture of coexistence. for the Disadvantaged Promoting regional energy welfare EWP supports recipients of national basic living subsidies through donation to the Happy Energy Voucher 2014 72 Growth Implementation System for Social Contribution 2015 2016 103 1,613* project of the Health Points, which are gathered through the stair climbing campaign and the voluntary donation of the employees. In addition, for social welfare facilities that cannot afford proper management of electric equipment, EWP has replaced fluorescent lights with LED lights and inspected their electric Strategies for Social Contribution * Including electric facility restoration activity in areas struck by Typhoon Chaba equipment to help them save energy and prevent accidents. EWP also restored the electricity facilities EWP strives to become a public institution that is trusted by local communities through communityof the typhoon-stricken areas and contributed to the quick return to normal daily life of the typhoon based social contribution activities. It has set three strategic tasks for social contribution—resolving sufferers. EWP received an appreciation plaque from Jung-gu Office of Ulsan and an award certification conflicts, win-win growth with local communities, and spread of a culture of sharing—and established a from the mayor at the Ulsan City Volunteer Festival, in recognition of its restoration activities in the area system for company-wide fulfillment of social responsibilities under which volunteer activity is reflected affected by the typhoon. in employee evaluation for promotions. Donating prize money for the achievement of zero accident rate Implementation System for Social Contribution EWP awards prize money every year to its partner companies when it achieves the goal of a zero accident Mission We Make Energy for Happiness rate and also its resident partners. EWP and its partners, as members of the local community, have Vision A trusted energy company that fulfills its social responsibilities through sharing agreed to return this prize money to society. They have donated safety goods including fire extinguishers, fire detectors, emergency disaster prevention products and others to the facilities that are vulnerable to Brand Happy Growth with Local Communities through “Happy Energy Dream” safety accidents, such as social welfare facilities and military camps around the power plants and elderly Social contribution to Win-win development Spread of a culture people living alone. EWP and its business partners have returned approximately KRW 35 million prize Strategic tasks resolve conflicts with local communities of sharing money to the local community from 2014 to 2016. · Inclusion in internal evaluation indicators · Operation of a mileage system that rewards volunteer activities Direct trading market for local food Implementation system · Rewards to teams and individuals with excellent volunteer activity engagement EWP operates EWP Direct Trading Markets for agricultural products and local food so that locally · Reflecting volunteer activities in promotion evaluation cultivated and produced farm products and food can be consumed by locals. Dangjin Coal-fired Power Plant has held these direct trading markets at least four times a year to revitalize the local economy, and invited village enterprises and other villages in one-on-one sisterhood relationships with companies. Organization and management system for social contribution Direct transactions between agricultural producers and final buyers do not require intermediary fees, so Operating the EWP operates a social contribution organization and management system for strategic social contribution farmers can earn greater profits and consumers can buy agricultural products at lower prices, which makes these markets well-received among locals. volunteer team activities. It has formed a social contribution volunteer team consisting of 6 branches, 140 teams and 2,300 employees, and the collaboration with welfare centers and public institutions enhanced the 140 teams, 2,300 expertise of EWP’s social contribution projects. At the same time, it strives to encourage employees to employees participate in social contribution activities through reward and mileage systems for teams and individuals Spread of a Culture of Sharing with excellent volunteer activities. Scholarships for youth EWP Dangjin Coal-fired Power Plant’s scholarship committee has selected local scholarship students Evaluation and Improvement of Social Contribution Projects since 1995 and awarded them with as much as KRW 5.5 billion scholarships until 2016. In the same year, EWP has evaluated the social contribution projects that are currently being carried out by its employees. Ulsan Oil-fired & C.C Power Complex presented about KRW 150 million scholarships to 200 middle and The needs of internal and external stakeholders were analyzed through surveys and one-on-one high school students from low-income families. It has also provided musical instruments to children and interviews. Based on the results and feedback, EWP is improving its current social contribution projects. teenagers in need, and scholarships to soccer teams in elementary and middle schools. Feedback and improvements of social contribution projects Revitalization of local traditional markets · Surveys on the needs of the community, and EWP has purchased Onnuri Gift Certificates for the revitalization of local traditional markets, and designated · Beneficiary-oriented reflecting the results in the selection of volunteer activities a “day of visiting traditional markets” every month. It purchased Onnuri Gift Certificates worth KRW 760 External beneficiaries and the activity cycle feedback · Lack of professionalism in · Implementation of volunteer programs in million in 2016 and offered them to the employees to encourage them purchase goods in traditional service activities cooperation with external agencies markets, while also donating them to social welfare foundations to support both such foundations and (welfare centers, NGOs) traditional markets. In addition, EWP made a donation of KRW 265 million including goods to the traders of ▲ Spread of a culture of sharing · Rewards to departments and employees with Ulsan Taehwa Market, which has been in a stagnant state due to Typhoon Chaba in 2016. Internal · Lack of voluntary and active excellent performance on volunteer services feedback participation · Establishment of guidelines for the evaluation of diligence and attitude in volunteer services 83 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 84 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Job EWP seeks to boost the development of the local community and gain the power for the future growth through active job creation. It creates quality jobs through the promotion of new future businesses, Job creation through the Stepping Stone for employment EWP has collaborated with four major power generation companies in Korea to conduct training Creation overseas investment and support to SMEs. and internship on the power generation industry for about five months, from participant selection to recruitment, which led to the creation of eight jobs for youth in 2016. In addition, EWP is also running New Job Creation System and Achievements another “Stepping Stone for Employment” program, dedicated to finding excellent marine equipment companies and the Open Power Plant program*. Through this program, it has discovered more than In the midst of advancement of private power generation companies and ICT convergence market, EWP 200 new marine equipment companies, helping workers with shipbuilding skills find a job again and has continued to discover practical tasks for creating new jobs, which totaled 14,133 in 2016. promoting the participation of new maintenance companies in the projects. These efforts resulted in the ▲ Open Power Plant Program creation of 61 jobs in 2016. Job creation system * One of EWP’s win-win growth programs that aims at the enhancement of the understanding of power generation facilities through an annual field-trip to power plants for the observation of equipment disassembly/maintenance work and field experience. Job creation goals Creating sustainable and quality jobs by promoting new future businesses Investment Increase in Stepping Stone Win-win projects outsourced work for employment growth Jobs for Win-win Growth Strategic Directions Newly created Job creation through support for market expansion 4,350 jobs EWP is carrying out the Power Silk Road project to support globalization and future growth of energyrelated SMEs, venture and startup companies. It is helping participating companies in nine areas Job creation achievements Regular Position Temporary Position Units: jobs including facility and space rentals, mentoring and consulting support and overseas market pioneering. EWP is actively supporting the market opening of the participating companies by using the capabilities 2014 2015 2016 and network of EWP. As a result, the participating companies achieved sales of KRW 550.8 billion in total Investment including a contract for USD 2.3 million with India, and created 4,350 jobs. 10,096 4,973 15,069 3,199 1,576 4,775 4,866 2,289 7,155 projects Increase in 162 54 216 211 91 302 427 164 591 outsourced work Job creation through support for SMEs’ R&D projects Stepping Stone 50 19 69 for Employment Revenues of KRW 26.5 EWP is helping SMEs in their development of the technologies that demanders such as public agencies Win-win Growth 4,408 2,024 4,942 6,523 1,674 7,242 4,296 2,022 6,318 billion with successful and large corporations have proposed to develop, by expressing their intention to purchase them. EWP has strengthened collaboration by encouraging SMEs to participate in energy forums and technology commercialization of Total 14,666 7,051 21,717 9,933 3,341 13,274 9,639 4,494 14,133 exchanges to boost their development, while supporting KRW 16.37 billion as research expenses new technologies to reduce their financial burden for technology development. The participating SMEs accomplished total sales of KRW 26.5 billion and created 427 jobs through the sales of successfully commercialized technologies. Quality Jobs Linked to Future Business Job creation through investment projects Job creation through support for SMEs’ growth Purchase of social Since 2007, EWP has held a purchase conference to help SMEs exchange information and develop EWP is creating quality jobs through investment in power plant projects and linkage with future enterprises’ products businesses. EWP created 7,028 quantity jobs through domestic projects such as the construction of their markets in the first and second halves of the year. To help SMEs promote their products, EWP has Social Unit: KRW 100 million Dangjin Coal-fired Power Plant’s Units 9 and 10 and the supplement of plant facilities, as well as through displayed 45 outstanding SME products in 6 permanent exhibition halls in the head office and business enterprises overseas projects including the construction of a coal-fired power generation in Kalsel, Indonesia. operations. Also, it has provided one-on-one customized purchasing consultations with the staff in 2014 4.33 charge of the facilities and online purchasing consultations to diversify the sales channels for excellent In addition, EWP created 127 quality jobs in the same year through ICT technology-applied solution 2015 46.9 products of SMEs. This attempt came to fruition with 1,347 new jobs. business, linked to the Fourth Industrial Revolution and other future businesses including photovoltaic 2016 61.6 power and off shore wind power generation. Cooperative Unit: KRW 100 million Job creation through support for social enterprises Job creation through increase in outsourcing associations EWP is helping cooperative associations, social enterprises and other companies making efforts to EWP has outsourced maintenance jobs including fuel environment facility maintenance and power 2014 0.06 realize economic and social values in their growth and job creation, by supporting the purchase of their generator maintenance to the private sector, which led to the creation of 251 jobs. In addition, it carried 2015 0.89 products. It purchased social enterprise products worth KRW 6.16 billion and cooperative association out its informatization and security improvement projects through outsourcing and hired big data 2016 1.35 products worth KRW 140 million, and held purchasing consultations to promote the market pioneering and cloud server experts, thereby creating 166 quality jobs in total. In addition, EWP created 49 local for their products. EWP has also helped women-led companies, by encouraging its employees to buy the community jobs in the same year by outsourcing coal dust, waste furniture and wood recycling projects products of these businesses. These efforts contributed to the creation of 194 jobs in social enterprises. to local businesses near power plants. INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 86 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Data Center Financial Performance Summary Statement of Financial Position Classification Unit 2014 2015 2016 Current asset 8,279 9,380 9,374 Non-current asset 75,428 78,906 80,306 Total asset 83,707 88,286 89,680 Current liabilities 6,322 10,211 17,473 KRW Non-current liabilities 41,731 38,158 27,417 100 million Total liabilities 48,053 48,369 44,889 Paid-in capital 21,381 21,381 22,186 Retained earnings 15,324 19,539 23,634 Total equity 35,654 39,917 44,790 (Based on separate financial statements) APPENDIX Summary of Income Statement Sales Cost of sales Gross profits Selling and administrative expenses Operating profit Classification Unit 2014 45,070 41,710 3,360 536 2,824 2015 40,477 33,548 6,928 766 6,162 2016 42,109 34,474 7,635 828 6,807 Other gains KRW 93 297 254 Other costs 100 million 34 32 62 Financial gains 565 1,370 705 Financial costs 987 1,530 1,337 Profit (loss) before income taxes 2,104 6,096 6,212 Corporate tax expense 419 1,546 1,536 Net Profit 1,685 4,549 4,676 (Based on separate financial statements) 87 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 88 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Economic Performance Indicators Environmental Performance Indicators Category Unit Type 2014 2015 2016 Category Unit Classification 2014 2015 2016 Facility capacity MW 9,138 9,139.4 11,169.9 GHG emissions 1,000 ton 38,230 37,951 39,742 Coal 38,781 39,252 38,785 (Scope1+Scope2) LNG 9,225 6,873 7,296 GHG Fossil fuels GHG emissions Oil 2,693 3,114 5,730 CO2-eq 9,263 8,742 9,487 Power generation GWh (Scope 3) Total 50,699 49,239 51,810 New and renewable energy Total 305 286 293 TJ Energy consumption 489,557 457,227 481,624 Energy consumption Company Total 51,004 49,525 52,104 GJ/MWh Energy basic unit 9.76 9.29 9.30 Sales GWh 48,549 45,840 46,620 10,000 ton Coal 1,542 1,500 1,452 Sales price won/kWh 91.19 85.09 85.88 Fuel consumption 1,000 KL Oil 628 660 1,186 Forced outage 0.098 0.556 0.062 1,000 ton LNG 131 960 1,038 Unplanned losses 0.387 0.743 0.163 SOx 13,755 11,965 12,741 Operating rate 99.88 91.44 85.60 Air pollutant emissions Ton NOx 24,799 21,552 21,965 % Consumption rate 65.06 60.38 57.08 Dust 687 651 612 Thermal efficiency 39.65 39.5 39.02 SOx 0.271 0.243 0.246 Air pollutant emissions Service power rate 5.19 5.46 5.74 Ton/GWh NOx 0.489 0.437 0.424 relative to basic unit Employees Salary, Benefits 1,479 2,054 1,942 Dust 0.014 0.013 0.012 Shareholders Dividends 253 679 944 COD 22 27 21 Creditors Interests 371 296 684 SS 52 12 10 KRW Water pollutant emissions Ton Government 100 million Corporate tax, Local tax 543 1,643 1,901 T-N 1 47 33 Local Society Social contribution, donation 41 40 39 T-P 0.62 0.4 0.3 Reinvestments Surplus excluded from dividend 1,502 3,957 3,765 COD 0.38 0.55 0.41 Wastewater discharged SS 1.03 0.24 0.19 Kg/GWh relative to basic unit T-N 0.02 0.95 0.64 T-P 0.01 0.01 0.01 Water usage 12,055 10,267 12,763 Wastewater generated 3,161 3,416 4,006 Waste quantity 1,906 1,824 1,965 Waste recycling quantity 1,851 1,635 1,706 1,000 ton Desulfurized gypsum generation 467 495 509 Desulfurized gypsum recycling rate 459 480 507 Coal ash generation quantity 1,872 1,801 1,881 Coal ash recycling quantity 1,844 1,616 1,699 89 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 90 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES GRI Content Index Social Performance Indicators Universal Standards Category Unit Classification 2014 2015 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosure Total 2,296 2,300 2,330 Employees Person Regular positions Male 2,029 2,064 2,069 Topic Disclosure ISO 26000 Page Verified Female 267 236 261 102-1 Name of the organization 7 V % The handicapped (rate) 3.4 3.4 3.4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 9~11 V % Females (rate) 11.5 10.7 11.2 Minorities 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 V Person Female managers 22 28 32 102-4 Location of operations 9, 10 V % Female managers (rate) 3.7 4.3 4.9 102-5 Ownership and legal form 7, 8 V Year Average service years 16.0 15.7 15.7 Job security 102-6 Markets served 6.3.10/ 7, 8 V % Turnover 0.93 0.78 0.69 6.4.1-6.4.2/ No. of recruits 131 16 35 Organizational 102-7 Scale of the organization 7 V 6.4.3/6.4.4/ Personnel from non-capital area 78 10 10 profile 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 89 V 6.4.5/6.8.5/ Socially equitable Individuals of national merit 15 0 10 102-9 Supply chain 15, 16 V Point 7.8 employment High school graduates 37 5 0 Significant changes to the organization and The handicapped 9 0 4 102-10 N/A V its supply chain Female 32 0 6 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 28 V Total 21 41 54 102-12 External initiatives 31, 32, 94 V Person Employees on childcare leave Male 4 5 1 Female 17 36 53 102-13 Membership of associations 97 V Family-friendly % Post-childcare leave return rate 100 100 100 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 5, 6 V management Person Women with flextime jobs 7 15 20 Ethics and Values, principles, standards, and norms of Person Staff utilizing flexible work systems 598 699 812 102-16 4.4/6.6.3 25 V integrity behavior Day Number of days used for leave 12.4 14.1 14.8 102-18 Governance structure 23 V Person Employees who have taken extended leave 555 554 603 Hour Average training hours per person 124 188 211 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 102-21 29 V KRW 1,000 Education costs per person 2,680 2,540 2,697 environmental, and social topics Manpower training KRW Education budget 58.2 58.4 63 Composition of the highest governance body 100 million Governance 102-22 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 23 V and its committees Person Education participants 24,628 29,735 38,586 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 23 V Point Female employee capability index 4.42 4.57 4.71 KRW 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 23 V Donation 6 6 9 100 million 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 24 V Social contribution Hour Volunteer service hours 55,588 58,482 60,035 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 29 V Hour Volunteer service hours per person 24 26.6 26.7 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 89 V Integrity assessment Point Evaluation of Anti-corruption & Civil Right Commission 8.56 8.80 8.35 Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 5.3 29 V Anti-corruption Grade Evaluation of Anti-corruption & Civil Right Commission 1 1 2 Engagement policy assessment 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 29 V Stakeholder engagement % Ratio of employees' union membership 97.7 98.5 97.39 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 29 V % No. of deaths x 10,000 / total no. of employees 2.87 0 9.28 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 86 V Case Number of accidents 22 13 3 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 30 V Employee safety 3.95 3.97 4.03 5.2/7.3.2/ Point Safety culture maturity level 102-47 List of material topics 30 V (Level 3) (Level 3) (Level 4) 7.3.3/7.3.4 Point Safety culture engagement 3.51 3.51 4.21 102-48 Restatements of information N/A V KRW Support of SME R&D Funds 164 143 149 102-49 Changes in reporting N/A V Win-win growth 100 million Purchase of successful joint R&D products with SMEs 162 195 265 Reporting 102-50 Reporting period KRW According to the Act on assistance to electric power plants for neighboring areas 35 34 30 practice 102-51 Date of most recent report About 100 million Household Energy welfare for the disadvantaged 72 103 1,613* 102-52 Reporting cycle this V KRW 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 7.5.3/7.6.2 report Employees' safety Purchase of Onnuri Gift Certificates 7.7 7.5 7.6 100 million 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Social 4.33** 46.9 61.6 102-55 GRI Content Index 90~92 V KRW Purchase of social enterprises’ enterprises 100 million products Cooperative 102-56 External assurance 93, 94 V 0.06 0.89 1.35 associations * Including support for the restoration of damages caused by Typhoon Chaba ** Execution of less budget due to public organizations' effort to reduce debt in 2014 91 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 92 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Topic-specific Standards GRI 200: Environmental Topic Disclosure ISO 26000 Page Verified Topic Disclosure ISO 26000 Page Verified Economic Performance Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: Management Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 V 103-2 The management approach and its components 51, 56, 59 V Approach 2017 Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3/6.5.4 56 V Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 40, 86, 87 V Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 56, 59 V Indirect Economic Impacts 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 6.5.3 56 V GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 41, 71 V Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 400: Social 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 6.3.9/6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.7/6.8.9 44 V Indirect Economic Topic Disclosure ISO 26000 Page Verified 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/6.7.8/ 74~76, Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts V Employment 6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.5/6.8.7/6.8.9 83, 84 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Anti-corruption Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 63~67 V 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 25~27 V 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6.4.3 89 V Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Employment 401-2 6.4.4/6.8.7 67 V temporary or part-time employees 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 27 V Anti-corruption Communication and training about 401-3 Parental leave 6.4.4 67, 89 V 205-2 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 26 V Occupational Health and Safety anti-corruption policies 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 63, 68~70 V Approach 2017 GRI 300: Economic 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Topic Disclosure ISO 26000 Page Verified 403-2 6.4.6/6.8.8 68, 89 V Occupational Health and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Materials and Safety Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related 403-3 6.4.6/6.8.8 64 V 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary to their occupation GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components 51, 59 V Training and Education Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Approach 2017 GRI 103: Management 301-2 Recycled input materials used 6.5.4 59, 88 V 103-2 The management approach and its components 63, 66 V Approach 2017 Energy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 88 V 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4.7 66, 89 V Training and Water Education Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 404-2 6.4.7/6.8.5 66 V 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary assistance programs GRI 103: Management Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-2 The management approach and its components 51, 56 V Approach 2017 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 63, 65, 66 V Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 6.5.4 56, 88 V Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Emissions Diversity and Equal 6.2.3/6.3.7/ 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 65, 66, 89 V GRI 103: Management Opportunity 6.3.10/6.4.3 103-2 The management approach and its components 61, 53, 54 V Approach 2017 Human Rights Assessment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 6.5.5 53, 88 V GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 25~27 V 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 6.5.5 53, 88 V Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 6.5.5 88 V Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 6.3.5 27 V 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 6.5.5 53 V Local Communities Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 305-7 6.5.3 55, 88 V and other significant air emissions GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 79 V Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Operations with local community engagement, impact 6.3.9/ 6.5.1-6.5.2/ Local Communities 413-1 81, 82 V assessments, and development programs 6.5.3/6.8 93 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 94 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES Third-party Assurance Statement Dear Korea East-West Power Corporation Management and Stakeholders Introduction | Materiality | Has Korea East-West Power Corporation included material information in the Report to help stakeholders make informed decisions? The Korean Standards Association (“KSA”) was commissioned by Korea East-West Power Corporation (“EWP”) to perform a third-party We decide that EWP has neither leaked any important information to the stakeholders nor excluded any such information. Assurance Engagement of ‘Korea East-West Power Corporation 2017 Sustainability Report’ (the “Report”). KSA presents independent In addition, we have confirmed that EWP implemented the materiality evaluation based on major issues derived from both opinions as follows as a result of feasibility of the data contained in this Report. Korea East-West Power Corporation has sole internal and external environment analyses, and then reported in accordance with the results. In 2016, by reflecting “Significant responsibility for content and performance contained in this Report. Issues” and “Six Directions for the Sustainability Management of Korea East-West Power Corporation” in the table of contents, EWP helped readers easily grasp significant issues in the aspect of its sustainability management. Independence As an independent assurance agency, KSA does not have any kinds of commercial interest in businesses of Korea East-West Power | Responsiveness | Has Korea East-West Power Corporation appropriately responded to stakeholder requirements and interest in this Report? Corporation apart from undertaking a third-party assurance on the Report. We have no other contract with Korea East-West Power We have confirmed that EWP is striving to respond to stakeholders’ interests and requirements by reflecting the opinions Corporation that may undermine credibility and integrity as an independent assurance agency. collected from them in the Report. In addition, we could not find any evidence that EWP’s responsive activities to the material issues related to stakeholders had been inappropriately reported. Though EWP reports on the sustainability strategy and Assurance Standards and Level major performances pursuant to stakeholders’ interests and opinions, we recommend that henceforth EWP also report both quantitative and qualitative goals and their attainment level according to the strategy of each sector. This Assurance Engagement followed the AA1000AS (2008) assurance standards to provide Moderate Level assurance. We checked the three principles of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness in combination with information credibility of the Report. We also verified whether the Report content was created in accordance with the GRI Standards Core Option. Opinions and Recommendations by Sector We recommend EWP to review the following in order that it might be able to establish the overall organization-wide sustainability Assurance Type, Scope and Limitations strategy and respond to the sustaining issues. We performed a Type 2 Assurance Engagement in accordance with AA1000AS. This implies that we verified the accuracy and quality of the statements made by Korea East-West Power Corporation and the sustainability performance data included in this Report. The | Economic | scope of verification is a period from Jan 1, 2016 to Dec 31, 2016, and depending on the content, includes some information for the first half of 2017. The results and reporting practices of EWP’s related companies, overseas branches, suppliers, partners, and third parties, The electricity industry is a vital industry forming the backbone of the national economic activities as the core energy for the excluding the EWP’s head office and business sites stated in the report, are not included in the scope of this verification. The scope of everyday lives of people in modern society, thereby requiring stable electric power supply and efficient power production. Korea this Assurance Engagement primarily includes the systems and initiatives undertaken by Korea East-West Power Corporation including East-West Power Corporation can attain sustainable growth by strengthening the future growth engines and, simultaneously, its sustainability management policies, goals, projects, standards and performance during the reporting period defined in the Report. establishing and operating various risk management systems against uncertainties of the management environment. In addiWhile the company’s environmental and social data as well as financial data was verified, the scope of review concerning stakeholder tion, the goals of performance-oriented responsible management and high-level transparent management should be attained engagement was limited to the materiality test process. for sustainable development and, in order to attain such goals, we recommend EWP to continuously enhance preemptive risk management ability against both financial and non-financial risks. Assurance Methodology | Environmental | We used the following methods to gather information, documents and evidence with respect to the assurance scope. It is remarkable that for environmental preservation and sustainable future growth Korea East-West Power Corporation · Analyses of articles related to EWP’s sustainability management published by domestic media outlets over the last three years reduces the weight of conventional energy fuel including coal, crude petroleum, etc., and expands supply of new regeneration · Analyses of issues reported in the sustainability reports published by domestic and overseas industry peers energy, such as photovoltaic energy, fuel cell, wind power, waste, ocean energy, energy storage system (ESS) linked to · Verification of management system and process to improve achievement in sustainability management and to prepare the Report new renewable energy, etc. In the context of sustainability, we recommend EWP to report in more detail its endeavor and · Review of the consistency between the financial performance data and the company's audit report/publicly announced data performance for operation of the eco-friendly power plant, as well as the economic performance through operation of the · Examination of internal documents and basic materials overseas power plants. | Social | Assurance Results and Opinions Korea East-West Power Corporation operates four power plants in foreign countries, including Jamaica, the USA and Guam, KSA reviewed the draft version of this Report to present our opinions as an assurance provider. Modifications were made of the Report beyond the domestic market for securing stable profit structures and future growth engines. We recommend EWP to strive for content if deemed necessary. We were not aware of any significant errors or inappropriate descriptions in this Report as a result of our creating a new shared value as a global electric power enterprise by expanding the business area globally, thereby reorganizing Assurance Engagement. As such, we present our opinions of the 2017 Korea East-West Power Corporation Sustainability Report as follows. the promotion strategy of the social contribution, and by developing the contribution activities for overseas communities | Inclusivity | Has Korea East-West Power Corporation engaged its stakeholders in strategically responding to sustainability? making the most of EWP’s business character. We confirmed that, in carrying forward its sustainability management, Korea East-West Power Corporation (EWP) strived for participation of key stakeholders, and secured and operated various communication channels. In addition, we could not find any November 2017 significant stakeholder groups omitted in this process. Especially, by conducting in-depth interviews with the representatives of KSA Chairman & CEO each stakeholder group, we had the value of the stakeholders reflected in the business activities of EWP. 95 INTRODUCTION PREPARING SUSTAINABILITY RESPONDING TO APPENDIX 96 MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES UN Global Compact Awards in 2016 Advanced Level Topic Principle Page GRI Disclosure This sustainability report (the Report) describes the discussions at 1 the level of the CEO and the BOD regarding the strategic aspects of 5, 6 102-14 the implementation of the UNGC. Governance The Report explains the company’s decision-making processes and 2 23 102-18, 21 corporate governance to achieve its sustainability. The Report describes the engagement of all of the company’s major 3 29 102-43 stakeholders. UN Goals and The Report describes activities designed to support comprehensive 4 31,32 102-12 Issues goals and issue of the United Nations. The Report describes the company’s strong commitment, strategies ▲ Voluntarily participated in CDP for 5 consecutive years ▲ Won the Excellent Award at Korean Society of Public Enterprise R&D 5 103-1 and policies in the area of human rights. The Report describes an effective management system designed to 6 103-2 integrate its human rights principles. Human Rights 27 The Report describes effective monitoring and evaluation 7 103-3 mechanisms about human rights principles. The Report applies standardized performance indices (including GRI) 8 412-2 about human rights. The Report describes the company’s strong commitment, strategies 9 63 103-1 and policies in the area of labor. The Report describes an effective management system designed to 10 103-2 integrate its labor principles. Labor 65-67 The Report describes effective monitoring and evaluation ▲ Awards at 2016 Voluntary Service Festival hosted by Ulsan Metropolitan City ▲ Won the Presidential Award at the Best Government 3.0 Application Contest for Public Agencies 11 103-3 mechanisms about labor principles. The Report applies standardized performance indices (including GRI) 12 89 401-1~3, 403-2~4 Received the Award of Best Project Discovery at the Innovative Technology Show for the 9th consecutive year about labor. The Report describes the company’s strong commitment, strategies Won the Presidential Award at the Best Government 3.0 Application Contest for Public Agencies 13 51 103-1 and policies in the area of environmental management. (Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs) The Report describes an effective management system designed to 14 53 103-2 integrate its environmental principles. Selected as an excellent corporation in the spread of performance-focused culture and operation of performance-based Environment annual salary system by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance in 2016 The Report describes effective monitoring and evaluation 15 55~57, 60 103-3 mechanisms about environmental management. Top rating (AAA) in the KoBEX SM (Korean Business Ethics Index-Sustainability Management) for the 9th consecutive year The Report applies standardized performance indices about 301-2, 302-1, 303-3, 16 89 Received the first prize at the 1st Cyber Security Competition for Public Agencies environmental management. 305-1~7, 306-1, 24 (Award from the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy) The Report describes the company’s strong commitment, strategies 17 103-1 and policies in the area of anti-corruption efforts. Selected as excellent organization at the 2016 Ulchi Response Drill (Won the Award from the Minister of Public Safety and Security) The Report describes an effective management system designed to 18 103-2 S grade in the Disaster Response and Safety Drill for the fourth straight year (2013-2016) integrate its anti-corruption principles. Anti-Corruption 25-27 The Report describes effective monitoring and evaluation Top rating (A) in the National Disaster Management Assessment 19 205-1 mechanisms in the area of anti-corruption efforts. The Report applies standardized performance indices about Selected as an outstanding stockpile resource management organization (Won the Award from the Minister of Public Safety and Security) 20 205-2 anti-corruption efforts. Achieved 751 points (top level) at the EWP Quality Assessment, and won the Award of Excellent Quality Competitiveness for the seventh time Strategies, The Report explains about the implementation of Global Compact 21 Governance and Principles within the company’s value chain. First Korean power generation company to have voluntarily participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project for the 6th consecutive year and Engagement won the Award of Excellent Company (CDP) External The Report offers information on the corporate profile and operational 22 7-18 102-1~11 Assurance environments. Ranked 1st in competitiveness in response to climate change among power generation companies for the 6th consecutive year and (ranked second among 316 companies) 23 Transparency The Report includes a high level of transparency and disclosure. 1, 90~94 102-50~56 97 Participants in publishing the 2017 sustainability report Association Memberships Overall management Climate & Environment Team, Power Generation Division | Baek Kang-soo Management strategy Time of Planning Team, Planning & Strategy Division | Lee Jae-hong Membership Organization Purpose Subscription Operating power generation The Korean Association of To ensure rapid policy response and exchange of academic information with active 2011.07 Power Plants Operation Team, Power Generation Division | Jung Dong-hui Small Business Studies participation in the government's establishment of shared growth policies The Korea Electric To establish and modify technical standards for the electrical industry designed Planning power generation 2002.09 Power Planning Team, Power Generation Division | Kim Ga-ram Association to boost the credibility of power generation facilities and develop new codes The Korea Energy To promote energy welfare programs like the support for low-income households Future business 2002.05 Foundation together with scholarship programs Business Development Team, New Growth Business Division | Kim Myeong-geun To establish human and technical exchange networks with the member countries Environment management World Energy Congress 2007.01 of an energy-related international body Climate & Environment Team, Power Generation Division | Park Gang-nam Korea Institute of To collect information on ways of upgrading the EA level 2013.03 Ethics management Enterprise Architecture Ethics Compliance Team, Planning & Strategy Division | Cho Dae-geun Korea International To cooperate on the data and information related to international trade 2001.05 Happiness management Trade Association Happiness Management Team, Human Resources & Administration Division | Kim Dae-jin KEPIC To participate in KEPIC development directions and secure funds 2002.05 Safety from disasters Korean Standards To introduce advanced quality control techniques and spread quality management 2003.01 Disaster Management Team, Safety Quality Control Division | Kim Jong-ha Association mind throughout the company Korea Suggestion To acquire information for the promotion of suggestions and small group activities Win-win growth 2007.05 Win-win Growth Center, Win-Win Technology Division | Park Jae-yong System Association in the company The Electric Utility Cost To collect information on overseas electric power supply and benchmarking 2006.01 Group (EUCG) The Business Institute for To exchange information on sustainability management 2008.11 Sustainable Development The Korea Carbon Capture To exchange information on carbon capture and storage 2010.09 and Storage Association Korea Smart Grid To exchange information on smart grid and collect information on industrial trends 2012.07 Association United Nations Global To exchange information on sustainability management and engage in exchange 2006.06 Compact (UNGC) at home and abroad Korean Green Business To support GHG mentoring project for major companies and SMEs 2012.03 Association The Korean Society of To identify domestic trends in mechanical engineering and exchange information 2002.08 Mechanical Engineers The Korean Institute of To identify domestic trends in electrical engineering and exchange information 2002.06 Electrical Engineers Korean Association of To enhance the power industry and discover joint research topics 2010.07 Power Generation Studies Korea Project Management To enhance the capabilities for project execution 2008.03 Association EWP Sustainability Report 2017 KOREA Engineering & To promote advance into new business at home and abroad in the areas of design 2012.07 Consulting Association and technical support through certification of corporate engineering performance Korea New & Renewable More detailed information on the contents of this report and its PDF version To exchange information in the area of new & renewable energy 2003.01 Energy Association can be found on the website of Korea East-West Power. To obtain information to expand into overseas markets or increase its overseas EEI(Edison Electric Institute) 2004.03 If you have any questions about EWP’s sustainability management activities and presence achievements introduced in this report, please refer to the contact information below: Association of the Electricity To obtain information to expand into overseas markets or increase its overseas Supply Industry of East Asia 2011.02 presence and Western Pacific (AESIEAP) Publisher Climate & Environment Team, Power Generation Division, Korea East-West Power Korea Electric Address (44543) 395, Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, Ulsan To promote R&D in electric engineering and boost training of electric engineers 2008.03 Engineers Association TEL +82-70-5000-1544 Maritime Resource & To enhance cooperation between public and private sectors in order to prevent Website www.ewp.co.kr 2013.05 Salvage Association and respond to maritime disasters and accidents
