Why We Solve Water 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CEO Message 1 Xylem At-A-Glance 3 Goals & Progress 4 Sustainability Strategy 5 Recognition 7 Stakeholder Engagement 8 Materiality 11 Reporting Practices 13 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Business Strategy 15 Economic Impact 16 Governance & Risk Management 17 Supply Chain 20 WATER SOLUTIONS A Water Secure Future 23 Product Applications 24 Product Efficiency 26 OPERATIONAL IMPACT EH&S Overview 29 Energy & Emissions 31 Water 34 Materials & Waste 35 XYLEM PEOPLE Global Workforce 37 Employee Engagement 38 Talent Development 40 Safety 43 Ethics 45 COMMUNITY Corporate Citizenship 49 Watermark Partnerships 50 Watermark Employee Volunteerism 51 Essence of Life 52 GRI Content Index 54 UNGC Index 60 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CEO MESSAGE Solving the planet’s water challenges has never ahead. We also upped the goal of our Vitality been more urgent. The global population is Index — the percentage of our revenues from growing — and with it, the need for fresh water. products released in the past five years — from Migration to cities is increasing demand for 25 percent to 30 percent by 2020. These reliable urban water infrastructure. And commitments are paying off with new products climate change poses threats to already like Flygt Concertor™, the world’s first intelligent stressed water resources. wastewater pumping system. While other pumps routinely get sidelined by clogs, the Flygt The need to solve water is recognized directly Concertor automatically senses and adapts to through U.N. Sustainable Development Goal its environment, using only as much energy as (SDG) number 6: ensure availability and necessary to keep water moving. Patrick K. Decker sustainable management of water and sanitation President and for all. But solving water and sanitation issues We’re also acquiring smarter solutions, building Chief Executive Officer Xylem Inc. can be viewed as a foundational challenge that a broader portfolio of offerings that address can help accelerate progress on other SDGs. Few our customers’ most significant challenges sectors have such broad impact on environmental, across many different industries. In October of economic and social dimensions as water. 2016, we acquired Sensus, a leader in smart metering, network communications and advanced Consider these facts. One in three people data analytics. With 80 million meters installed experiences water scarcity at least one month globally, the addition of Sensus’ capabilities is a per year. Children worldwide miss more than major step forward in enabling us to provide 440 million days of school each year due to customers with greater intelligence about their water-related illnesses. Furthermore, the burden operations in the water, electric and natural gas of acquiring water falls disproportionately to utility sectors. women and children, exacerbating gender inequality and preventing those children from We also acquired Visenti, a relatively smaller but attending school. In some communities, nearly highly strategic acquisition that provides services a third of treated water is lost before it reaches for intelligently managing water networks. Both users due to faltering infrastructure. Meanwhile, Sensus and Visenti help address the challenge the economic costs of water-related disasters are of “non-revenue water” — that is, treated water rising steeply as storm severity increases and that is lost or not paid for due to leaks, theft or the need for more resilient infrastructure grows. lack of effective metering. Sensus’ smart metering and remote monitoring capabilities help customers Using Water, Smarter track this valuable resource more effectively. At Xylem, we believe that technology is a key link And Visenti solutions enable real-time monitoring in how the world can solve water. We have a long of changes in water pressure in utilities’ networks, history of innovation, but today, we’re focusing which allows them to address leaks or other more than ever on the powerful capabilities of potential issues in real time. In this way, customers smart technology, integrated management and can optimize their capital expenditures by avoiding big data. These solutions will allow us to transport, major losses or catastrophic failure, and extending treat, test and use water smarter — and more asset life. Innovations like these are helping our sustainably — than in the past. The “Internet of customers — and in turn, their communities — Things” has arrived in the water sector, and Xylem become more sustainable. is ready to use it to help our customers work more efficiently, reduce their own environmental impact Finally, we have expanded our capabilities in and together build more resilient communities. ocean and coastal monitoring with the additions of our Tideland and Hypack businesses. They That’s why we’re investing in research and provide an array of smart analytics solutions development at our highest levels ever, and and software that enable a variety of marine and committing to more innovation in the years 1 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH | CEO Message environmental monitoring capabilities. With Creating a safe environment, both within the walls these businesses, we have brought together of our facilities and out on job sites, is a core distinct products and services to build intelligent imperative at Xylem. In the past three years, systems capability and significantly expand the we’ve made safety a top priority, and in that time, market we serve. have reduced accidents almost by half. Through initiatives like our Safety Scorecard and Get Well Doing Our Part program, we’re making progress toward becoming Solving water takes all of us, which is why Xylem a sustainably safe workplace. But there’s plenty is also practicing what we preach. We have set a more to do. Safety knows no calendar. It doesn’t goal of reducing our water intensity by 25 percent matter how well we did yesterday; it’s what we by 2019 relative to 2014 levels. Thanks to do today and tomorrow that counts. improvements in water collection and reuse at our facilities, with a special focus on highI’m immensely proud of all the work that our consumption sites and those in extreme water colleagues do every day. But it has been scarcity areas, we have already decreased water particularly inspiring to witness their growing intensity by nearly 10 percent. commitment to solving water through Xylem Watermark, our signature corporate citizenship Xylem has also set goals for reducing our initiative. Watermark began as a program greenhouse gas emissions and waste sent to focused on community development in landfills. Employee-driven improvements, emerging regions of the world, with projects upgrades to our fleet, increased recycling completed in cooperation with our global, efforts and recommendations identified through nonprofit partners. In 2016, we significantly our proprietary Eco-Efficiency Easy Tool are expanded Watermark to encompass volunteering helping us make meaningful progress toward and local engagement opportunities in our local our goals. communities, providing an avenue for more of We have also committed to the 10 principles our colleagues across Xylem to get directly of the U.N. Global Compact, which calls on involved in Watermark activities. Those local companies to align their strategies and opportunities include water source cleanups, operations with universal principals on human walks for water and water education programs. rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, To kick off this initiative, we pledged to deliver and to advance societal goals. 100,000 volunteer hours in water-related activities over three years. In the first year of An Engaged Workforce this effort, Xylem employees logged 21,000 We believe that a responsible business is one in volunteer hours and have shared feedback which employees are proud to work and have on ways they’d like to get even more involved. the tools and opportunities to reach their full potential. Our employees serve customers facing Our journey is in the early days. Despite our a wide assortment of water challenges, from significant progress, intractable water challenges communities in emerging markets delivering remain. For a company with sustainability at its clean drinking water for the first time, to modern core, I’m pleased — but not surprised — that Xylem cities expanding their infrastructure to meet the is constantly finding ways to improve. By exploring needs of a growing population to businesses and energyand water-saving innovations, optimizing industrial operations that need the most efficient our own operations and harnessing the talents of solutions to use and treat water sustainably. With our people, we’ll continue to help our customers such a varied customer base, it makes sense that and communities worldwide make smarter, better our workforce is diverse too. The Xylem team use of our world’s most precious resource. includes 16,000 individuals who understand that while water is universal, applications and solutions are often highly local. In our training and development efforts, we make sure that we’re Patrick K. Decker growing leaders from all backgrounds to meet President and Chief Executive Officer the needs of our global customer base. Xylem Inc. 2 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Xylem At-A-Glance We are a leading global water technology provider helping our customers address their most challenging water and wastewater problems. Our name is derived from classical Greek and is the tissue that transports water in plants. This name highlights the engineering efficiency of our water-centric business by linking it with the best water transportation of all — that which occurs in nature. Transport $3.77 WE PARTICIPATE IN EACH OF THE WATER INDUSTRY’S CORE APPLICATIONS: Treat BILLION 2016 revenues $6.47 Transport Transport BILLION Test Test Transport Treat Treat total assets Test Use TRANSPORT TREATMENT TEST MONITORING & USE Treat OF WATER DATA ANALYTICS ~16,000 Moving raw water Treating water to Ensuring water meets Using smart metrology Putting water to EMPLOYEES* from natural sources make it safe to requirements for and networked work inOF REST industrial, WORLD Use Use to treatment facilities use and treating use by customers or communications to commercialXX% and moving wastewastewater to make discharge into the optimize distribution building, residential HEADQUARTERS water from its source it safe to reuse environment, and networks for the and agriculture RYE BROOK, to wastewater Use or return to the ongoing monitoring delivery of water, MIDDLE EAST applications AND AFRICA NEW YORK, treatment facilities environment of surface water and electricity and XX% USA coastal environments natural gas, and INDUSTRIAL AGRICULTURAL provide data analytics XX% XX% 150 COUNTRIES where we sell PRODUCTS PUBLIC BRANDS UTILITIES • Pumps and accessories XX% • Smart metrology for the • Aanderaa • Goulds WaterLATIN AMERICA • Sensus • Wastewater and water water, electric and natural • AC Fire Pump Technology • SIXX%Analytics 48 treatment solutions, gas sectors • Bell & Gossett • HYPACK • Smith-Blair COUNTRIES including filtration, • Network communications • Bellingham + • Jabsco • SonTek where we operate ozone, ultraviolet and for water, electric and Stanley • Leopold • Standard biological systems natural gas distribution • ebro • Lowara Xchange 19 • Analytical instrumentation • Monitoring and control COMMERCIAL networks • Advanced data analytics • Essence of Life •RESIDENTIAL Flojet • MJK • McDonnell & • Steady • Tideland COUNTRIES systems XX% •XX% Flowtronex Miller • Visenti where we manufacture • Water pressure boosting • Flygt • OI Analytical • Wedeco and assemble products systems for multiple • Global Water • Rule • WTW applications • Godwin • Sanitaire • YSI SALES BY GEOGRAPHY SALES BY INDUSTRY SALES BY INDUSTRY** SALES BY GEOGRAPHY** PUBLIC UTILITIES REST OF WORLD UNITED STATES RESIDENTIAL 46% 5% 47% 7% COMMERCIAL 11% EMERGING MARKETS 20% *This number is as of Dec. 31, 2016 **Based on Xylem Pro Forma 2016 Revenues INDUSTRIAL WESTERN EUROPE 37% 27% 3 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Goals & Progress Our sustainability strategy ties directly to Xylem’s business strategy, enabling sustainability to be effectively and seamlessly integrated into all we do. Our five-year sustainability goals are aligned with the four key areas of our sustainability strategy: our offerings, our operations, external engagement, and organization and culture. The goals continue to be incorporated into our business operating planning process, and progress is evaluated through various measures, including our goal deployment process. In the spirit of continuous improvement, we are reviewing the best ways to track our progress against some of the harder-to-measure metrics. Below shows our progress as of the end of 2016: OFFERINGS GOAL GOAL Improve product energy efficiency of specific Xylem product lines Increase Vitality Index (percentages of sales from products launched in the past five years) to 30% by 2020 to drive product innovation and efficiency; following the acquisition of Sensus, we increased our Vitality Index 2020 goal from 25% to 30% PROGRESS PROGRESS 0.4% decrease in average product efficiency since 2015; 2.6% improvement 19% of sales (excluding Sensus) are from products since 2012 launched in the past five years OPERATIONS GOAL GOAL GOAL GOAL GOAL Reduce Xylem water Reduce greenhouse Reduce waste sent to Reduce injury frequency Achieve 100% environmental use by 25% by 2019* gas (GHG) emissions landfill by 20% by 2019* rate to less than 0.5 and compliance at all manufacturing intensity by 20% by 2019* injury severity rate to less and service sites than 6.0 by 2019* PROGRESS PROGRESS PROGRESS PROGRESS PROGRESS 9.2% reduction in water 15.7% reduction in 43.6% reduction in Injury Frequency: 0.93 Two environmental notices of usage intensity GHG intensity, net of total waste to landfill Injury Severity: 18.16 violation (NOVs) without fines renewable energy * from 2014 baseline EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION & CULTURE GOAL GOAL GOAL Increase impact of Xylem Watermark®, our Increase employee involvement in Xylem Position Xylem as a leading advocate for corporate citizenship program, through Watermark® by 15% year-over-year sustainable water policy worldwide investments to nonprofit partners PROGRESS PROGRESS* PROGRESS 32% increase in new projects with our 21,078 employee volunteer hours logged in Xylem continues to expand its work in advocating nonprofit partners MyWatermark in 2016* for sustainable water management policies. In 2016, the company co-convened a conference 69% increase in employee contributions entitled “Disruptive Resilience: Chief Technology vs. 2015 Officers Map America’s 2030 Water Future,” was invited to participate in the White House Water Summit, and conducted a statewide survey in California to better understand public perceptions about recycled water. *All hours and volunteering are tracked with MyWatermark, our employee engagement interactive website; employee volunteer hours were not logged in previous years. 4 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Sustainability Strategy Our strategy to address economic, social and teams and functional areas with the intent of environmental topics starts at the top with building an enduring and successful company. our Board of Directors, and is implemented Increasingly, these areas are better integrating throughout the company with all employees sustainability into their strategies to accelerate helping to advance our sustainability practices innovation, sell our products and services, and and impact. grow our business. Ultimately, our growth strategies are designed to position Xylem as a The Xylem Board of Directors has primary leader in the global water technology space. responsibility for overall risk and strategy oversight for the company, which includes areas The Xylem Sustainability Steering Committee that impact Xylem’s sustainability efforts. The comprises representatives from multiple Board has delegated responsibility for direct geographies, businesses and functions within oversight of the company’s sustainability program Xylem who meet quarterly to guide and drive to the Board’s Nominating and Governance our sustainability efforts and monitor progress Committee, except for our offerings-related against our sustainability goals. strategies, which are reviewed by the Finance, Our leaders, frontline managers and employees Innovation & Technology Committee. The are accountable for safe, ethical, environmentally Nominating and Governance Committee responsible and forward-looking actions that regularly receives updates on sustainability from support our sustainability goals. To support management and provides updates to the full them in this mission, Xylem provides training Board of Directors. in the areas of environment and safety, Code Our senior leadership team members, under of Conduct, continuous improvement — which the direction of our President and CEO Patrick includes Lean and Six Sigma curriculum — and Decker, lead growth centers, commercial career and leadership development. Ultimately, our growth strategies are designed to position Xylem as a leader in the global water technology space. 5 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH | Sustainability Strategy Xylem’s Environment, Health, Safety & Xylem helps mitigate the effects of climate Sustainability (EHS&S) team includes more change by providing products that aid customers than 250 fulland part-time employees with water resilience issues such as flooding working at the site level to enact sustainability events and drought conditions. For example, practices and provide employee training — Xylem’s Analytics products can help communities primarily in the areas of environmental prevent destruction of infrastructure when protection and workplace safety. extreme weather events occur. The portfolio, which includes intelligent sensors, platforms and Climate Change Impact systems that measure water quality, level and Climate change both positively and negatively flow, provides real-time information that can act impacts portions of our business in several ways. as an early warning system to enable communities According to research by the Intergovernmental to prepare for emergent problems. In addition, Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), climate our Godwin dewatering pumps are used to change will intensify risks associated with help remove and/or redirect unwanted water water availability and quality. Moreover, the caused by natural disasters such as hurricanes Drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications transport, treatment and use of both clean or floods. Similarly, drought conditions drive water and wastewater are significant sources higher demand for pumps used in agricultural of greenhouse gas emissions. Xylem’s Climate and turf irrigation applications, such as those Change Policy outlines our commitment to provided by our Goulds Water Technology, developing mitigation and adaptation solutions Flowtronex and Lowara brands. We also provide to the water-related challenges associated with treatment solutions to enable communities to climate change through our products, operations, recycle wastewater for direct and indirect potable corporate citizenship and social investment, water use. Water reuse is a proven approach and stakeholder engagement. that can help meet growing water demand, while safeguarding existing water supplies. 6 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Recognition External recognition provides useful progress markers on our sustainability journey. In 2016, Xylem’s commitment to sustainability and our progress-to-date was recognized in a number of areas. MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series CDP Water 2016 Disclosure 2016 RIONED Innovation Award — B Rating RIONED Foundation The FTSE4Good Index Series Flygt SmartRun® 2016 Pinnacle Award The NASDAQ OM CRD Carolina’s Associated General Global Sustainability Index Contractors (CAGC) convention for Euronext Vigeo Index: US 50 work on the Northeast Interceptor CDP Climate Change 2016 Disclosure (NEI) Rehabilitation Phase Two project, — B Rating Climate Change Wilmington, North Carolina Most Innovative and Best Product 2016 100 Excellence Employer of China Groundbreaking Product iWater International Integrated Water For outstanding human resource VandTek Fair, Denmark Cycle Show, Spain management, including employee Flygt Concertor™ Flygt Concertor™ training, talent recruitment and retention, and corporate social responsibility Best Product Accadueo International Exhibition, Italy Flygt Concertor™ 7 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Stakeholder Engagement Xylem’s tagline is an inclusive invitation: teamwork. We utilize a variety of resources and Let’s Solve Water. Addressing the many water tactics to create two-way communication challenges our planet faces is a huge and vital channels with our many stakeholders. undertaking that calls for collaboration and At Xylem, we identify a key stakeholder group as one that is critical to our business and strategy The following table identifies many of our key stakeholder groups and and a core partner in our growth and sustainability summarizes how we engage each of them: efforts. We work to engage our key stakeholder groups regularly, as well as considering broader STAKEHOLDER PRIMARY ENGAGEMENT society by including stakeholders such as GROUP CHANNELS certification and regulatory agencies, sustainability and financial rating agencies, and associations CUSTOMERS • White papers, case studies, voice-of-customer interviews, AND END USERS customer satisfaction surveys, webinars, Impeller customer and non-governmental organizations. We reach magazine, news releases out to and engage our stakeholders in many EMPLOYEES • Consistent supply of news about Xylem’s performance across ways, with a focus on our key stakeholders. multiple dimensions, feedback channels on company intranet called Currents, Connect, Perform, Grow managerFor Xylem employees who work around the employee appraisals, Ethics hotline and Code of Conduct globe, we regularly distribute communications (available in 26 languages), Xylem Employee Ombudsperson and conduct town halls and webcasts on our program, and employee training and development business strategy and results, as well as many SHAREHOLDERS • Annual report, quarterly earnings reports and webcast conference calls, news releases, and proactive shareholder different issues and topics of interest. These outreach program on performance, plans, corporate are translated into multiple languages to help governance and sustainability; company filings with the U.S. foster a “one company” culture. SEC; in September 2015, we also held an Investor Day SUPPLIERS • Xylem Supplier Ombudsperson program, Supplier Code of For customers and end users, we publish news Conduct (available in 18 languages) and Supplier Day events about our products and services through a LOCAL • Local operations outreach, Xylem Watermark field variety of media channels, original research, COMMUNITIES assessments and sponsorship of local community initiatives white papers and case studies, and a customerCERTIFICATION AND • ISOand OHSAS-certification audit and permit applications focused digital magazine Impeller. We also REGULATORY AGENCIES conduct voice-of-customer interviews and ASSOCIATIONS • Memberships and partnerships with the UN Global customer satisfaction surveys to learn more AND NGOS Compact, Stockholm International Water Institute, Ceres, about their needs and their perceptions U.S. Water Alliance, Value of Water Coalition, U.S. Water Partnership, Business Roundtable, Bipartisan Policy Center, of our company and our products. In 2016, Wastewater Equipment Manufacturers Association, Smart we rolled out the Net Promoter Score (NPS) Water Networks Forum tool as an additional means of measuring • Xylem Watermark partners: EarthEcho International, Mercy Corps, China Women’s Development Corporation, Planet customer satisfaction. Water Foundation, Water for People and Fundación Avina 8 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH | Stakeholder Engagement We also collaborate with other business and 2016 Stakeholder Activities industry leaders through a variety of forums. Throughout 2016, we engaged in a variety of Xylem is a member of several waterand forums, conferences, programs and projects sustainability-related organizations, and we with our stakeholders to advance our shared participate in and sponsor leading watermission of water sustainability. Here is a sampling industry events. of engagement activities in 2016: Along with other national leaders in the water sector, Xylem co-convened the “Disruptive Charters, Principles, Initiatives and Associations Resilience: Chief Technology Officers Map Xylem voluntarily subscribes to or endorses the following economic, America’s 2030 Water Future” conference. This environmental and social charters, principles or initiatives: gathering facilitated a discussion of how to best leverage breakthrough technologies to • UN Global Compact • CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) transform how the nation’s water resources are • American Business Act on Climate Pledge managed in order to create a secure water future for the next century. Xylem holds positions in, participates with or provides funding beyond routine membership dues to the following industry associations and advocacy organizations: Xylem President and CEO Patrick Decker participated in the opening session at the WATER INDUSTRY • Fundación Avina • Hydraulic Institute • China Women’s Development Foundation Water Leaders Summit, the pillar event at • Europump • EarthEcho International Singapore International Water Week 2016. • International Water Association • Stockholm International Water Institute SOCIAL/GOVERNANCE/ETHICS At the event, government officials, world • Society of Corporate Compliance • Water Environment Federation organizations and industry leaders convened and Ethics • MAPI Sustainability Council and • Ethics Resource Center Ethisphere with the common goal of addressing global Environment, Safety & Health Council • National Association for Environmental • Corporate Executive Board water challenges through policymaking and • MAPI Ethics & Compliance Council Management • National Association of Corporate thought leadership. The session, “Beyond • Value of Water Coalition • Bipartisan Policy Center Executive Directors Business-as-Usual: Enhancing Collaboration • Society of Corporate Secretaries & Council on Infrastructure for Resilient and Sustainable Urban Water Governance Professionals • U.S. Water Alliance Management,” explored how business and • U.S. Water Partnership RESEARCH AND ACADEMIC • Singapore Public Utilities Board industry leaders can work together more WATER ADVOCACY AND NGOS • IVL Swedish Environmental effectively and overcome water challenges • Ceres Research Institute • U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation faced by cities worldwide. • Masdar Institute of Science and Technology Corporate Citizenship Center • Massachusetts Institute of Technology • Mercy Corps Xylem was invited to participate in the White House • Stanford University • Water For People Water Summit, which focused on the role of • Planet Water Foundation breakthrough, creative solutions to current water challenges, as well as the innovative strategies that will catalyze change in how we use, conserve, protect and think about water in the future. 9 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH | Stakeholder Engagement Albert Cho, Xylem’s Vice President of Strategy and Business Development, spoke on a panel at the 2016 American Water Summit. Cho, along with other business and water leaders, discussed the future of the digital utility. Collaborating with other industry leaders at forums like the American Water Summit helps us ensure that the water sector can maximize the benefits of the digital future. At the IWA World Water Congress & Exhibition in Brisbane, Australia, Xylem explored the importance of understanding lifecycle costs when evaluating water infrastructure investments. Xylem Surveys Californians for Their Take on Recycled Water Xylem was selected to participate in the U.S. Publishing original research is another way we contribute to advancing Department of Commerce’s Smart Cities the dialogue around sustainable water practices. For example, as Infrastructure Business Development Mission Californians entered a fifth year of severe drought, Xylem wanted to to India. Representatives from Xylem and better understand Californians’ perceptions about recycled water 18 other companies participated in this Smart and their understanding of the technology used to produce it. So Cities Infrastructure Business Development the company commissioned an independent private poll, and the Mission, which included visits to New Delhi, results were eye-opening. Of the 3,000 California residents surveyed, Mumbai, Chennai and Vizag to explore 76 percent believe recycled water should be used as a long-term opportunities for introducing or expanding the solution, regardless of whether or not the water shortage continues. use of sustainable products and services in India. And 87 percent of respondents support using recycled water as an Xylem co-sponsored the U.S. Bureau of additional local water supply. Purified wastewater could provide Reclamation Arsenic Sensor Challenge, which enough potable water to supply all municipal needs for more than is seeking to identify new or improved sensors, 8 million people, or roughly one-fifth of California’s projected devices or test kits to measure arsenic in water population in 2020, according to a report by the WateReuse Association. in natural and engineered systems. California has the opportunity to champion a flexible policy framework For the 20th consecutive year, Xylem served to enable and advance the adoption of water reuse. And these survey as the Founding Sponsor of the Stockholm results suggest that residents are ready to support this sustainable Junior Water Prize international competition. approach to water management. Xylem was featured in the Business Roundtable 2016 Sustainability Report as one of 150 companies committed to addressing environmental and energy challenges while driving increased economic growth and job creation. Greg Mimms, Xylem Vice President of EHS&S, was selected to participate in expert reviews for GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety reporting standards. 10 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Materiality In creating this report, our goal is to address Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability sustainability issues that have the most (EHS&S) team. We also relied on input from a significant and material impact on our cross section of external stakeholders, including company’s business performance and are the investment community, NGOs, customers important to our stakeholders — in particular, and partners, and community leaders. We then our customers, employees, shareholders, local evaluated GRI’s G4 indicators through three communities and the broader society in which different lenses — the collective stakeholder we operate. feedback, Xylem’s strategic priorities and our enterprise risk management factors — to While there are many important issues outlined determine both their relative impact on our by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), we business and importance to stakeholders. believe that providing greater insight and transparency about the issues that are most This robust analysis produced 17 material issues relevant to Xylem’s business and the impact we that we have organized into five categories: have on the world — through relevant stories, Strategic Business Model, External Engagement, leadership messages and videos — will enhance Environmental Stewardship, Our People our stakeholders’ understanding of our business, and Governance. our commitments and our progress. We will continue to collect input from internal In order to identify those significant issues, we and external stakeholders about these issues, collected and assessed data and other input their potential impact on Xylem’s business now from a variety of internal and external sources. and in the future, and their relative importance Our internal stakeholders included key senior to our business and stakeholders. Over time, business and functional leaders, the Xylem we will adjust our materiality matrix to reflect Sustainability Steering Committee and our any substantive changes. 11 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH | Materiality 2016 XYLEM MATERIALITY MATRIX IMPACT TO BUSINESS Xylem analysis across (1) Strategic Priorities and (2) Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Priorities IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Xylem analysis across five key stakeholder groups (1) Customers and End Users (2) Employees (3) Shareholders (4) Suppliers and (5) Local Communities 1 16 4 3 2 5 9 13 14 10 17 8 IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS 6 15 7 12 11 IMPACT TO BUSINESS STRATEGIC EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL BUSINESS MODEL ENGAGEMENT STEWARDSHIP 1 Economic 5 Water Thought 7 Product Materials Value Creation Leadership 8 Energy Efficiency of 2 Innovation 6 Global & Local Our Facilities 3 Sustainable Products Citizenship 9 Climate Change & Services Mitigation 4 Community Impact 10 Water Stewardship 11 Biodiversity 12 Packaging & Waste OUR PEOPLE GOVERNANCE 13 EHS&S at Xylem 16 Integrity 14 Talent Development & Transparency 15 Global Workforce 17 Responsible Supply Chain SOURCE: Xylem Analysis 12 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Reporting Practices We are committed to reporting on Xylem’s Safety sustainability strategies and performance on • Injury frequency (medical + lost work day an annual basis. This report captures full-year cases x 200,000/number of working hours) sustainability results and progress for calendar • Injury severity (number of lost work days x year 2016, and does not include operations of 200,000/worked hours) Sensus or Visenti. Our previous report was • Number of medical cases released in June 2016, covering our results • Number of lost work day cases and progress for calendar year 2015. See page 61 for the assurance statement from This report has been prepared in accordance ERM-CVS. with the “core” standards of the GRI G4 reporting framework. The GRI Content Index As part of our annual reporting process, we outlines the indicators included in this report measure and evaluate our performance and and a link to their location in the report. The communicate our progress and challenges. We GRI Content Index also indicates which normalize a number of our Environment, Health disclosures have been externally assured. & Safety metrics based on revenues to allow for a consistent year-over-year comparison that While GRI does not require external assurance is not impacted by acquisitions, divestitures, of all the data in a report, in 2016, Xylem engaged employee turnover and other similar factors. independent certification and verification During 2016, we migrated our environmental providers, ERM-CVS, to conduct assurance of the environmental and safety metrics contained data collection and reporting systems to a within our EHS metrics system. ERM-CVS provided different platform. This process resulted in an assurance statement for the following: restatements of some prior year data. These restatements are noted in the section where Environment they appear. • Total direct energy use (MWh) The list of all entities within our company is • Total indirect energy use (MWh) contained in the consolidated financial statements • Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions section of the Form 10-K, which was filed on (metric tons of CO2e) February 23, 2017. It includes the legal names • Total water withdrawal (mega-liters) of our nearly 150 subsidiaries, the jurisdiction of • Total hazardous waste generated these organizations and the name under which (metric tons) they do business. This report includes results and accomplishments from all the entities listed • Total non-hazardous waste generated in the Xylem 2016 Form 10-K. (metric tons) • Total waste to landfill (metric tons) For more information about the content included in this report, contact xylem.sustainability@ xyleminc.com. 13 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER Business Performance Business Strategy 15 Economic Impact 16 Governance & Risk Management 17 Supply Chain 20 14 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L EM | L ET ’ S S OLVE WAT ER BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Business Strategy Xylem is a world leader in water technology, optimize our cost structure through business providing equipment and services for water and simplification by eliminating structural, wastewater applications with a broad portfolio process and product complexity. of products and services that address the full Developing Leadership and Talent by •  cycle of water with sustainable solutions. We focusing on employee development expect global macro trends to fuel demand for programs at various levels throughout the our solutions. For example, strengthening company. We also will continue to align global environmental and quality regulations individual performance to the objectives are increasing the need for more efficient of the company and our shareholders. solutions. Population growth, urbanization and a growing middle class in emerging markets are Focusing on Execution and Accountability •  boosting demand for clean water while putting by holding our colleagues accountable and strains on aging infrastructure. At the same time, streamlining our performance management the impacts of climate change are disrupting and goal deployment systems. water supplies with intensifying water scarcity in Xylem also takes a balanced approach to many parts of the world, as well as flooding from capital development, managing leverage with a growing number of extreme weather events. investments in growth. We return capital to These factors combine to produce a growing need shareholders via dividend growth in line with for water solutions that are modern, efficient and earnings and opportunistic share repurchases. resilient. Xylem is well-positioned to fulfill these On October 31, 2016, we expanded the scope long-term needs as our business strategy is built of our business through the acquisition of Sensus, around creating solutions to increase water a leading provider of smart metrology, network productivity, water quality and resilience – communications technologies and advanced ultimately creating a more positive handprint in data analytics serving water, electric and natural the world. We are optimizing the potential of our gas utilities. This acquisition was an important business and creating a sustainable enterprise milestone in Xylem’s strategy to move our through the following strategies: portfolio of solutions up the technology curve. • Accelerating Growth by prioritizing Sensus has more than 80 million metering investments in key emerging markets, devices that are used for water, electric and focused innovation and technology to natural gas applications installed globally. The enable smart infrastructure, strengthening addition of this business is enabling us to work customer relationships to drive commercial more closely with all types of public service leadership and M&A. We focus on providers and other customers to deliver smarter investments that will generate long-term, solutions driven by data. Given that Sensus was sustainable growth for the benefit of our part of Xylem for only two months of 2016, the stakeholders. contents of this report do not include results from the Sensus business. We are actively working • Driving Continuous Improvement to to include our newly acquired businesses in our strengthen our Lean Six Sigma and global Sustainability Report in future years. procurement capabilities and continue to 15 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Economic Impact A comprehensive discussion of Xylem’s 2016 financial performance can be found in our SEC 10-K filing beginning on page 27. 2016 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (GAAP) 2016 KEY FINANCIAL METRICS Research Revenue Operating Expenses Capital Expenditures & Development $3.77 $3.37 $124 $110 BILLION BILLION MILLION MILLION (includes cost of goods sold) Operating Income Net Income Dividends Paid Income Tax Expense $406 $260 $112 $80 MILLION MILLION MILLION MILLION Diluted Earnings Per Share Assets Total Debt $1.45 $6.47 $2.37 BILLION BILLION 16 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Governance & Risk Management At Xylem, we believe that good corporate health and environmental affairs, business governance is non-negotiable. We have created continuity and cyber risk programs. This a business structure and have controls in place Committee also provides oversight of Xylem’s that promote corporate fairness, transparency ethics and compliance programs, including and accountability. anti-corruption and trade compliance. Strong governance starts with our highest Our Nominating and Governance Committee is governing body, the Xylem Board of Directors. responsible for identifying and recommending In 2016, we held 11 Board meetings and 21 qualified director candidates to the Board of Committee meetings to make decisions on key Directors. The Committee seeks candidates who strategic issues affecting our company and to possess the attributes necessary to provide a represent the interests of all Xylem stakeholders. broad range of personal characteristics to the All directors are independent with the exception Board, including diversity, management skills, of our Chief Executive Officer. We believe that technological, business and global experience, having an independent Chairman, whose sole and sustainability experience and commitment. job is to lead the Board, allows our CEO to focus As part of its annual process to identify new his time on the strategy and operations of our candidates to join the Board of Directors, the company. Overall Board and Committee Nominating and Governance Committee considers meeting attendance was 98 percent in 2016. whether and to what extent a candidate’s attributes and experiences will individually and collectively Xylem’s Board of Directors values the views of our complement the existing Board, recognizing that Xylem’s business and operations are diverse and shareholders and believes that building positive global in nature. relationships is critical to our long-term success. Our Board considers recommendations for Director candidates from many sources and uses Effective May 2017, Xylem’s Board of Directors the same criteria for evaluating candidates had nine members as a result of Edward Ludwig’s regardless of the source of the recommendations. decision not to stand for re-election. The company provides shareholders a proxy Highlights of Xylem’s corporate governance policies access right. Proxy access gives certain are summarized on page 1 of the company’s 2017 shareholders the right to nominate a qualified Proxy Statement as filed with the SEC. Director candidate on the company’s proxy card to be voted upon by the shareholders as part of Board Member Selection and Evaluation the annual shareholder meeting. The Board regularly reviews Board size and composition, including diversity and tenure, as well The Xylem Board of Directors conducts an annual as Committee structure through its Nominating self-assessment to evaluate its performance overall and Governance Committee. This Committee, and at the Committee level. This includes an comprised entirely of independent directors, assessment of the Nominating and Governance is responsible for reviewing the company’s Committee’s work in overseeing the company’s sustainability, corporate citizenship, safety, sustainability program and related activities. 17 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER BUSINESS PERFORMANCE | Governance & Risk Management In addition, the Nominating and Governance Corporate Secretary at Xylem Inc., 1 International Committee will also engage an independent Drive, Rye Brook, New York 10573, USA, with a third-party consultant on a periodic basis to request to forward the letter to the intended meet with each Board member to assist with recipient or recipients. the qualitative assessment of the Board, which Conflicts of Interest is then presented to the full Board. Xylem’s Related Party Transaction Policy governs Board Communications the treatment of any transaction or proposed Xylem’s Board of Directors values the views of our transaction between Xylem and its Directors or shareholders and believes that building positive senior executives. Transactions valued at more relationships is critical to our long-term success. than $120,000 involving Directors or its senior To help management and the Board understand executives are required to be approved by our and consider the issues that matter most to our Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee. shareholders, we provide a steady flow of In 2016, there were no related party transactions communications about the company’s direction, that were reportable under SEC rules and that decisions and priorities. Our Corporate Governance needed to be approved by the Nominating and Principles, Committee Charters and Code of Governance Committee. Conduct are publicly available on our website. Proposed new Board memberships and relevant Employees are informed of company decisions changes in affiliations are reviewed by the through regular print and digital newsletters and Corporate Secretary and the Nominating and memos, as well as town halls and webcasts. Governance Committee for potential conflicts Shareholders and other external audiences can or other concerns. also learn about Xylem through webcasts, investor Board and Executive Compensation conferences, earnings calls, the Xylem website, All non-employee Directors are compensated news releases and our company public filings. in two ways: a cash retainer and an equity, stock-based retainer. The equity retainer links each Director’s interests with both shareholder interests and Xylem’s long-term performance. Likewise, Xylem’s senior executives are compensated through a combination of base salary, annual performance-based incentive compensation and long-term performance-based equity awards, including performance share units, restricted stock units and stock options. The target compensation mix for Xylem’s most highly compensated officers is heavily weighted toward performance-based compensation. In 2016, 87 percent of CEO compensation and an average of 71 percent of compensation for other named executive officers was in the form of annual Xylem shareholders and other interested parties performance-based incentive compensation can contact individual Board members, Board and long-term performance-based equity Committees or the entire Board as a group by awards. This does not include any one-time submitting an email to Independent.Directors@ at-hire awards or grants. xyleminc.com or a letter directed to our company’s 18 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER BUSINESS PERFORMANCE | Governance & Risk Management Xylem has developed share ownership guidelines program, including accounting, controls and designed to encourage senior executives and financial disclosures. Board members to build their ownership positions • The Leadership Development and in Xylem’s common stock over time. All of our Compensation Committee reviews and non-employee Directors and senior executives assesses compensation program risks to have met or are on track to meet these guidelines. ensure that our compensation programs Risk Management balance appropriate business risk and At Xylem, we believe that a successful, sustainable rewards without encouraging unnecessary company is always looking ahead. We consider or excessive risk-taking behaviors. This a wide range of risk factors that could impact Committee also exercises oversight of risk our business, from inflation to information relating to succession planning for technology interruptions. Xylem’s Board of executive officers, including the CEO. Directors has primary responsibility for overall • The Nominating and Governance Committee risk oversight, including the company’s risk profile is responsible for overseeing the company’s and management controls. An enterprise-level risk sustainability, corporate citizenship and assessment process is conducted by top executives environmental, health and safety, business and reviewed by our Board on an annual basis. continuity and cyber risk programs. This This assessment includes feedback gathered Committee also provides oversight of Xylem’s from the risk-monitoring dashboards completed ethics and compliance programs, including by the functional and business leaders, as well anti-corruption and trade compliance. as the results of a survey of the company’s broader top leadership group. • The Finance, Innovation and Technology Committee provides oversight of Xylem’s The Board has delegated responsibility for technology and innovation strategy. It also the oversight of certain categories of risks to reviews the company’s capital spending and designated Board Committees that report financing strategies and M&A opportunities. back to the full Board: • The Audit Committee monitors the company’s overall risk assessment and risk management We consider a wide range of risk factors that could impact our business, from inflation to information technology interruptions. 19 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Supply Chain 11,000 As a company focused on sustainability, we strive manufacturing. These efforts were focused on SUPPLIERS to ensure that our suppliers share our values of emerging market sites in Calamba, Philippines; worldwide respect, responsibility, integrity and creativity. Baroda, India; and Shenyang, China. Through Suppliers aren’t simply delivering components, more than 20 separate projects, we moved more $2 than $2.5 million in spending to local sources. BILLION raw materials and other resources; they are spent with a reflection of our organization. The major suppliers The most significant environmental impacts categories for which we depend on suppliers of our supply chain are the result of goods are motors, castings, fabrications, electronics, transportation and travel. A newly established polymerics and machinings. These products are relationship with a global travel provider and composed of plastics and metals such as nickel, preferred transportation supply base provides copper and aluminum, and weMARKETS EMERGING take care to ensure us withAMERICAN NORTH a platform to track and manage this that these materials come from reputable (China, India, Middle East Asia, sources. South and Latin America) portion of our (U.S., Canada, footprint. Beyond our localization Mexico) Where possible, our operations12% rely on local 47% efforts, the following procurement-led initiatives suppliers to optimize material flow and reduce are helping reduce Xylem’s environmental impact: cost without losing the benefits of scale. Our • Tracking and reducing air freight where “local spend” varies between 60 to 80 percent possible, and optimizing lanes to reduce of the total supplier spend. Non-local suppliers movements; are requested to provide local supply chain solutions — such as on-site support teams and • Launching a new fleet management local warehouse solutions EUROPE— wherever program for our European service fleet necessaryGermany, and(primarily applicable. In 2016, Xylem’s Sweden, Italy, operations; and Poland and France) global procurement group 41%led and supported • Sharing carbon footprint data with business various initiatives to localize sourcing and travelers through our new travel platform. We are also working to help our suppliers SPENDING SPENDING BY REGION BY REGION become more sustainable. Our green belt training program, offered at Xylem’s expense, EMERGING MARKETS enables suppliers to learn ways to implement (China, India, Middle East, Asia, NORTH AMERICA South and Latin America) (U.S., Canada, Mexico) environmentally friendly practices alongside 12% 47% Xylem colleagues. The only prerequisite for joining the program is to identify one project that provides joint benefits to both Xylem and the supplier. In addition, we offer a water footprint calculation tool to help critical suppliers identify ways to limit water consumption. Supplier Conduct EUROPE (primarily Sweden, Italy, Our standard procurement Terms and Conditions Germany, Poland and France) require our suppliers to comply with Xylem’s 41% technical and commercial requirements, as well as all applicable legal regulations, human 20 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER BUSINESS PERFORMANCE | Supply Chain and labor rights, and with our Supplier Code The program employs a third-party vendor, of Conduct. In turn, we expect suppliers to EthicsPoint, to provide a confidential avenue for hold their sub-tier suppliers to these same raising ethicsand compliance-related concerns. standards. Our Supplier Code of Conduct covers EthicsPoint representatives route information to expectations of suppliers in the following areas: the appropriate leadership at Xylem. Suppliers can confidentially raise potential concerns via • General contracting ethics telephone or online. • Child labor Supplier Audits • Forced labor We expect all suppliers to adhere to our • Hiring and employment practices global sustainability standards. As part of our • Compensation and working hours procurement process, any new Xylem supplier • Health and safety is required to align with our business standards • Environment in terms of product quality, process capabilities and sustainable actions. We have started • Conflict minerals and chemical substances implementing an audit process that prioritizes • Improper payments suppliers located in countries where human • Confidential information and labor rights issues could be a concern, and • Supply chain transparency those located in water-stressed areas. Following an in-depth initial audit with a new • Compliance monitoring supplier, we conduct selected and targeted • Supplier diversity follow-up audits, as well as random audits. • Harassment Audit questionnaires focus on the following areas: • Communication • Environment • Human rights • Health and safety practices We want our suppliers to feel comfortable • Human rights and labor rights speaking up when they believe we are acting in a manner inconsistent with our values. To • Conflict minerals that end, we have introduced the Xylem • Business continuity planning Supplier Ombudsperson Program, through • Facility security which suppliers can report concerns and issues about Xylem’s ethical and compliance behavior in its business dealings. Conflict Minerals As a producer of heavy industrial goods, tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (3TG) are used in many of our products. For example, we produce seals that contain tungsten and electronics that contain tin and gold. We have worked diligently over the past three years to comply with U.S. SEC requirements regarding the sourcing of these materials. In 2016, we retained a third-party service provider to assist us in reviewing our supply chain. We surveyed more than 2,400 in-scope suppliers and received a 65 percent response rate. 21 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER Water Solutions A Water Secure Future 23 Product Applications 24 Product Efficiency 26 22 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L EM | L ET ’ S S OLVE WAT ER WATER SOLUTIONS A Water Secure Future Solving water is more imperative now than penetrate this global market as we help bring ever. Demand for fresh water is rising rapidly about a future where today’s water challenges due to population growth, industrial expansion no longer exist. and increased agricultural development, with Three Ways of Looking at Water consumption estimated to double every 20 years. We view water solutions through the lens of water At the same time, the availability of fresh water productivity, water quality and resilience: for this growing population is declining due to draining of aquifers, increased pollution and • Water productivity refers to increasing the climate change. efficiency of how clean water is produced, distributed and consumed. Even in developed countries with sufficient • Water quality refers to the efficient and clean water supply, existing infrastructure for effective management of wastewater. water supply is aging and inadequately funded. In the United States, for example, degrading • Resilience refers to the management of pipe systems, on average, leak one out of every water-related risks and the resilience of 6 gallons of water en route from a treatment water infrastructure. plant to the customer. Xylem’s customers often face all three of these Meeting these challenges is Xylem’s reason for challenges, ranging from inefficient, aging water being. Our solutions address all stages of the cycle distribution networks, which require increases in of water, from water transport, treatment and testing water productivity; to energy-intensive or unreliable to the uses of water in industrial, residential, wastewater management systems, which require commercial, and agricultural applications. We increases in water quality; to exposure to natural have one of the farthest-reaching distribution disasters such as floods or droughts, which demand footprints in the world, and our opportunity increases in resilience. Our deep expertise with this remains vast. Xylem has a strategy to further diverse range of water challenges allows us to solve water across all sectors, in all parts of the world. Beyond Water In late 2016, Xylem completed its acquisition of Sensus, a leading developer of advanced technologies for the intelligent use and conservation of water and energy resources. Sensus’s smart metering technologies, network communications and advanced data analytics services not only augment our water-focused offerings, but they also enable us to expand beyond water to the broader field of utilities monitoring, including critical energy services. As a new, combined company, we are better positioned to meet our goal of being a leading provider of systems intelligence solutions — so we can deliver solutions to our customers’ challenges that are smarter than ever. 23 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER WATER SOLUTIONS Product Applications How did Xylem solve water in 2016? It’s impossible hydroelectric dam in the world. When not precisely to give just one answer. For starters, we brought monitored, it can inadvertently produce water safer, more reliable water supplies to communities shortages or flooding. An H-3553T Bubbler from with limited supplies, such as the Madhya Pradesh YSI, a Xylem brand, gathers stage and flow region of India. Here, area rivers are some of measurements to help local officials accurately the most polluted in the country, and Xylem monitor the water levels of the river above and was selected to supply advanced wastewater below the dam. We also recently upgraded a treatment technology to the first-ever sewage sewage plant in Bengbu City, which will improve treatment plant in the city of Sehore. The facility sanitation conditions for the city’s more than will support treatment of 12 million liters of 2 million residents. wastewater per day, improving hygiene and Xylem is also updating aging or overtaxed health for more than 100,000 people. infrastructure to help communities avoid Water shortages are acute in many parts of breakdowns and better prepare for natural China, and Xylem is involved in several projects disasters. We replaced an aging force main helping to address this problem. For example, sewer line in North Carolina that was susceptible we are helping develop the nation’s largest to sewer overflows. To complete the replacement, underground wastewater recycling plant, which we had to use a 100 percent redundant bypass will increase the area’s reclaimed water supply system capable of handling 13.5 million gallons by 1.1 billion cubic meters per year. The Three of water per day. A pair of Godwin pumps made Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River is the largest this process possible. 24 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER WATER SOLUTIONS | Product Applications Xylem also is exploring innovative technologies helping supply these growing markets with a new and bringing our solutions to new customers. dewatering pump rental and service business, A cutting-edge filtration system, provided by as well as a local pump manufacturing facility in Xylem’s Leopold brand, is helping the Beaver Dubai. We are also supplying customized, highCounty water treatment plant in Baden, efficiency technologies, including Flygt ultra Pennsylvania, supply more drinking water for low-head pumps and low-speed mixers, aeration its growing population using Total Suspended blowers and aerators at a wastewater treatment Solid and Total Organic Carbon technology. and reclamation plant in Sulaibiya, Kuwait. The region’s demand is expected to grow by The world’s water challenges are daunting — more than 30 percent by 2020, and our solution but they’re not unsolvable. Sustainability has will help increase the local supply of potable been part of Xylem’s business model from the water while meeting water effluent regulations. beginning, and we have the resources and And Xylem is solving water in rapidly growing expertise to tackle the toughest of water issues markets in the Middle East and North Africa, responsibly. Helping facilities, communities where there are thousands of construction and and cities run more sustainably is all in a day’s infrastructure projects currently underway. We are work at Xylem. Sustainability has been part of Xylem’s business model from the beginning, and we have the resources and expertise to tackle the toughest of water issues responsibly. 25 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER WATER SOLUTIONS Product Efficiency Roughly 98 percent of the environmental impact Our 2016 performance represents a 2.6 percent of pumps and mixers is related to energy improvement since 2012. consumption in the usage phase. That’s why We also pay close attention to our Vitality Index one of Xylem’s priorities is finding ways to — the percentage of total sales from products make our products more energy efficient. launched in the last five years. Improving our Efficiency breakthroughs will not only help Vitality Index is not only an indicator of how users save energy and decrease costs, but they well we are meeting customer needs, it also will also help create a more sustainable planet. means we’re successfully selling products that Our product development process includes are more sustainable, as new products are a step in which we evaluate new products almost always more energy efficient. As of the from a sustainability perspective — considering end of 2016, our Vitality Index was 19 percent, recyclability, use of less harmful materials, energy an increase from 18 percent in 2015. Following efficiency and other factors. By considering our acquisition of Sensus, we increased our sustainability early in the design phase, we are better positioned to make products in a more energyand cost-efficient manner — something that is not always possible later in the process. Creating More Efficient Products Gains in product energy efficiency often are seemingly small — Vitality Index 2020 goal from 25 percent to perhaps only a fraction of a percent of improved 30 percent. performance. But over the product’s lifetime and multiplied by the number of products sold, these In early 2016, Xylem announced a research improvements can have a tremendous impact. collaboration with the Masdar Institute of We track the average efficiency of sold products Science and Technology, an independent, to measure our progress on this front. In 2016, research-driven, graduate-level university in the average efficiency of product lines that make Abu Dhabi. The collaboration is designed to up more than 40 percent of our revenues was establish sustainability indicators, such as energy 61.2 percent, nearly flat with the 61.6 percent in and cost performance of processes and 2015, reflecting a change in our product sales mix. equipment for local water, wastewater and 26 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER WATER SOLUTIONS | Product Efficiency water transport and treatment facilities. This Water and Sewer Authority became the first water year-long study will develop key performance utility in North America to employ Flygt Concertor. indicators (KPIs) to help policymakers and Field tests conducted around the world have regulators make informed decisions on validated significant benefits that Flygt Concertor specifications for wastewater technologies and delivers, including: processes. The project will also help achieve targets to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions • Energy savings of up to 70 percent, for the transport and treatment of wastewater compared to a conventional pumping in the most cost-effective way. system, by consistently operating at the lowest possible energy level; World’s First Smart Wastewater Pump • Reduced inventory of up to 80 percent Flygt Concertor™ is a prime example of Xylem due to flexible performance; innovation at work. Unveiled in 2016, it is the first wastewater pumping system with integrated • A built-in sump and pipe cleaning intelligence. The system senses the operating function, saving up to 80 percent conditions of its environment and automatically in vacuum cleaning costs; and adapts to deliver optimal pumping performance • Compact design, reducing cabinet without clogs. It reduces overall cost of ownership size by up to 50 percent compared to and consumes considerably less energy than conventional designs. other pumps — a major step toward making the Optimizing Our Industry wastewater sector more sustainable. Xylem focuses not only on improving the The system was awarded the Most Innovative efficiency of our own products, but also on and Groundbreaking Product award at the how we can help to improve the performance VandTek Fair in Denmark, the Best Product of the wastewater sector as a whole. Today, the award at the Accadueo International Exhibition wastewater industry is a major contributor to in Italy and the Best Product award at the iWater greenhouse gas emissions, primarily due to International Integrated Water Cycle Show in the high levels of energy required to transport Spain. In early 2017, the District of Columbia and treat water using inefficient, outdated equipment. Global management of wastewater results in more than 86 million metric tons of electricity-related emissions — the equivalent of 9.7 billion tons of gasoline. Powering the Wastewater Renaissance, a report published by Xylem in 2015, revealed that nearly 50 percent of these emissions could be abated at negative cost by investing in readily available advanced technologies. But barriers to adoption remain. Water and wastewater treatment are critical public services, and providers are understandably hesitant to introduce new products when they know that existing ones work — albeit at lower efficiencies. To help change behaviors and protect the environment, Xylem is advocating for innovative financial models and global energy efficiency standards that reward adoption of new products. 27 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER Operational Impact EH&S Overview 29 Energy & Emissions 31 Water 34 Materials & Waste 35 28 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L EM | L ET ’ S S OLVE WAT ER OPERATIONAL IMPACT EH&S Overview XYLEM The end use of Xylem products is to promote During 2016, we migrated our environmental OPERATIONAL sustainable water management, but we’re data collection and reporting systems to a GOALS equally committed to optimizing the operations different platform. This process resulted in (2014 baseline) that enable manufacturing of our products. To restatements of some prior year data. These help us manage and continuously improve the restatements are noted in the section where 20% sustainability of our own environmental footprint, they appear. GHG EMISSIONS we have set five-year goals to reduce greenhouse INTENSITY Xylem also holds itself to the high standards By 2019 gas emissions, water and waste to landfill. required for ISO certification; several of our global We’re making good progress toward these goals manufacturing sites meet ISO 14001 standards 25% for environmental management. We are proud WATER with the help of our proprietary Eco-Efficiency INTENSITY Easy Tool, which enables our global sites to of this achievement as it demonstrates our By 2019 commitment to transparency in our operations. evaluate and select best practices to reduce energy and water use, and minimize waste. Using 20% Certified sites include: this web-based tool, sites can choose actions WASTE TO Manufacturing Sites LANDFILL that are most relevant for implementation at Buenos Aires, Argentina Nanjing, China By 2019 their location, identify individuals responsible Cegled, Hungary Shenyang, China for those actions and set dates for completion. Chihuahua, Mexico Stockerau, Austria 100% Introduced in 2015, the Eco-Efficiency Easy Tool Emmaboda, Sweden Strzelin, Poland, REGULATORY Essen, Germany Sundbyberg, Sweden COMPLIANCE is now in use at Xylem operations in all regions Herford, Germany Vadodara, India All Manufacturing/ of the world. We no longer track percentage of Hoddesdon, UK Yellow Springs, Ohio, USA Service Sites sites using the Eco-Efficiency Tool because this Sales and Service Facilities program is fully integrated throughout our dayIreland (2) Sweden (13) to-day operational activities. Norway (9) UK (11) Offices Schaffhausen, Switzerland 29 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER OPERATIONAL IMPACT | EH&S OVERVIEW Compliance or financial risk associated with permit violations Xylem investigates all significant incidents at our sites. occurring at our sites and completes root In 2016, Xylem had two environmental notices cause analysis to identify and prevent of non-compliance. The first occurred at our recurrence of the causes of the incidents. In Auburn, New York facility, and was corrected addition, we discuss incidents in a variety of immediately and did not result in any fines. forums, including town halls and operational The second occurred at our Montecchio, Italy reviews, and all incidents are reviewed with site facility. It was not directly caused by Xylem teams, which includes plant managers, general operations, and did not result in any fines. managers, supervisors and EHS globally. These Additionally, we experienced three minor spills reviews provide the site teams with additional at our facilities, and one transportation spill. prevention and response education. These four incidents, all of which were reported One of our sustainability goals is to record zero to local authorities and did not result in any regulatory compliance notices of violation at notices of non-compliance or fines, amounted manufacturing and service sites. Achieving this to a collective 108 gallons of fluid spilled. goal will enable us to meet our compliance Precautionary Principle obligation, while also minimizing any reputational We believe that we have a responsibility to help mitigate the effects of climate change, which is why we adhere to the precautionary principle. This means that even in the absence of scientific consensus, we will avoid actions or policies that we believe could cause harm to the health of people or the planet. 30 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER OPERATIONAL IMPACT Energy & Emissions XYLEM GOAL Electricity consumption is the largest contributor For example, in 2016, we focused on reducing to GHG emissions associated with our operations. fuel consumption in our vehicle fleet by 20% By inspiring our global sites to make reductions piloting an online safeand eco-driving GHG EMISSIONS in energy use and increase investments in training project with select Xylem drivers. We INTENSITY By 2019 renewable energy, we aim to lower our GHG also contracted with an external consultant emissions intensity levels. We’re making great with the goal of implementing a world-class progress, from identifying our highest-emitting energy management solution. activities to engaging employees across our Some of our most successful initiatives to engage company to adopt a more energy-efficient employees in energy-reduction efforts have been mindset — all of which will help move us toward “Energy Treasure Hunts” at selected facilities. achieving our GHG intensity goal. During these events, cross-functional teams of employees identify possible day-to-day energyEMISSIONS INTENSITY efficiency improvements. The goal is to find opportunities to reduce energy use, costs and Total Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Intensity† 2015* 2016 greenhouse gas emissions related to energy. (metric tons CO2 equivalent/annual revenues in millions USD) Many of these opportunities are lowor no-cost Scope 1 and 2 Emissions Intensity 19.38 19.15 improvements and relatively easy to implement, such as the installation of more efficient lighting Scope 1 and 2 Emissions Intensity, Net of Renewable Energy 18.90 16.62 and mechanical systems; ovens; motors, belts and Percentage Decrease Relative to 2014 Baseline 4.30% 15.7% drives; fans and pumps; refrigeration systems; and office equipment. Treasure Hunts have been * Values in this table have been restated. See pages 13 and 29 for additional information. †A normalized metric based on annual revenues to allow for a consistent year-over-year comparison conducted at 20 Xylem sites across the world, that is not impacted by acquisitions, divestitures, employee turnover and the like. starting with our highest resource-consuming 31 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER OPERATIONAL IMPACT | Energy & Emissions facilities. These exercises have led to more than DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMISSIONS 600 recommended actions, which combined could prevent the use of 4.4 million liters of Level Definition 2015* 2016 water and avert 131 tons of CO2 emissions. Scope 1 Direct GHG Emissions; those that come 37,212 34,860 from sources owned or controlled by Renewable Energy Xylem One of the simplest ways to reduce our Scope 2 Indirect Emissions; those resulting from the 39,657 38,762 overall GHG emissions is through the offsite generation of electricity, heating and cooling, or steam by third-party providers purchase of renewable or “green” energy and purchased by Xylem credits and renewable energy. Currently, Scope 3 Indirect Emissions Due to Business Travel 7,734 7,759 23 Xylem manufacturing facilities and sales *Values in this table have been restated. See pages 13 and 29 for additional information. offices purchase renewable electricity. Combined, these sites purchased over 68 million kWh of renewable energy and SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS nearly 9,600 CO2 equivalent metric tons in renewable energy during 2016. Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions by Type 2015* 2016 (metric tons CO2 equivalent) Sites that purchase these credits include: Natural Gas Used 11,538 9,504 Äby, Sweden Luleå, Sweden Auburn, New York, USA Malmö, Sweden Stationary Source Gaseous Propane <1 17 Bergen, Norway Mariestad, Sweden Stationary Source Liquid Propane 375 351 Cheektowaga, Montecchio, Italy Stationary Source Fuel Oil 552 765 New York, USA Morton Grove, Illinois, USA Cryogenic CO2 2 0.2 Dallas, Texas, USA Örebro, Sweden Dordrecht, Netherlands Strzelin, Poland Refrigerant Use 462 248 Emmaboda, Sweden Sundbyberg, Sweden Total Stationary GHG Emission 12,930 10,885 Gällivare, Sweden Sundsvall, Sweden Mobile Source Gasoline 4,856 882 Göteborg, Sweden Umeå, Sweden Mobile Source Diesel 18,733 23,018 Herford, Germany Uppsala, Sweden Mobile Source Liquid Propane 694 75 Karlstad, Sweden Yellow Springs, Ohio, USA Total Mobile GHG Emissions 24,282 23,975 In addition to purchasing renewable electricity, Total Direct GHG Emissions 37,212 34,860 our sales office in the Netherlands offsets its *Values in this table have been restated. See pages 13 and 29 for additional information. natural gas consumption through certified green natural gas credits. Through the Gold SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS Standard Foundation’s Fairtrade Carbon Credit program, companies such as Xylem are able to Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions by Type 2015* 2016 invest in green energy; increase the resilience of (metric tons CO2 equivalent) producer groups to the negative impacts Purchased Electricity 38,794 37,984 of climate change; and help provide a more Purchased Heat 862 778 sustainable future for communities through Total Indirect GHG Emissions 39,657 38,762 diversifying community income streams, teaching *Values in this table have been restated. See pages 13 and 29 for additional information. new skills and creating local employment. 32 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER OPERATIONAL IMPACT | Energy & Emissions In our Australia and South Africa operations, ENERGY CONSUMPTION we continue to grow our onsite solar energy generation program. The combined solar panels 2015 2016 at our Australian (Adelaide, Brisbane and Sydney) Direct Energy* by Type (Megawatt hours — MWh) and South African (Boksburg) locations resulted Renewable Electricity Generated 55 148 in the generation of 148,259.61 kWh of energy Natural Gas Used 63,653 52,431 during 2016. We continue to evaluate our green Stationary Source Gaseous Propane 2 48 energy strategy with an eye toward its expansion in the years ahead. Stationary Source Liquid Propane 1,792 1,761 Stationary Source Fuel Oil 2,192 3,141 Another area where we’re making progress is Total Stationary Energy Usage 67,693 57,529 reducing air quality emissions. We are working to move away from using paints that contain Mobile Source Gasoline 18,476 3,305 volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and toward Mobile Source Diesel 69,633 85,587 water-based painting systems in our operations. Mobile Source Liquid Propane 27 3 Where this is not possible, we are generally Total Mobile Energy Usage 88,137 88,895 destroying VOCs or using materials with lower Total Direct Energy Usage (Stationary + Mobile) 155,830 146,425 VOC content. For example, our production facility in Emmaboda burns VOCs and reuses Indirect Energy§ by Type (Megawatt hours — MWh) heat from its painting process. Purchased Electricity 137,326 128,640 2016 Energy & Emissions Performance Purchased Heat 1,871† 2,527 Our energyand emissions-reduction initiatives Total Indirect Energy Usage 139,197 131,167 resulted in a 12-percent decrease in GHG emissions intensity from 2015 to 2016. This Total Energy Consumption (Megawatt hours — MWh) represents a 15.8-percent decrease from our Consumption (Megawatt hours — MWh) 295,026 277,592 2014 baseline, continuing to advance us toward * Natural gas, diesel fuel oil, gasoline and renewable sources used in our facilities and/or our goal of achieving a 20-percent decrease in by mobile vehicles to transport our products. GHG emissions intensity by 2019. A significant † Value restated due to change in reporting rule in 2015 (+50.1%). § Electricity and heat purchased from energy companies that use various fossil, renewable and driver of our progress in 2016 was the increase non-fossil energy sources to produce and provide these energy products. in renewable energy credit purchases. In 2016, Xylem engaged ERM-CVS, an independent certification and verification provider, to conduct assurance of the AIR EMISSIONS environmental metrics contained within our EHS metrics system. ERM-CVS provided an 2015 2016 assurance statement for total direct energy Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) Emissions 116 92 use, total indirect energy use, total direct (metric tons) GHG emissions, total indirect GHG emissions, total water withdrawal, total hazardous waste and total non-hazardous waste. Click here to view the assurance statement from ERM-CVS. 33 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER OPERATIONAL IMPACT Water XYLEM GOAL Managing water consumption is a top priority for • The Global Water Tool, developed by the Xylem. In addition to our large-scale manufacturing World Business Council for Sustainable 25% processes, rather routine tasks that occur at Development, to determine which Xylem WATER hundreds of locations around the world also sites are located in water-stressed or INTENSITY by 2019 require the use of water. These activities include water-scarce areas; this tool is being used the use of water tanks to test products after at all sites with more than three employees. repair and at high-pressure washing stations • Tools to help decrease water use across our where we clean products coming back from supply chain, including a water footprint customer sites. The scale and variety of these calculation tool and a pilot sustainability audit activities means that the solutions for reducing program for suppliers in water-stressed basins. our usage are not one-size-fits-all. For example, at some facilities we have begun to collect Our Emmaboda, Sweden, factory has taken a rainwater for use in test tanks and use recycled leading role in water-reduction efforts. The plant water for landscaping and sanitation. is planning to decrease water consumption by using heat pumps instead of water to cool one We have a number of tools at our disposal to of its processes. This project alone will drive a help us further limit our water consumption: reduction of 20 percent of the water savings we • The Eco-Efficiency Easy Tool, now being plan to achieve by 2019. used at all of our facilities to identify areas 2016 Water Performance for improvement. Our water-reduction initiatives resulted in a 10.3 percent decrease in water intensity from 2015 to 2016. This is a 9.2 percent decrease from our WATER USAGE 2014 baseline. Additional 2016 water-reduction Total Water Withdrawal (megaliters) 2015 2016 projects include the installation of a dry cooling Total Water Withdrawal 424.1 368.8 system at our Montecchio, Italy, plant; eliminating Water Intensity (megaliters/annual revenues water leakage at our Slaton, Texas, plant; and the in millions USD) sale and closure of two manufacturing facilities. Water Intensity 0.1069 0.0959 We continue to work toward our goal to achieve a Percentage Decrease Relative to 2014 Baseline +1.17% 9.2% 25-percent reduction in water intensity by 2019. An ongoing challenge is to identify tangible waterreduction initiatives that can be deployed across WATER REUSE our many facilities where water use varies greatly. Total Volume of Water Recycled and Reused (megaliters) 2015 2016 Xylem also recognizes the risk caused by neglecting 20.4* 19.2 wastewater management. All Xylem sites meet or Percentage of Water Recycled and Reused (total water exceed national, local and our own requirements recycled and reused/total water withdrawal) for the return of clean and safe wastewater back 4.80% 5.21% into public water streams. To help meet these *Value restated due to correction of reporting error in 2015 (+118%). standards, a number of our manufacturing sites have installed onsite wastewater treatment systems. WASTEWATER TREATMENT In 2016, we treated and released 53.4 megaliters Wastewater Treated and Released (megaliters) 2015 2016 back into the environment. 56.3 53.4 34 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER OPERATIONAL IMPACT Materials & Waste XYLEM GOAL Xylem has already met its 2019 goal for waste metric reversed slightly from 2015 to 2016 due ACHIEVED reduction. One of the key reasons for this success to the reclassification of how hazardous waste is our increased recycling efforts. A sand recycling recycled and non-hazardous waste-to-landfill 2O% project completed at our Slaton, Texas, factory was calculated at certain sites. WASTE TO alone, for example, contributed to a 38-percent LANDFILL Even though we’ve reached our goal, we by 2019 waste reduction. In 2016, Xylem recorded a are continuing to focus on reducing waste 12.5 percent decrease in the amount of total generation through Lean Six Sigma initiatives waste recycled, driven by a decrease in overall and other practices that eliminate scrap and non-hazardous components of waste. waste from our operations. When we do need Total waste decreased 5.6 percent from 2015 to dispose of waste, we direct more of it toward to 2016. We have reduced waste to landfill by recycling and reuse, and less to landfills and 43.6 percent against our 2014 baseline. This incinerators. WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste by Type and Disposal Method (metric tons) 2015 2016 Non-Hazardous Waste Recycled 29,087 25,354 Non-Hazardous Waste to Non-Landfill 853 2,359 Non-Hazardous Waste to Landfill 2,999* 2,845 Total Non-Hazardous Waste 32,939 30,559 Hazardous Waste Recycled 220 286 Hazardous Waste to Non-Landfill 654 1,086 Hazardous Waste to Landfill 127 † 100 Total Hazardous Waste 1,001 1,471 Total Waste Recycled 29,307 25,640 Total Waste to Non-Landfill 1,507 3,445 Total Waste to Landfill 3,126 2,945 Total Waste 33,941 32,030 Percentage Decrease Relative to 2014 Baseline 45.26% 43.6% * Value restated due to reporting error in 2015 (-51%). † Value restated due to re-qualification of end-treatment in 2015 (+59.8%). 35 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER Xylem People Global Workforce 37 Employee Engagement 38 Talent Development 40 Safety 43 Ethics 45 36 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L EM | L ET ’ S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE Global Workforce The global nature of our employee base gives providing training and recognition, leadership MIDDLE EAST us a broad perspective about water and other paths and safe workplaces — and most of AND AFRICA all, by sustainability issues around the world. We can creating a work environment that inspires them 17% put many well-intentioned sustainability policies to make a meaningful difference. in place, but it’s our people who transcend the The majority of our workforce is employed in words to drive actions and results. They are the manufacturing, product management, customer ones who recycle waste, develop energy-saving service and engineering positions. The remainder products, volunteer for Xylem Watermark projects fills leadership, management, business-building and embody Xylem’s values with our customers, and support roles in finance, sales and marketing, suppliers and neighbors in our communities. IT, human resources and legal. Our job is to help them fulfill their potential by EUROPE 46% WORKFORCE PROFILE WORKFORCE PROFILE ASIA, MIDDLE EAST 16,000 25.3% AND AFRICA AMERICAS EMPLOYEES WOMEN 17% 37% 350+ 150+ COUNTRIES WHERE XYLEM GLOBAL LOCATIONS EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS ARE SOLD BY REGION 17% 24% U.S. EMPLOYEES TOP MANAGEMENT POSITIONS REPRESENTED BY UNIONS HELD BY WOMEN EUROPE 46% EMPLOYEE POPULATION PROFILE AGE GROUP MINORITY GROUP GENDER BY TYPE As a Percentage of As a Percentage of As a Percentage of As a Percentage of U.S. Employees U.S. Employees Global Employees Global Employees AfricanAsianMinority* <30 30-50 >50 American Hispanic American Other Female Male Full-Time Part-Time Employee Categories Top Management 0% 1.2% 1.4% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% 0.1% 0.3% 1.0% 1.3% 0% Middle Management 0.2% 8.3% 9.4% 0.5% 0.8% 0.6% 0.2% 3.0% 13.5% 16.2% 0.1% Non-management 8.0% 34.5% 37.0% 6.1% 7.5% 4.8% 1.2% 21.9% 60.3% 79.9% 2.5% Total 8.2% 44.0% 47.8% 6.7% 8.4% 5.6% 1.5% 25.3% 74.7% 97.4% 2.6% *Native American, Hawaiian Islanders and more 37 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE Employee Engagement To understand where our organization is headed, Recognizing Superior Performance it helps to understand our past. Many of our Attracting and retaining the best employees brands have more than a century of experience is fundamental to our continued success. delivering water solutions, but Xylem did not Xylem takes a total rewards approach to become a stand-alone public company until our attracting, motivating and retaining talented spinoff from ITT Corporation in 2011. Since then, employees worldwide and to driving our we have been transforming from a conglomerate high-performance culture. organization into an operating company, purposefully building a Xylem culture that extends across our family of brands and hundreds of locations around the globe. Employee engagement surveys are one valuable tool that we’ve used since becoming an independent company to evaluate our progress and develop a more Xylem-centric culture. We use both large-scale surveys and small pulse surveys in our various business units and geographic markets to gauge employee morale, and to solicit feedback and ideas on how we can improve business results and be the best employer possible. Our total rewards philosophy integrates Surveys have also been used to help us manage programs for compensation, benefits, the change brought by one of our largest recognition, learning and development, acquisitions to date. With the integration of corporate citizenship and work-life balance. Sensus’ 3,500 employees and their unique While individual program components may skills and capabilities, it’s a new day at Xylem. differ by country, job role or level, our culture Shortly after the acquisition, we conducted highand commitment to results remain constant. level assessments with the integration leadership team on cultural similarities, differences and We also encourage our managers to conduct gaps between the two organizations. We will Stay Interviews with their direct reports. The expand on that work through a 2017 companyconcept of a Stay Interview is to maintain open wide survey, to be conducted in June, which lines of communication related to individual will include evaluations of culture for the first employee satisfaction and engagement and time. From there, we will identify ways to to provide real-time feedback. actively shape and evolve the culture of our combined organization. 38 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE | Employee Engagement Diversity & Inclusion at Xylem In addition, as a U.S. Government contractor, With operations in more than 150 countries, Xylem is committed to taking affirmative action diversity is part of Xylem’s DNA. We believe that to hire and advance minorities, women, qualified diversity in all its forms allows us to compete individuals with disabilities and covered veterans. more effectively around the world and drive In 2016, the ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category in the U.S. was 98 percent average for non-exempt employees; 95 percent average for exempt Attracting and retaining the best employees is employees; and 95 percent average by grade. fundamental to our continued success. Xylem also sees diversity as key to leadership development. When selecting participants for our internal development programs, we ensure exceptional customer satisfaction, innovation and that groups are balanced across a number of company performance. Among our executive factors including gender, ethnicity, tenure and ranks, 85 percent are local nationals. function with the company, geography and more. It is our policy to ensure equal employment, We have also built concepts such as inclusion advancement opportunity, incentives and and leveraging of differences into our training discipline without distinction or discrimination programs for top leaders. based on gender, ethnicity, race, gender indentity, age, religious or political beliefs, disability, sexual orientation, protected veteran status or other protected classifications. 39 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE Talent Development 2016 TRAINING One of Xylem’s strategic objectives is to cultivate goals, objectives and outcomes, as well as BY THE NUMBERS a high-performance organization, and training employee behavior and competencies. We is an essential element of this effort. Providing strive to ensure that these goals and objectives 75,000 opportunities for employees to build and are aligned with Xylem’s strategic and operational HOURS objectives. It is not a one-time exercise; on reinforce their skills is vital to engagement — of in-person and web-based training and, in turn, to building an enduring company. the contrary, ongoing development guides employees through every stage of their Talent development at Xylem is grounded in 200,000 frameworks of integrated talent management careers at Xylem. HOURS COMPLETED and our Connect, Perform, Grow Process (CPG). We also utilize a Career Frameworks tool to in Learning The process of integrated talent management provide more clarity to employees regarding Management System standardizes our talent management practices, how best to position themselves for career from recruitment and selection through advancement. Using this multidimensional tool, 16% employees can receive detailed direction from SENIOR development to performance management MANAGEMENT and compensation. CPG, meanwhile, creates their managers about the competencies they internal a quality assurance process for our people, need to succeed in their current job or to promotion rate offering regular feedback conversations be considered for the next step in their throughout the performance period, including career journey. They can also view standard 222 MANAGERS discussions on individual development that competencies that are expected of employees who have completed captures advancement goals for employees, in particular career functions, which define the Career Frameworks training created with input from the individual and behaviors exhibited by top performers and the his or her manager or supervisor. desired outcomes of those behaviors. Xylem ~300 offers technical training for managers on how EMPLOYEES The purpose of these programs is to provide a completed Leading to use Career Frameworks and how to have for Continuous platform for a collaborative review and development discussions with employees. Improvement training development of employee results against In 2016, we launched the Xylem Learning Center (XLC), a new online global learning platform designed to maximize employee learning and development through the delivery and tracking of training, knowledge sharing and e-learning modules. Combined with Career Frameworks, XLC provides a meaningful, comprehensive guide to development for our employees as they progress. The platform offers: • The ability to create competency-based training and curriculums linked to career frameworks. • Training for sales teams, product teams, managers and channel partners. 40 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE | Talent Development TRAINING • An easy-to-use interface with search skills and also create strong networks across AREAS: capability. the company. This program is enabling Xylem • Automated training notifications for to build a deep bench of future leaders. SAFETY required training. As individuals settle into their roles at Xylem, CODE OF • Easy reporting capabilities. we continue to develop their knowledge and CONDUCT talents through a robust selection of online LEAN This platform enables us to deliver training learning courses available via our Learning SIX SIGMA programs across Xylem, such as our Manager Management System. Subjects include CAREER AND Development Program (MDP) which is intended LEADERSHIP leadership skills and technical and product to reach all managers and supervisors across DEVELOPMENT training for a wide variety of job functions. the globe or our Leading for Continuous Improvement (L4CI) program. Around the world, we are providing our colleagues with additional educational Training for Every Phase of opportunities. In Europe, we have “functional the Employee Life Cycle academies” that provide training on sales, For many employees, especially those with engineering, manufacturing and finance. In engineering or operations degrees, training the U.S., we offer a skills-building curriculum begins at the very start of their career. We have for front-line managers and supervisors, and taken a segmented approach to delivering in China, our Leadership Institute provides training and development focused on the employees with foundational skills to lead executive leadership of Xylem, managers and effectively. We also offer tuition reimbursement supervisors and early-in-career. For example, to employees who are pursuing education to we offer a program in which participants rotate further their careers. through three locations, and then are placed in a full-time role within Xylem. These programs Other development programs include the new include international assignments where highStrategy Fellows Program for high-potential potential professionals build key foundational individuals — typically product managers and One of Xylem’s strategic objectives is to cultivate a high-performance organization, and training is an essential element of this effort. 41 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE | Talent Development sales team leaders — who are interested in expanding their skills in strategy. The second cohort of this program graduated in 2016. The Innovation & Technology Fellows Program will be a similar initiative for those who want to build engineering and technical skills. In addition, a new sales training program introduced in partnership with Wilson Learning, a leading workforce training company, focuses on helping colleagues develop effective solutions and selling capabilities. Training for Leaders Learning by Doing Training doesn’t end once employees begin leading others. We have a variety Members of the Executive Development Program’s third cohort of development programs for new and wrapped up their training by taking part in a Xylem Watermark event. established Xylem managers. The final meeting took place in the United States, and the team chose to organize a project that would promote interest in STEM fields Our Manager Development Program consists of among schoolchildren, particularly girls and minority students. an in-person kickoff for groups of 25 participants, Partnering with a local nonprofit, Xylem leaders conducted an followed by an 18-month blended learning experiment for the students on cleaning wastewater. Students learned curriculum. It includes virtual online learning, how to add a coagulant to clean the water and apply a financial webinars with senior leaders, virtual teamwork formula to determine how to get the cleanest water at the lowest activities and Manager as Coach, a two-day, cost, using Xylem equipment to test water for contaminants. in-person workshop that equips managers to transition from a directive approach to a coaching style. As with all Xylem training, active Jay Iyengar, Xylem’s Chief Innovation & Technology Officer, spoke to learning is an important part of this program. the students about challenges and opportunities as a woman in an We don’t just teach models; we provide engineering field. At the end of the day, students left better informed opportunities for participants to practice the about the opportunities that degrees and careers in science can afford skills we are teaching. them. Xylem participants departed inspired to continue to support and The Executive Development Program is an mentor others from all backgrounds. in-depth program designed for leaders who report to our Senior Leadership Team. Building upon Xylem’s vision to become a high-performing operating company with a common culture, the program focuses on building enterprise leadership approaches and empowering leaders to take charge of our company’s transformation. We kicked off our fourth cohort of this program in late 2016. 42 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE Safety XYLEM GOALS Xylem’s safety philosophy is to “accept only zero” — three elements: risk reduction, injury frequency meaning that we strive for a zero-incident and injury severity. These elements have been <0.5 workplace and one in which our employees identified as critical in improving overall safety INJURY return home at the end of each day uninjured. as they encourage management and employee FREQUENCY by 2019 We have taken several proactive measures involvement, promote open and transparent to ensure that safety is top of mind for all communication regarding safety and health, <6.0 employees. Safety-related responsibilities and ensure that safety and health issues are INJURY are defined in employees’ job descriptions, addressed in a timely manner. SEVERITY reinforced through site communications by 2019 Recognizing Outstanding Safety Results and measured regularly with recognition for The Safety Scorecard and other measures outstanding performance. In 2016, we made are yielding promising results, which we now progress at both the site and enterprise levels — recognize through our enterprise-wide Safety and we are on track to achieve more positive Excellence Awards. More than 188 sites received results as safety becomes further integrated the Zero Incident Award for operating throughout into our culture. 2016 with no injuries and no serious near-misses. Applying the Safety Scorecard Twenty-eight sites were recognized with the Most The Safety Scorecard Program, introduced in Improved Performance Award for improving their 2015, is strengthening Xylem’s safety culture safety performance, as measured by injury by including a safety goal in our performance frequency, by 50 percent or more over their evaluation. The Safety Scorecard consists of performance in the previous year. 43 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE | Safety Addressing High-Risk Sites INJURY FREQUENCY AND SEVERITY RATES Despite our best efforts, incidents occasionally happen. When an injury does occur, we 2015* 2016 investigate and determine the root causes of Injury Frequency 1.20 0.93 the incident. We also examine and identify which (medical + lost work day cases x 200,000/number of hours worked) parts of the organization are experiencing Injury Severity 18.65 18.16 increased incidents and what activities are being (lost workdays x 200,000/number of hours worked) conducted when injuries occur. We also provide *Values in this table have been restated. See pages 13 and 29 for additional information. additional support to sites with increased injury rates as needed. Meeting High Standards In 2015, Xylem initiated the “Get Well” program As another marker of our commitment to for sites with the highest injury rates. The program workplace safety, 20 Xylem sites have been includes a variety of interventions such as OHSAS 18001-certified. In addition to satisfying employee surveys, in-depth safety data analysis, the requirements for OHSAS 18001 certifications, safety Kaizen events and site visits. These are these sites also provide training and promote used to develop site-specific “safety visions,” a our “Accept Only Zero” philosophy. This safety strategy and appropriate improvement program includes online access to more than plans. These improvement plans are closely 80 safety education courses in multiple tracked and monitored for implementation by languages and access to tools that help site management and Xylem’s EHS management. managers and employees easily and quickly The program began at six sites in 2015, with recognize safety and ergonomic hazards and another three added in 2016. take corrective actions to eliminate root causes. Going Above and Beyond for Safety In addition to rewarding injury-free operations, we present our annual CEO Safety Excellence Award to one manufacturing site and one sales or service site that has achieved exemplary safety results over the past year and continually seeks to improve safety in its operations. We evaluate sites on quantitative measures, such as risk reduction index score and injury frequency, and qualitative measures such as level of management engagement in safety at the site. Then, applications are scored by a third party and judged by a panel of senior leaders at Xylem. This year, CEO Safety Excellence Awards were presented to our manufacturing facility in Shenyang, China (part of the Emerging Markets Commercial Team), and our dewatering sales and service center in Lansing, Illinois. In Shenyang, leaders integrated EHS considerations throughout the site, including adding EHS reviews into the production process. At the Lansing site, teams hold shop safety standdowns to discuss employee and non-employee incidents and near misses that have occurred on job sites. The best practices established at these sites set a powerful example for our teams worldwide. 44 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE Ethics The cornerstone of Xylem’s ethics policy is our our Supplier Code of Conduct is posted publicly Code of Conduct. We expect every interaction, in 18 languages and is incorporated into our every transaction and every business opportunity standard contracts. to be handled in a manner consistent with this Training Code, our policies and all applicable laws. Every other year, we conduct global Code of We ensure compliance with multiple layers of Conduct training for all employees, and we accountability and make it easy for employees provide training to all new employees and at to speak up when they see something wrong. targeted locations throughout Xylem on a In 2016, we made several enhancements to our continuous basis. Through Code of Conduct ethics program, including: training, Xylem employees gain a deep • Adding a dedicated attorney for internal investigations. • Adding local compliance resources for our Europe, Middle East, India and Africa regional legal teams. • Introducing a new policy to address the reporting of concerns, including zero tolerance for retaliation against employees who make reports. • Updating our anti-corruption policy to include a tracking tool for gifts, hospitality and travel. • Rolling out a “manager’s toolkit” for understanding of our core values of respect, use by managers to communicate ethics responsibility, integrity and creativity and the and compliance messages during types of behaviors, actions and decisions that staff meetings. will enable them to support these values. Additional topics covered in the Code of Our Code of Conduct went into effect for Sensus Conduct training are carefully selected by employees on day one following our acquisition reviewing current ethics and compliance trends of that business, and we are continuing to fully within the company and analysis of our hotline roll out all ethics policies across our expanded reporting and other data. organization. The Code of Conduct is posted publicly in 26 languages and is available to Training is conducted through a combination employees on our company intranet and to of on-line and in-person video delivery to third parties on our public website. In addition, ensure all employees are aware of Xylem’s 45 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE | Ethics Our new reporting concerns policy encourages ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE REPORTING employees to report misconduct through: • EthicsPoint, a toll-free, 24-hour-a-day 2015 2016 confidential reporting helpline available Number of Questions and Concerns Raised (through to employees, suppliers or customers with Xylem’s complaint handling and resolution process) 76 67 language support in over 180 languages. Percent of Credible Reported Complaints Investigated 100% 100% • Local ombudspersons, who receive and Percent of Substantiated Cases Resolved (through discipline, training, process enhancement, etc.) 100% 100% impartially address employee Code of Conduct questions or ethical concerns, and are required to take all reasonable commitment. After training, Xylem employees and legally permissible steps to protect certify that they understand how the Code the identity of all those who report applies to their jobs and how to comply with possible violations in good faith. its provisions. Company-wide Code of • Consultation with management, Human Conduct training was conducted in 2016 Resources or our team of ethics and with 96 percent completion. compliance professionals, including our Reporting Mechanisms Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. Xylem endeavors to create a corporate culture At Xylem headquarters and in each of our where employees are expected to report regions, we have installed Ethics and Compliance misconduct, where they have many ways to Review Boards. These boards, staffed by senior report concerns and where retaliation for managers and compliance leaders, meet at reporting is not tolerated. least quarterly to oversee local compliance with our Code of Conduct and compliance policies, manage compliance trainings, drive employee engagement, and monitor any ethics and compliance investigations. The boards ensure that every concern that is raised receives appropriate management attention and is resolved in a fair and expeditious manner. They also facilitate learnings from across the organization. The number of ethics concerns raised in 2016 was generally in line with benchmarking for a company of Xylem’s size and industry. Our total number of questions and concerns raised decreased 12 percent from 2015 to 2016. This decrease was largely due to a company-wide effort to resolve employee relations cases outside the purview of our ethics and compliance Through Code of Conduct training, Xylem program resources. We believe the number employees gain a deep understanding of of complaints, resources devoted to investigating and resolving them, including our core values. the addition in 2016 of a Senior Counsel of Global Investigations, and remedial actions taken 46 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER XYLEM PEOPLE | Ethics by the company, reflect an appropriate focus a combination of policies and procedures, on tone from the top and a proper companycomprised of an anti-trust/competition law wide awareness of Xylem’s ethics program. policy, a competition law compliance manual and our Code of Conduct, and a robust Anti-Corruption training program, consisting of a bi-annual Xylem trains employees on applicable antion-line training for designated employees corruption laws and regulations, primarily as well as targeted live trainings where through our Anti-Corruption Policy, Gifts, appropriate. In 2016, Xylem was not involved Hospitality & Travel Policy and Anti-Corruption in any anti-trust incidents and did not pay any Manual, and our Code of Conduct. non-compliance fines. In addition, designated employees around Human Rights the world in Finance, Legal, Compliance With a global presence, we want to serve as and Sales and Marketing are provided with a positive influence in the communities where additional, in-depth anti-corruption training we operate and where our employees live, either in person or online. Xylem conducts demonstrating by our actions that human rights an annual risk assessment of all its Growth violations are both avoidable and unacceptable. Centers and regional Commercial Teams, Xylem fully supports and adheres to the principles which includes risks related to bribery and of both the Universal Declaration of Human corruption. This risk assessment is monitored Rights and the United Nations Global Compact and updated regularly. Xylem’s internal audit wherever we operate. The Xylem Human Rights department also conducts regular audits of Policy outlines our commitment to human rights, select sites to determine compliance with the dignity and fairness. In particular, we are U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Xylem’s committed to: internal policies, and to assess the effectiveness of our anti-corruption program. • Providing safe and secure conditions for those working on our company’s behalf. Operating as a global company, corruption • Safeguarding the environment. and bribery also present risks to Xylem in areas where we leverage third parties rather • Protecting the rights of indigenous people. than having a Xylem-owned office. We • Following all applicable wage and hour mitigate this risk by conducting robust due laws, including upholding our employees’ diligence with select third parties. As part of right to exercise freedom of association the approval process, third parties certify that and collective bargaining. they will comply with all applicable anti• Strictly prohibiting human trafficking and corruption and anti-bribery laws. We renew the use of child or forced labor, including our due diligence every two years and offer prison or bonded labor. training for third parties to help them • Treating each other fairly and equitably. understand how to remain compliant. While Xylem does not conduct dedicated human Anti-Trust rights training for employees, our Code of Xylem operates in many highly competitive Conduct states that all Xylem employees and markets around the world where it must submit businesses will conduct business in a manner that competitive bids to win business. It is therefore respects and advances human rights “at all times critical that our employees understand and and in all locations, regardless of local business comply with the various anti-trust and customs.” To ensure that every facet of our competition laws in all of the locations where business upholds these standards, we seek we do business. This is accomplished through business partners who share these commitments. 47 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER Community Corporate Citizenship 49 Watermark Partnerships 50 Watermark Employee Volunteerism 51 Essence of Life 52 GRI Content Index 54 UNGC Index 60 48 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P O RT XY L EM | L ET ’ S S OLVE WAT ER COMMUNITY Corporate Citizenship XYLEM 2016 When we talk about a sustainable future, we The mission of Xylem Watermark is to provide SUSTAINABLE embrace the proposition that everyone should and protect safe water resources for communities DEVELOPMENT have access to their fair share of food, shelter, in need around the world and educate people COMMITMENTS healthcare and water. This is much easier said about water issues. We do this in two main ways: than done. Across the globe, 1 in 10 people We work with nonprofit partners on sustainable In 2016, Xylem made a development projects that provide and protect lacks clean drinking water, and more people few big announcements about our own sustainable have access to a mobile phone than a toilet. safe water resources for communities in need development efforts: These conditions have serious consequences around the world. And we engage our employees for community development. Women and to volunteer their time and money to support $300 MILLION children spend more than 200 million hours water solutions. water-focused R&D collecting water daily, often preventing or through 2018 Beyond Watermark, Xylem finds opportunities to drastically limiting time for more productive voice our support. For example, to commemorate $50,000 endeavors such as taking care of their families World Water Day 2016, we participated in the funding for national water or attending school. The long-term consequences innovation challenge in White House Water Summit, an event to raise are significant. Every year, 443 million school days collaboration with U.S. awareness of water issues and potential solutions Water Partnership are lost worldwide due to water-related illnesses. for a secure water future. We are also a sponsor The UN’s Sustainable Development Goal of the U.S. Stockholm Junior Water Prize and Analytical number 6 calls for the availability and sustainable a founder of the International Stockholm Instrumentation management of water and sanitation for all by Junior Water Prize, which celebrated its 20th + Technical 2030. A big part of the solution is for companies anniversary in 2016. The prize represents the Expertise donated to support like Xylem to help drive sustainable development. most prestigious student competition for Everglades Foundation This means growing our business and carrying out water-related research. and the George Barley Water Prize our mission of helping to enable a water-secure future. In 2016, Xylem and our employees 100,000 demonstrated continued commitment by Xylem employee introducing more efficient products, engaging volunteer hours young people in the search for innovative pledged through 2018 solutions, and embracing the importance of water on a personal level through volunteer $236,000+ raised in employee activities and contributions to Xylem contributions + Watermark, our corporate citizenship Xylem match and social investment program. 455+ Xylem Watermarksponsored events 49 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER COMMUNITY Watermark Partnerships Xylem Watermark got its start as a program focused on community development, and that legacy continues today. We work with six nonprofit partners who provide access to clean water, sanitation solutions, education and disaster relief in emerging regions of the world. These partnerships are an essential way we continue to solve water. Here is a summary of our programs and 2016 progress: Planet Water Foundation Fundación Avina EarthEcho International Constructs innovative aqua towers Builds water cisterns and water Organizes the Water Monitoring to provide clean water, sanitation towers that provide access to clean Challenge™ to build awareness and and hygiene (WASH) education water to schools and communities involvement in protecting water to schools and communities in in Brazil’s semi-arid region and in resources around the world. Southeast Asia & Latin America. Amazonian communities. • 1,000 water testing kits distributed • 70 aqua towers constructed • 1,000 cisterns constructed and used in schools across 5 countries • 30,000 beneficiaries • 1,000+ beneficiaries • 70,000+ beneficiaries MercyCorps Water for People China Women’s Protects clean water through Provides access to clean water and Development Foundation disaster risk reduction and WASH education to schools and Supplies schools throughout responding to water-related communities in West Bengal, India. China with improved sanitation emergencies around the world. • 85 infrastructure projects and clean water sources. • 63,000+ beneficiaries (from implemented • 6 water projects implemented earthquake and hurricane relief) • 34 WASH education programs in schools across China administered across schools • 2,700+ beneficiaries • 34,000+ beneficiaries Xylem provides funding, as well as Xylem experts In 2016, we sponsored Planet Water’s Project and volunteers who help our partners implement 24 initiative for the second consecutive year, their programs. We perform continuous helping our partner install 24 clean water filtration evaluation of partners’ progress and impact. systems in 24 communities in 24 hours. Our With all projects, we seek solutions that will volunteers also helped to provide WASH benefit communities over the long term. Our education in those communities. Since beginning work with Planet Water is a powerful illustration our partnership in 2010, Xylem WASH education of this approach. initiatives, water tower builds, and school and community water projects in partnership with All Xylem Watermark partners have developed Planet Water have touched the lives of more than Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) curriculum, 250,000 people in Cambodia, China, Colombia, which is designed to teach healthy habits to India, Philippines and Thailand. In recognition children. WASH programs in schools significantly of these and Xylem’s long-term commitment to reduce hygiene-related disease, increase student India, Xylem was honored with an award from attendance and learning achievement, and the American India Foundation in 2016. contribute to dignity and gender equality*. *UNICEF. (2010). Raising Clean Hands: Advancing Learning, Health and Participation through WASH in Schools 50 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER COMMUNITY Watermark Employee Volunteerism The newest component of Xylem Watermark can also propose or participate in projects on was launched in 2016 and is designed to help their own. Through an online portal, MyWatermark, build a culture of volunteerism and social Xylem employees can connect with colleagues, engagement across our company. We kicked off sign up for projects and track their volunteer time. this effort with a pledge to log at least 100,000 We are continuing to refine the program for 2017 employee volunteer hours for water-related and beyond. At the end of 2016, we conducted activities within three years. Through this effort, an all-employee survey to gather feedback on we’re encouraging our colleagues to roll up Watermark initiatives. One employee suggestion their sleeves and help solve water within their that we’re implementing is to assign a theme own communities. to each quarter of the year. As we improve our With the launch of our new engagement platform, programming, we hope to find ways to connect more than 21,000 hours were logged by over the global water crisis to employees’ lives — so 3,700 volunteers in 2016. That’s a 2,200+ percent that they can help spread awareness and solutions increase in hours logged by employee volunteers close to home. over 2015. We’re increasing engagement by Global Month of Service starting at the top of our organization, with each of Our engagement efforts paid off in a big way our senior leaders leading teams in a Watermark during our inaugural Global Month of Service, activity. To make it easy for employees to get held in October 2016. Throughout the month, involved, we have organized activities such as employees helped advance our mission of solving Walks for Water, water source cleanups and water through donations, service projects and community education programs. Employees grants to community organizations. GLOBAL MONTH OF SERVICE 2016 102 7,192 GLOBAL EVENTS HELD HOURS VOLUNTEERED One hour may not make a difference to you, but like water $18,000 $40,500 droplets in a bucket, collectively IN COMMUNITY GRANTS GIVEN DONATED BY EMPLOYEES we can make an impact. TO LOCAL ORGANIZATIONS 51 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER COMMUNITY Essence of Life Xylem understands that food security and Farmers make up one-third of the world’s development are impossible without agriculture, population. And 1.5 billion of them are and agriculture is impossible without water. This “smallholders,” those who farm their own is another example of the interdependencies that food and cultivate less than about 5 acres exist among the U.N. Sustainable Development of land. But much of this land — and therefore, Goals. We cannot achieve food security and farmers’ time and energy — is underutilized due promote sustainable agriculture without to lack of water access. providing access to clean water. That’s one of Through a “hybrid value chain” concept, the fundamental reasons that we established Essence of Life is changing this. Hybrid value Essence of Life, a portfolio of affordable, fieldchains combine the strengths of private serviceable irrigation systems that meet the businesses and NGOs with government and needs of farmers in emerging markets. business partnerships to break down barriers Essence of Life seeks to empower farmers and create new markets. in the developing world who have been To develop new products, we conduct underserved by existing farming innovations. extensive field visits, interview hundreds of 52 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER COMMUNITY | Essence of Life farmers and establish relationships with key the stepping pump, farmers simply operate a citizen sector organizations in India, Africa, dual foot pedal — a motion similar to climbing Latin America and Asia. With these partners, stairs — to generate a strong flow of water we conduct focused technology and product through a hose and spray nozzle. While this is testing. These interactions enable us to zero a purposefully simple product — with minimal in on critical consumer needs, realizing the removable parts and no need for special tools — spoken, unspoken and anticipated needs of it represents a first step toward farming our rural customers. mechanization and rural water management. Our stepping pump cuts irrigation times greatly, Our debut product, the Saajhi stepping pump, eases the physical burden on farmers and makes was developed following extensive consumer it easier for them to efficiently apply water. In turn, research and attention to optimizing human farmers can achieve higher yields, increased factors through design, and is designed crop rotations and greater resulting income. specifically for the smallholder farmer. Today, Most recently, we also launched solar-powered in many countries, small plot farmers spend pumps that expand our offering toward increased half of their work days carrying buckets of sustainable development. water from the water source to the fields. With A CLOSER LOOK: THE SAAJHI STEPPING PUMP 3X 15% OR MORE REVENUE INCREASE IN WATER through greater crop output OUTPUT PER STEP compared to similar products 25% 40% OR GREATER REDUCTION LESS WATER USAGE IN LABOR TIME compared with traditional furrow irrigation 53 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Content Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Standard Disclosure Description Response Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker Approach – CEO Message of the organization. Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. Approach – Xylem At-A-Glance G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. Approach – Xylem At-A-Glance G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. Approach – Xylem At-A-Glance G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates. Approach – Xylem At-A-Glance G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Xylem Inc. (XYL) is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, Approach – Xylem At-A-Glance sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the organization. Approach – Xylem At-A-Glance G4-10 Breakdown of Employee Type. Xylem People – Global Workforce G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective Xylem People – Global Workforce bargaining agreements. 10-K (10) G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Business Performance – Supply Chain G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period Business Performance – Supply Chain regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle Operational Impact – EH&S Overview is addressed by the organization. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and Approach – Stakeholder Engagement social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) Approach – Stakeholder Engagement and national or international advocacy organizations. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated Approach – Reporting Practices financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Approach – Materiality Aspect Boundaries. 54 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER GRI CONTENT INDEX Standard Disclosure Description Response G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for Issue Internal External Boundary GRI Aspect(s) defining report content. Economic Value Creation (1) X X All Xylem operations & -Economic Performance communities in -Market Presence G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary which we operate within the organization. Report whether the Aspect is Integrity & X All Xylem -Human Rights material within the organization. Transparency (16) operations Investment -Supplier Human Rights G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Assessment outside the organization. -Anti-Corruption -Anti-Competitive Behavior -Society, Compliance Innovation (2) X All Xylem -Energy operations -Emissions -Products and Services Sustainable X X All Xylem -Materials Products & operations & -Energy Services (3) communities in -Emissions which we operate -Water -Effluents & Waste -Products and Services -Customer Health & Safety Water Thought X X All Xylem -Products and Leadership (5) operations & Services communities in which we operate Talent X All Xylem -Training and Development operations Education (14) Community X X All Xylem -Indirect Economic Impact (4) operations & Impacts communities in -Local which we operate Communities EH&S at Xylem X All Xylem -Occupational (13) operations Health & Safety Responsible X X All Xylem -Procurement Supply Chain operations & Practices (17) supply chain -Transport -Supplier Environmental Assessment -Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices -Human Rights Investment -Supplier Human Rights Assessment -Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Water X All Xylem -Water Stewardship (10) operations -Effluents & Waste G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided Approach – Reporting Practices in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Operational Impact – EH&S Overview G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods Approach – Reporting Practices in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Approach – Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Approach – Stakeholder Engagement with whom to engage. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. Approach – Stakeholder Engagement G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through Approach – Stakeholder Engagement stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. Approach – Reporting Practices 55 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER GRI CONTENT INDEX Standard Disclosure Description Response G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. Approach – Reporting Practices G4-30 Reporting cycle. Approach – Reporting Practices G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or Approach – Reporting Practices its contents. G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Approach – Reporting Practices G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard Approach – Reporting Practices to seeking external assurance for the report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, Corporate Governance Highlights including committees of the highest governance body. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards, and Xylem People – Ethics norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Indicators Description Response Economic Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Business Performance – Business Strategy Business Performance – Economic Impact G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Business Performance – Economic Impact G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for Business Performance – Business Strategy the organization’s activities due to climate change Water Solutions – A Water Secure Future Operatonal Impact – EH&S Overview Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Business Performance – Business Strategy Business Performance – Economic Impact Xylem People – Global Workforce G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local Xylem People – Employee Engagement community at significant locations of operation Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Community – Corporate Citizenship Community – Watermark Partnerships Community – Watermark Volunteerism G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent Community – Corporate Citizenship of impacts Community – Watermark Partnerships Community – Watermark Volunteerism Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Business Performance – Supply Chain G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations Business Performance – Supply Chain of operation Environmental Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Water Solutions – Product Efficiency G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Xylem does not actively track this data. 56 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER GRI CONTENT INDEX DMA and Indicators Description Response G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Xylem does not actively track this data. Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Water Solutions – A Water Secure Future Water Solutions – Product Efficiency Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Water Solutions – Product Efficiency G4-EN5 Energy intensity Energy intensity for 2016 is 72.2 megawatt hours per annual revenues in millions USD. This ratio includes direct consumption sources (renewable electricity generated, natural gas, propane, and fuel oil) and mobile sources (gasoline, diesel, and propane) in addition to indirect consumption sources (purchased heat, electricity and energy). G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Water Solutions – Product Efficiency Aspect: Water G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Operational Impact – Water G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water At Xylem, we are working to ensure there are no water sources significantly affected by our withdrawal of water. The work in this area is still in the early stages, but we are moving ahead on a number of fronts. Operational Impact – Water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Operational Impact – Water Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Water Solutions – A Water Secure Future Water Solutions – Product Efficiency Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Water Solutions – Product Efficiency Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Xylem does not use significant amounts of ozone-depleting substances, and for that reason we do not track their use. We adhere to the Montreal Protocol, administered by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), which maintains the list of ozonedepleting substances that are targeted for reductions and total phase-outs. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 57 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER GRI CONTENT INDEX DMA and Indicators Description Response Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Materials & Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Operational Impact – Water G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Operational Impact – Materials & Waste G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Water Solutions – A Water Secure Future Water Solutions – Product Applications Water Solutions – Product Efficiency G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of Water Solutions – A Water Secure Future products and services Water Solutions – Product Applications Water Solutions – Product Efficiency Aspect: Transport G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Business Performance – Supply Chain G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Business Performance – Supply Chain and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions and transporting members of the workforce Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Business Performance – Supply Chain G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Business Performance – Supply Chain environmental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts Business Performance – Supply Chain in the supply chain and actions taken Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Xylem People – Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Xylem People – Safety lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Aspect: Training And Education G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Xylem People – Talent Development G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Xylem People – Talent Development and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Xylem People – Talent Development support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Aspect: Supplier Assessment For Labor Practices G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Business Performance – Supply Chain G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor Business Performance – Supply Chain practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor Business Performance – Supply Chain practices in the supply chain and actions taken 58 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER GRI CONTENT INDEX DMA and Indicators Description Response Sub-Category: Human Rights Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Xylem People – Ethics G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or Xylem People – Ethics procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Sub-Category: Society Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Community – Corporate Citizenship Community – Watermark Partnerships Community – Watermark Employee Volunteerism G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Community – Corporate Citizenship engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Community – Watermark Partnerships Community – Watermark Employee Volunteerism Aspect: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Xylem People – Ethics G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks Xylem People – Ethics related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and Xylem People – Ethics procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Xylem People – Ethics Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Xylem People – Ethics G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 10-K (90) anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Xylem People – Ethics Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Xylem People – Ethics G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non10-K (90) monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Business Performance – Supply Chain G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria Business Performance – Supply Chain for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society Business Performance – Supply Chain in the supply chain and actions taken Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health And Safety G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Water Solutions – Product Applications Water Solutions – Product Efficiency G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for At Xylem, we conduct safety risk assessments which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement on all new products and changed products where the design revisions have a possible impact on safety. 59 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER UNGC INDEX UNGC Index Since 2002, Xylem has been a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, which endorses a framework of principles in the areas of human rights, labor and the environment. We continue to be committed to the principles and are actively implementing them as detailed in this report. UNGC PRINCIPLE REPORT LINKS Human Rights 1. B  usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Business Performance – Supply Chain proclaimed human rights. Xylem People – Ethics 2. B  usinesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Business Performance – Supply Chain human rights abuses. Xylem People – Ethics Labor Standards 3. B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Xylem People – Global Workforce effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Xylem People – Ethics 4. B  usinesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Business Performance – Supply Chain compulsory labor. Xylem People – Ethics 5. B  usinesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Business Performance – Supply Chain Xylem People – Ethics 6. B  usinesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Business Performance – Supply Chain employment and occupation. Xylem People – Employee Engagement Xylem People – Ethics Environment 7. B  usinesses should support a precautionary approach to Operational Impact – EH&S Overview environmental challenges. 8. B  usinesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Operational Impact – EH&S Overview environmental responsibility. Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions Operational Impact – Water Operational Impact – Materials & Waste 9. B  usinesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Water Solutions – A Water Secure Future environmentally friendly technologies. Water Solutions – Product Applications Water Solutions – Product Efficiency Anti-Corruption 10. B usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Business Performance – Governance & extortion and bribery. Risk Management Xylem People – Ethics 60 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER ASSURANCE STATEMENT Independent Assurance Statement to Xylem Inc. ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Xylem Inc. (Xylem) to provide limited assurance in relation to specified 2016 environmental and safety data presented in the Xylem 2016 Sustainability Report (the Report) as set out below. Engagement Summary Whether the corporate 2016 data for the following selected indicators are fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria: Environmental data: • Total non-hazardous waste generated • Total direct energy use (MWh) (metric tons) • Total indirect energy use (MWh) • Total waste to landfill (metric tons) Scope of our assurance • Total Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions Safety data: engagement (metric tons of CO2e) • Injury frequency (medical + lost workday • Total Scope 2 (indirect) GHG emissions cases x 200,000/number of working hours) (metric tons of CO2e) • Injury severity ((number of lost workdays x • Total water withdrawal (mega-liters) 200,000 / worked hours) • Total hazardous waste generated (metric • No. medical cases tons) • No. lost work day cases Reporting criteria The EHS reporting program and specific metric definitions as prepared by Xylem. Assurance ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance standard Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). Assurance level Limited assurance. Xylem is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in the Report to third Respective parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary. responsibilities ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. Our conclusions Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention The limitations of our engagement to indicate that the corporate 2016 data for the selected The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent indicators listed under ‘scope’ above are not fairly uncertainties, given the available methods for presented, in all material respects, with the reporting determining, calculating or estimating the underlying criteria. information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. Our assurance activities We planned and performed our work to obtain all the Our Observations information and explanations that we believe were We have provided Xylem with a separate management necessary to provide a basis for our assurance report. Without affecting the conclusions presented conclusions. A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and above, we have the following observations: assurance specialists performed the following activities: • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and Xylem is keen to improve the quality of its performance evaluate the data management systems and reporting across a range of indicators. As part of this processes used for collecting and reporting the process we recommend attention is given during 2017 to: selected data. • Further improving and formalising its year end • An analytical review of the data from all sites and a internal data quality checks to ensure all significant check on the completeness and accuracy of the year-on-year site level variances are queried and corporate data consolidation for the selected explained. indicators. • A visit to a manufacturing facilities at Morton Grove, IL (USA) and Montecchio (Italy) to review the local reporting processes and check samples of underlying source data for each selected indicator. • A visit to Xylem’s corporate office (Schaffhausen, 12 June 2017 Switzerland) to review the consolidation and Jennifer Iansen-Rogers reporting process including checking calculations, Head of Corporate Assurance Services applied emission factors and the corporate data quality and assurance processes. ERM Certification and Verification Services, London ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS staff that have undertaken this engagement have provided no consultancy related services to this client in any respect. 61 2016 S US TAINABILITY RE P O RT XY L E M | L E T’S S OLVE WAT ER
